Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
Iepot No. 5352-BUR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
BURKINA
HEALTH SERVICES DEVELOPHENT PROJECT
May 20, 1985
Population , Health and NIutrition Department
-m



CURMECY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = CFA Franc (CFAF)
US$1.00 = CFAF 490
CFAF 1 = US$0.0020
CFAF 1 Million = US$2,041
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
GLOSSARY OF ACRONYMS
CNSS                     National Social Security Fund (Caisse
Nationale de Sécurité Sociale)
CSPS                     Center for Health and Social Promotion
(Centre de Santé et de Promotion Sociale)
DEPSS                 : Directorate of Health Studies, Planning
and Statistics
(Direction des Etudes, de la Planification
et des Statistiques Sanitaires)
DPSP                  : Provincial Directorate of Public Health
(Direction Provinciale de la Santé Publique)
EPI                   : Expanded Program of Immunization
FEER                     Rural Water and Equipment Fund (Fonds de l'Eau et
de l'Equipement Rural)
FEFS                     Health Service Equipment Fund (Fonds d'Equipement
des Formations Sanitaires
ONAP                  : National Office of Pharmaceutical Supplies
(Office National d'Approvisionnement Pharma-
ceutique)
MCH                   : Maternal and Child Health
MOPH                  : Ministry of Public Health
PMU                   : Project Management Unit (Cellule de Gestion
du Projet)
PPF                   : Project Preparation Facility
PSP                   : Primary Health Post (Poste de Santé Primaire)
VHW                   : Village Health Worker (Agent de Santé Villageois)



FOR OmCL41 USE ONLY
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
BURKINA
HEALTH SERVICES DEVELOPHENT PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
Credit and Project Summary ............................. iii
Basic Data ............................................. vi
Definitions ..........                                 vii
I.   HUMAN RESOURCES AND DEVELOPMENT.                          1
II.  THE HEALTE SECTOR .....................................  2
A. Demographic Profile ...............................   2
B. Health and Nutrition Status           .      .       3
C. Health Services Organization and Performance  ..   4
D. Expenditures and Financing            .      .       7
E. National Health Policy and Sectoral Issues ........  8
F. The Bank Group's Role              .       .        13
III.  iHE PROJECT ........................................... 13
A.  Project Objectives     . ........................  13
B. Project Composition               .        .        14
C.  Project Description ........................       15
IV.   PROJECT COST AND FINANCIAL PLAN ....................... 23
A. Project Cost ...................................... 23
B. Financial Plan .24
V.   PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION, PROCUREMENT,
DISBURSEMENT AND AUDITING..  28
A.  Implementation ...................................... 28
B. Procurement ....................................      32
C. Disbursements ....................................    34
D.  Auditing, Reporting and Evaluation .35
This report is based on the findings of an IDA mission which visited
Burkina in May - June 1984. The mission consisted of A. Williams
(Organization and Management Specialist and Mission Leader); S. Foster
(Economist); A. Prost (Public Health Specialist), D. Vaillancourt
(Operations Assistant); M. El Fekih (Consultant, Pharmaceutical Specialist)
and P. Oudot (Consultant Architect). G. Sinclair assisted in appraising
the organization and management requirements of the construction program.
IThis document has a restricied distribution and may be used by rcpients only in the perfonnance of
their offGcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise bc disclosed without Worid Bank authorization.



- ii -
Page No.
VI.  PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS .............................  36
A.  Project Benefits ...............                       36
B.  Project Risks ...............  37
VII.  AGREEMENTS REACEED AND RECOMMENDATIONS ...............   38
TABLES IN MAIN TEXT
4.1  Project Cost Summary ...............                       23
4.2  Estimated Price Escalation Rates ...............           24
4.3 Financial Plan ...............                              25
4.4  Proposed Financing of Incremental Recurrent Costs    26
5.1 Procurement Arrangements .32
5.2 Disbursement Shedule .34
ANNEXES
1.  Supporting Tables, Charts and Maps ......................  41
Tables
T-i Morbidity ...................                           41
T-2  Main Causes of Death by Age Group .42
T-3  Staff Allocation by Category and Type of Facility   43
T-4  Importation of Drugs and Medical Supplies .44
T-5  Governaent Recurrent Expenditure on Realth .45
T-6 Total Recurrent Expenditures Outaide the
the MOR Budget .46
T-7  Financial Suu_ary of Estimated Expenditures
in the Health Sector in 1981.                        47
T-8  Project Cost by Functional Categories and Years    48
T-9  Summary Cost by Expenditure Categories.   50
T-10 Summary Cost by Project Expenditure
and Functional Categories .51
T-il Incremental Recurrent Cost .53
T-12 Summary of Technical Assistance
and Consulting Services .54
T-13 Vehicles .55
T-14 Estimated Schedule of Disbursemens .56
Charts
C-1 Ministry of Public Health Organization Chart.           57
C-2  Project Implementation Schedule .58
C-3 National and Provincial Level Project
Coordination Chart .60
2. Functions and Training of Health Personnel .61
3. Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File 64
Map
N-1 IBRD 18565 .........................................  66



- iii -
BURKINA
HEALTH SERVICES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUNMOERY
Borrover:      Burkina Faso
Beneficiary:   Ministry of Public Realth
Amount:        SDR 26.9 million (US$26.6 million equivalent)
Terms:         Standard
Project
Objectives:    The major objectives of the project are to:
(a)  Strengthen basic health and family planning services,
with initial emphasis on the control of communicable
diseases and the treatment of malaria;
(b) Further formulate national health and population
policies and promote their application; and
(c) Strengthen the institutional capability of the Ministry
of Public Health in planning, evaluation and project
implementation and monitoring.
Benefits:      The project vould improve the quality and   accessibility of
health and family  planning  services  for  about  4 million
persans  (over  half  the  total  population),   with  about
60 percent of children 0-4 years being effectively protected
against major childhood communicable diseases. The skill
and performance of about 1,000 health vorkers in rural areas
vould  improve.   Essential  drugs  are  expected to be more
videly available throughout the country at lover cost, while
partial cost recovery vill be introduced more widely into
the  health  system.   The  nascent  family planning program
would be strengthened. Improved health policy formulation,
planning and donor coordination are expected.
Risks:         Risks include the Government's lack of experience in  imple-
menting a nationwide health project and the possibility
that, due to Burkina's precarious financial situation, the
Government may be unable to support fully incremental recur-
rent costs at the end of the  project.   By  relying  on and
strengthening  experienced  local   agencies,  together with
technical assistance where appropriate, the risk of unsatis-
factory project implementation vould be reduced. Cost con-
tainment and cost recovery measures. to be set in place
through the project, as well as frequent IDA consultation
vith the Government on steps to be taken to mobilize addi-
tional resources for the health sector, are expected to
assist the Government to meet recurrent cost requirements.



- iv -
Estimated Project Costs: -/ (Net of taxes and duties from which the project
would be exempt.)
Local     Foreign    Total
-------US$ million------
1.   Strengthening of Basic Health
and Family Planning Services
- Development of Immunization
and Malaria Programs                      0.8        3.1       4.0
- In-Service Training of
Health Personnel                          0.1        0.3       O.:
- Strengthening of Health
Infrastructure                            4.4        4.9       9.3
2.   Development of National Health and
Population Policies and Programs
- Policy Development Studies                0.1        0.4       0.5
- Implementation of
Sub-projects Resulting From
Special Studies, and for
Population Activities                     1.8        3.2       5.0
3. Strengthening of Ministry of
Public Health                               1.2        2.2       3.4 b/
TOTAL BASE COST                             8.4       14.2      22.6
Physical Contingencies                           0.5         0.7      1.2
Price Contingencies                              2.1         2.1      4.2
TOTAL PROJECT COST                         11.0       17.0      28.0
Financing Plan:
IDA                                              9.6        17.0     26.6
Government                                       1.4           -      1.4
TOTAL                                      11.0       17.0      28.0
a/ Totals may not add up due to rounding.
b/ Includes a US$0.8 million PPF advance.



v
Estimated Disbursments:
FY86     FY87      FY88     FY89   FY90    FY91
…----------US$ million---
Annual                       2.4       3.7       5.3       5.9    5.6      3.7
Cumulative                   2.4       6.1      11.4      17.3   22.9    26.6
Rate of Return:             Not Applicable
Project Completion Date:   January 31, 1991
Map:                        No. IBRD  18565



- vi -
BURKINA
HEALTH SERVICES DEVELOPHENT PROJECT
Basic Data
Total Area. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 274,122 kz2
Total Population (mid-1982) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6.7 million
Density per km2 (mid-1982) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 23.7
Rate of the Natural Increase of the Population (1982) . . . . 2.7%
Total Fertility Rate (live births per voman, 1982). . . . . . 6.5
Crude Birth Rate (1982) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 48
Crude Death Rate (1982) .                  . . . . . . . . 21
Life Expectancy at Birth (1982) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 44 years
Infant Mortality Rate (1982). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 157
Child Death Rate. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 36
Urban Population as Z of Total Population . . . . . . . . . . 11Z
Adult Literacy Rate (1975 Census) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7.5%
Primary School Enrollment (1981). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 28%
Age Structurc (1975)
t - 14 years . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ... . . 44.7%
15 - 64 years . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 51.9Z
65 and above  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3.4Z
Population per Physician (1980) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 48,510
Population per Nurse (1980) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4,950
Daily per Capita Calorie Supply (as percentage of
requirement, 1981). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 95%
Per Capita Gross National Product (1982). . . . . . . . . . . US$210
Source: 1984 World Development Report and World Bank Social Indicators
Data Sheets (June 1984).



- vii -
DEFINITIONS
Adult Literacy Rate                The percentage of persons aged 15 and
over who can read and vrite.
Case Fatality Rate                 Percentage of deaths due to a disease
among the total number of people who
have contracted the disease.
Child Death Rate                   The number of deaths among children one
to four years of age per 1,000 children
Li that age group in a given year.
Crude Birth Rate                   The number of births per 1,000
population in a given year.
Crude Death Rate                   The number of deaths per 1,000
population in a given year.
Incidence Rate                     The number of new cases of a disease
which occur in a population during a
specified period of time. Usually
expressed as the number of cases per
1,000 persons.
Infant Mortality Rate           : The number of deaths of infants under one
year of age in a given year per 1,000 live
births in that year.
Maternal Mortality Rate         : The number of deaths to women who die
due to pregnancy and childbearing
complications in a given year per
1,000 live births in that year.
Morbidity                       : The frequency of disease and illness in
a population.
Prevalence Rate                    The total number of people affected by a
disease estimated either at a specific
time (point prevalence) or over a stated
period (period prevalence) expressed per
1,000 population (in case of low figures,
prevalence is expressed per 100,000
population)-



- viii -
DEFINITIONS (cont.)
Rate of Natural Increase          The rate at vhich a population is
increasing (or decreasing) in a given
year due to a surplus (or deficit) of
births over deaths, expressed as a
percentage of the total population.
Rate of Population Growth      : Rate of natural increase adjusted for
(net) migration, expressed as a percentage
of the total population in a given year.
Total Fertility Rate           : The average number of children that
would be born alive to a voman during
her lifetime if she were to pass through
her childbearing years conforming to the
age-specific fertility rates of a given
year.



BURKINA
HEALTH SERVICES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
I. HUMAN RESOURCES AND DEVELOPMENT
1.01      Surviving on an aniual per capita income of US$180, the people of
Burkina have known persistent poverty stemming from low and erratic
rainfall, poor soils, underdeveloped human rescurces, population pressure
on fertile lands, and sparse infrastructure. Benefiting from large aid
flows after the 1973 - 74 drought together with workers' remittances, the
economy of Burkina grew at approximately 3 percent annually during the
sixties and seventies, only to succumb to recession and rapid deterioration
in pu')lic finances in the past few years. The prospects of the economy
depend essentially on the agricultural sector, which is still largely
subsistence-oriented, and on bringing about a marked improvement in the
development of human capital, as measured by education and health status.
Two decades after independence, education enrollment ratios and life
expectancy remain virtually the lowest in the world (as indicated by a 28
percent primary enrollment rate and life expectancy at birth of 44 years).
1.02      Acclerating the development of human capital is essential for
Burkina's long term growth prospects. With the resident population
expected to grow by 4.5 million over the next thirty years, a special
effort must be made, despite the economic recession, to improve
educational, health and nutrition status while acting to lower fertility.
As the 1983 Country Economic Memorandum aptly stated, if Burkina is
required to achieve a much higher level of GDP before the majority can
achieve a basic education and minimal health care, they will have a
bitterly long wait. The rapid rate of population growth will make the
achievement of these goals as well as of food sufficiency more difficult.
The experience of other countries suggests that there is little reason to
expect that economic development must preceae improvements in human
capital. Improved levels of education, health and nutrition and reduction
in population growth rate are mutually supportive in their effects on the
growth of incomes and on alleviation of non-economic aspects of poverty.
Primary education, especially of women, has proven to be the single most
important determinant of declines in infant mortality, by inducing change
in nutritional and health practices. Along with education, better
nutrition and health will enhance worker productivity. Education and
health together with birth spacing and access to contraception also
contribute to declines in fertility. The challenge is to assist the people
and the Government of Burkina to make harder and pressing choices in
setting appropriate objectives and priorities in population, health and
nutrition through better policy-making and planning, better resource
allocation, stronger donor coordination, sustained rehabilitation and
upkeep of investments, lower unit costs, and continued emphasis on
self-reliance and the mobilization of community resources. Through the
proposed project, the Government seeks IDA assistance for priority
activities of strengthening health and family planning services while
addressing long-term policy issues regarding improved village-level health
and nutrition programs, drug distribution, health financing and the
establishment of cost-recovery mechanisms.



-2-
II. TUE HEALTE SECTG;
2.01      Demographic projections and health and nutrition conditions,
programs and policies are explored fully in the Health and Nutrition Sector
Review (World Bank Report No. 3926-UV, November 1982) and the 1983 Country
Economic Memorandum. Salient characteristics of population, health and
nutrition status are summarized below.
A. Demographic Profile
2.02      The population of Burkina is typified by high fertility, a high
rate of natural lncrease despite high mortality, a juxtaposition of
overcrowded and empty land, a high rate of net emigration and a low level
of urbanization.
2.03      Population Size.  The total population was esti.Lated at 6.7
million in mid-1982. With a total fertility rate of 6.5 and a crude birth
rate of 48 per 1,000 (1982), fertility is high in Burkina and comparable to
that of the rest of sub-Saharan Africa. Mortality is also high; the crude
death rate was estimated at 21 per 1,000 in mid-1982. The annual rate of
population growth during the early 19809 is estimated at 2.1 percent,
resulting from a natural increase of 2.7 percent combined with net
emigration of 0.6 percent. The number of emigrants actually abroad in 1975
vas put at 700,000, plus another 300,000 persons of Burkinabe (citizen of
Burkina) nationality (mainly children of emigrants). Average density is
about 24 per km2, but 44 percent of the population live in the central
plateau of Burkina where density rises to 80-120 per km2 in some
provinces. Internal migration from these areas into the richer, emptier
western lands is significant. The age structure of the population is
youthful - forty-five percent are below age 15. The potential number of
mothers and children under 5 (who together comprise the Most vulnerable and
undernourished groups) will increase by more than 40 percent in the next 15
years and nearly 90 percent over the next 30 years.
2.04      Population Projections.  Assuming constant net emigration rates
and fertility declining after 1995 (from 6.55 to 6.09), the population is
expected to grow to at least 10.5 million in 30 years, an increase of of 76
percent. That population is expected to double in the following 20 to 40
years. A reduction in external migration due to unpredîctable political
and socio-economic factors in the region would obviously have a dramatie
effect on the size of the resident population and the need for employment
and services.
2.05      Implications of Growth.  Based on the projections above, about 3
million persons will be added to the labor force over the next 30 years.
Agriculture would continue to absorb the bulk of the labor force. The
cultivable land available per capita will decline throughout the projection
period. The average quality of currently unused land la certain to be
vorse than that of the cultivated areas. except perhaps in the river
valleys freed from onchocerciasis. Substantial improvements in
agricultural productivity will therefore be urgently required.
2.06      Population Activities.  Policy-makers have become gradually
aware of the consequences of rapid population growth. Government-sponsored
seminars on population issues have recently been encouraged (a June 1984



-3-
seminar endorsed the objective of establishing the basis for formulation of
a national family planning policy) and birth spacing is promoted on radio
and more recently with public banners. Government recently repealed a
colonial law that banned artificial contraception; it currently permits
family planning services in urban areas and the training of midwives as
initial steps in the development of a national family planning program.
The International Planned Parenthood Federation and the United Nations Fund
for Population Activities have supported these activities ta date. At the
1984 World Population Conference in Mexico City, the Government's official
policy statement included improved maternal and child health vith
integrated family planning services (MCH/FP), sex education in secondary
schools, and increased female education and employment opportunities. The
Government's strategy justifiably attempts first to develop family planning
in urban areas which, in turn, would have a demonstration effect in rural
provincial capitals. The faster primary health care services are
strengthened in rural areas, the more likely family planning can be
promoted among the rural population. In April 1984, the'Government gave
official backing to a USAID/Burkina proposal for a three-year Population
Planning Assistance Program (estimated to cost US$4.4 million equivalent).
Because the development of this program is a part of the Government's
attempt to improve the health status of women and children, the Population
Planning Program would be monitored and supported as a bona fide component
of IDA's assistance to the Population, Health and Nutrition sectors in
Burkina (see paras. 3.02, 3.25)
B. Health and Nutrition Status
2.07      Although infant and child mortality have been reduced in the last
two decades (from 234 to 157 per 1,000 and from 71 to 36 per 1,000
respectively)they remain high even by developing country standards (IMR:
122, 132 and 133 for Ethiopia, Mali and Bangladesh respectively). It
appears that improvement in health status has slowed in the last decade.
2.08      Preventable and treatable diseases, such as gastrointestinal
illnesses and infectious and parasitic diseases (malaria, measles,
meningitis) account for most morbidity and mortality and are exacerbated by
inaccessibility to potable water, poor sanitation and malnutrition (Annex
1, T-1, T-2 ). The average prevalence of malaria as indicated by blood
parasite surveys is about 40 percent and may seasonally rise to over 60
percént. Malaria particularly threatens children under age one and is
responsible for an estimated 30 deaths per 1,000 infants per year. Measles
is the primary cause of mortality in children aged one to four, accounting
for half of all deaths in this age group, and responsible for an average of
40 deaths per 1,000 children over the four-year period. Diarrhea
represents 10 percent of the morbidity cases reported and treated --
certainly below its prevalence - and causes about 30 deaths per 1,000
children aged one to four. Poliomyelitis remains a menace to be controlled
with 120 - 220 reported cases between 1978 - 82. An average of 5,500 cases
of pertussis vere reported annually between 1970 - 82. Less than one-half
of newborns are vaccinated annually against tuberculosis, a steady decline
in recent years. Although there had been no cases of yellow fever for 25
years, the 1983 outbreak resulted in the death of 800 to 1,500 persons out
of an estimated number of 30,000 infected people. Meningitis outbreaks of



-4-
up to 20,000 cases occur at regular eight to ten year intervals, with an
average case fatality rate of 11 percent.
2.09      Maternal mortality is especially high, estimated at about 9
deaths per 1,000 pregnancies.  Neo-natal mortality is also very high,
accounting for about 70 deaths per 1,000 newborns and representing half of
the infant mortality. These unacceptable levels are associated with a loy
coverage of institutionalized deliveries (23Z), and low detection and
referral of risk cases from the village level where the majority of
deliveries is made by untrained traditional birth attendants under unsaf e
conditions.
2.10      Malnutrition is widespread, with serious implications for
susceptibility to disease snd death, labor force productivity and physical
and mental growth. While rates vary over time and by region, they are
consistently higher anong the most vulnerable groups - children,
particularly those of weaning age, and pregnant and lactating vomen.
Several surveys identified about 30 percent of pre-school children as
chronically manlourished. Records indicate that about 50 percent of
pre-school children are below 80 percent of the median weight for age in
the northern and eastern parts of the country. About 33 percent of the
children in the western and south-western areas are identified as
malnourished by the sanie criteria. Combatting the problem requires
solutions to frequent food shortages and the development of effective
maternal and child health prograus at the community level.
C. Realth Services Organization and Performance
2.11      The Ministry of Public Realth (MOPH) is the Government agency
responsible for all health policy and most health services in Burkina.l/A
few facilities are run by non-governmental organizations, under Government
supervision; under current Government policy, private practice is not
allowed. Services are provided through thirty Provincial Directorates of.
Public Health (DPSP), each headed by a medical officer. Procurement, the
state budget for health, personnel management and training are centralized
at the central MOPH level.  Several directorates in the MOPH are
responsible for coordinating specific services (immunization, maternai and
child health and family planning and evaluation).  But operations are
decentralized at the provincial level under the technical supervision of
the Central Directorate of Health Services (see Organization Chart, Annex
1, C-1).
2.12      Communicable disease surveillance, and health planning and
evaluation until recently have been neglected. Disease surveillance, based
on a system of monthly reports by provincial health authorities, has not
been an effective tool for planning and policy-making ln part because data
have been unreliable and analysis and feedback slow. The need for better
information and planning in pursuit of the Government's primary health care
objectives led to the creation in 1981 of the MOPH's Directorate of Health
Studies, Planning and Statistics (DEPSS) with support from USAID and IDA
l/ In addition, the Caisse Nationale de Sécurité Sociale, under
the Ministry of Public Services (Fonction Publique) is
responsible for pensions, dependency allowances and occupational
injuries. The newly established School of Medicine (Annex 2) is
part of the national university under the Ministry of Higher
Education.



- 5-
(para. 4.11). The proposed project gave the DEPSS its first opportunity to
formulate a major health program with technical assistance when
appropriate. In so doing, the DEPSS has begun to play an important role in
improving the flow of reliable information tO decision-makers, and to
influence policy, target setting and resource allocation.
Coverage of the Realth System
2.13      The MOPH operaees 2 national hospitals (representing 40 percent
of the available beds in the country), 9 regional referral centers
(hospitals or surgical units), 13 medical centers (:;maller facilities
supervised by a physician) and 395 community level facilities, mostly rural
dispensaries and maternities. All regional and community services are
under the authority of the Provincial Directorate of Public Health managed
on average by a provincial Medical Director, 2 pl-sicians, a pharmacist and
an administrator.
2.14      The system is weakest at the periphery -  the community level --
and suffers from limited outreach, inadequate referral, and past neglect.
Average utilization of health services is low, about 0.5 times per
inhabitant per year, similar to neighboring countries (0.58 in Niger, 1978)
but far below low-income countries with extensive health networks (7-11
times per inhabitant per year in rural China). Low utilization is largely
a result of low coverage (only 45 percent of the population lives within a
ten-kilometer catchment area), lack of resources (materials, drugs,
equipment and fuel), inadequate supervision and the absence of retraining
which have altogether impaired confidence in the health system. The
medical centers, intended to serve as referral centers, are often hardly
more than oversized dispensaries for lack of equipment and supplies. Many
of the community level dispensaries and maternities are functionally
inadequate, often without permanent water supply, staffed by paramedical
personnel who are underemployed due to poor definition of tasks, and
insufficient integration of key preventive programs, such as immunization,
curative services, and promotional (educational and outreach) activities.
An estimated two-thirds of community level facilities need renovating. In
addition to these deficiencies, the system has deteriorated further for
lack of drugs and the inability of the State budget alone to meet the
recurrent cost requirements of community services.
2.15      By the mid-1970's, it became clear that the health system was
inefficient and passive, and unable to meet the health needs of a
fast-growing, dispersed population.  People became reluctant to undergo
mandatory periodic physical examinations for preventive measures. Only the
mobile immunization program showed marked success in the control of yellow
fever and tuberculosis. However, immunization campaigns failed to prevent
major outbreaks of measles; the interval between visits by mobile teams did
not allow for adequate coverage of target groups. The rural health system
vas being deprofessionalized and paramedical workers dispirited due to a
lack of resources with which to vork effectively. As the above utilization
indicators suggest, the majority of the rural population either could not
make use of health -arvices in their vicinity or were too far from health
facilities to make the effort except in dire emergencies.



- 6 -
2.16      Consequently, Burkina began to experiment in 1973 (in the Yako
area) with a program to extend coverage by training health agents at the
village-level to recognize and treat basic symptoms. This approach vas
endorsed by the international community in Alma-Ata in 1978 and is known as
the Primary Health Care system (para. 2.26). Since 1978, the approach has
been attempted in 30 villages in Bazega province. Where successful, this
approach has resulted in better coverage of deliveries, more widespread
treatment of malaria cases, earlier detection of the malnourished,
nutrition education and follow-up, and quicker treatment of common
diarrhea. In short, a well-managed primary health care system is probably
the best and most cost-effective way of addressing the health related
problems of infant and child mortality in rural areas at present.
Health Maupover
2.17      The Government's commitment to revitalize the rural health system
in accordance with its primary health care strategy depends on the
availability of adequately trained personnel. The main categories of
health personnel are physicians, dentists, pharmacists, sanitary engineers
and a small number of nutritionists (level A); licensed nurses, medical
assistants, midwives, social workers and sanitation assistants (level B);
practical nurses (level C); and mobile health agents and auxiliary midwives
(level D). The number of health personnel in service is shown in Annex 1,
T-3. Functions and training for each category are described in Annex 2.
Burkina does not face major training shortfalls for medical and paramedical
staff. The MOPH operates two paramedical schools for nurses and midwives.
The anticipated output of 200 graduates per year is likely to more than
meet the needs of a slowly expanding health service. About 25 locally
trained physicians and 44 pharmacists are expected to graduate annually
after 1987. The annual training outputs for middle and lower-level
personnel required to meet staffing objectives and attrition by 1990 either
meet or exceed planned figures for all categories. The problem of
deploying staff to rural areas concerns all professions; in the past year,
however, the MOPH has managed to rectify the urban imbalance of high-level
professionals by staffing each province with at least one physician and a
pharmacist.
2.18      The personnel assigned to the Provincial Directorates of Public
Health and approximately 400 rural medical centers, dispensaries and
maternities include 61 physicians, 744 nurses and midwives and 800
subalterns. This represents an average of 2 physicians per province
and approximately 2 nurses and 2 auxiliaries per dispensary/maternity.
Large numbers of existing health personnel have received either little
in-service training in the past or training which did not cover such
essentials as supervision and education in preventive health, which are
important features of the Primary Health Gare program. A high priority is
nov being given to developing an in-service training program both to
achieve the maximum impact from current staff and from limited training
resources, and to ensure that newly trained personnel will receive
appropriate support in carrying out primary health care objectives.
2.19      Drug Availability.  Whereas the availability and distribution of
health personnel is amenable to improvement in the near term, the supply of
essential drugs to the rural majority poses major problems. Although drugs
valued at approxlmately CFAF 4 billion (US$8.2 million equivalent) are



-7-
currently imported and consumed annually (Annex 1, T-4), they are poorly
chosen, inadequately distributed, and, in many cases, prescribed and used
inappropriately. Drug expenditures exceed US$1.35 equivalent per capita,
which should be enough to provide the most basic drugs to all in need.
Expenditures are unevenly distributed, however; in urban areas they reach
US$12 equivalent per capita, whereas in rural areas only US$0.25 equivalent
per person is spent on drugs: This imbalance reflects differentials in
purchasing power, overprescription and high consumption of expensive
brand-name products in the cities, and a high concentration of pharmacies
and a relatively better provision of medical care in urban areas.
2.20      Until recently, the MOPH's Directorate of Medical Supplies and
Traditional Pharmacopoeia, the National Office of Pharmaceutical Supplies
(ONAP), the private sector and direct foreign commodity aid were the four
principal sources of supply. The MOPH provided drugs free of charge to the
sick at all public health facilities. Supplies were insufficient to meet
the year-round requirements of these facilities. A major portion of MOPH
supplies were provided on a grant basis through commodity aid (FAC, UNICEF,
WHO and the Follereau Foundation). ONAP, a public commercial agency under
the  OPH, sold drugs through its 10 urban pharmacies and 14 rural depots.
The private sector (representing 56% of the value of imports) sold drugs
through 11 private pharmacies and 165 provincial depots. For reasons of
efficiency, the Goverument has recently replaced ONAP with a newly created
drug importation agency having a 51X/49Z public/private mix (para. 2.36).
The overall size and destination of direct aid is little known.
2.21      Inadequate availability of drugs in rural-areas, lack of
coordination between the public and private sectors, expensive procurement
practices, the handicapping of the public sector due to ONAP's past
indebtedness and free MOPR drug distribution practices all have contributed
to an inadequate supply of low-cost drugs tc rural areas. The consumer in
Burkina pays as much as 60 percent more than the retail price for certain
similar pharmaceutical products in France due mainly to poor procurement
practices. As will be shown in Section E below, the Government is making a
renewed effort to address these problems.
D. Expenditures and Financing
2.22      Health Expenditures.  Total private and public expenditures
in 1982 were estimated at CFAF 15 billion (US$30.6 million equivalent),
representing 4.2 percent of GDP or about US$4.70 per capita. The MOPH
operating budget steadily declined since Independence, from a high of 15.8
percent of the total Government budget in 1960 to 9.6 percent in 1981
(Annex 1, T-5). As a result of population growth, per capita public
expenditure on health decreased from CFAF 500 (US$1.02) in 1965 to CFAF 460
(US$0.94) in 1980. The relative share of salaries has been between 80 - 90
percent of total MOPH recurrent expenditures.
2.23      Actual MOPH expenses for 1981 and authorized expenses for 1982
were CFAF 3 billion equivalent and CFAF 2.9 billion respectively.  However,
this budget is somewhat misleading since it does not take into account
several items directly linked to health. Evacuations of the seriously ill
abroad for medical care represented the major element of 6 items outside
the MOPH budget totalling at least US$2_2 million equivalent in 1981 prices
(Annex 1, T-6).



- 8 -
2.24       Burkina's 30 provinces and 17 cities also have budgets which
support health services, especially maintenance and other unskilled staff
in dispensarles.  An estimated CFAF 190 million (US$388,000 equivalent) vas
available fromi these sources in 1982. The Caisse Nationale de Sécurité
Sociale (CNSS) and Workers' Medecine also support expenditures for their
beneficiaries.  Total CNSS health expenditure in 1982 was CFAF 203
million (US$414,000 equivalent). Other private expendilLureb consist mainly
of drug purchases and, to a lesser extent, hospital fees.
2.25        Foreign assistance represented about USt2Q) million equivalent in
1982 (US$3.00 equivalent per capita). One-fourth was for technical
assistance; one-fourth for regional health programs; and about half for
capital construction, training and related operating costs (including drugs
and vehicles). The World Health Organization supports the regional OCP
Program (para. 2.42) whose headquarters are in Burkina. The renovation and
expansion of health facilities are being undertaken with assistance from
UNDP, African Development Bank, EEC and the Federal Republic of Germany.
Training of personnel and technical assistance are provided by France and
the EEC. Immunization programs are financed with assistance from the
Netherlands and UNICEF. Italy supports the anti-malaria progra. in urban
areas, and is interested in pharmaceutical and operational research In
primary health care. The United States is assisting in the provision of
water supplies, health planning, and the development of population program
activities. Non-governmental organizations are also active in health.
Until recently, there has been little aid coordination. This partly
reflects past weaknesses in health planning, project monitoring and program
implementation.  A financial semmary of estimated health expenditures is
given in Annex 1, T-7.
E.   National Health Policy and Sectoral Issues
2.26       Since 1918, the Goverament has been strongly committed to the
Primary Health Care strategy, as endorsed by the International comnnunity in
Alma-Ata. The essential elements of this pollcy are:
(a)  To give high priority to preventive measures, by
increasing the number of immunizations delivered
and the coverage of the population through the
Expanded Program of Immunization (EPI) strategy,
and lncreasing the prevent'.on and treatment of
malaria.
(b)  To cover Burkina's approximately 7,000 villages
by 1990 with a health framework of village health
volunteers under the supervision of the health
system (nurses and physicians) and supported by a
minimal referral systen .
(c)  To set up a system of drug procurement and dis-
tribution in order to provide reasonably priced
medicines to everyone within a one-hour walk.
(d)  To decentralize at the provincial level the
decision-making process for planning and opera-
tions.



- 9 -
(e) To introduce a cost recovery mechanism through
hospital fees in urban areas and a Health Service
Equipuent Fund.
(f) To train, within the country, ail categories of
health personnel, including physicians, with the
exception of specialists.
(g) To develop a planning capability vithin the
Ministry of Public Health.
2.27      These policies continue to provide a framework for developing the
health sector, with extensive assistance from the international donor
community (para. 2.25). As a complement to these health objectives, the
Governuent has alo developed a program for the provision of 7,000 village
vells and boreholes (one per village), of which nome 4,000 have already
received external financing.  The Government han not formally adopted a
population policy as part of its health strategy, but a National Population
Council has been established in part to help formulate such a policy.
Strate&y
2.28      The Government's primary health care etrategy contains the key
elements that are essential for the developnent of a co.prehenaive systeu
of health care. This system comprises A pyramid of services in each of
Burkina's thirty provinces. At lts base are village-level pri.ary health
care committees -- voluntary organizations promoted hy provincial he-lth
and political authorities to stimulate grass-roots efforts for improving
health conditions through village self-help. In the Sanmateng- and atzega
provinces, vhere significant headway has been achieved vith Dutch support
and  assistance fron the Federal Republic of Germany, village committees
select one or more front-line health workers comprised chiefly of
traditional birth attendants6 and younger health volunteers. Their
essential role ls to promote adequate sAnitation; detect the maInourished;
promote nutrition education; supply a limited number of non-prescription
druge Including chloroquine. where feasible; bring villagers together to
benefit from immunization programs, when and where such programoe are
organized; monitor pregnancies and assist in normal deliverles. In large
villages, a heAlth hut (primary health post) serves as a locale for
promoting these activities.
2.29      Depending on their size, between eight and fifteen village t-mas
are to be supervized each by a Center for ?ealth and Social Promotion
(CSPS). The CSPS are being created out or existing ru-al dispensaries and
maternities. A total of about 400 CSPS would be required to cover the
whole country. Approximately one-third of existing facilities readily meet
CSPS functional criteria. Of the remaining 277, about 110 are being
upgraded vith assistAnce from the Federal Republic of Germany. and another
27 vith assistance froa the African Development Bank. Further assistance
in required to upgrade about 140 remaining facilities. Each CSPS vould be
managed on average by a core staff of four (a head nurse, auxiliary nurses
and matrone (auxillary midwife) And an itinerant heslth vorker). A bead
nurse, tao auxiliary nurses and matrone on average have already been
deployed to existing dispensarles and maternities; they require In-service



- 10 -
training, particularly for auxiliaries who are to serve as itinerant health
workers. The CSPS are the critical link in the health system insofar as
they are intended to (a) ensu-e logiatical support and frequent supervision
of village health workers; (b) perfonn lmmunization, rehabilitate the
malnouirihed and provide primary health care services to the surrounding
population; and (c) serve as the entry point into the professional health
system -- the first stage at which patients with complications meet a
health technlcian.
2.30      To mAnage the pyramid of village health workers and CSPS, each
province is adminlstered by a Provincial Directorate of Public Realth
(I)PSP) which coordinates provincial health activities, including
immunization, and supervises the CSPS.  Each DPSP is headed by a
physician. Office facilities and housing are being provided in new
provinces which were crented in 1984 as part of the Governmert's decision
to divide the nationAl territory into more viable administrative units.
2.31      To strengthIen the referral chain, whereby patients in need can
have accesO to low-risk and emergency surgery, 15 referral centers
("surgical antennae-) are planned across the country, each on average
serving two pr.vinces. Nine such facilities exist. The referral center is
managed by the physician in charge of the DPSP where the referral center is
located, with assistance from A second physician specialized in surgery.
The existing medical centers, regional hospitals and two national hospitals
complete the national system of referral services.
issues
2.32      The chief constraints faced by the Government as it seeks to
Implement ita primary health care program are: (a) poor performance and low
credibility of the existing health system; (b) the need to pace the
promotion of village-level activities, in accordance vith administrative
capability and a continuing search for viable local solutions; (c)
inadequate provision of essential drugs; and (d) inadequate financial
remources.
.33       Credibility of the System.  The passive nature of the provincial
health system ls partly a result of the poor physical conditions described
in para. 2.14. lack of opportunities for in-service training to raise the
motivational and skill level. of health personnel (para. 2.18), and drug
shortages. These conditions obviouslv must improve in the medium-term if
the primary health care system is to have a chance to develop. In the
near-term, the Government has made a tactical decision to concentrate on
developing an effective lmmunization capability, together vith a major
malaria treatment program. These are not only two of the most
cost-effective meana of controlling certain of the major causes of death
and disability; they also contribute toward mobilizing health vorkers and
the population around visible. credible activities that begin to give real
expression to the primarv health care program. The EPI program relies on a
mixture of fixed facilities (CSPS) and mobile teams which require the
provision of cold-storage equipuent, vaccines and staff training.
Regarding malaria control, the Government justifiablv supports the need to
reduce the possibility of the parasite's reuistance to chloroquine and the
need to build up natural immunity in children. For these reasons, the
treatment of fever episodes would be encouraged as preferable to continued
prophylaxie. This strategy requires the availability of chloroquine



- il -
everywhere at low prices along with a health education campaign through all
available media and community agents.
2.34      Village Level Activities.  As mentioned earlier, the village
health workers as currently envisioned by the Government vould be
volunteers. Yet, experience of primary health workers in Burkina, as well
as in other countries, indicates that questions which vill have to be
resolved through operational research concern the selection of applicants,
their training and supervision, priority tasks, and the reward syetem. It
is clear from existing schemes that some regular remuneration of the
village health workers is essential to ensure motivation, and that, even
under the best of circuastances, turnover may be as high as 25 percent.
Furthermore, the pace by which Government plans to include all 7,000
villages in the primary health care program is constrained by the need
first to put in place a credible system of DPSP and CSPS capable of
promoting and supervising village level activities, as well as absorbing an
increased volume of referrals from the village level.
2.35      Drug Availability.  In its attempt to overcome problems
associated with an inadequate supply of drugs (paras. 2.19-2.21), the
Government has endorsed the World Health Organization's policy on essential
drugs in order to match the supply of medicines to the most common health
care needs and to the purchasing capacities of the population and the
national budget. The key components of this policy are: (i) the
establishment of a national list of essential drugs; (ii) where feasible,
reliance on international non-proprietary (generic) names for drugs; (iii)
provision of a cross-index of non-proprietary names to assist prescribers
in prescribing generic drugs; (iv) education of the public; (v) quality
control; (vi) rational procurement and efficient distribution that
minimizes disruption, theft, wastage and shortages; (vii) promotion of
traditional medicine, and (viii) local packaging and production when there
is an economic advantage to doing so.
2.36      Accordingly, the Government has drawn up a list of authorized
drugs for MOPH facilities. To promote the importation of generic drugs and
to rationalize procurement for commercial purposes, the Government has
decided to dismantle ONAP (para. 2.20) and to substitute a new semi-public
corporation (51% state, 49Z private participation), SONAPHARK, which would
procure drugs in bulk through international competitive bidding. The
Government plans to -ely on private shareholding and management practices
to ensure that this new importer does not become an inefficient
parastatal.   Steps have also been taken to improve coordination of direct
commodity aid. Drugs would be distributed through tuo parallel supply
systems: (i) through MOPH facilities down to the CSPS level; and (ii)
through a commercial network ouned by the private sector and complemented,
where necessary, by provincially owned sales outlets. ONAP's sales outlets
are being sold to private interests or to provincial governments. Village
pharmacies will continue to be promoted as mutuelles (village
cooperatives), owned and managed entirely by village health committees.
2.37      These measures are important steps toward streamlining importa-
tion and distribution while adapting WHO's essential drugs policy to
Burkina's needs. The Government has made significant progress toward



- 12 -
reducing the outstanding ONAP debt from CFAF 520 million in mid-1984 to
about CFAF 200 million currently as part of its divestiture and in
preparation for the new semi-public corporation. The Government of Italy
has agreed to set up a quality control laboratory in Burkina to support the
transition toward importing lover cost generic drugs from a broader range
of foreign suppliers. Plans are also being drawn up for local packaging,
and for retraining prescribers and informing the public at large about the
Government's essential drugs policy.
2.38      Recurrent Financing.  Assuming that administrative and
operational constraints reduce to half the number of villages that can be
included in the primary health care program, the Government's albeit modest
and restrained strategy would probably double the recurrent costs of the
health sector by 1990 in real terms - implying an increase of seven
percent per year. Whether costs can be kept vithin this limit will depend,
furthermore, on how several issues are addressed.
2.39      First, it has been assumed in the Government's program that the
village health workers will receive no recurrent funds from Goverument
after their training but only from the communities they serve. Second, the
degree of expansion in the already extremely limited services in the two
national hospitals vill have to be curtailed in favor of efficiency
measures. Third, to achieve the most efficient use of existing manpower
resources, many of the mid-level staff (nurses and midwives) presently in
service will need to be reallocated to rural facilities and made available
to train rural staff. Steps have already been taken in this direction and
are being enforced. Fourth, it is also assumed that private drug purchases
wii be sufficiently liberalized to satisfy most of private demand and
defray the costs of many drugs delivered in public facilities, leaving
Government (and foreign budget support) to cover a relatively smaller share
(principally drugs for preventive health). Finally, it will be important
that expenditures for professional staff training be kept to a reasonable
limit, and that salary increases be limited.
2.40      Even if these cost issues are addressed in such a way as to keep
recurrent expenditures under tight control, the degree to which the prîmary
health care program can be implemented vill depend on mobilization of
additional financial resources for the sector. This implies that certain
reforms in the allocation of domestic resources and in cost recovery be
undertaken for the system to be sustainable in the long run. First, if the
present system of fees for services in hospitals were enforced and the
proceeds returned to the hospitals, a significant additional source of
funding could be realized. Second, if public expenditure for medical
evacuations abroad vere reduced and evacuees required to pay a share of the
costs (as is now Government policy), additional resources would be
available. Third, if user fees proved through further operational research
to be feasible at the CSPS and/or referral center levels, they vould
contribute to the cost of supporting such services. Fourth, since 1984,
all workers who benefit from the Medecine du Travail are required to use
public health facilities.  Employer contributions to the Medecine du
Travail have since been deposited into a special account in the Treasuary.
In order to ensure that these funds support primary health care, the
Government is currently preparing legislation to create a Health Service
Equipment Fund (FEFS) whose purpose would be to help finance non-salaried
operating cost requirements of the health sector. The FEFS would be
financed through 75 percent of all fees collected at health



- 13 -
facilities (a fee achedule has been adopted for hospitals) as well as
receipts from the sale of vaccination carda. The FEFS would be a
semi-autonoeous entity under the aegis of the Ministries of Finance, Health
and Famlly Welfare. The Government estimates that annually the 2 national
hospitals would contribute about CFAF 100 million and the Medecine du
Travail another CFAF 200 million (total about USS600,000 equivalent). The
remaining network of health facilitles could, ln the near future, provide
an additional USS600,000 equivalent - sufficient, in the courue of the
1986-1990 Plan period, to begin to meet incremental recurrent cost
requirements of the health sector.
2.41      If the necessary adjustments to costs and co0t recovery are not
made, the growth of the primary health program would have to be reduced.
It vould most probably be limited to those services that can be provided by
mobile teams and CSPS to residents with immediate access. Whatever the
prospecta, lt is likely that assistance will be required from external
sources in support of recurrent costs, on a declining basis, during the
transitional period while budgetary reallocations and cost recovery
measures take effect.
F. The Bank Group's Role
2.42      To date, the Bank has been involved in health in Burkina
principally through the successful regional Onchocerciasis Control Program
(OCP) of which Burkina is one of the principal beneficiaries. The Bank's
Country Economic Memorandum and Health and Nutrition Sector Review sec the
stage in 1982 for a strategy of Bank assistance in health to Burkina.
Project preparation was subsequently undertaken by the MOPH with assistance
provided through the Bank's project preparation facility. The project was
appraised in June 1984.
2.43      The rationale for Bank involvement at this time is to build upon
and concretize a policy dialogue initiated through our sector work in
1982. The project is designed to provide, through operational research
and testing, the opportunity to improve upon and put into practice Round
health and family planning policies. The project will concurrently
strengthen the existing health service to make an lmmediate impact on
health status and develop MOPH's capability to design, test, evaluate and
improve upon health and family planning operations. These activities wyll
serve to complement the USAID-financed ongoing Health Planning project and
proposed population project. In short, the proposed project ls dynamic in
its approach and should, by design, keep health and population policy
dialogue alive throughout the project's life.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Project Objectives
3.01      The proposed project is designed to assist the Government to (a)
strengthen basic health and family planning services, with initial emphasis
on the control of communicable diseases and the treatment of malaria; (b)
further formulate national health and population policies and promote their
application; and (c) strengthen the MOPH's institutional capability in
planning, evaluation, and project implementation and monitoring.



- 14 -
B. Project Composition
3.02       In summary. the project would support the following:
A. Strengthening of Basic Health and Family Planning Services
A.1 Extenalon of the immunization program,
to 15 provinces, rehabilitation of 20
mobile teamu and 30 urban vaccination
centers, and establishment of a national
malaria treatoent program.
A.2 Development of an In-service training
program in primary health care at the
provincial level.
A.3 Construction and upgrading of about 142
Centers for Health and Social Promotion
(CSPS) and establishment of 6 new referral
centers.
A.4 Execution of feasibility studies <i) to
_mprove maintenance of health facilities
and equipment at the provincial level; and
(Il) to improve management of the hospital
network.
B. Development of National Health
and Population Policies and Programs
..1 Testing cost recovery, drug distribution
and extension of village health and
nutrition systeos.
8.2 Implementation of the results of tests,
feasibility and pilot studies related to
A.4 and B.1 above.
8.3 Establishment of a Population program,
including demographic analysis and popula-
tion policy developuent; Information,
training; and the provision of family
planning services through the public and
private sectors and voluntary associations.
C. Strengthening of the Ministry of Public Health
C.l Establishment of about 8 Provincial
Directorates of Public Health (DPSP); and
provision of 2 mobile epidemiological
surveillance units.
C.2 Strengthening health planning and
project implementation services, including
preparation of future health projects.



- 15 -
C. Project Description
Strengthening of Basic Health and Family Planning
3.03      The strategy summarized in paras. 2.28 - 2.31 highlights the
principal elements of a primary health care program for Burkina, with
special emphasis on the control of common diarrheas, the treatment of
malaria, and on immunization, nutrition, pre-natal care and child spacing.
Whereas immunization can readily be provided by existing MOPE personnel,
knowledgeable persons at the village-level are required for such priorities
as diarrhea control, detection of the malnourished, and child spacing.
These village agents, in addition, need to be supported by trained
personnel and credible services at the provincial level. For these
reasons, the project strategy comprises: (a) rapid development of an
expanded program of immunization by taking advantage of the ready
availability of MOPH personnel; (b) the progressive setting in place of
CSPS facilities capable of supporting the EPI program as well as promoting
and sustaining services at the village-level; and (c) testing and
progressively developing appropriate village-level services based in part
on knowledgeable persons with links to the CSPS and other organs of health
and community promotion.
3.04      Development of Immunization and Malaria Prograus.  As mentioned
in para. 2.33, an expanded program of immunization is an integral part of
the preventive emphasis of Burkina's primary health care strategy. The
program is aimed at protecting children under 4 against me&sles, pertussis,
poliomyelitis, diphtheria, tetanus and tuberculosis. It would be
complemented by immunization of the age-group 1 - 15 against yellow fever,
which is a permanent threat, and against meningitis which occurs in major
endemic outbreaks approximately every 10 years. The EPI is already
implemented in the former Department of Kaya (with Dutch support) vith
technical supervision by the Association for the Promotion of Preventive
Medicine (APMP). The project would support the coverage of 15 new
provinces. The initial campaign would cover 8 provinces during the first
year of the project, and 7 during the second. Booster shots and coverage
of the new 0 - 1 age-group would take place in each of the subsequent
years.
3.05      Full-scale operations would be carried out by all fixed
facilities in these 15 provinces which will be equipped with adequate
cold-chains. In addition, 1 mobile unit would be set up in each province
to serve the population living further than 5 km from fixed facilities.
About 8 additional mobile units would serve the peri-urban population of
the major cities (principally Ouagadougou and Bobo-Dioulasso). Thirty
urban health facilities would also be equipped. Skill improvement is a
priority objective of the proposed in-service training component of the
project (para. 3.07 below). The project would provide the vaccines,
cold chain equipment and storage facilities, as required, in 15
provinces,vehicles and equipment for the mobile units, and operating
costs. No additional staff would be required.
3.06      The MOPH would shift its strategy for malaria control from chemo-
prophylaxis in selected target groups to the prevention of mortality by
treatment with chloroquine of all fever episodes. To implement this



- 16 -
program, chloroquine would be made avallable in sufficient quantity to all
levels of health care, inclueirg village health volunteers, and to
nonspecialized organizatio-s whose members are educated about their proper
use. Preliminary trials lndicate that such a strategy of semi-controlled
distribution can prevent deaths at very low cost and that average
consumption i8 1 tablet per capita per month. The project vould provide
adequate amiunts of chloroquine for an initial two-year period. The
campaign would then be self-supported as patients will be charged for the
drug. Chloroquine tablets will be sold at such prices as vill allow the
program to be self-supporting as from the third Project Year. As a
condition of disbursement, no withdrawals shall be made in respect of the
purchase of chloroquine until such time as evidence satisfactory to the
Association is provided to show that adequate arrangements have been made
for the bulk procurement of -bloroquine, for their packaging, for
facilitating the flow of supplies to the provinces, and for recovering
coats through sales. Furthermore, during negotiations, the Government
provided assurances that it would establish an account in its Treasury
which shall operate as a revolving fund, under terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Association, to support primary health care services,
including the replenishment of chloroquine for the anti-malaria program.
All proceeds from the sales of chloroquine financed under the project would
be deposited into this fund.
3.07      In-service Training.  As shown earlier (para. 2.14), existing
health services are weakest at the periphery of the system. Dispensaries
and maternities, which gradually would be transformed into CSPS (para.
2 29), should be capable <f interfacing between an emerging village level
primary health care system and higher levels of referral at the provincial
level. In short, the Government's policy requires that, alongaide the
setting up of a national EPI program, each province must develop an
organized service delivery system.  The key component of this undertaking
ls regular in-service training aimed at improving practical skills. The
process of organizing and conducting in-service training is also expected
to facilitate a team approach linking the Provincial Directorates of Health
and CSPS.
3.08      Through the project, the MOPH's central Directorate of
Professional and In-service Training would establish a core unit
responsible for planning and coordinating the provincial level in-service
training program.  Funds have alread been made available through the PPF to
set up the unit and to prepare training modules. The unit would be
responsible for training a team of provincial trainers made up of the
Provincial Director of Public Health, provincial physicians. and provincial
authorities in charge of preventive services. Technical assistance vould
also be provided to help the central unit prepare hand-out materials which
trainees would put together to create their own reference manual as the
training program unfolds. Six courses vould be developed and would be the
basis of the training program: (i) organization and management of primary
health care; (il) EPI; (iii) maternal and child health and family planning;
(iv) sanitation; (v) detection and treatment of malnutrition and the
control of infectious and parasitic diseases; and (vi) the prescription and
use of essential drugs.
3.09      Training sessions would be organized at the provincial level for
the following reasons: to reduce the distance between duty stations and
the training center, thus reducing transportation costs; to minitize the



- 17 -
length of time paramedical staff are absent from duty; to allow for
flexibility in scheduling and presentation; and to ensure a close
relationship between rural staff and provincial supervisors.
3.10      During the project, a minimum of two complete training cycles
vould be completed in each province. Sessions vould take place at three-
month intervals. Between sessions, follow-up vould consist of weekly radio
programs (45 minutes) and the distribution of technical hand-outs.
Approximately 1,000 paramedical workers would be trained through the
project; they constitute the entire network of provincial level nurses,
midvives and auxiliaries. The in-service training program vould commence
in the province of Boulgou (see para. 3.19) and vould be extended to the
remaining 29 provinces over the life of the project.
3.11      Upgrading of Dispensaries to CSPS Facilities.  The focal point
for implementing health care delivery in rural areas is the CSPS, an
upgraded form of existing rural dispensaries and maternities. The
functions of the CSPS include the provision of primary health care to the
population in their immediate catchment areas, nutrition rehabilitation,
EPI services, and the promotion and supervision of village-level health and
nutrition activities. The CSPS vould require facilities capable of
providing consultations, in-service training of village health vorkers,
maternal and child health education and the storage of drugs and vaccines.
On-site lodging would also be required for the nurse-in-charge. Less than
one-third of the existing network of approximately 400 dispensaries and
maternities match these criteria. Buildings are too small to accomodate
more than one nurse and one birth attendant, equipment is obsolete and many
structures are old and dilapidated to the point where replacement is
required. About 110 of these facilities are being upgraded with
assistance from the Federal Republic of Germany, and another 27 with
assistance from the African Development Bank. The project would renovate
an additional 54 such facilities, and enlarge or replace 88 existing
facilities.  Each CSPS would consist of 233 m2 of floor space and vould be
provided with a year-round vater supply (improved vells or boreholes).
They vould be each equipped with a refrigerator to ensure an adequate
cold-chain for vaccination purposes, and with a motorbicycle or bicycle for
supervision purposes. Maintenance and operating costs vould be provided by
the NOPE (for salaries and drugs), provincial budgets (for maintenance
staff), and by the project (on a declining scale) and user-fees for
incremental operating costs (para. 3.18, 4.07 - 4.09). Each CSPS vould be
staffed by a certified nurse, a nurse, a birth attendant, an itinerant
health agent and a maintenance vorker. The project would provide housing
for the head nurse attached to each CSPS.
3.12      Referral Centers.  To ensure adequate referral of emergency cases
requiring surgery and hospitalization, the Government plans to establish a
network of 15 strategically located referral centers across the country
(para. 2.31). Nine such centers exist; the project would provide the
remaining six. Patterned after the referral center built at Dori with FRG
assistance, these facilities (630 m2) would be staffed with physicians and
nurses attached to existing medical centers (paras. 2.13 -   2.14).



- 18 -
3.13      Because the referral centers would in fact be part of Burkina's
network of regional hospital services, they risk many of the problems of
cost containment and fee collection that have emerged in the national
hospital system (para. 2.39). To address these issues, the project would
provide 4 man-months of technical assistance for studies and proposals to
improve the management of the hospital network.  Because rural health
facilities and equipment have suffered from the absence of a program of
routine maintenance, the project would provide 4 man-months of technical
assistance for a feasibility study to improve maintenance of health
facilities.  Funds would be provided to implement the recommendations of
these studies if found acceptable by the Association (para. 3.23).
Development of National Realth
and Population Policies and Programs
3.14      As the proposed project represents a major investment alongside
the efforts of the Government and other donors - and because it vould
contribute toward further reinforcemen_t and application of national health
policy of common concern to the Governnent and external donors alike - the
Government agreed to consult with the Association if further studies and
experiments indicate the need for a reorientation of the national health
policy (summarized in para. 2.26).  During negotiations,  the Government
presented an updated statement of its Realth Policy. The Governuent also
provided assurances that it would (i) annually organize a meeting of all
aid agencies participating in the financing of the Realth Policy in order
to review the progress made in its execution and to coordinate further
assistance; and (ii) review in detail annually with the Association all
investuents made in the health sector during the previous year and expected
to be made during the upcoming year, including associated recurrent cost
implications, regardless of the source of financing of such investments.
3.15      The Government-endorsed primary health care policies as stated In
para. 2.26 are basically satisfactory. They are in need, however, of
further refinement and more explicitness, particularly with respect to drug
distribution, cost recovery (and associated affordability and replicability
issues), the extension of basic health services to villages, and the
development of family planning programs.  All of these areas require
operational field testing as well as review of experience of other donor
activities. This project component would support such review and
operational field testing as described below in paras. 3.16 - 3.26.
3.16      Drug Distribution.  To assist the Government in further
developing its national pharmaceutical policy, to strengthen central
procurement and distribution, and to improve rhe prescription practices of
prescribers in line with MOPH policy (paras. 2.35 - 2.37), the project
would provide about 24 man-months of technical assistance in needs
assessment and policy formu'lation, preparation of a drug formulary
(prescribers' manual) in conformity with that policy, procurement planning,
and training in stock management and continuing education of prescribers.
The project would also provide 6 man-months of advisory services, materials
and operating costs for a program to inform the public about the
Government's essential drug policy. To these ends, during negotiations the
Government provided assurances that it would (a) not later than December
31, 1985, prepare and furnish to the Association for its review and comment



- 19 -
an investment plan for strengthening national drug procurement and
distribution; (b) not later than December 31, 1985, present to IDA for
review and approval, and subsequently adopt an official list of
pharmaceutical products authorized for importation and distribution
throughout Burkina, such a list being presented by the generic and
speciality brand name equivalents in conformity with the World Health
Organization's essential drug guidelines; (c) review and, as necessary,
modify such a list once annually; (d) not later than June 30, 1986, publish
a new national drug formulary, based on the list mentioned above, which
would serve as a reference guide for prescribers in the correct
prescription and utilization of authorized drugs; (e) not later than June
30, 1986, create in the MOR a pharmaceutical information service capable of
providing information to prescribers and the public on essential drugs;
and (f) carry out a program to inform the public about its essential drug
policy. In addition, the Government confirmed that SONAPHAERM, the newly
created drug importation agency (see para. 2.36), will operate, inter alia,
on the following principles: (i) 49% of the enterprise will be owned by
the private pharmaceutical businesses in Burkina, and 51Z by the State;
(ii) drugs will be procured through ICB; (iii) the sale prices will include
a reasonable profit margin and vill be the same for both public and private
purchasers; (iv) its staff size will not exceed what is appropriate for
such a drug wholesale business; and (v) its activities will be limited to
drug importation and wholesale. Jointly with IDA, the Government will
carry out an annual assessaent of SONAPHARM's performance, including the
desirability of allowing increased competition.
3.17      To improve drug distribution within the provinces -  down to the
village-level -  the project would undertake operational field research to
(a) determine drug needs in rural areas; (b) assess existing channels of
drug distribution; (c) test alternative mechanisms for improved delivery,
including a scheme of payment for drugs; and (d) study the role of the
private sector. This study would be undertaken alongside other
cost-recovery studies and operational research in appropriate village-level
health and nutrition activities (see below) in the province of Boulgou.
Boulgou (see map 18565) is located in the southern part of Burkina, has a
population of about 350,000, is accessible, has a mixture of newly created
CSPS and dispensaries linked to referral facilities, and is considered to
be sufficiently representative of health and socio-economic conditions in
the country.  An initial stock of drugs,logistical support and incremental
operating costs would be provided for this study. In addition, technical
assistance would be provided in public health management and health
economics to help the MOPH's Directorate of Health Studies, Planning and
Statistics to undertake special studies, including drug distribution, in
Boulgou. The Governrtent Gf Italy has agreed to finance these requirements.
3.18      Cost Recov!y.  In support of the Government's intention to
institutionalize a system of fees for services (para. 2.40), Boulgou would
serve as an experioental zone to (a) test appropriate cost recovery
mechanisms at each level; (b) assesa the organizational and management
requirements of partial cost-recovery; (c) determine the cost of providing
adequate primary health care at the CSPS and referral levels; and (d)
provide scenarios of the share of the state budget, the provincial budget
and the finwicial contribution of beneficiaries toward the optimal
functioning of primary health care programa and its application
nation7wide.



- 20 -
3.19      Village Level Health and Nutrition Activities.  Because the CSPS
and referral network are expected to cover effectively only that portion of
the population in their immediate catchment areas, the primary health care
strategy requires the development of outreach services and a supervision
system linked to the promotion of village-level health and nutrition
activities. To these ends, Boulgou would also serve as a zone to (a) test
the organizational and managément requirements of the CSPS with regard to
outreach, supervision and referral; and (b) for outlying villages, promote
and evaluate what kinds of health and nutrition services could
appzopriately be provided by villagers themselves vith the supp3rt of the
CSPS.
3.20      The project would identify an initial number of CSPS, survey the
population immediately covered, and assist in setting up Health
Committees that are representative of the population covered. Steps would
be taken to improve diagnostic services and treatment at the CSPS level.
The treatment of the chronically ill (leprosy and/or tuberculosis cases)
would then be organized more systematically. These activities would be
accompanied by measures to improve preventive activities in the catchment
area of the CSPS (pre-natal consultatiâns; consultation of children under
5, including vaccinations and the detection and treatment of the
malnourished; house visits).
3.21      Beyond this catchment area, the project would strengthen
maternal and child health outreach services to outlying village
populations.  In addition, outlying villages which indicate an interest in
developing their own health and nutrition programs would be encouraged, as
a first step, to create their own Health Committees and to reach a
consensus on the kinds of programs they could reasonably afford and
manage. The village health committees would be in charge of identifying
traditional midwives and health volunteers who would benefit from CSPS
training programs in health and nutrition.  A village-level primary health
post (para 2.28) may be established where varranted (by the size of the
village, its resources and motivation), as determined by the provincial
directorates of public health in consultation with village authorities.
3.22      These studies are all expected to be coupleted by the end of the
second year of the project, to be evaluated at the beginning of the third
year and proposals presented thereafter to permit their application to the
remaining provinces of the country no later than the start of the fourth
year. During negotiations, the Government provided assurances that it
would (a) present to the Association by March 31, 1988 the results of the
studies pertaining to drug distribution, cost-recovery, village-health and
nutrition activities, maintenance of health facilities, improved hospital
management and family planning services (para. 3.24), and the financial
requirements of a national primary health care system for review and
comment by the Association; (b) furthermore, present to the Association, by
September 30, 1988, proposals to apply the results of these studies to the
remaining 29 provinces of Burkina, and (c) plan to implement these
proposals no later than April 1, 1989.
3.23      A sum of US$5 million equivalent has been earmarked under the
project to begin to implement the reaulta of feasibility and pilot studies
related to the development of population activities, including family
planning (para. 3.24 - 3.26); improved maintenance of provincial health



- 21 -
facilities (para. 3.13); improved hospital management (para. 3.13); the
developuent of cost recovery, drug distribution and villlage health and
nutritiom. systeus (para. 3.16 - 3.22);2/ and the development of national
drug procurement and distribution (para. 3.16). Use of these funds would
be made on the basis of vritten proposals frou the Government, supported by
a fessibility study. As agreed during negotiations, the Association vould
appraise the proposals in accordance with the following criteria: (a) its
relationship to the Governuent 's health policy; (b) its relationship to the
Governuent's annual or biennial investment programs; (c) its potential
Impact; and (d) its financial viability and the availability of resources
to support incremental operating costs. Proposals vould be evaluated
during regular supervision missions. The agreement to undertake proposed
activities vould be in the form of a simple exchange of letters between the
Association and tae Ministry of Health. During negotiations, the
Government gave assurances that it vould follow the criteria and procedures
for the use of funds for the implementation of special studies financed
under the project.
3.24      Establishment of Population Program. The Government's policy of
promoting integrated maternal and child health (NCH) and family planning
services (para. 2.06) is based on a strategy of introducing fauily planning
first in urban areas, while developing training in f amily planning, backed
by the media, to promote birth spacing practices across the country. The
project vould provide 6 man-months of technical assistance for a
feasibility study to upgrade 8 out of 15 NCH and maternity facilities in
the principal cities of Ouagadougou and Bobo-Dioulasso. Funds are also
provided to implement the results of this study.
3.25      As also mentioned in para. 2.06, the project includes support for
the development of a national Population Planning Assistance Program which
has been identified and prepared under the aegis of USAID. The purpose of
this program is to reinforce leadership, institutional and planning
capabilities to address population issues, and to lay the groundwork for a
national systea of family planning information and services through the
primary health care system and through private sector channels. Under a
demography and policy development component, (a) technical assistance and
training vould be provided for the staff of the National Institute of
Statistics and Demography to analyze national census data ( a national
census is planned for late 1985), to disseminate demographic information,
and to undertake a survey of contraceptive practIces. Nembers of the
National Population Commission and other senior officials vould visit
developing countries to observe established family planning prograus.
Financial support and short-term technical assistance would be provided to
indigenous private voluntary organizations to engage in policy related
social research. Under an Information, Education and Communications
component, the program would develop, pre-test, evaluate and disseminate
population related messages in various local languages. These messages
vould be diffused through radio, posters, photo-novels and commercial
spots' for showing in film theatere. A training component would include
training of trainers in MCH and family planning. In addition, up to 15
in-country training seminars vould be held for nurses, midwives,
traditional birth attendants and other outreeach vorkers on family planning
information and methods. Short-term training for up to 15 phaicians vould
21 Expected to include training of village health agents, village health
committees, field supervision, and drug supplies.



- 22 -
be provided in fertility management. In-country training vould also be
provided on contraceptive commodity management and logiatice,
record-keeping and data collection. Family Planning Services vould include
8trengthening the two national hoopitals to becore family planning referral
and teaching centers; assistance for the developuent of a f amily planning
clinic and training center at private Association for Family Well-Being;
and provision of family planning coumodities (contraceptives, drugs,
medical supplies, audio-visual and training materials) to the MOPH and
private voluntary organizations.
3.26      Key elements of the Population Progra. (equipping of the national
hospitals, training, and establishment of a model clinic in a local
voluntary organization) have begun. Funding of the entire program by
USAID, initially scheduled for approval in early 1985, has slipped until
mid-CY1986. Should further delay occur, the funds referred to in para.
3.23 vould be used, as a priority, to continue implementing components of
the progra. (subject to the appraisal criteria laid out in para. 3.23). In
the unforeseen eventuality that USAID funding does not materialize, the
Association vould seek additional funding, preferably on a grant basis, to
implement the population program. The Governmentts oen conmitment was
further evidenced by the launching of family planning services in 7 urban
clinics in February 1985.
Strengthening of the Ministry cf Public Bealth
3.27      The Governoent' s decision to decentralize its territorial
administration (paras. 2.26, 2.30) Io an important otep favoring the
establishment of provincial health teams of manageable size and population
coverage. 0f the 30 provinces, 8 would benefit from facilities to house
the staff of their Provincial Directorates of Public Health and to organize
in-service training. The project would provide these facilities (250m2)
and related office equipment and furniture.
3.28      Because of the MOPH's need to improve communicable disease
surveillance and to strengthen its evaluation capability (para. 2.12), the
project vould provide tuo mobile units for epidemiological surveillance in
the Comoe and Bulkiemde provinces. They would focus initially on the
screening and treatment of trypanosomiasis (sleeping sickness) which
remains a threat in these provinces. They vould progressively expand
surveillance, after an evaluation of initial operations, to
schistosomiasis, onchocerciasis and meningitis. Lessons learned from
operating these units would be used for expanding the surveillance network
in the future.
3.29      As mentioned ln para. 2.12, preparation of the proposed project
gave the MOPH an opportunity to establish its Directorate of Health
Studies Planning and Statistics (DEPSS) and to undertake a major planning
exercise. The project would continue to support the DEPSS by entrusting lt
with further project preparation and start-up activities financed under the
PPF (para. 4.11) by giving it principal responsibility for organizing and
evaluating pilot and feasibility studies to be financed under the project.
Funds would also be provided to the DEPSS to prepare a possible second IDA
financed health project. These activities would be further supported by an
already approved USAID-financed project which vould strengthen the
DEPSS through 162 man-uonths of technical assistance in health planning,
economics, epidemiology and data classification. The USAID financed Health
Planning project began in January 1985.



- 23 -
3.30          The  proposod  IDA  project would  also  provide  office equipment.
materiala, vehicles  and  operating  conts,  including  the  aslarles of
lncremental personnel to create a project management unit attached to the
KOPR's Secret-ry General'. office to coordinate and monitor project inputs
and expenditures (paras. 5.02 - 5.05).
IV.   PROJCT CoST AID FINANCIAL  PLAN
A. Project Cont
4.01          The  total  coat  of  the project  in estimated  nt USS28.0 million
equivalent net of taxes. The estimsted coLtS and foreign exchange
components, given in Annex 1, T-8, T-9, and T-10 are summarized as follova:
Table  4.1
MtINA
IEALTN SERVICES   VELOPOT PROJECT
MJECT cm sW
(CFA Nillion)            (US$ Nillion)                 Z Total
-----------------------------  ZForeign    Dm
Local  Foreign  Total    Local Foreimi Total  Excha.   Cotts
A. STRENBTNENING OF BASIC HEALTH
AID FMILY PLUING SRICS
1. DELOPT OF IHUMIUZAION 1 MHIA PROGRNES    3Y96.  1,540.2  1l937.1    0.8                  3.1   4.0          80       17
2. INSE3PVICE TRAININ  OF MEALTH PERSONNEL              54.?   168.9    223.9    0.1       0.3   0.5          75         2
3. STRENBTNENINB OF  ENLTH INFRASTRUCTURE             2.161.9 2.387.5  4t549.4    4.4       4.9   9.3          52       41
Sub-Tot4l STREE1TIHEIN  OF »ASIC NEALTH
NAB FMNILY PLANNIN6 SERVICES                          2P613.7 4.096.6  6.710.3    5.3       8.4  13.7          61       60
D. DEVELOPIIENT OF NATIONAL HEALTN AND
PFllJATION POLICIES AIS PROG S
1. POLICY DEVELOPIENT STUDIES                            33.6   217.7    251.4    0.1       0.4   0.5          87        2
2. FUNDS FOR IMPLEDENTINO RESUJLTS OF STUDIES           E6B.2 1,561.8  2.450.0    1.8       3.2   5.0          64       22
Sub-Total DEVELOPfNET OF NATIONAL HEALTN AND
POPUUATION POLICIES MiD PRO89AItS                       921.8 19779.5  2.701.4    1.9       3.6   5.5          66        24
C. SIRENGTNENIN6 OF  IINISTRY OF HEALTH                    512.2   767.6  1927n.9    1.0       1.6   2.6          60        12
D. REPAYIENT OF PPF                                          89.0   312.8    401.9    0.2      0.6   0.9          78         4
Total EASELIE COSTS                                       49136.7 6.956.6 119093.3    8.4    14.2  22.6            63       100
Phtsical Continomncies                                       246.3   363.1    609.4    0.5    0.7   1.2          60         S
Price Continimncies                                     19013.5 1013.0  2.026.6    2.1        2.1   4.1          50        18
Total PROJCT COSTS                                         5t396.5 89332.7 13.729.3   11.0    17.0  28.0            61       124
Totals may not add up due to rounding.



- 24 -
4.02      Colt estimates of civil works for health facilities are based on
simple but functionally appropriate *tandard design& prepared by MOPH and
used in ongoing health programa In Burkina. The average bame cost per
square oeter of building (June 1984, Ouagadougou) rangea from US$145
equivalent for the simple rural CSPS to US$306 equivalent for the referral
centers vhich include surgical facilitie..  These esti'at.d conts compare
favorably with 1984 conts for similar facilities ln health projecta being
financed by IDA in Mali ($170) and Senegal ($300). The prograu vill
provide one house of 70 n2 at oach of the 142 CSPS locations to provide
on-site accomodation for the CSPS head nurse who ls expected to be on call
twenty-four hours per day. The housing provision represents about 18% of
construction conts. About 10% of the base construction conts ($0.9 million
equivalent) is for the provision of year-round vater supply to project
facilities.
4.03      Contingency Allowances.  For unforeseen physical conditions, 10%
has been added to the base coat of civil vorks, equ'àp.ent, architectural/
engineering services, technical assistance and training. Entiuated price
increases are based upon the follosing annual percentage rates of price
escalation from the base cost date (March 1985) In accordance vith the
implementation schedule (Annex 1, C-2).
Table 4.2
Calendar Year                     1985      1986          1987-90
Foreign (Z)                       5.0         7.5          8.0
Local   (Z)                      10.0         10.0        10.0
The foreign annual rates are ln accordance vith February 1985 OPN
guidelines on expected price lncreases; the local annual rates have been
revieved by Bank Group Staff and have been found satisfactory.
4.04      Foreign Exchange Couponent   The foreign exchange component of
US$17.0 million equivalent, or 61Z of total project coste has been calcur
lated as follows: (a) civil works: 451; (b) furniture: 60%; equipment:
90%; vehicles: 751; drugs: 90%; materials: 60%; (c) architectural/
engineering fees: 60Z; (d) expatriate technical assistance: 100%; local
consultants: nil; (e) training: 10%; (f) project preparation facility
advance and special studies: 75Z; (g) unallocated funds: 60%; and (h)
operating costs: 40Z.
B. Financial Plan
4.05      The total project cost of US$28.0 million equivalent would be
financed with an IDA Credit of US$26.6 million equivalent, representing 95%
of the total project cost net of taxes. The Credit would finance all
foreign exchange costs and 87Z of local costs as follows:



- 25 -
Table 4.3
Financial Plan
US$ Million Equivalent
Category         Governument     IDA           Total
Civil Works                          9.6            9.6
Equipment, Furniture,
Vehicles, Materials,
& Drugs except
chloroquine                        5.6            5.6
Chloroquine               -          0.2            0.2
Operating Coats           1.34       0.9            2.24
Technical Assistance,
Professional Fees,
Training                  -           1.8           1.8
Funds for Implementa-
tion of Results of
Studies(Sub-Projects)  -           5.0            5.0
Froject Preparation
Advance                 -          0.82           0.82
Initial Deposit in
Local Revolving Fund    0.06         -             0.06
Unallocated               -          2.68           2.68
TOTAL         1.4        26.6           28.0
4.06      Project Operating Costs. The proposed project is designed to
keep incremental operating costs to a minimum, concentrating on
rehabilitating and increasing the efficiency of the existing rural health
infrastructure and institutions, vhile simultaneously devising cost
recovery and budgetary policies which would enable the Government in the
long-run to finance a broad-based rural health care system. The project is
expected to generate (at its end period) an increment in annual operating
costs of CFAF 430 million (US$878,000 equivalent). Of this amount,
CFAF 389 million (US$794,000 equivalent) would be attributable to the M1OPH
budget (an 8.6Z increment). The remainder, covering building and water
supply maintenance, vould be attributable to NOPE's share of the
Government's 'common expenses' budget.



- 26
4.07      Incremental operating costs are presented in Annex 1, T-Il.  The
major items of annual incremental expenditure required to sustain the
project are as follows:  Imunization and anti-malarial programs
(US$568,000 equivalent); CSPS (US$126,000); DPSP (US$73,000 equivalent)
referrai centers (US$62,000 equivalent); and ir-service training
(US$42,000). These costs represent drugs (chiefly vaccines), vehicle and
equipment maintenance, and operations. As all health facilities to be
rE2ovated are said to be fully staffed, salaries do not constitute a part
of incremental recurrent costa.
4.08      The Government is expected to meet these incremental expenditures
as indicated in the following table:
Table 4.4
Proposed Financing of Incremental Recurrent Costs
(US$'000/Year)
Donor       Cost        Government  Total
Community   Recovery
Immunization & Anti Malaria
Programa                           365          166          37        568
Chloroquine                       -          (166)         -        (166)
Vaccines                        (201)          -           -        (201)
Cold Chain Op.
& Maint. : mobile units       (164)          -           -        (164)
fixed units         -            -          (37)       (37)
Operating Costs 3/                                 55         213        268
Reference Centers                   -           (18)        (4w)       TmZ)
CSPS                                -           (37)       (89)       (126)
DPSP                                -            -          (73)       (73)
Epidemiological
Units                             -            -           (7)        (7)
Training                              -            -          42          42
Total                                365          221         292        878
To date, vaccines and the cost of operating mobile vaccination units have
been largely financed by the donor community. It is assumed that the donor
community would continue to provide such financing estimated at US$365,000
representing 42% of the project's incremental Gperating costs-
3/ This estimate includes incremental operating costs for maintenance
of new investments including buildings, water supply, and equipment;
vehicle operation and maintenance; and miscellaneous operating costs.



- 27 -
4.09      Consequently, domestic resources vould be required to finance the
estimated balance of incremental recurrent costs (about US$513,000
equivalent). Of this amount US$221,000 equivalent is expected to be
financed through cost recovery mechanisma. Chloroquine requirements vould
be self financing through the revolving Health Fund referred to ln para.
3.06; and based on experience elsewhere in the Sahel, it is assumed that
user charges would cover between 15 - 38 percent of the (non-salary)
recurrent costs of CSPS and referred centers. An estimated remainder of
US$292,000 equivalent would therefore have to be met by the Government.
This can reasonably be achieved on the assumption that the coat recovery
and reallocation measures mentioned in para. 2.40 are pursued and
enforced. Goverument recurrent expenditure will be reviewed annually as
mentioned in para. 3.14.
4.10      Replicability.  The recurrent cost implications of the project
are tied to another consideration -- whether, as designed, the project is
replicable on a national basis. The answer is threefold: Firet, the bulk
of the project comprises components that are national in coverage, or that
complement ongoing activities to complete national coverage once and for
a1l by the end of the project. As such, this is not an "area" or
demonstration project. The in-service training of health personnel, the
anti-malaria program, the strengthening of health infrastructure and of the
Ministry of Public Health fall into this category. There ls a concern
about the Government's abillty to maintain theee investments; but, this la
an issue of affordability which has been addressed above. Second, the
immunization component also complements ongoing activities which altogether
would cover almost all of the country. As de8igned, thls component follows
international efflciency norms for delivering a package of vaccines that
can be administered in combination, thus lowerlng costs and facilitating
coverage. This component la sustainable on the assumption, stated above,
that there would be continued support by the international community,
chlefly for the supply of vaccines. Third, the policy development studies
have different implications, depending on the type of study. Assistance to
improve drug procurement is national in scope, and, as such, wculd not have
to be replicated. Population ;elated activities vould continue to receive
international assistance, as has been the case elsewhere in the world, and
vould be developed through existing services. Replicability of village
level health activities is a pertinent issue due to sociological factors
and administrative constraints, as vell as financial constraints on
villagers' ability to sustain self-help activities. For these reasons,
village health activities would continue to be field tested vith particular
focus on replicability and sustalnability. Were they to prove not to be
viable nor replicable, this would imply that most villagers would have to
rely chiefly on traditional healers, traditional midwives and the local
CSPS for health care.
4.11      Project Preparation Facllity (PPF).  On November 1, 1982 the Bank
approved an initial PPF advance of US$490,000 equivalent which was used to
set up and support a Directorate of Health Studies, Planning and Statistics
in the Ministry of Public Health. This new Directorate undertock project
preparation with the assistance of consultants (speclalists in public



- 28 -
health, economic and fmancial analysis, pharmaceuticals, maupover and
training and civil vorks). A second tranche va approved by the Bank on
Noveuber 21, 1984 ln the amount of US$330,000 equivalent to ensure
sufficient *dvancoemnt of project preparation by the time of credit
effectiveneos. The three major activities to be aupported under this
second advance include settiug up lnstitutional arrangements for Boulgou;
strengthening MOPH's ability to undortake timely iir-service training of
health vorkers; and further proparation of proposed civil works.
Expenditures financed under these two tranches, totaling US$820,000
equivalent, are lncluded in the overall cost of the project.
V   PROJECT IYPLEHENTATION. PRfeIENU T  DISBSUSENUTY AND AUDITINC
A. Impleumntation
5.01      Schedule.  The proposed project would be lmplemented over a
period of about flve and one half yearu, plus six months for completion of
payment and submisuion of withdrawal applications. The project is expected
to be completed by January 31, 1991 with a closing date of July 31, 1991.
The largest alement of the program, construction of about 142 CSPS
facilitles, la expected to start by October 1985 shortly after credit
effectiveness. Further preparatory activities to be undertaken prior to
credit effectiveness (Annez 1, C-2) and funded from a second advance of the
project preparation facility include: (a) detalled site and water surveys
for about 20 CSPS which are targeted for construction during the firet two
years following credit effectiveness; (b) the preparation of a master plan
for CSPS construction, including materials to be purchased; (c) preparatory
activities to undertake special studies on financida requirements of the
health sector, cost recovery mechanisus, drug distribution. and village
health and nutrition activities, and (d) developuent of teaching materials
to permit early lmpleuentation of the ln-service tralniug component.
5.02      Administration.  Present practice of the Governuent of Burkina
lu that project fundu are centrally controlled and managed while actual
lmplementation la decentralized a much au possible. To these ends,
the MOPH vould create a amal Project Management Unit (PHU), whlch would be
attached to the Office of the Secretary General of Health and which vould
be responsible for coordinating all parties lnvolved ln project luplementa-
tion. In addition to ensurlng relations vith IDA and external technical
assistance (para. 5.08), the PMU would coordinate with MOPH directorates at
the central and provincial levels as vell as the Ministries of Finance,
Interior, Equipuent and W-ter whlch would be involved in project
implementation. An organlzation chart in shown ln Annex 1, C-3.



- 29 -
5.03      The PMU would schedule and monitor the program of activities to
be implemented under the project, keep accounts and authorize all project
expenditures. The setting of an appropriate project accounting system in
the PMU is a condition of Credit effectiveness.
5.04      The following full-time staff would be appointed to the PMU: a
director; an admainistrator, and an accountant (in charge of budgeting,
coordinating procurement activities related to all aspects of the project
except the CSPS (see para. 5.09 ), paymente and accounts); support staff
and a chauffeur.  The establishment of the iMU, including the appointment
of staff, ie a condition of Credit effectiveness.
5.05      The PMU would be supported by about 2 man-years of consultant
services in economics (to asslst in health sector financing studies and in
preparing sub-project proposals) and about 2 additional man-years of
architectural services (to assist in coordinating activities related to the
construction of the DPSP and referral centers).
5.06      Actual implementation of the non-construction program would be
managed by the central and provincial level MOPH directorates. At the
central level, the Directorate of Health Studies, Planning and Statistics
would organize and evaluate the special studies to be undertaken in the
province of Boulgou. The Central Directorate of Health Services would
ensure adequate stafflng and equipping of all project facilities, and would
share responsibility vith the PMU in the strengthening the Provincial
Directorates of Health and in the progressive extension to the entire
country of the strategies which would have proven feasible in Boulgou
province. The Directorate of Training would organize in-service training
at the provincial level through a central team of trainers working in
collaboration vith provincial Medical Directors. The Directorate of
Epidemiological Surveillance and Vaccinations would supervise the equiprent
(cold chain), training and scheduling requirements of the lmmunization and
malaria components of the project.
5.07      At the field level, the existiug management team of each
Provincial Directorate of Public Realth (comprised of the provincial
Medical Director, 2 physicians, a pharmacist and an administrator) would
oversee project activities as required in their ongoing program of work.
5.08      Technical Assistance.  To the greatest extent possible, the
project would rely on local expertise to provide specialist assistance for
the effective implementation of the various project components. At the
same time, the MOPH recognizes that certain critical skills required by the
project are not readily available. Advisory services are therefore
provided as summarized in Annex 1, T-12. A total of 8 man-years of
technical assistance la provided through the project at an average cost of
US$120,000 per year for expatriate consultants.



- 30 -
5.09      Construction Program.  The Rural Water and Equipment Fund (FEER)
vill undertake organization and supervision of the 142 CSPS ln the
construction program. The FEER was established in the early 1970's vith
IDA assistance to develop a reliable and cost-effective capability for
managing small-scale rural investments in Burkina. These investmentu
include anti-erosive works, credit to farmers, village storage sheds, tree
plantations, village vater supplies and, more recently, primary achools and
CSPS facilities. As an independent public body under the supervision of
the Ministry of Water, the FEER has the authority to undertake functions of
appraisal, financial control, monitoring and supervision required of
projects that it manages on behalf of the Government. The FEER has a
proven capability to provide low-cost basic facilities through mobilization
of participating village communities (unskilled labor to gather sand and
gravel, and to manufacture bricks). The FEER channels external financing
to participating communities by supplying materials not readily available
in the communities as well as skilled labor and supervlsory personnel. In
cases where community mobilization is insufficient, the FEER may employ
local "tacherons" (small scale labor contractors) or locally recruit the
required unskilled labor.
5.10      With respect to the construction of the more complex facilities
(6 referral centers and 8 Provincial Directorates of Public Health), the
Ministry of Equipment would have general oversight responsibility for the
construction of these facilities. Additional architectural services vould
be provided by consultant services, as required, subject to approval by IDA
(para. 5.05). The Ministry of Equipment would approve all necessary
contract documents, public announcements for construction tenders, and
would participate in the normal contract bid-award committee. Ministry of
Equipment field staff will be responsible for final verification and hand-
over of DPSP and referral center facilities.
5.11      The general construction program would be undertaken in two
phases as follows:
(i) Pre-construction phase.
(a) CSPS. To permit a maximum degree of readinesu for
construction prior to credit effectiveness, the Ministry of
Water wll undertake detailed site surveys of at least
20 of the CSPS sites, including surveys of permanent water
prospects. A master-plan for CSPS implementation (with the
first two years suitably tetailed) would be prepared by FEER.
The plan would list inter alia annual cost estimates;
technical staff requirements and deployment; and procedures to
be followed for construction, including the provision of water
supplies, and for the procurement of construction materials.
An agreement, acceptable to the Association, would be made
between the Minister of Public Health and the Minister of
Financial Resources, on the one hand, and the FEER, on the
other, pertaining to the role and responsibilities of the
FEER. The adoption of this agreement is a condition of
disbursement of the CSPS component.



- 31 -
In accordance with FEER procedures, about 20
communities,selected for the first year of the construction
program, would be mibilized to provide bricks and labor for
site preparation and unskilled labor for the construction
phase. The services of a suitably qualified engineer or
building technician would be made available to the FEER from
the Ministry of.Equipment to coordinate the program. Six
suitably qualified site supervisors would be recruited by FEER
for training in FEER procedures   The project would finance
the salaries of the engineer, an additional FEER accountant,
site supervisors, 4 vehicles and operating costs for the
duration of the construction progran.  The appointment of the
engineer, accountant and two initial site supervisors is a
condition of disbursement of the civil works component.
(b)  Provincial Directorates of Public Realth
and Referral Centers:
The PMU would undertake detailed site surveys for the 8
sites through the second tranche of the PPF. Construc-
tion of these facilities would be undertaken by
private contractors.
(ii)  Construction phase.  The FEER would prepare an annual work
program for IDA review prior to the start of each year's
construction. This program would include a report of
progress during the previous year, the status of comple-
tion of site surveys and community mobilization for the
current year, as weli as revised cost estimates and the
relationship of the annual progran to the FEER's master
plan for CSPS construction. The PMU would supervise
construction of DPSP and referral centers
5.12     Site Selection and Water Supply.  The availability of land
for project facilities is not expected to cause difficulties. However, the
identification of building sites is closely linked to the year-round supply
of water in the close vicinity of each health facility. Building
construction would be linked to the proven availability of such supplies.
In the case of the CSPS, the vater supply program would be coordinated by
the Ministry of Water. The Government would ensure that all sites have a
permanent source of vater supply required for the construction and
operation of facilities. At health facilities provided by the project,
appropriate staff would be trained in maintenance and mechanics would be
identified in the community who would be available under contract to make
repairs to hand-pumps.



- 32 -
B. Procurement.
5.13      Procurement arrangements are summarized in the folloving table:
Table 5.1
(US$ Million)
Procurement Method
Project Element                ICB        LCB       Other       NIA a/       Total Cost
Civil Works                           -         7.7         3,4 b/   -             l.
(7.7)      (3.4)                  (ll.l)
Furniture, Office Equipuent,         0.6        0.2         0.1      -              0.9
Material, Supplies                (0.6)      (0.2)       (0.1)                   (0.9)
Medical Equipuent, Drugs             4.6        -           -         -             4.6
(4.6)                                          (4.6)
Vehieles                             0.8        0.2         -          -            1.0
(0.8)      (0.2)                               (1.0)
Technical Assistance                  -         -           1.3       -             1.3
(1.3)                   (1.3)
Professional Fees                     -         0.2         -         -             0.2
(0.2)                              (0.2)
Training                              -         -           0.1       -             0.1
(0.1)                   (0.1)
Project Preparation Facility          -         -           -         0.8           0.8
(0.8)        (0.8)
Preinvestoent Studies                 -         -           -         0.3           0.3
(0.3)        (0.3)
Funds for Implementation
of Studies                           -          -           -         5.0           5.0
(5-0)        (5.0)
Recurrent Co0ts                       -         -           -         2.7           2.7
(1.3)        (1.3)
Total                          6.0        8.3         4.9       8.8          28.0
(6.0)     (8.3)        (4.9)    (7.4)        (26.6)
a/ N/A: not applicable.
b/ Fonds de l'Eau et de l'Equipement Rural.
Note:  Figures in parenthesis are the respective amounts financed by IDA.



- 33 -
5.14 (a) Equipment, Furniture, Vehicles and Drugs contracts (US$6.0
million equivalent including contingencies) would be awarded on the basis
of International Competitive Bidding (ICB) in accordance with IDA's
Guidelines for Procurement. Exceptions to ICB would be as follows:
(i)  contracts with a value of less than $75,000 each vould be
avarded through locally advertised competitive bidding
procedures acceptable to the Association; and,
(ii) Suall value items costiDg less than $10,000 per contract
would follow prudent local shopping procedures acceptable
to the Association.
The aggregate amount of the above exemptions is not expected to exceed
US$500,000 equivalent.
(b)   Civil Works  contracts for the 8 DPSP (US$0.9 equivalent,
including contingencies); 6 referral centers (US$2.2 million equivalent);
and for the supply of construction materials for about 142 CSPS (US$4.6
million equivalent), which are unlikely to interest foreign contractors
(due to small slze and dispersion), would be awarded following locally
advertised competitive bidding acceptable to the Association -- except that
CSPS construction materials costing less than $10,000 per contract may be
procured on the basis of prudent local shopping procedures acceptable to
the Association. Actual construction of about 142 CSPS would be undertaken
by the concerned villages through community participation, under
supervision by the FEER, according to a program acceptable to the
Association (para. 5.09, 5.11).
5.15      Where possible, purchases of medical equipment, vaccines and
drugs vould be made following UNI   F's international procurem"nt procedures
as a means of expediting procurement and limiting costs. Othervise, these
items would be procured through international competitive bidding, except
where there is only one existing supplier.  A list of items to be procured
through UNICEF vould be determined and agreed upon during project
implementation.
5.16      Architectural sketch designe, draft tender documents and master
lists of furniture, equipnent and vehicles 4/ indicating proposed grouping
and estimates of cost would be reviewed by the Association. Items vould be
grouped to the extent practicable to encourage competitive bidding and to
permit bulk procurement. Reviev of tender evaluation documents by the
Association prior to avard vould be required only for contracts for civil
works costing more than US$200,000 equivalent each and for contracte for
furniture, equipment and vehicles costing more than US$50,000 equivalent
each. This is expected to result in coverage of about 70% of the total
estimated value of construction contracte and about 75Z of goods
contracts. Where ICB procedures are used, domestie manufacturers would be
allowed a margin of preference of 15Z or the existing applicable rates of
duties, whichever is lover, over the c.i.f. prices of competing foreign
suppliers.
4/ A list of vehicles to be provided by the project is given in
Annex 1, T-13.



-34-
C. Disbursements
5.17      The proposed Credit vould be disbursed as follois:
Table 5.2
Anount of           Z of
Credit           Expenditure
Category                      Allocated            to be
(US$'000)         Financed(l)
(1) Civil vorks                                9,600             100X
(2) Equipment, furniture, vehicles,
materials, druge except chloroquine       5,600             100%
(3) Chloroquine                                  200             100% 5/
-(4) Operating Costs (excluding salaries         900   *          95X
except for PMU staff; including                              initially
vehicle, equipuent and building                              declining
maintenance and gasoline for the                             to 30%
PHU, EPI progra., DPSP, referral                             tovard the
centers and CSPS, and any other                             end of the
entity as may be agreed vith the                            project.6/
Association).
(5) Technical assistance, professional
fees and training                         1,800             100%
(6) Implementation of Studies(Sub-projects)   5,000              100%
(7) Refunding of Project
Preparation Advance                        820            Amouat due.
as specified
in Section
2.02 (c) of
D.C.A.
(8) Unallocated                               2,680
26,0
5/ 100% of afount representing approximately first 2 years' supply;
replenishment would thereafter be financed throegh cost recovery
mechanisms.
6/ IDA financing plan for this category is as follows: 95Z until total
disbursements reach the equivalent of US$480,000; 60Z thereafter
until total disburseuents reach US$700,000 equivalent; and 30%
thereatter.



- 35 -
5.18      Project administration and miscellaneous operating costs
(Category 4), training (Category 7) and contracta of less than US$10,000
equivalent would be made against statements of expenditure (SOE),
documentation which would not be submitted for review but would be retained
by tne Borrower at one central location and would be the subject of an
annual audit by auditors acceptable to IDA. The Bank would not accept a
reinbursement application for less than US$20,000 equivalent. In addition,
the documentation should be readily available for review by IDA
representatives during the course of project supervision. The disbursement
schedule is shown in Annex 1, T-14; it is based on a disbursement profile
of 22 agriculture projects in Burkina and Mali. The PMU would operate
under Governuent financial procedures and its staff would include an
accountant (para. 5.04) who would maintain the necessary documents and
records according to procedures acceptable to IDA.
5.19      Special Account.  In order to ensure that funds for the project
vould be made available when needed, a Special Account (in CFAF), operated
by the PMU, would be established in a commercial bank in Ouagadougou with
an initial deposit of US$1.0 million equivalent corresponding to about 4
months of estimated project expenditures. The initial deposit would be
disbursed upon receipt and approval of a Procedure III application for
direct payment. The account would be replenished on receipt and approval
cf applications for reimbursement (Procedure I) covering payments made from
the account for eligible civil works, goods and services required for the
project.
5.20      Local Advance Account.  In order to ensure that the Government's
counterpart funding also would be available when needed, the Governuent
would establish a separate replenishable Local Advance Account in local
currency of about CFAF 25 million (US$51,000 equivalent). Establishing the
Local Advance Account and depositing the initial amount of CFAF 25 million
is a condition of Credit effectiveness.
D. Auditing, Reporting and Evaluation
5.21      Auditing.  Annual auditing would be requested for all
expenditures financed under this project. The PMU and the FEER would
establish and maintain account records in accordance with accepted
accounting practices for all project expenditures. During negotiations.
the Borrover provided assurances that (a) it would have the Special
Account, the Local Advance Account, the FEER's accounts in respect of this
project and all other project accounts for each fiscal year audited by
independent auditors to be appointed on terms and conditions acceptable to
IDA, and (b) it would furnish to the Association audit reports vithin six
months folloving the end of each of the Borrower's fiscal years. The cost
of such auditing is included in the proposed Credit.
5.22      Reporting.  Quarterly reports on implementation progresas vould be
submitted by the PMU following a mutually agreed-upon format. A project
evaluation (Completion) report vould be provided by the PMU not later than
six months after the Credit Closing Date.  The PMU, with assistance from
all agencies involved, would prepare the report assessing the execution,
initial operations, costs, and benefits of the proposed project, and the



- 36 -
performance of the Government and IDA, including lessons learned during
project implementation.
5.23      Monitoring and Evaluation.  The efficiency vith which project
components are being carried out vould be monitored against agreed
indicators. Input indicators vould include (i) the nuw er of project
facilities constructed, equipped and staffed according to agreed standards;
(ii) the number of staff retrained; (iii) the number of facilities, fixed
and mobile, which effectively carry out the immunization program.
Indicators of coverage and utilization of services, as a measure of the
provision of health care, would include: (i) the number of children
immunized as a percentage of the total population of the target group;
(ii) the number of villages and estimated population to which chloroquine
is effectively available for the treatuent of fever cames; (iii) the number
of firet and repeated consultations per upgraded health unit, in comparison
with their former performance; (iv) the analysis of routine reports from
rural areas by type of illness; (v) the number of village-level health and
nutrition activities being undertaken; (vi) the number of outlets supplying
essential drugs and (vii) the number of family planning acceptors. The
immunization component will be monitored against weekly and monthly reports
of communicable disease. During the fifth year of the project, a survey of
the immunization coverage would be carried out.
VI. PIOJECT DENEPITS Aml RISKS
A. Project Benefits
6.01      The project is expected to yield five main types of benefits.
First, it would principally improve the quality and accessibility of health
services available to about 4 million persons (over half ;he total
population of Burkina). Of these, about 2 million would directly benefit
from services provided by the CSPS vithin walking distance (up to 5 km)
from their neighborhoods.  The remainder vould benefit from primary health
care, including immunization targeted beyond the immediate catchment area
of the CSPS in support of village level health and nutrition activities.
An estimated sixty percent of the target population of children under four
years of age (approximately 500,000 children) vould be effectively
protected against measles, pertussis, poliomyelitis, diptheria, tetanus and
tuberculosis. An estimated 60 percent of the 1 - 15 age-group would, in
addition, be protected against yellow fever and meningitis.
6.02      While it it difficult to quantify the expected impact of the
project on health status, both the increased utilization and the improved
quality of care are expected to lead to a reduction in illness and
premature death. Without the improvement in access to health services,
including immunization (about 80 percent of total base cost estimates),
only an estimated 26 percent (1 million persons) of the target population
would benefit from primary health care services provided by existing
dispensaries and maternities to populations residing in their imediate



- 37 -
catchment area. Lesa than 5 percent more living in outlying areas would be
served vere the project not to materialize.
6.03      Second, the project is expected to improve the quality of
preventive and curative services by increasing the skills and performance
capability of rural staff, by improving the supply of essential drugs, and
by promoting village-level health and nutrition programs. Approxiiately
1,000 paramedical vorkers would benefit from in-service training through
the project and would continue to improve their skills into the future
through continuing education. Improved skilll and drug supplies would be
major contributions toward making existing services more efficient and
effective. The development of village level services would begin to make a
contribution toward raising the level of awareness of health and nutrition
concerns in outlying areas, would improve the skills of traditional
midwives and introduce village health agents to simple notions of
first-aid, detection, treatment and referral.
6.04      Third, the majority of the population that makes use of modern
drugs is expected to benefit from a reduction in the cost of essential
drugs due to lmproved procurement and distribution practices. On the other
hand, the gradual introduction of cost recovery measures is expected to
provide additional revenue required for more efficient functioning of
health services at all levels of the system.
6.05      Fourth, the project is expected to contribute toward laying the
basis for a national integrated maternal and child health and famlly
planning program, based on the provision of services in urban areas and
their gradual extension or developuent in rural areas as the CSPS become a
viable sub-system.
6.06      Fifth, the project would make an important contribution toward
non-financial assistance by furthering health sector pollcy objectives, and
promoting institutional developsent and donor coordination. This expected
benefit is one of the principal reasons why a broad-based sectoral approach
was adopted in formulating the proposed project. A project limited to a
demonstration zone was considered, but vas viewed as less appropriate
because it would risk being another enclave operation incapable of
accelerating the procese (1) by which a more coherent, national health
system could emerge within a common policy and investment framework for the
Governuent and donors, and (ii) by which the majority of the population
could begin to have effective acces8 tO primary health care.
B. Project Risks
6.07      The main risk stems from the absence of a precedent for
undertaking a project of this scope and scale in Population and Health in
Burkina. Nevertheless, lt is encouraging that other donors are already
successfully implementing their contributions to the primary health care
program. Current political commitment to the rural sector, and to rural
health and education in particular, is strong and could be expected to
provide a favorable climate for mobilizing all concerned to execute the
project in keeping with stated objectives. Recently, the Govermaent
launched a vaccination campaign ("Operation Commando") with impressive
results, according to early reports from UNICEF. Between November 25 -
December 10, 1984, about 1.5 million children were vaccinated againBt



- 38 -
measles, yellow fever and meningitis -- an impressive campaign by world
standards which has set the stage for Burkina's expanded program of
immunization. Midwives, who were concentrated in cities, have been sent to
the provinces; each province has at least one doctor and midwife, a
significant achievement by regional standards. The risk of unsatisfactory
implementation progress is further mitigated by entrusting the largest and
most costly component (infrastructure) to an experienced organization whose
vocation and track-record have been satisfactorily demonstrated in rural
areas of Burkina in the past. With respect to non-construction components,
the strengthening of the MOPH's Secretary General's office and the
Directorate of Health Studies, Planning and Statistics is expected to
increase likelihood that the MOPH can coordinate the various inputs
required to improve health services through the project.
6.08      A second risk is that the Government may be unable fully to
support incremental recurrent costs at the end of the project. Attempts
will be made, through frequent consultation between the Government, IDA and
other donors to review Burkina's health investment programa and to estimate
and plan ahead with respect to recurrent costs. Furthermore, the project
will contribute toward the establishment of a revolving Health Fund and to
field testing and applicationn of cost recovery measures.  Cost containment
would be sttempted through studies intended to imnrove the efficiency of
hospital management and fee collection, as well as Improvements in drug
procurement and distribution.
VII. AGREEEKNTS REACHED AMD RECOMNENDATIONS
7.01      During negotiations, the Government of Burkina provided
assurances that:
(a) it would establish an account in its
Treasury which shall operate as a revolving
fund, under terme and conditions
satisfactory to the Association, to support
primary health care services, including the
replenishment of chloroquine for the
anti-malaria program; all proceeds from the
sa_. of chloroquine financed under the
project would be deposited into this fund
(para. 3.06);
(b)  it would (i) consult with the Association if
further studies and experiments indicate the
need for a reorientation of the national
health policy; (11) annually organize a
meeting of all aid agencies participating in
the financing of the Health Policy in order
to review progress made in its execution and
to coordinate further assistance; and (iii)
review in detail annually with the Association
all investments made in the health sector



- 39 -
during the previous year and expected to be
made during the upcoming year including
recurrent cost implications, regardless of
the source of financing of such investments
(para. 3.14);
(c)  with respect to national pharmaceutical
policy, it would undertake appropriate
measures to: (i) prepare an investment
plan for strengthening national drug
procurement and distribution; (ii) adopt an
official list of pharmaceutical products
authorized for importation and distribu-
tion; (iii) review such a list annually;
(iv) publish a nev drug formulary; (v)
create an MOPH pharmaceutical inforsation
service; (vi) carry out a program to inform
the public about its essential drug policy;
and (vii) carry out, jointly with IDA, an
annual assessemnt of the performance of
SONAPHARM and the opportuneness of allowing
competition in drug procurement (para.
3.16);
(d)  by March 31, 1988, it would present to the
Association the results of operational
field testing of drug distribution, cost.
recovery, village health and nutrition
acti,'ities, and the financial requirements
of a national primary health care system; and
feasibility studies to improve MCH and family
planning services, maintenance of health
facilities and hospital management;
by September 30, 1988, present proposals
to apply the results of these studies to
the remainder of the country; and, by
April 1, 1989, begin to implement these
proposals (para. 3.22);
(e)  it would abide by the criteria and
procedures stipulated in para. 3.23 for
the use of funds for implementing the
results of special studies financed under
the project (para. 3.23);
(f)  it would have the Special Account, the
Local Advance Account, the FEER's accounts
in resnect of this project and all other
project accounts for each fiscal year
audited by independent auditors, and it
vould furnish to the Association audit
reports vithin six months after the end of
the fiscal year (para. 5.21).



- 40 -
Conditions of Effectiveness
7.02      As conditions of effectiveness, the Government would:
(a) set up an appropriate project accounting
system (para. 5.03);
(b) establish the PMU including the appoint-
ment of required staff (para. 5.04); and
(c) establish the Local Advance Account by
depositing an initial amount of CFAF 25
million (para. 5.20);
Conditions of Disbursement
7.03      As conditions of disbursement, no withdrawals shall be mode:
(a)  for the purchase of chloroquine, until
evidence satisfactory to IDA is provided
showing that adequate arrangements have
been made for the bulk procurement of
chloroquine, their packaging, distribu-
tion, and for recovering costs through
sales (para. 3.06);
(b) on the CSPS construction component of the
project prior to (i) the adoption of an
agreement between the Minister of Public
-ealth and the Mlnister of Financial
Resources, on the one hand, and the FEER,
on tbe other; and (II) the appointment of
an engineer, accountant and two Initial
site supervisors to the FEER (para. 5.11).
Recommendations
7.04      With these assurances, the project constitutes a suitable baSis
for an IDA Credit of US$26.6 million equivalent on standard IDA terms.
PHND2
May 1985



- 41 -
Annex 1. T-1
BURKINA
HEALTH SERVICES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
MDRBIDITY: 1975
Ranking of the Sixteen Main Ceuses of Reported Morbidity
In Outpatient Clinica
Sympto   or                 Clinics vith            Cliuico vithout
Diagnoses                  a Physiciau               a Physiciua
No. Cases   RaukingN Bo. Cale s         IN
Malari                        105,OOO        l            216,000      1
Respiratory Diseases           86,500        3           132,000       2
Diarrhoea & Intestinal         97,000        2             72,000      5
Venereal Diseanes               3,800       13              5.800     1S
Other Infections
(Nor-parasitic):             22,600        6            30,800       8
Eye DisJaes                    36,500        5            75,000       3
Tooth Diseases                   -           -            65,W000      6
Skia Disasses                  64,000        4            52000       7
Injuries (Kinor)               10,700       il            72,SOO       4
Fractures                       5.700       12             7,800      14
Intestinal Parasites           13,000       10             9,S00      12
Ear Diseases                   14,000        8            30,600       9
RbounmtiosnArthritit           18,500        7            23,600      il
Headaches                        -           -             8,000      13
Snake Poisoning                13,800        9             2,500      16
Dog Utes                          200        -            30,500      10
A.            Total           491,300                    833,600
B. Total Number of Cases
Reported:   57S,O0                     910,000
Proportion of A to B :                                     918
Source: World Bank Health and Nutrition Sector Review, November 1982



- 42 -
BURKINA                      Aumex 1. T-2
HEALTH SERVICES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
MAIN CAUSES OF DEATR BY ACE CROUP
(1961 Survey)
Number of Deatha lesultimg froe Ech Couse
por 1,000 Deathe
Causes of Death
AW-a Groupe
0-1     1-4    S-14    15-44    45-64    65+
K"uisis                      121      452     389      35        3       0
Malaria                      188       85      42      52       56      71
enoingitis                    21       31      92      92       34      29
Diarrhoe.                     89      231     180     193      228     210
other Abdominal Ailmeats      36       37      51      82       88      80
Whooping Cough                55       31      28       9        6       S
Rsspirmtoyr Disen-es          52       24      28     153      247     189
Heart Disea.ns                12       12      28      56       91      59
?regumucy/Delivery            -       -        -      104        3      -
Seflit7 / Aglng               -       -        -       -        28     160
Dclivry Factors              83        2      -       -        -       -
violent Death                 -         2      42      38       16       4
Other.                        77       46      55      89      122      93
non-Idantifiad               266       47      65      97       78      97
TOTALS:                    1,0     1.00      0      1,,
Source:  Service de Statistique.Enquete Démographique par Sondage en
Républiql"e de Haute Volta, 1960-61, Tome 2, Institrc. National
des Statistiques et Etudes Economiques, Paris



STAFF ALLOCtIOT:       ChGI  1    YP   ??CLT
kipaftitiou  du Formone  d   atpaefeln etcatigorie <privisiona  1183>
C            8.1 4la1O                                                                  la 
h   j                  111                                                              .1 £-
3~~~~~I                        g ~~~~~~j  a.j 0- i O              
è.Doctore                             I           24     17    B      I           I          I    52    -       -      3  2       I    I    a    46          1I1            Iidecine
Dentism-                           --a                                                           2                                               -9                      Deutletn
Adaimistratore  2    -    -  Z  1               -       1    S     i      -   1    -       -     -      -        13             M~~~~~~~~~~AaiaitratUse
Pbaraa,Clst                   I                                                                   6    I      9      1   -     -     -     -     44         72            ftrmaelo
Uanitary Uqineetre                                                                                                   2   -     -     -     -       1         3            lmgIaimrs saiataires
'lutritioniete - Lab         -           4      6      2                                                                                   -      -         13           autîrîtîoeîtea -
iTcCbOCIett                                                                                                                                                               Teebuiiemeu Labo.
TOTAL A                 I'3I    1 1     I 5   '3131        7~3  141'I    11   I 1~ 1      j 1 61   6    Io    6   3              1 1    2191            271                TOTAL A
S.  cert Ilied ltuess             -    -      I      56    21 62    19    -         4     I   10      266    1    -    33           2    4      -    79        563             lafiruiersd'Etat
Uealtb Aueietaote            -     -     4      34      151LI    9       I    I      I    I       221         -    43          3    -      3       I       1501           Aaetetstte deSmact
Midcvii                      -           -      23     1172  13                         -         46   -      -      7          -    -     I    47         220Sge1
sa"l tary                                                                                                                                                                 Leeletateot  dl
Aaeîtateat                         -     -      -            -     I…        …     …      …     …      …     …      …     …      …         -    -            9            Aeamlulsement
Lab. Treclwiciaoe                                                                                                                                                         Tecbaiclese de Labo.
B oibere (.-ray>                                                                                                                                             1       ………     ………… I  et mtre<(radio)
Adainoitrstore                1    3    -         I…        …      …      …      …      …      … I   2         -     2         -     -            -         IlUioieLretifs
TOAL I                    I      3    5      122  I 471148142 j                    21 IJ       331 17       - J  5 1à  1     112 I  4   127 1           965                TOTAL a
C.  Vurets   ~           -     - J2        102    85SS  9313  1 "          3   I  3 I   24 J  629 J -  1  -   7J    1 -        1 3 1 10 J 173 J  1,263                Infir"airs bruvet&s
MOAL C                     3           4         114  I911 9613 J    . 3  1 4 1      1  24 J  645  1161  11     0   -   J    1 3 1 10 J 173 J1.325                            TOTAL C
D.  Md.laietretive Staff          I    -              6      7   I    3                                37  30       I    3                3                     91                Adainletrattfe
Itiuerant Eealth 6                                                                                                                                                           Agente itins. senti
Delivlery Agoente            -        -      -       …     …      …      …     …      ……- -    - 204           -    -          6           2    si        270                et àcocba
Unekillld  aleborers         4    3    S       159   114 117   12        I    4      3    a    363  48         z19 le   a            I   13    42         922                 à. nmeeuvree/plaatoua
Oroundesuma-                        -     -       -      - -                                          -    .    . … … … … … …… … …     …       …-                            Jardiniers
feporery                                                                                                                                                                      Pera.tempolaires
T»pisti                    4    2   1l        13      7  7       3     I           3    I       47  la       212  2          3    3                     139                  dactylo
Drivera                      3    4    3        12      Il1  3     3    2    -       2     -     153  10       -    S   I    S    I        4              225i                Cboffaure
TOAL O                    12 I     1  23 1  190  11391126 1 211  4  J 4 J  8      3 1 <> 04 1161                 42 1à  117  1II 1 19 J  93 I  1,647              ITOTAL D
TOTAL  M10ID                     19   13   39       469  1300 379  1221  9   114 116 13911,847 135   16 1213 19   24  127 135   484 14,211                                        TOAL AêICID
Sources Knisitry of Public BUsltb/Nlnitetre de la Saut& Publique



- 44 -                        Anln«  la T-4
BURRINA
BEALTH SERVICES DEVELOPHENT PROJECr
IKPORTATION OF DR1G0 AND MEDICAL SUPPLIES
(1980 - 81>
tFCFA)     _
Vaccines - Seruma snd Toxine
Public Sector snd Foreign Aid                90,743.262        174.982,860
Private Sector                               47,153,580         56.572,225
International Organizations                   2,213,330          1.143,428
National Pharmacy                             16,702,257            32,103
Total                                    156,812,429       232,730,616
Drug
Public Sector and Foreign Ald               233,436,990        790,619,821
Private Sector                             1,25Q,579,387     1,785,680,881
International Organizations                   8,460,547          6,910,821
National Pharuacy                           435,031,036        281.021.636
Total                                 1,927,498.960      2,864.233.159
Firat Ald Dressinga
Public Sector and Foreign Ald                 4,816.405         64,469,944
Private Sector                               70,080.511         75,870,944
International Organizations                       82,971           145,988
National Pharmicy                            23,783,792         20.167,633
Total                                    98,764,679        160.654.509
Surgical snd Laboratory Supplies
Public Sector snd Foreign Aid               219,139.621        186,867,528
Priv-te Sector                               29,984.662         50,268.985
International Organizations                  10,686.700          8.411,721
National Phermacy                              6,820.766        13,967,756
Total                                   266,631,749        259.515,990
Public Importe and Foreign Aid                 548,136,270     1,216,940,056
HOPH Purchaesa froe Private
Pharmacie                                      1,0U0.000         1,000,oCO
MOPH Purchamea frac National
Pharmay                                      21,598.684         36.930,891
Total Public Expenditures
and Foreign Ald                       570,734,962      1,254,870.947
Private Importa                              1,396,783.116     1,967.393,035
Private Purchames for National
Pharmacy                                    460,739,167        278,258,237
Total Private                         1,857,522.283      2,245,651,272
International Organizations                     21,443,548        16.911,958
CRAND TOTAL                         2,449,700,793      3,517,434,177
Source:  Directorate of Studiea snd Planning, NOPI.



- 45 -                              Annex i  T-5
BURKINA
BEALTH SERVICES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
GOVERNMENT RECURRENT EXPENDITURE ON HEALTE
(CFAF Millions)
Governient               Total               Sector
Health               National              Share
Year            Expenditures              Budget              (Percent)
1960                 890                   5,650                  15.8
1965               1,095                   9,179                  11.9
1970               1,190                   9,756                  12.2
1975               1,605                  15,064                  10.6
1976               1,610                  21,123                   7.6
1981               4,060                  42,500                   9.6
Source:  Vorld Bank Health and Nutrition Sector Review, November 1982



- 46 -
Annez 1, T-6
BURKINA
HEALTH SERVICES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TOTAL RECURRENT EXPENDITURES OUTSIDE THE MOH BUDGET
Millions CFAF
1981     1982
Medical care abroad:                                        580       250
(Indluding travel expenses, but not the
subsistence coste of the accompanying
medical staff). 1981 allocations have been
substantially increased since the first
budget document, and the 1982 expenditures
are likely to exceed the anticipated amount.
Participation in the Caisse Nationale de
Sécurité Sociale:                                        27       25
(For temporary staff members, 10Z) la
Provision for salary lncreases in 1982 (10%): /a              -      288
Maintenance and lease of goverument housIng (10%): /a       100       100
Maintenance of public buildings (10%): /a                    70       75
Training of medical staff abroad:                           291      291 /b
(388 students X CFAF 750,000 per year)                _
TOTAL Recurrent Expenditures
Outside the MOR Budget:             1,068    l,0o9
Source: World Bank Health and Nutrition Sector Review, November 1982



- 47 -                              Amnex 1. T-7
BURKINA
HEALTH SERVICES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
FINANCIAL SUMMARY OF ESTIMUTED EXPENDITURES IN
THE HEALTH SECTOR IN 1981
CFAF Millions     Percent
a.  Central Governuent:
Ministry of Health                            3,086            30.8
Othersa/                                      1,068            10.6
TOTAL:                                        4,154            41.4
b.  Local Governments                                 19ob/           1.9
TOTAL PUBLIC (Domestic) (a + b):                    4,344            43.3
c.  Foreign Aid                                     3,132b/          31.2
d. Private:
Drug Purchases                                2,298            22.9
CNSS                                            203             2.0
Payment of hospital fees                         54             0.5
total:                                        2,555           25.5
TOTAL HEALTH SECTOR:                               10 031           100.0
a/ Excluding Armed Forces expenditures.
bJ 1980 Data.



- 48 -
Aimez 1. T-8
Page 1 of 2
BU]RlKNA
HEALTH SERVICES DEVELOPHENT PROJECT
Toalis Iocludiiu Cntinmni.s         Talas Ioeluding  Canteliu
(CFA Million)                       mD illion)
1     2       3      4      S    Toal    1   2   3   4   5  Tala
e7-5=   == == = =s= _ _= =
A. SlREBTlENG OF ASIC IWLTH
NED FAILT PWIIII116 SERVICES
1. KUJELOPIT OF IUIZATION 1 MMIA PROIRANS    543.5  472.7  405.0  489.2  530.7 2,441.1  1.1 1.0 0.8 1.0 1.1  S.0
2. DISERUIE TRAININS OF HE&TK PERSII.           10B.8   85.9   27.8   30.3   33.0   285.8  0.2 0.2 0.1 0.1 0.1  0.6
3. STUETDE6NNS OF NELTH DFRASTRCT1UE            590.4 1,4D5.4 1,703.7 1,3S6.4  744.7 69200.6  2.0 2.9 3.5 2.8 1.5 12.7
Sub-Toai SRBTIEnI   oF MuSIC EPLTH
AN FIIILY PLAISN1O SERVICES                   1,642.7 1,964.0 2,136.6 1875.9 1,308.3 8,927.5  3.4 4.0 4.4 3.8 2.7 18.2
i.   ELOPIT  0F ltTIINW FE*LTH IW
PPILTION POLCIES M  FUAS
1. POLICY DEVELUPIENT STLDIES                   132.7  126.7   22.3   10.0   10.9   302.5  0.3 0.3 0.0 0.0 0.0  0.6
2. RFUDS FOR IHLEHEHTIHE RESLTS 0F STUDIES          -      -  80M.5  808.5  .1330 2,450.0    -   - 1.7 17 1.7  5.0
Su-Total  EWIE  0F  NA!IINM      TH A
PODUATIO PU.ICIES MD FRNIS                      132.7  126.7  830.8  818.5  E43.9 2,752.5  0.3 0.3 1.7 1.7 1.7  5.6
t. STREMi  OEN1N9 0F KINISTR( OF HEALTH            197.5  528.3  554.6  177.6  189.5 1,647.5  0.4 1l1 11 0.4 0.4  3A4
D. REPAYNETF mF                              -    401.8      -       -      -      -   401.8  0.8   -   -   -   -  0.8
Toka PROXCT CO0TS                                  29374.6 2,619.0 3,521.9 2,872.0 2,341.7 13,729.3  4.8 5.3 7.2 5.9 4.8 29.0



- 49 -
Annez 1, T-8
BURKINA                         Page 2 of 2
HlALTH SERVICES DEVELOPHENT PROJECT
PROJECT COST BY FUNCTIONAL CATEGORIES AND YEARS
(CFA MILLION)
t                                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Toala
Base Costs
i      2       3       4      5       CFA    Hillion)
A. STRENININ6 0 BASIC HENIH
m  FRUIT PWMIIN6 SERIICES
1.  EWLDPI<ENT OF I19UNIZAT10I1  MALARIA PROBRANS    493.3  401.6  312.8  364.7  364.7  19937.1        4.0
2. INSRICE TINIANS OF IALTUH PERSO EL                93.8   68.9  -20.4   20.4   20.4    223.9         0.5
3. STRENO   IN6 Of I0LTH IFASTRUCTURE               845.5 1,107.1 1,234.3  903.6  458.9  4.549.4       9.3
SUb-Total STRENISIENI116 OF BSIC NEALTH
AU FAIL1 PLWUINI  SERIPCES                      1432.5 1.577.6 1.567.5 19288.7  844.0  6p710.3    13.7
B. DIUE     T OF NATIOAL HEALH NID
POUTION POLICIES MID PRORA
1. POLICY DEVELPIENT STUDIES                        116.4  104.7   16.6    6.8    6.9    251.4         0.5
2. RI  FOR INPEJENTING RESLTS OF STUDIES                -      -  809.5  809.5  833.0  2y450.0         5.0
Sb-Total DEVJELCPENT OF NATIONL IEALTH AND
PULATION POLICIES a  PROORIS                        116.4  104.7  825.1  815.3  839.8  2t701.4         5.5
C. STRENGTHEN1NE OF IIINISTRY OF lEALTH                172.8  421.4  406.9  139.4  139.4  1P279.9         2.6
D. REPAWYENT OF PPF                                    401.8      -       -       -      -    401.8       O.8
Total BASELINE £1S                                     2.123.5 2,103.7 29799.5 2.243.4 1,823.2  119093.3    22.6
Pwgsical Cntinsencies                                 138.2  174.9  169.0   86.3   41.1    609.4         1.2
Price Continsencies                                   112.9  340.5  553.5  542.3  477.4  29026.6         4.1
Total PRIOJECT COSTS                                   2.374.6 2.619.0 3t521.9 29872.0 2.341.7  13P729.3    28.0
Foreisn Exehanse                                    19640.9 19620.4 2.017.2 1,655.2 1399.1  8.332.7    17.0



-us 10 -)
Auna. 1  C. Y-,
ihigunva cm ~ ~ ~       ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~<u 'n
CIVIL mm ~       ~         ~          h   Ca.Ame    Silu                                          91    Siieflia
6. CIVtIL CIVI   MIM?4296                                           82.   1.   2.                     i        M5,319               2104        SM21.U7                                  L
i.  Cw0cl00EMU
Dmunis                                36.40. 3n.60.         -   .3.2  31.1  30.4          -   C702       00. o.211.2A          2.01.2       M.?1.     5[.96.        - :42.7          120.
CIEIEE8INI FUS                          I8.?   11.2         -183a.1  13.0  14.1           -   11.1        20.42   34.2       -     07   4.2      1       0710 10.8       24.M.        224.0
M-TaLai    mmUC1L                       i3.60.  1 207.4        - 7.0.  3160.  37.1           -    740      1038.3  7.38.        -   .31.     4.10.        25.56.       -iO.3.8          10.4
2.SuR iR                                 3'1.7  43.3             21048 3..2          -            10.4       23.0   4917.           10.5à      44.?.       lI?         - .01             0.
Vufrîcu   CIVIL 0013.0. 4. 271.4                                -  ..3  31 11.0    420.0      - 02.?          W.!  U.328         - .11.4    1.240.2       .60.4.         - 1.20.7       I  4.05
C.RMuI. mirait;
Cmalin 
f1ICU IL  10                               616.2  110M.0  -      1007.0  630.6  11.          -     07        0.3   47.0         -  15R.        70.1.       317            1.03.0         ?41.4
aois OFFLIMS                              36.    11.4        -    2014.4  4   12.7              2           37.    32.2       -   10.0       21.          131.6       - 174.6          13.5
-ei                                      1.12.   110.?         - 212.2   0-    -.            -      ,         046.    68J       -   5244     2.m.          267.0       - 2.6.               -
9k-Tota FSTUMCLta SIP
Otan   mmi                                .343.4  170.5          1 .12311.020.6  50.?       -   005        U4 3.2              -  3.1.      5.46?.!      l9..          - .1.13.         IMA.
C. hErni. UIOiSIN
SmOIE  6SiSM C                           1.?0.      -.           1.00.110           -        -100           104      00         -1.0   0      .200.4                   -  133.200.       O
L&. tRNETRET1SU i                               -9.   12.4           220.4     -   20               2.                 2.             4.                    1374         -   1746          5.
F1 *10200T                                  4.5v.    37.52.      S-  4.?   0.    3.I..2                        04      4W  .3                                4611.1      -    11.          4.
TolINVESIe   o                             13.00945  17.?        - 3.162.3  71.00   15.8           U136       .41162.2 1006.0   <I..2 115.1    1.33.7322                 .0 3445          13.41.
il. baruf mmsîs
riU mm  m    Doe                            36:.! îu.s   -249.20-                                              2441 102.5  100.!   -21
mmI inc                                     256.?  27.1             3301.0    -                      -          .4    -.             13            ?         7.3 -4   35.0 d                 -
F.La R.ED ICCS                               3.107.3 1.162.7          2,500.01                                  2 .2.6   -4.        -      -9   318.36.      1.012.7       - 54.0000            -
Toala    5lUT   N!3.151.7.27544.0                                     20.434.4  742.0  502.6       -  .243.6    1.5467.0 1.22O.2      -  3.46.     51. 17.3à11,1.8           - 25.30.       13.11.3



Aun 1. S-10
Pag  1 o    2
BRKINIA
HEaTU  SERVICES DEVELOPENT PROJEcr
SIIOHY cosr uY PRoJECI EXPENDITURE
AS FUNCTIONAL CATEccoRLEs
(CFA 1000>
u,EMnouI  W VAUICSAIN                 romno.u ao FuEls au
su FAL LI  m uoIs
IO0.TW ISIVIU                                           ruos ru                                                    tF
uIZaTDlm  IMhI. W  sIvi           lI  W       OUET    IWUmIEIU  slMSNIM  W                                    Corcin
SSII           SLTIN        S"INT         SLWSIIT  LESATS er    NINIBIR? W        SIIDII OF
FaiS         FEBUEL    IW      MI         1101(11 S   IUilES S.       SAIN            pK          Taaai      I    oawint
.s- _.             _.m       _.        .   ._            ..              .a_ _   .n*               _.. _    _  .         .
1. zNUEw cS
A. CMrL ms
1. CoiWKTill
fhllLUIS                                       -           -      3| .27.6u.p          -            -         340.421.A           -  3.5D04.5  10.0 57.009.7
ElIIEIIS FES                                -           - E62.41.                    -            -         27..4              -      Ul.711.3 10.0  *.171.m
Sa-lltaI  STUTIU                                  -           -      3.300.110.1:         -            -        367.66.0             -  3.67414.       . 36.751.5
Fulueiul Cu.tireia-as                                                                                          36.766.4           -    36671.5  0.0         0.0
Frine CoUitia                                  -           -        13.453.0           -            -                                 14190.4  -   .4.643.4  1.1 14.67.6
lé-Total ISmuN   CIm 11                          -            -      4M1|             4 6i.9  --.0                                   -  50123?.?   .1 461.74.1
Ferain Emm                                     -           -       .12,470.2           -            -         226.16P.0           -  2.51.43.2  1.1 21l.74
2. 6Tr UDT                                       -           -         364.1d.1           -            -                -            -    34.16.1  10.0  3.416.6
PacAl otui rleî                                -           -         31.416.6          -            -                -            -     5.416.6  0.0        0.0
Prie, Cmlaila                                  -           -         3.652.3           -            -                -            -     21.62.1  9.1  .2 .4.
*-TI    l        e bO   M1                       -           -         451.25.5           -            -                -            -    41.m5.5  1.1 41,021.4
Feris Ena                                                  -        216.0b0.2          -            -                --    211.06.2  9.1  I9.641.U
d-TdtCl'(IIL_S                                      -           -       3.o44.316.9          -            -        367,664.0           -  4.01 M..  10.0 41.11.1
Muacal Ctimin                                     -           -        3.431.7            -                      36.766.4            -    40e.11.1  0.0       0.0
Frig  Caui1tia                                    -           -        u7.1tu.u           -            -         U-111.4             -  1.073.26.2   .1  17S72.4
l-Tad  DJUIf  CuITDWES                              -           -       5.44.4               -            -        40.6U.1              -   5.0475.2  1.1 502.770.5
Fis  Eeu                                         -            -      2.34i.530.4          -            -        2369t.0              -  2.567.699.4  9.1 23427.2
3. FamME ENlISa
CLES. mtaLs
wrzer  EU                                      -           -        145.065.3          -            -          64.260.0           -    209.3.3  10.0 20.32.5
IeCA EtnhIPl                              M7.179.7           -          3.9.2        1.111.4           -         151.               -    731.498.1  10.0 73.94
taç      a  mms                           136.6-.3                      420.0    12.677.3              -        203.21.1             -    35420.0  10.0 39.542.1
INTIA PlERUt
m  SLDI                                        -    95,342.7               -    31.-0.5             -           1077.1            -    131i§2.4  10.0  12.810.2
DmOS                                    1.041412.0           -                -           -            -                -            -  1.041.02.0 0.0        0.0
lué-ToUtlI R ITE ESEFWT
tBCES.  TElRLS                          1.435.65.1    n5.342.7        W53.01.5    45.541.2             -        23-742.1             -  214-.172    5.1 147.234.7
FluiSel C stMamcîm                      41.386.?     0.34.3          53.35.1      4.554.1           -          20.374.2           -    147.234.7  0.0       0.0
Frico Eatnoeia                         325.06.2    2.3.3            1.471.0       8.735.0           -          55.40.9            -    549,115.3  4.  26.90.7
Bib-To   1101  MNIzaSJ                     1.910.111.2   131.254.        742.707.6    5.83.2              -        3.60.2              -  3e210..5  5.4 173.71.4
Fins ESa                                1.63.136       79.7.0          61o.012.6    3.402.4            -        2f071.4              -  2.0 .3  5.1 1. 7 w43.eo
C. TiMIca Sill[C
COJOLTaIT
ldblU      LISTa                                 -   10290.0           3D.200.0   161.700.0            -        16.20                -    410,00.o  10.0 49.00.
LMU  CILTSIS                                     -            -               -      1.20.8            -         57.172.5            -     503.3  10.0   ..3
aXIIIUI                                          -    14.3r2.5                -      6.62.6            -                -            -     20,535.1  10.0  2.05.5
*-TelEl TnL sic
.îT4m1
a                                                -   117.292.s         D20o.0    6.M3.4               -         243.372.5           -    51.51 10.0 s.95
iak-l C ls cs                                  -    11.731.3          3.920.0    l.900.3                       24.-.3             -      6,54.0  0.0        0.0
Prim o         a                               -    11..2             2.13.3    10.230.0             -         44.M.4            -       1,>7  1.1  6.144.2
IS-TSI iasn  musau                                  -   140.I.o           4.271.3   204.1C.5              -        312.30.l            -    702.0        5.1 63.0.0
Foeant Enta                                       -   124.33.7          45.27j    flua                 -        3".210.3             -    370        9.1 54.4.4



-  52  -
BURKINA
UEALT0 SE0[ICES DEYVBLLoFWF PXOJECT
SUlIOAY cOST DY PIEOJCC    XPENDITUIJE
£00 rUNcriONAL CATEGORIES
(CFA 'uCO)
I. PM.ECT P nT
FVNT TUE                                                                      -           -                             -    240.1.1    240100.1  0.0          0.0
1EI TIIUE                                         -           -               -           -            -           -6.0.                  161.640.5  0^.0.  o.0 -
lot-Totl  CT  TIIIII
FoRILIT-    -                                                         -             -            -                      -    401.7.6    40170.6  0.0           0.0
Su-Tta"   MAOJUIS  MITINICIES                       -           -                -                        -               -    401.70-.    40.m6   .             0.
Fmin E a                                          -           -               -           -            -                -     12.41.8      12.41.1  0.0       0.0
E. PIEIESIIEIT I 510SIUU                            -           -                -    2.7402              -         0613.2              -    1.3L.4  0.0         0.
S*-Total im LI OIITIIOCIE                           -           -                -    2k7-2               -           .3.2             -    1D33U.4  0.0         0.0
Fanion E m                                        -           -               - *    .0.2              -         75.273.2            -       ..4  0.0         0.0
F. UIUIL TED                                        -           -                -           -  2,410.M.3                 -            -  2.45êw.3  0.0          0.O
Sb-TOa  i I   OwIT          L                       -           -                -           -  2.450 .3                   -           -  a     ,00.3  0.0       0.0
Forn Echw                                         -           -               -           -  1.ue7.5                    -            -    175.    .0          0.0
T1    ln                                      1,51,M am  1.565.I   212.25.3  4277.4.4   241. 72.   2.4509.00.3                     4019M..  10.110.0         6.0 60.  . 7.6
Pimicil Cu.tUu G î                            40.306.0    21.261.5       427o736.0    2193M5              -            477.0           -    60.2.6  0.0          0.0
Me, Ch        es                             325v.i.2    37.4t4.5       1127733.1    2ge96.6              -        104.7               -  1.0877.2  7.7 131.0.2
Total INOJUSllll oe1                          l.01011.2   271.9.3         5.e2740.3   200.401.9  204s000.3         1l267p414.3    4010170.  12.419.047.0  6.0 74h.0.0
rFalot E,w                                 1.60336.9   2049270.7        207Q21.1 23  121.3  1.56u75.35            m7761.e    312.11.$  7.013.162.4  5.4 424.Se.5
9etfl* CUITs                                23095l5.6          -        210.072.2     t.e.4              -        140431.1            -      0.4I.3  0.0        0.0
IlDHIOlE W TIM / MI1lR                      161,1M 7.3         -         52.1S.1            -            -        IMA5N.2             -    313.UI.6  0.0        0.0
Tll0 <        1 0   *mII                           -    1i.m.o                  -           -            -          1.127.3           -      12.30.3  0.0       0.0
Sm                                                 -           -                -           -            -         D 132.1            -      D3.112.1  0.e      0.0
ULItlES                                            -           -                -           -            -         15.200.1           -      1.20.1  e0.0       0.0
Totl OECT    EINT                              401.402.9    11.22L30          1.7.3       1.3Q.4            -         20460               -     02.465.4  0.0       0.0
Prim. Cmtijmcia                              12.570.1      3.167.5       100.75.0      2.48.0             -         1.617.4            -    327.0  0.0           0.0
Tol II<LU; CYTIEI                              D0Lm.0    1400.5             372.742.2    12.4.4             -                                 l02723  -  1.310m3.3  0.0  0.0
-= - - -- --     - -
Fo,iin E,oeIUam                              210.781.6    5.737.0        147.203.7     4o76.1             -        15.65.t             -      510.74.2  0.0      0.0
T a       IE    T5                             107,e07.0   223P.0          4.o5$.« .    251.355.2  2.450e00.3        19270.6.6    401,19.6 11003.35   5.5 60.27.6
Pheucl c..u_«i. s                              40.206.0    21.263.5       427.736.0    21.573.5           -          10.477.0           -    400.3.6  0.0         0.0
prieCrmnreiu                                  4534o66.3    40.662.0     1.2z340.1l    2.634.6             -         270,162.2           -  2.02.         6.5 1.00.2
Toul MECTCIIST                                2.44101.2   2S5.73.7         6.200.502.5   302.512.3  2.45000.3        1,647.5g0l    40l.7l9.6 13.720.271.2  5.4 740o4.0
Foraini  EI -  _                            1.4.318.5   210.016.6       39Zu.115.0   25a.m2.4  1.561.5.5             e0727.7    312.01.8  0.332u73.6  5.1 424n.0.



Annu 1.  T-il
- 53 -
IUNLCINA
NEALTN SERVICES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
INCR1EMETAL RECURtENT COSTS FOR YEAR 6
(CFA '000)
Mon _                                                                    Cowawn Expen,e eLUH + Common Fxpenae.
EPI:              Ongoing Vaccinations          98,5B6.7
Cold Ch. Mtnce:
Mobile Unit.               80,601.3
Ftxed Unitt                17,914.6
Anti Malaria Drug.           81,218.6
278,321.2                                  _                    278,321.2
Centre
de Ref.:         Eq. Mtnce.                     21,110.4        Water *upply Mtnce.          954.1
Operating coatn                  844.2         .ldg. Mtnce.              7-301-9
21,954.6                                 8-,256.0               30,210.6
CSPS:            Vehicle Op. & Mtnre.           17,722.0        Mater .upply Mtnce.        5,322.8
Eq. Mtnce                      7.091.9         Mldg. Mtnce              24,510.5
Furn. Mtnce                    7 139.7
31,953.6                                 29.833.3               61,786.9
DPSP:           Furn. Mtnce                      3.163.2        Bldg. Mtnce.              3,230.4
Eq. Mtnce                          482.4
Vehiele Op. & Mtnce.            17,920.8
Op. Conts 1e1259.2
32.825.6                                  3,230.4               36,056.0
Training        Printing & Mailing of
Fiches                      17,381.7
Radio Ti.e                         775.1
Nat'l Spn of Dept.
Teai_                        2,244.h 
Î0.401.4                                      O                 20,401.4
Epi demiological
Unit,           Op. Conta                        3.602.6                                       O                 3,602.6
Total                                          389,059.0                                 41,319.7              430.378.7
USS'000 equiv.                       794.0                                     84.3                  878.3
1984 Budget             :                 4,087,151.00                              3,190,000.00
1984 Budget including
Dept. Budget       :                 4,531,151.00                                                    7.721.151.00
Total M; Z  udget       :                          9.5%                                      1.31
Total mn  Budget
lncluding Dept. Budget                             8.6%                                                             5.6%



-     -4 _                                        x   1. T-12
UEALTII hVICUs DIVILOWMT  .JUT
ulUlY or TECUNICAL AUSiT«CI IAD OWUILTIIC SIIvIES
(para. _ macho)
YTir   Tour    Ya-r    Ye-r    Ys-r
C._ponnt                            Deacrtption                      t       2       3        4       5      Total
A.   xptriate Tecwnical iamiatance
ln-service Trrainng et Ibaelth    Spoctialit to propar. tachiceal
Parmonnel                         handoute end O  rattonal 'nuai
tor bealth personfal                   12        9                                 21
Stranathanti,  or H-alth          Spactalitat to atudy proventiwo
lafrantructure                    atntenance synta  for hnalth
tufruatructure                          4                                           I
Spectaltat to maous.  tata of urban
-atxrnttl_ and  CIIH conte              4                                           4
Spacilitat to atudy financtal
naOUMnt ef hopitala                     3                                           1
Str.ngthaning or Ninhatry         Spocitiiat to matnt in dva-lop.nt end
of Haoltb                         eveluattin of natonal drug policy
end organtcuatit                       12       12                                 24
Speactalit te oducetu prescriptora                 4       2                           h
Specialiet to esc up mdit projact
acconte ani audit dru  tmpeortattont
dtstrtbutton &Sancy                     6        2       2       2        2        14
teneamtt                                12      12                                 24
Subto-al                                                                                                          lue
3.  Loeal Coenultent-                                                                                        lalo  Cort
Strengtheaulug of Mintatry     Publictty Spectallat for Drug
ef lI-altb                     Infor_tton rCapaîsn                   X       X                               3.930
Str.ngthenimg of IIoalth       Technical Coordinator
infrastructure: ALuattence    (UC:  175.000 CFA/month)               12      12       12      12      12   22.126
toe mx for CSPS conmtruc-
tien Pragra
Si-btotal:                                                                                                   26.756
Total Base Coot:                                                                                           1.026.756



UEALI SIUIIYIoCU D     tTVAm   PJtC?
COOEPO6IUT                       ~~~~~~LXVI.                       VUIME                          But Uui?           TUS          TUn         Ttom1*               Tlut
ceot  U                         ST   I2                                                 m L
(Ci7ro-)                                                                                  teraltso)
Developtent of lanIanattou                   Nobile [FI Umit.                  tefr4teator Truck               6519.4                         5          *          -          -          20            111.t82.0
and Malaria ProIra.
Projeet TIet lone                             uplemmutatiou                   Pick-up treuc                    4591.1            2            -          -          -          -           2              gIS2.L
toue Uaaltb Vorteri              ticycle                            58.2          S0            -          -          -          -          S0               2,910.0
Strenîheuins of Neatith
lafOrtructure                            csis                             Noter bicycle                      229.6          14           21         S0         *0         17         142              12 .02.2
bitcyle                            S8.2          14           21         S0         '0          It        162               * 2M.6
netvy truek                      6590.1            1            -         -          -          -            I              1,5,fl
Pteîtc-p truck                   1591.1           -            -                                           2a               9.182.
Stre.uthair  otf Nioitary                    oPn                              4 vbeel Drive                     8579.7           -            S          S          -          -          i             137.2'5.2       *.
of Reeltb                                 trojett Coordlsatîi   coit       4 %b1el Drive                     8179.7          -            -           I         -          -           a               * 57.'       'a
sedan                             7283.5          -            -           I         -          -           I               7.211.3
lpide.lologieo' Usit
tptdestotogieit Omit:
Contre Ouest Dept.           4 bIe.t Drive                    8*79.7            I            -          -          -          -           I              0 5.7
Sedan                             7283.S          I            -          -          -          -            I              7 21.5
Epidetologicul Ual.t
Cou. Dept.                   4 Lhetl Drive                     8579.7            1                            -                           I              8017.1
TOTAL                                                                                                                                                                                     U2            178.142.2
air
MSS22.048
Source: IDA



Annex l. T-14
- 56 -
BURKINA
HEALTH SERVICES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ESTIMATED SCHEDULE OF DISBURSEMENTS
(US$ Million)
Fiscal Yearl             Disbursement        Cumulated       Cumulated       Undisbursed
Semester                 Per Semester         Amount          Percent          Balance
Fr86
December 31, 1985a/              0.82              0.82b/            3%             25.78
June 30, 1986                    1.57              2.39             9%             24.21
FY87
December 31, 1986                1.60              3.99             15Z            22.61
June 30, 1987                    2.13              6.12            23Z             20.48
Fr88
December 31, 1987                2.66              8.78            33%             17.82
June 30, 1988                    2.66             11.44            43%              15.16
FT89
December 31, 1988                2.92             14.36            54Z             12.24
June 30, 1989                    2.93             17.29            65Z              9.31
Fmo
December 31, 1989                2.93             20.22            76Z              6.38
June 30, 1990                    2.66             22.88            86Z              3.72
Fr91
December 31, 1990                1.86             24.74            93Z              1.86
June 30, 1991C/ d/               1.86             26.60           100%               1.86
a/  Expected date of Effectiveness:  October 1985
bl Disbursement from PPF advance
c/ Expected date of project completion: January 31, 1991
d/ Closing date: July 31, 1991



BIURINA
HIALrd SERVICES DEVELOPHENT PROJECT
ORCAMIZATION CHUAt OF THE NINISTRY OF PIIBLIC HEALTH
K4inbter of Public llealth
National Office ci                          Diretorat                                        Organhzation for Control |                    Onchocarcia au             Red Cr
Plaruaceutical S                 Administrattve & Financal Aff                                  of  ndee D       ea                          rog
ITehnical Inspectorate
of iealth Se1i.ce.                                        Genetoa  Secretatie
Nainal Pu                                             National Cunl
| Helth LaborstorY                                        oF Health
Dir etorate of Maternal          Directorate of Medical        [Diretrate of                                                 Directorate of                                Directorate of
and Child Health              Supplies * Traditienal           W,orâere  Healrh                                               Training                               2ealth Studies, Planning
Pharuacopoela                  Services                                                                                              a*d Statiatice
Directorate of Healthb          Central Directorate               Dlrectorate of Epidaulolcgical
LÉducation end Sanitation  |f Heel                                  Surveilrlnce  nd Vacatn
National Conter for            National Anti-Tuberculotio
Prevention of Ulindnea|                      Conter
(Ouagadougou)
IUrben Health      |        Natonal Nospital  |                                   National Hospital            Urban HelÏlth
|(obo-Diouloaao)            (iDiloaao Lj                                            (Ouagadougou)              (ouagadolitu)
Prioary llealth Posta           Contera fo  "e&l h           edical Centere            Provincial Hoapital           Médical Centers           Contera for Health          Pri Hary Health Poste
L  g   LSocial Prouation   j  |               l    l                          §   {                     |   l  Social Promotion
Sources I  PH



- S8 -
Anx 1. C-2
Page i of 2
RURXINA
HEALTU SERVICES DEVELOPHENT PROJECT
IMPLDEENTATION SCREDULE FOR NON-CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITIES
YeTr     Year      YeTr    Year    YeTr    YeTr    YeTr
O        I         2        3       4        S       6
la-service training start-up
activities                             XXXXXXXX XX;
Setting up of institutional
arrangements in Pilot Test Zone                 XXXXXXXX XX
Eutabliuhbent of Project Coor-
dinating Unit                                         X XX
Appointant of consultant auditor                          X XX;
Opening of bank account for IDA
apeciul account                                       X XXY
Estabitshment of local sdvance
*ccount                                               X XXI
1.  Developuent of Immunizstion andt
Malaria Progran
- Purchuse of cold chuin equipuent                        0xxxxx XXXXXXX nxXXXxX                        i
- Vaccinations and *al-ria                                1                                             v
program ctivitien iXXXXX  XXXXXXX XXXXXXX XXXXXXX XXXXX1                                  X       "
2.  In-Service Training of Health Personnel                    i
- Nurses training ut departuental level                   I'00XX XXXXXXX                                o
- Printing  nid msiling of                                                                             ;
technical handoute                                  IXXX0X XXXXXXX XXXXXXX 1xXXxxx XXXXXXX    ,
- Training of departuental                                I
teama                                                XXXX'g
- National Supervision of depart-                         i
mental teaS                                          IXXXXX XXXXXXX XXXXXXX XXXXXXX  0XXXXXXX
1.                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~-o
3. Strengthening of Heulth Infrastructure
-  Financial unagement of hospitals study                 ,0XX
-  Study of preventive msintenance systeî                   XXX
- Study of urban usternities
and MCH Centers                                       XXX
4.  Pro ect Test Zone Studies
-  Studies                                             lXXxXX XXXXXXX XXXX                          t
-  Proposals                                                            XXXX  XXX
5. hbaruaceuticalu
-  Development of national
drug policy                                      ,XXXXX
-  Education of prescriptors                                      XXX XXXXXXX XXXXXXX XXXXXXX
-  Information campaign                                               XXXXXXX  XXXXXX  XIXXXXX
6. Funds for Implementation of Special
Studies Test Results                                      ,      XIXXXXX XXXXXXX XXXXXXX XXXX
7.  Strengthening of the Ministry of Healtb
A. Establiahuent of 2 epidemiological
surveillance unite                                XXXXX
B. Project Coordinating Unit
- Securing of equipment
und office space                          X X
-  Set-up and audit of project
accounts                                   XI XXXXX XXXXXXX XXXXXXX XXXXXXX XXXXXXX XXX
Key   Expected credit effectiveneas date:  October 1985
Source: IDA



- 59 -
Annex l. C-2
Page 2 of 2
HEALTH SERVICES DEVELOPHENT PROJECT
CIVIL VORKS IMPLENENTATION SCHEDULE
Year    Year    Year   Year   Year    Year    Year
O       1       2        3       4       5        6
Site reconnaissance and topographical
surveys
Improveuent of vells and boreholes
for 20 - 30 CSPS
Design of CSPS and DPS
Preparation of naster plan for
CSPS construction including
naterials to be purchased                                                                            o
Establishuent of draft memorandun of o
agreement betveen MOH and FEER                                                                      àn
Nobilization of villages, production
of bricks snd purchase of naterial                     ;
for year 1 construction                              f r
Appointuent of FEER personnel
CSPS
j . Vater Supply
*62                                        r-
-  zone Centre
32                                         I
-  zone Ouest                                              18            ,__
18
-  zone Est                                                                        -
2. Construction (including staff housing)                     6      21       28      26       11
-  zone Centre                                              14_6_3_ 
14     9        6       3
-  zone Ouest
-  zone Est                                                                             __      _
CR and DPS
8
1. Vater Supply
3      3
2. CR Construction                                        ...XX_                   --
3.  DPS Construction                                         XX-
Key    Expected Credit Effectiveness Date    October 1985          CSPS:  Centre de Santé et de Promotion Sociale
Preparation of Plans:                                      CR  : referral centers
Bid Avard:                 X]OOCX2CX%                      DSP : Provincial Directorates of Health
Construction Activities:
Retention Period:
Source: IDA



SURJC INA
KIALTH SERVICES DRVELOP)ENT PROJECT
NATIONAL AND PROVINCIAL LEVEL PROJECT COORDINATION CHMT
ORGANIGRAHHE: COORDINATION DES ACTIVITES OU PROJET
Niveau Central
Ministre de lEau                               Ministre de la Sant6                                   Hlnistre de l'Intlrieur
Central Level                                                                                                                                     - - - - - - - _
[lnteter of Wa:er                               Minlster of Heailth                                [ inieter of thé Interior
Ponds de l'Eau et de I Equipeoent Rural                 Secrétariat ciniral
Rural Water and tqulpeent Fund                         GCnerai Secretarlet
Cellule de Gestion du Projet
Direction Centrale dp  Formation Sanitairee
Central Directorate of Health Senvttes
Niveau Provincial
Provincial Level
Direction Provinciale de                  Zona  t duHProjet                                  Haut Com,issair                     I
la Senti
Pruvincial Directorate of                 Project Tint Zone                                  Nigh Coanste .oner
Heelth                                                                                _       _i
lino function
liaison
Sources IDA



- 61 -
Annex 2
Page 1 of 3
BURKINA
HEALTH SERVICES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
FUNCTIONS AND TRAINING OF HEALTH PERSONNEL
1.        The functions and training of health personnel are described
below, both with respect to the current situation and to the Government's
plans for implementing its national primary health care program. Those
personnel holding regular status as government employees are grouped
according to the main civil service categories (A - D), each of which
corresponds to a certain salary scale and educational qualification.
Level A
2.        Health personnel at the highest rank of the civil service,
requiring university or graduate-level education, consist mainly of
physicians, dentists and pharmacists as well as a small number of
nutritionists and scientists. All of these professionals presently in
service have been trained abroad, mainly in Dakar, Abidjan and Lomé; a
decreasing number each year have been sent to France, mostly for medical
specialization. Beginning in 1981/82 the Government has instituted the
first year of medical school at the University of Ouagadougou and recalled
the seventh-year medical students to complete their training at home. The
Government intends to phase-in the complete medical program in the new
Ecole Supérieure des Sciences de la Santé (ESSS) in Ouagadougou over the
next five years, and to gradually introduce local training for pharmacists,
dentists and health technicians.
Level B
3.        Infirmiers d'Etat  (licensed nurses) receive a three-year
training at the Ecole Nationale de Santé (ENS) in Ouagadougou. The minimum
educational qualification for entry to the program is the Certificat
d'Etudes de Premier Cycle (BEPC), obtained after 10 years of schooling.
Besides performing the full range of nursing duties, the infirmiers d'état
vill be placed in charge of the Centres de Santé et Promotion Sociale
(CSPS), which is the first level of the referral network in the primary
health program.  The infirmiers d'état wil' have major responsibility for
the supervision of personnel in the CSPS as well as for the basic training
of the village health vorkers which is to be carried out at the CSPS.
4.        Assistants de Santé  (medical assistants) are infirmiers d'état
who have received two years of specialized training either in
Bobo-Dioulasso, Ouagadougou, or Dakar in biology, surgery, nursing,
dentistry, anesthesiology, or psychiatry. They are posted mainly to the



- 62 -
Annex 2
Page 2 of 3
hospitals and medical centers (CM), or to the ENS as nursing instructors
and supervisors.
5.        Sages Femmes  (midwives) are responsible for all care and
treetment during pregnancy and delivery except in cases requiring surgical
intervention. Midwives' professional training is provided at the ENS and
is comparable in length and entry requirements to that of licensed nurses.
In priniciple, care of the newborn, health education for vomen, and
supervision of auxiliary midwives are also duties of midwives. However,
since, according to the health plan, they are not posted below the medical
center, which is the second-level referral facility, and in practice most
of them are employed in the main towns, midwives have relatively little
contact with the personnel they are supposed to supervise and are better
placed to carry out medical functions than education or preventive health
activities.
6.        Aides-sociales  (social workers) have recently begun to receive
training under the aegis of the Ministry of Social Affairs, although the
first year of their three-year program continues to be provided at the
ENS. Besides performing certain social functions, the social workers
primarily staff the maternal and child health centers which presently are
operated by the Ministry of Social Affairs and various private agencies.
Under the Primary Health Plan, the aides-sociales will perform this
function in the CSPS and centres medicaux.
7.        Assistant d'assainissement  (sanitation assistants) are presently
trained in Abidjan. They are to be placed in the departmental health
directorates and in the CHs to oversee sanitation activities and supervise
the agents itinérants de santé.
Level C
8.        Infirmiers brevetés  (practical nurses) and infirmiers brevetés
spécialistes form the largest cadre of health agents apart from the village
level workers, as the practical nurses staff all the fixed and mobile
health services. Candidates holding at least a primary school certificate
receive a two-year basic training at the ENS. Practical nurses who have
performed five years of service may then be given two years of specialized
training in Bobo-Dioulasso or Ouagadougou to become nursing aides in the
fields of anesthesiology, surgery, laboratory vork, chemistry, pharmacy,
leprosy treatment or ophthamology (in Bamako).
Level D
9.        Agents Itinérants de Santé  (mobile health agents) in the past
were literate individuals with no professinal health training who



- 63 -
Annex 2
Page 3 of 3
distributed medication to lepers and assisted in vaccination campaigus as
part of mobile teams or on their own treatment circuits. In the proposed
Primary Realth Plan, the mobile health agents are also to staff the CSPS
and CMs In order to: (a) execute and supervise sanitation and vector
control activities; (b) carr- out public hygiene education; and (c) assist
the personnel of the fixed and mobile health facilities as needed vith
nursing and prophyaxis. Under its Village Water Supply Project, USAID is
financing a one-year course for mobile health agents beginning in 1981/82,
to be conducted in Bobo-Dioulasso by the ENS in renovated facilities.
Enrollment in the course will be 22 agents per year.
10        Accoucheuses Auxiliaires  (auxiliary midwives), formerly called
"matrons,"presently staff most of the rural maternities.  They vill
continue under the proposed Primary Health Plan to monitor normal
pregnancies and deliveries, carry out simple tests, and give primary care
to the newborn. Starting in 1981/82, a one-year training for auxiliary
midwives is to be provided at the ENS, with planned enrollment of 22.
i1.       The Village Primary Realth Team  The Primary Health Program calls
for a Poste de Santé Primaire to be established in each village, consisting
of a male Village Health Worker (Agent de Santé de Village (ASV)) and a
midwife (Accoucheuse de Village (AV)), with both agents to be paid by the
local community. The village team will be responsible for: distribution
of common drugs and simple treatment for some of the most frequent
illnesses (notably malaria, diarrhea, conjunctivitis); first aid for wounds
and fractures; care-finding of malnourished children for surveillance or
referral tO specialized services; monitoring of normal deliveries and
referral of abnormal cases; undertaking actions to promote sanitation and
hygiene; and public health education, in particular with respect to
nutrition and sanitation practices and to promote participation In
vaccination campaigns. The ASV and AV are to be chosen from the village
they will serve and given one month's training at the CSPS. The
provincial Directorates of Health are to be responsible for planning and
supervising the training of the village team in each region. To date, soae
thirty ASV and AV have been trained and are in service in Bazega province,
in the central part of the country, where a pilot primary health project
has been underway since 1979.



- 64 -
Annex 3
BURKINA                       Page 1 of 2
HEALTH SERVICES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SELECTED DOCUMENTS AND DATA AVAILABLE IN THE PROJECT FILE
A. Reports and Studies Related to the Sector
A.1 Upper Volta: Health and Nutrition Sector Review,
World Bank, Report No. 3926-UV, November 1982.
A.2 Population Needs Assessment - Upper Volta, USAID,
Washington, March 1984
A.3 Project Identification Document: Upper Volta
Assistance in Population Planning, USAI]D,
Burkina, March 1984
B. Reports and Studies Related to the Project
B.1 Projet de Developpement des Services de Santé
Requete du Gouvernement de la Republique
de Haute-Volta aupres de l'Association
Internationale pour le Développement,
MOPH, Ouagadougou, October 1983 (with
attachment)
B.2 Project Paper: Upper Volta - Strengthening
Health Planning Capacity, USAID, Ouagadougou,
September 1982.
B.3 Etude de Réorganisation de l'Office
National d'Approvisionnement Pharmaceutique
(O.N.A.P.) de Haute-Volta, Bureau Organisation
et Méthodes, Dakar, December 1983.
B.4  Cooperation Sanitaire Italie-Volta: Proposition
pour le Projet Centre-Est, Ouagadougou, Ouagadougou, N.D.
B.5 Pour un Approvisionnement Correct du Burkina Faso, Ministère
de la Santé Publique, Ouagadougou, September 1984
B.6 Composante Pharmaceutique: Aide-Memoire de la
Mission d'Evaluation du Projet de Développement
des Services de Santé, mai - juin I91Y4, torld Bank,
Washington, June 1984
B.7 Rapport Final Mission d'Evaluation,
Pierre Oudot, Architect, Paris, June 1984



- 65 -
Annex 3
Page 2 of 2
B.8 Fiche Technique de Contrôle et de Surveillance de la
Trypanosomiase Humaine dans les Anciens Départements
du Centre-Oeust et de la Comoe, MOPH, Ouagadougou, N.D.
C. Staff Working Papers
C.1 Architect's Notes
C.2 Detailed Cost Estimates
C.3 Draft Terms of Reference on Financial
and Cost Recovery Studies



IBRID 1856
0.-
.~ ~ ~~~~~~~BI   M At I.?    ,:
BURKINA                                                               .                             MortiL                                        f-7e            N KS 1 -NA
HEALTH SERVICES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                               r                                                <  "                             NIA
PROJETDEDEVELOPPEMENTDESSERVICESDESANTE   i                                                                          GOROM.GOAOM                                                 ^<  NIGEI
0 d20   o    dg   E0  1oo                     -'  k- DJIBOi 
t4-              ~~~KILOMETEII                             %4  )                                                                                                             O#/I ,0/ 0,u  "i / 5i
N
OUAHICOUYA
\\\&&\\\g ~~~~~~~<GA0UA   .                                         \ \ \ \ ZOPNE OU PROGRtGAMME EOÊLARI DCtE VAGCCIA T/OH H/IHO
9   tX \ \ .\ \ \ \ \-\ \ \ \  _-.    -                           ~~~~~~~UhFAVED ROADS INATIONAL. PRIYARY. SECOhIDARVI AIL *SATNER USE
.   , \    \ \ \   t\ffi\_    -tr-t.             >                   tt~~~~~~~~~~~~~OUTES MOM-A/fJUESf f MtA T/O MAL fS. P R/MArnESa SECO VDAIRESI USACE TOUTES UISO/Is
.   a~~~~~~~~~~                                             ~         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ UNPVE ROO IPIMR AN ttutSoJRJsg{;u SEECFONORYI* IlDN,TEITE5t5TENT USE  *   *-  NTRNTIONAL StH UNOARlHIES
I V O  R Y   C O  A S T              \. {?             , ~~ ~~~* TxsNO Is                           P  EPPAL CE'1TE,S
_   _                                                                                                                                      $ . ' ? *) . ro rEEFIN^9sTO  SsPI    NCEO 5V  PO  I 
m A L 1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ER /A CSPR EPOE



