Document of
The World Bank
]OI OmCIAL USE ONLY
Report Ne. P-4086-BUR
- 
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRFCTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
OF
SDR 26.9 MILLION
TO
BURKINA FASO
FOR A
HEALTH SERVICES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
May 14, 1985
,-- I    e            cham  mM  ma olrwse be d_idoaiwlO. WOdd Bu& ihEoD i



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit  CFA Franc (CFA!)
:`S$1.0   CFA  490
CFA! i = US$0.0020
CFA! i-Million   US$2,041
IWEIGETS ANID MEASURES
Hetric System
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
GLOSSARY 0F ACRONYNS
CSPS           Center for Realth and Social Promotion
(Centre de Santé et de Promotion Sociale)
DEPSS          Directorate of Kealth Studies, Planning and Statistics
(Direction des Etudes, de la Planification et des
Statistiques Sanitaires)
DPSP           Provincial Directorate of Public Health
(Direction Provinciale de la Santé du
Ministère die la Santé Publique)
FEER           Rural Water and Equipment Fund
(Fonds de l'Eau et de l'Equipement Rural)
FEFS           Health Services Equipment Fund
(Fonds d'Equipement des Formations Sanitaires)
ONAF           National Office oie Pharmaceutical Supplies
(Office National d'Approvisionnement Pharmaceutique)
MOPH           Ministry of Public Health
PH4U           Project Management Unit
(Cef Cule de Gestion du Projet)
PPF            Project Preparation Facility



FOI OFFICIÂt USE ONLY
BURIINA
HEALTH SERVICES DEVEOPEME  PROJECT
CREDIT AMD PROJECT SUNNARY
Borrover:      Burkina Faso
Beneficiary:   N-inistry of Public Health
Amount:        SDI 26.9 million (US $26.6 million equivealent)
Term:          Standard 
:ro ect
Objectives:    The major objectives of the project are to:
(a) Strengthen basic health and f amily planning services,
with initial emphasis on the control of communicable
dise,ases and the treatment cf malaria;
(b) Further formulate national health and population
policies and promote their application; and
(c) Strengthen the instïtutionnl capabil-ity of the Ninistry
of Public Realth ln planning, evaluation and pr'ect
inSplementation and  monitoring.
Benefits:      The project vould improve the quality and   accessibiity cf
health and family  planning  services  for  about  4 million
persons  (over half  the  total  population),  vith  about
60 percent cf children 0-4 years being effectively protected
against major nhildhood  communicable fiseases. The skill
and performance cf about 1i000 health  aorkers iu rural areas
vould  improve.   Essential drugs  are  expected to be imore
videly available throughout the country at lover cost, ahile
partial cost recovery vill be introduced more videly into
the  health  system.   The mascent  f amily planning program
vould be strengthened. Improved health policy formulation,
plnnning and donor coordination are expected.
Risks:         Ri.sks include the Coverment's lack of experience in  imple-
mentBing  a  nationvide health  projqect and the  possibility
thatps due te Burkina's precarious finpancial situation, the
Government may be unable to support fully incremental recur-
rent costs at the end cf the project.  By  relying  on and
strengthening  experienced  local  agencies,i together with
technical assistance vhere appropriate, the risk cf unsatis-
factory project itplementation vould be reduced. Cost con-'
tainment  and  cost recovery     beasures, to be set in place
through the project, as veli as frequent IDA consultation
vith the Covermment on-steps to be taken te mobilize addi-
tional  resources for  the health  sector,  are expected te
assist the Goverument to meet recurrent cost requirements.
This document bas a o oestrited distibution and fay bc used by recipients only in the performanoe
of their officiai duties Ils contents may not otherwise bc disclosed witaout World Bak authori2ation.



- il -
Estimated ProJect Costs:    (Net of taxes and duties from which the project
vould be exempt.)
Local     Fareiïg     Total
--U S$ million-       -
1. Strengthening of Basic Health
and Family Planning Services
- Development of Immunization
and Malaria Programs                      0.8         3.1      4.0
- In-Service Training of
Eealth Personnel                          0.1         0.3      0.5
- Strengthening of Health
Infrastructure                            4.4         4.9      9.3
2.   Development of National Realth and
Population Policies and Programs
- Policy Development Studies                0.1         0.4       0.5
- Implementation of
Sub-projects Resulting From
Special Studies, and for
Population Activities                     1.8         3.2      5.0
3. Strengthening of Ministry of
Public Health                               1.2         2.2       3.4 b!
TOTAL BASE COST                             8.4        14.2      22.6
Physical Contingencies                            0.5        0.7       1.2
Price Contingencies                               2.1        2.1       4.2
TOTAL PROJECT COST                         11.0        17.0     28.0
~= 
Financing Plan:
IDA                                              9.6        17.0      26.6
Goverxmient                                       1.4         _        1.4
TOTAL                                      11.0        17.0     28.0
a/ Totals may not add up due to rounding.
b! Includes a US$0.8 million PPF advance.



- iii -
Estimated Disbursements:
FY86    PY87    FY88    FY89    PY90    FY91
- -US$ mï11ion-
AnnUal                         2.4     3.7     5.3     5.9      5.6     3.7
Cumulative                     2.4     6.1    11.4    17.3    22.9    26.6
Appraisal Report:             5352-BUR
Economic Rate of Return:     Not Applicable
Project Completion Date:      January 31, 1991
MSp.                          No. IBIRD 18565



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION 0F THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT TO BURKINA FASO
FOR A HEALTE SERVICES DEVELCPMENT PROJECT
1.        I submit the fo}lowing report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to Burkina Faso in an  amouat of SDR  26.9 million
(US$26.6 million equivalent) on standard !DA terms to help finance a Realth
Services Development Project.
PART I - TRE ECONOMY 1/
2.        A country Economic  femorandtm entitled "Upper Volta:  Investment
in Ruman Resources" (4040-UV) vas distributed to the Executive Directors on
September 5, 1983. The following paragraphs are based on this report and
on subsequent economic updates by Bank Staff.
Background
3.        With a GNP per capita of US$180 in 1983, Burkina (population 6.7
million) is one of the poorest countries in the world. As in m»st of the
Sahelian region, this poverty is largely the result of a limited resource
endowment.  Soils are generally shallow, poorly structured, and easily
depleted by traditional methods of cultivation. Rainfall is scarce and
highly variable both among regions and from year to year. The lack of a
permanent vater flow in the couutry's river system severely limits the
potential for irrigation and hydroelectric pover.  The cost of mining known
mineral deposits (e.g. zinc, silver, phosphorus) is relatively high. The
country's landlocked position, scarcity of roads, and long distances from
seaports further constrain the country's development potential in all
sectors.
4.        An estimated 80-90 percent of the population depends for its
livelihood on the predominantly subsistence-oriented agriculture and
livestock sectors. Concentration of over half of the population on the
central plateau has resulted in declining fallow periods, rapid deforesta-
tion, and deteriorating soil fertility in this region. The impoverishment
of the central region has given rise to spontaneous resettlement to the
south and west, areas recently freed of riverblindness (onchocerciasis),
and to emigration to coastal countries, primarily the Ivory Coast. Approx-
imately 0.6 percent of the population emigrates each year and roughly half
of the emigrants are working age males.  PmiLgration has provided the
required safety valve for population pressure and has resulted in an annual
1/        Parts I and II are substantially the same as those in the Primary
Education President's Report.



-2-
inflow of remittances of about 8 percent of GDP.  Both demographic move-
ments, however, represent only partial and temporary solutions to the
challenge of raising the living standard of the population, which is
groving at approximately 2 percent annually (adjusted for emigration).
Past Economie Performance and Recent Developments
5.        The 1970's vere good years for Burkina's economy.  Outperforming
other Sahelian countries, the country's GDP grev at an annuel 3.9 percent
in real terms between 1970 and 1979 and GDP per capita at 2 percent. These
favorable trends vere due to relative political stability, increased
inflows of foreign aid and workers' remittances (the latter accounting for
most of the gains in national income), and the .expanded production of
cotton,  the  country's  major  export  crop.   Also,  Government  economic
policies vere generally judicious. The three ruling administrations of the
1970's avoided major errors in the selection of investments, kept the
economy  free  from  price  distortions,  and  stayed  vell  within  the
conservative financial policy guidelines of the West African Nonetary Union
(WAMU), of which Burkina is a member. There vas, however, one area of
veakness in Burkina's otherwise creditable economie performance during the
1970's, namely, the inadequate planning of capital and recurrent public
expenditure. This led to a neglect of certain sectors such as health and
education, and, in the second part of the decade, to budgetary deficits
amounting to 1-1.5 percent of GDF.
6.        A strine of adverse developments in the 1980-1983 period caused a
reversal of the 1970's trends and helped plunge Burkina's economy into a
severe recession.  A rapid turnover of governments led to a climate of
political instability which, in turn, slowed down the inflow of both
foreign aid and vorkers' remittances - the two major stimulants of demand
in Burkina's modern sector. In addition, because of irregular and below
average precipitation, cereal harvests fell steadily from the peak reached
in 1981, thus substantially reducing outputs in agriculture, the country's
traditional sector. Public economic and financial policies deteriorated as
vell in 1980-1983, a period when the Goverument undertook questionable
investments and inordinately expanded its debt burden by borroving from
local banks and contracting foreign loans on non-concessionary terns. The
budget deficits brought about by these policies and by falling custom
revenues led to mounting reciprocal arrears between the Treasury and the
state enterprises and contributed to further exacerbate demand for bank
credits. All told, between 1980 and 1982, investment fell approximately
50 percent, GDP stagnated, and the budget deficit increased to 4.2 per-
cent of GDP by 1983.
7.        The present Government, which came to poaer in August  1983,
initially directed its energies almost exclusively to establishing a solid
political base.  In mid-1984, however, the country's vorsening economic
conditions compelled the Governuent to redirect its attention to the
economic front and to delineate a preliminary set of development and



- 3-
financial stabilization policies.  Thus, the new Government announced that
it would place increased emphasis on rural and human resources development,
tighten budgetary expenditures, and start elaborating a National Develop-
ment Plan.
8.        A first concrete step to implement these policies vas the launch-
ing of a "programme populaire" comprising a "self-help" program of suall
investments and operations at the villaga level (construction of small
dams, grain storage, health and education facilities).  A second important
step vas the passing of an "austerity budget" for 1985 calling for cuts in
expenditures (other than investment) and increases in revenues. Thus, in a
rapid succession of fiscal measures, the Government introduced taxes on
land title and on cattle, raised the tax on alcohol, and required employees
in both public and private sectors to forego their "13th-month" bonus
payment as well as between 1/12 and 1/24 of their basic salaries in favor
of the Treasury. Hovever, the Governmenc has also taken steps to suppress
rental payments and establish new land tenure arrangements, measures which
are likely to prove counterproductive.
9.        Although it is difficult to assess the final impact of the
foregoing measures on the economy and on public finances, preliminary data
indicate that economic growth has not yet revived. This is not surprising
given the continuation of drought conditions in Burkina, which caused a
7 percent drop in 1984 cereals output (vis-a-vis the already depressed
average of the two precedi-ng years), and theî persistence of an unstable
political climate, which has adversely affected both foreign aid and
workers' remittances. As for publie finances, the budget deficit appears
ta have remained at 4 percent of GDP in 1984 despite the austerity budget,
as the economic slowdown caused revenues to drop further.
Economic Policy Issues
10.       While some of the recent measures are preliminary steps in the
right direction and do indicate the Covernment's willingness to undertake
reforms, the redressing of the economic and public finance situation
requires a range of complementary policy changes in the areas of investment
planning, financial management, and public enterprises. Corrective action
in these areas could also pave the way for a possible IMF standby arrange-
ment.
11.       Investment Planning   Burkina's public sector has never shown
great  enthusiasm  for  planning  its  investments.   Continuing  in  this
tradition, the current Government is proposing to embark on a number of
highly visible, large-scale projects vithout having made a serious anAlysis
of their economic merits or budgetary implications. The largest and most
controversial of the proposed projects, representing a total cost of about
US$320 million, is the Tambao project involving the Ouagadougou-Kaya-Dori
railroad extension, development of a manganese deposit at Tambao and
construction of related infrastructure. Although more appropriate in the
Burkinabè context, the recently launched "programme populaire" appears
overambitious as vell, when viewed against the rural communities' limited
implementation capacity.



- 4-
12.       Recently, hovever, the nev Government has appeared to be giving
increased consideration to economic planning and has asked the Bank Resi-
dent Mission to help. Clearly, one of the major goals of any planning
process should be the definition of a realistic and vell-conceived invest-
ment program, l.e. one vhich vould channel investment resources tovards
priority uses, and vould be commensurate vith the country's absorptive
capacity.  The objective ranking of investment proposals according to
clearly defined development priorities, estimated economic impact, and
budgetary implications vould undoubtedly lead to a shift of attention from
some high-risk propositions (e.g., Tambao) currently contemplated by the
Covernment to sounder project proposals, such as exist in the agriculture.
transportation and human resources fields.  The definition of a sound
investment program could serve to rationalize not oaly the use of domestic
resources but also that of external aid, which has financed 80-90 percent
of Burkina's public investment in recent years.  Such a program vould be a
valuable instrument for improved aid coordination; it would provide the
donor community vith a sounder basis for its decisions and would afford the
Burkinabè Governuent the opportunity of taking an increasingly firmer hand
in directing external assistance tovards nationa' economic priorities.
13.       Financial Management.  Burkina's Public Finances are - and will
for saome years continue to be - severely strained by the peaking of debt
service payments. While this peaking is primarily due to the expiration of
grace periods on foreign concessional loans obtained after the 1973-74
drought, it also reflects'`payments due on non-commercial external'.and
internal debt incurred in the 1980-1982 period (para. 6). Debt-service
payments due in 1984 amounted to CFAP 12 billion, with a further increase
projected for subsequent years.
14.      Restoring balance to the public finances requires a number of
actions - complementary to those recently taken by the Government - on both
expenditure and revenue sides. Thus expenditure cutbacks should be extend-
ed to defense spending and public transfers, notably student stipends.
Non-concessional debt incurred iiQ the 1980-82 period vill probably need to
be rescheduled, and new borrowing closely monitored. Despite the limited
tax base, some scope exists for increasing budgetary revenues by raising
import taxes and/or the indicative prices of imported consumption goods and
petroleum products.  Improved tax collection could also prove to be an
important source of increased revenues.
15.      Putting the public  finances  in order vould also  require a
strengthening of such essential functions as budgeting, accounting and
financial control. particularly in the areas of external debt and public
recruitment.  The Government has recently proceeded to tighten control of
personnel expenditures, procurement, and technical assistance contracts.
An important complementary measure vould nov be the establishment of a
budgetary and accounting system to monitor the external f inancing of public
investment and the associated counterpart and recurrent costs obligations
for the Goverument. A close watch also needs to be kept on the evolution



5-
of debt service obligations to avoid the recent recurrence of late payments
ta foreign creditors.  In addition, Burkinabè authorities should consider
elaborating annual investment budgets (para. 12) which would allow them to
adjust investment levels, from year to year, to the country's changing
circumstances and evolving economic parameters.
16.       Public Enterprises.  Burkina has several major parastatals vhich
are managed quite efficiently and, in fact, could serve as models for
similar entities in the West Africa region - notably OPT and ONE, the
telecommunications and vater utilities, respectively, and SOFITEX, the
cotton  marketing  organization.   Hovever,  most  of  the  other  public
enterprises suffer from 3.ax financial accounting and reporting to the
central Government, which makes it difficult to assess the impact of their
operations en the consolidated public financial situation. The increasing
financial troubles of the public enterprise sector in recent years are
rooted partly in the liquidity problems of the Treasury and partly in
inadequate policies relating to prices and tariffs, employment and internal
management. To improve the financial performance of the public enterprise
sector, the newly created Ministry of State Enterprises vill need to take
prompt action to ensure realistic pricing, curtail excess employment, and
strengthen public enterprise finances.
Long-Term Development Piospects
17.       Barring the dibcovery of major economically exploitaole .mineral
deposits, Burkina must continue to rely for its growth on the development
of its agricultural and human resource endovments. Therefore the develop-
ment of these two assets should constitute the focal point of any long-term
strategy to extricate the country from its present conditions of extreme
poverty.
18.       In agriculture, top priority should be given to reversing the
deterioration of renevable resources - ground vater, topsoil and forest
cover - which has resulted from the pressure of growing human and livestock
populations.   The  abandonment  of  traditional  shifting  cultivation,
overcutting of forests and brush to meet fuelwood demand, and unccr-:olled
grazing have combined to create nearly irreversible damage to the carrying
capacity of parts of the central plateau.  To arrest this environmental
degradation and eventually raise productivity, requires erosion control and
replacement of organic matter in the soil by integrating crop cultivation
vith  reforestation  and  livestock husbandry.   More  and better  focused
research is needed to overcome the technical and economic constraints co
the intensification of crop/forest/livestock production systems. Difficult
social and political issues as well need ta be addressed, particularly
concerning land tenure and communal responsibility for management of
forests and grazing areas.
19.       A second major challenge for the country is to accelerate the
development of its human resources. Increasing access to primary education
and improving health through better primary health services, vater supply
and sanitation, and nutrition will be critical to expanding the application



-6-
of new agricultural technologies and to raising productivity levels.
Progress in these areas vill require policy refor   aimed at reducing unit
costs, redirecting budgetary resources towards primary services, and in-
creasing coct recovery.  Improved education and health services are also
important means of changing attitudes regarding fertility and reducing the
rate of population growth, which currently outpaces the expansion of agri-
cultural output and makes it difficult to adopt measures to preserve the
embattled agricultural resource base.
20.       Other elements of a long-term strategy must include exploration
and, where economically feasible, development of the country's mineral
potential to generate public revenues, diversify exports, and reduce the
country's vulnerability to its uncertain'climate. Finally, development of
transport infrastructure - with an emphasis on ensuring adequate mainte-
nance and rehabilitation of existing assets - is needed to complement
actions in the directly productive sectors.
Foreign Assistance and Aid Coordination
21.       Burkina has received, and continues to receive, a considerable
volume of external assistance.  The bulk of this assistance is on highly
concessional terms.  Rovever, the increasing constraints on counterpart
contributions and recurrent expenditures due to the tight budgetary situa-
tion call for a more selective and coordinated approach in planning foreign
assistance, on the part of the Governnent and the donor communfty alike.
The country's ability to finance recurrent costs vill remain very re-
stricted for some years to come, especially as it undertakes the expansion
of agricultural and social services which vill inevitably increase demands
on the domestic  recurrent  budget.   Accordingly,  local  cost financing,
recurrent cost financing, and high cost-sharing ratios vill continue to be
necessary features of external assistance to the country.
PART Il - WORLD BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BURKINA
22.       The Bank-Group's commitments in Burkina, as of March 31, 1985,
amounted to US$250 million for twenty-eight IDA credits. IFC has made one
investment. About US$150 million have been disbursed. The IDA credits
comprise fourteen projects in agriculture (including one supplementary
credit), six projects in transportation (iicluding one supplementary
credit), two projects in education, three projects in telecommunications
and one project each in industry, mining exploration, and urban develop-
ment. The IFC investment vas made for the production of plastic products
destined for the local market. Burkina is also one of the major beneficia-
ries of the Onchocerciasis Control Progrmme financed by IDA and other
donors.  Annex II contains a summary statement of IDA credits and IFC
commitments.



-7-
23.       Project implementation has generally been satisfactory over the
past fifteen years.  Hovever, the recent political turmoil and resulting
administrative and personnel changes have slowed the implementation or
start-up of many projects, in some cases necessitating the extension of
closing or effectiveness dates.  Also, project implementation has been
hampered by the Covernment's fiscal management problems which have made it
difficult to meet promptly counterpart funding obligations.   Burkina's
disbursement rate, which historically has compared favorably uith that of
other countries in the region, has deteriorated in recent months. Dis-
bursements are expected to return to normal levels, however, as the politi-
cal and administrative environment stabilizes.
24.       In the face of uneven progress in different areas of the economic
dialogue, Bank lending is being directed towards operations in sectors of
certain priority where the dialogue is advancing the best. Also, opera-
tions with heavy policy orientation, designed to improve overall sectoral
environments, have been given priority over exclusively "hardware"
projects. Thus, recent lendir.g operations in mining and rural development
have addressed sectoral policy issues such as sector investment priorities,
institution-building and financial policies. The Fertilizer Credit, the
first project in the fiscal year, seeked to reform the fertilizer subsector
by removing subsidies and other distortions. The present Health Services
Development Project, the third to be presented this fiscal year, and the
Primary Education Project, submitted earlier this year, vill substantially
improvc the efficiency of the respective sectors, thus- permitting expansion
of rural health care services and   primary school enrollment, vithout
excessive strain on the public finances.   Other projects under active
preparation are aimed at improving the delivery of agricultural research
and extension services and expanding livestock production.
25.       On the other hand, operations in sector; bogged down by major
issues, which can only be solved in the context of substantial progress in
the economic dialogue, are being held in abeyance. Cases in point are the
RAN Rehabilitation and the Ouaga-Kaya-Dori Road Projects, which must avait
the resolution of policy issues in the transport sector concerning the
econcomic feasibility oi the Tambao project (para. 12) and the currently
inadequate maintenance of existing infrastructure.
PART III - POPULATION, HEALTH AND NUTRITION SECTORS
Background
26.       Realth Status.  Burkina's underdevelopment is aggravated by its
people's poor health and nutritional status combined with rapid population
growth.  The fclloving parameters give a measure of the magnitude of the
problem: life expectancy at birth varies from 32 to 45 years between rural
and urban areas (compared vith 47 years in Ethiopia and 48 years in
Bangladesh on average); 38 percent of children do not live beyond 5 years
of  age; 30 to 50 percent of preschool children suffer from various degrees



of malnutrition; and, depanding upon the ausumptions, population is ezpect-
md ta reach batween 8 and JO million by the year 2000 f rom 6.7 million ini
mid-1982. Recurr±ng droughts and food ahortagmu are key factors, outaide
the contrai of the Burkinabè health system. vhich contribute ta the poor
health status of the country's rural armas.
27.       Health System.   Betveen independeuce snd the 1970's, Burkina
uaintained a hmalth delivery system baued on a netvorlc of curative facili-
ties in urban armas and major population centers and on mobile teamu for
the controi of major endemic and epidemic diseases.  This dual system
achieved major Bucceus in elim±nating amallpox, in reducing sleeping
sickness and...yellov f ever toasporadic cases, and in .decreasing leprosy
levels faster than elseehere in Africa.
28.       As a result of these successes, nev diseases einerged as health
priorities (i.e., tuberculosiB, dïarrheal. diseases, malaria). At the same
time, improved medical technology, socio-economic changes, and a better
avarenesas of health benefits increased demands for health services beyond
that which the health system vas designed ta meet. In the mid-1970's3 the
urban and rural health services vere integrated In an attempt ta meet this
nov demand. This resulted iu a larger Bhare of health resources being
channelled ta curative and mainly urban facilities vhere expressed demand
vas greatost, vhile health services in rural areas vere neglected.
Kortality of adults (the productiv-e population) dïd not decrease signif 1--
cantly afte? 'integration of the rural and urban health -ervices, indicating
that curative servïces alone had a very limited impact on the health
*      ~~status.
29.       The health care system comp-rises a pyraumid of services lu each cf
*      ~~Burkina's thïrty provinces.  At its base are village-level prlmary health
care co-nittees, voluntary organizations ta imprave health and nutrition
through village self -help. The activities cf several af these caimnittees
are supervised by a center for health and social promotion (CSPS) * an
upgraded form of existing rural maternities and dispensaries established in
rural tovus. The CSPS is managed by~ a cors team cf four (a head nurse, an
auxiliary nurse, a mLidvif e and an itinerant health vorker), and it is the
base f rom vhich health education,' techuical suipport and key services, such
as immunization, move out tovards the villages. It is also the first entry
point into the health systenL for vïllagers and townspeople iu need cf cars.
Bach province is administered by a provincial Directorate of Public Realth
(DPSP) headed by a physician who coordinates health activities and
supervises CSPS. Sa far, facilities for DPSP exïst only in tventy-four of
Burkina's provinces. Surgery can be performed in nlne ref erral centers
located in major- tovns. The Government intends te increase the surgical
coverage by building six additional referral centers. This coverage vould
provide access te emergency care and surgery to over half of Burkina's
population through fifteen strategically placed ref erral conters - (oee
ref erral conter for tva provinces on average). Existing medical. centers,
regional hospitals and tva national hospitals complete the national system
cf referral services.



Issues and Problems
30.       Restructuring the health system is necessary to make it more
responsive to present needs of rural populations. Poor performance to date
has led to a lack of confidence on the part of the rural population in a
system whïch has not been capable of reaching out to them and which has
lacked the drugs to treat them.   Alternative approaches must be f ound to
extend health benefits to geographically remote populations, and financial
resources need to be reallocated from curative urban-centered activities
tovards the rural population.
31.       Health System Performance.  The deterioration of medical health
services is due to the poor condition of buildings and technical equipment
in existing facilities, the poor quality of medical services, and the
unavailability of drugs. Furthermore, easy access to these facilities is
liaited to about half of the population living within a 10 km radius.
Personnel is adequate in number but often dispirited and deprofessionalized
and neither supervised nor trained on a regular basis. Drugs are poorly
chosen, inadequately distributed, and often prescribed inappropriately.
Expensive drug proecurement practices and insufficient supply result from
the lack of coordination among the principal sources of procurement, i.e.,
the Ministry of Public Realth, the National Office of Pharmaceutical Sup-
plies (ONAP), the private sector, and foreign aid. ONAP, a public commer-
cial agency, with a monopoly in drug supply t:o the public sector, cannot be
relied upon for adequate drug supply: it lacks financial resources to
Lmport drugs due to non-payments of ONAP's bills by public agencies and
local authorities and due to huge deficits incurred by its sales outlets.
This inefficient procurement system, combined vith lack of revenue due to
free drug distribution practices by the Ministry of Public Health, has
severely constrained the distribution of low cost drugs to rural areas
where the public health services are the sole distributor of drugs. The
private sector, essentially urban, has extended into rural areas, but its
coverage is. limited to communities large enough to ensure a profitable drug
distribution.
32.       Alternative Approaches to Rural Realth.  Since about 50 percent
of the population does not have ready access to health centers due to
geographical dispersion, approaches which are financially and operationally
viable must be found te improve basic health and nutrition self-reliance-
Such approaches would emphasize preventive measures, detection of diseases
which require the intervention of qualified personnel and simple curative
techniques which could be handled by the communities themselves.  The
design and implementation of such a program requires a better understanding
on the part of health officials of the villagers' demand for health ser-
vices and their acceptance of preventive health measures. It also requires
convincing villagers that adequately equipped and staffed health facilities
exist to which they can be referred in case of need.



- 10 -
33.       Financial Rasources.  Insufficient f inancial resoureao for rural
health stemned from: Wi) a reduction of the health shars ln the national
budget; and tii) allocation of much of the hcalth budget to urban areas and
personnel. The share of health in the national operating budget decresased
from 12 percent in 1960 to 6 percent In 1978. While its ohare has picked up
over the last fev years, it 8till stood at 9 percent in 1984. Within that
share, the tvo major towvEs in Burkina, Ouagadougou and Bobo-Dioulasso,
received about 50 percent of the recurrent health budget. Salaries repre-
sent  80  percent  of  the  budget.   Cost  recovery  has been  practically
non-existent es Government has been under strong political pressure to
provide health services free of charge. If the basic health needs of rural
areas are to be met, a continuing effort vill be needed to make the most
efficient use of available budgetary resources,  to channel greater re-
sources to rural areas, and to recover a larger percentage of costs wher-
ever possible.
Realth Program Implications
34.       Whatever health policy measures are designed for the medium and
long term to address the above issues, current rural health services must
and can be rehabilitated immediately. Without increasing the number of
facilities, existing buildings need to be renovated and properly equipped.
CSPS (para. 29) staff need to be trained in the areas of: (i) organization
and management of primary health care; (ii) immunization; (iii) maternal
child health and family planning; (iv) sanitanion; (v) detection and treat-
ment of malnutrition and control of infections and parasitic diseases; and
(vi) prescription of essential drugs. Training programs need to be devel-
oped to retrain existing staff, and immunization programs need to be
extended immediately to cover the entire target population, using amended
immunization  schedules  and  complementing   services  delivered  in  fixed
facilities vith those of mobile teams. Furthermore. malaria can be easily
controlled by supplying chloroquine to village communities for treating
outbreaks of fever. Publie opinion can be sensitized on population issues;
and family planning services can be introduced into maternal and child
health clinies.
35.       Although the foregoing immediate measures alone cannot be expect-
ed to solve all health problems, they are essential to a viable rural
health system and would restore the system's credibility vith the rural
population. Further improvements will be needed to complement immediate
actions. For example new strategies need to be developed for communicable
diseases to prevent the recurrence of major endemic diseases successfully
controlled in the past and to control nev priority diseases (e.g., tubercu-
losis, diarrheal diseases). Simple preventive and curative measures for
common diseases should be introduced to rural communities through village
health workers. Drugs should be made available to the rural population.
This vill require giving priority to essential drugs, reforming procure-
ment, and finding efficient and cost effective distribution channels. New
sources of revenues for the health sector must be identified since
budgetary allocations are unlikely to increase. All consumers of health
services must share a greater portion of recurrent health costs with



- il -
Government. Finally, strengthening the planning and evaluation capacity of
the Ministry of Public Health is required to implement measures derived
from these policies and to coordinate future investments in the health
sector.
Recent Gov=,,.ment and Donor Actions
36.        Over the past few yearb, successive Governments have again begun
to emphasize rural health. A series of policies have been adopted that aim
at rehabilitating bealth services in rural areas, improving the procurement
and distribution of drugs, enforcing existing and introducing new cost
recovery measures,  and starting family planning activities.   Increased
donor coordination is being pursued by the Government, and foreign
assistance totalling US$20 million (1982) has been channelled into the
health sector. (Major donors include the African Development Bank, Canada,
People's Republic of China, EEC, France, Federal Republic of Cermany,
Italy, Netherlands, UNICEF, USAID and various NGO's). With donors' sup-
port, Government has begun the rehabilitation of health facilities and the
expansion of vaccination campaigns.
37.       The Government has begun a national program to upgrade about 400
existing maternity and dispensary facilities to CSPS (para. 29) by 1995.
About 200 facilities already have been renovated or reconstructed vith
assistance from the African Development Bank, the EEC and the Federal
Republic of Germany. MedicaL staff has already been redeployed from urban
to rural facilities. The Goverument administered àbout 5 million doses of
vaccines against measles, yellow fever, and meningitis during a "commando
operation" at the end of 1984 -- a unique feat in Africa.  A comprehensive
immunization campaign in the Kaya region, supported by the Netherlands, has
resulted in a 90 percent coverage of the target child population and vill
soon be extended  to two new provinces.   Italy is supporting research
necessary for anti-malaria programs.
38.       The Government has decided to give priority to increasing the
availability and affordability of essential drugs, i.e. drugs recomended
by WHO, and nov adopted by the Ministry of Public Health.  Only essential
drugs would be authorized for distribution in Burkina to ensure that only
effective quality medications are provided to consumers. To reduce costs.
essential drugs would be procured in bulk quantities at reduced import
prices by only one importer of drugs, the SONAPHARM, created recently by
the Governuent vith the support of the private sector to replace the
debt-ridden ONAP (para. 31).  SONAPHARM, a mixed corporation (51% State,
49% private), will supply drugs to both private and public distributors on
a  strictly  commercial  basis.   In  order  to  gain  the  confidence  of
international pharmaceutical suUpliers, the Government has already begun to
reimburse most of ONAP's debt through the sale of drug stocks and retail
sales outlets. To reduce risks of conflicts with the private sector and to
make it financially viable, the Ministry of Public Health vould limit the
new entity to wholesale of drugs and keep it out of the retail drug
distribution business. With lower importation costs, the private sector is
expected to earn adequate profit margins on sales. The Government vill



- 12 -
also rely on private shareholding and management practices to ensure
efficLency. The Government has requested Bank technical assistance in the
launching of SONAPEAIM. The new entity, if successful, could simplify drug
procurement and 'emuDre an adequate supply of essential drugs needed for
rural health.   However,  its de facto monopoly might  detract from the
enterprise's ecotnomic and management performance in the long term.  The
Governnent is avare of that risk, and in order to safeguard efficiency in
the long run, wïll assess jointly vith IDA on an annual basis its
operations, its impact on drug supply and the opportunenesu of allowing
competition in proeurement (Supplemental letter in Annex IV).
39.       The  Ministry of Public Health has recently undertaken a series
of cost recovery measures. Evacuees are now asked to share the cost of
medical evacuaticn abroad. Better enforcement of medical fees for services
is being introduced in the two national hospitals. With Italian assis-
tance, the Governnent is seeking means to extend user fees to lover levels
of the health system.  Employers are nov required to use public health
facilities in the provision of medical benefits which are mandatory in
Burkina  (Workman's compensation).   These measures vill yield an annual
increment of US$0.6 million equivalent, representing an annual increase of
about 8 percent over the 1985 budgetary resources. Rovever, these cost
recovery measures alone vill have only a limited impact on the channelling
of resources  into  the  health  sector.   Better  availability  of drugs,
improved medical_ services,  and better coverage of health services will
offer opportunities to increase revenues vhich vill need to be fully
exploited.   Finally,  the Governient  is  considering  creating  a Realth
Services Equipment Fund (FEFS), financed by 75 percent of all fees
collected through cost recovery measures at health facilities as vell as
from proceeds from the sale of vaccination cards.
40.       The Government,  becoming aware of the consequences  of rapid
population growth, has introduced family planning services in urban areas
vhich, in turn, could have a demonstration effect on rural provincial
capitals. Birth spacing is promoted by the media. Recently, the Govern-
ment repealed the ban on artificial contraception, a colonial lav dating
back to 1920. _There is not yet a national population program, but the
Government, vith the assistance of USAID, has prepared a population
planning assistance project, which in three years, through demographic
analysis, information and training, and improvement of family planning
services, vould lay the groundwork for a population program.
41.       The Ministry of Public Health established in 1982 a Directorate
of Health Studies, Planning and Statistics vhich vas responsible for
preparing the proposed project. The Directorate also prepared the 1986-87
biennial investment program and is involved in the preparation of the
1986-1990 Bealth Sector Plan.   The Directorate receives the  technical
assistance of a five-member team of USAID to strengthen the planning
function in the Ministry.   However, in addition to planning, the Ministry
still needs to strengthen its epidemiological surveillance capability to
avoid the spread of communicable diseases, to complete its network of



- 13 -
Provincial Directorates of Public Health (8 provinces out of 30 still need
to be covered) and to strengthen the staff of these Directorates.
Bank's Role in the Health Sector
42.       Through   its   10-year   involvement   in   Burkina   vith   the
Riverblindness Program, the Bank has become increasingly avare of the
importance of developing primary health care systems for the rural areas.
The Bank's strategy for Burkina emphasizes development of human resources.
Economic and health sector missions in 1981 (Health Sector Report
No. 3926-UV, November 12, 1982) initiated a dialogue with the Government on
health policies, emphasizing priority on rural health, and vere the origin
of  the Bank's  direct  involvement  in the Health  Sector.    The policy
framework recommended by IDA vas subsequently approved by the Gover,ment in
October 1982 and vas not modified later despite changes in the Government.
The preparation of the proposed project has given momentum to the dialogue
with the new Government. The project itself would provide the framework
for continuing the policy dialogue on major sector issues and on the
financial and budgetary implications of improving Burkina's health system.
43.       The first IDA-assisted project in the health sector would comple-
ment activities already undertaken by other donors to rehabilitate the
existing system. In addition, it would address policy issues, for which
detailed measures still need to be found, before these policies can be
implemented to imrprove Burkina's health system. Preparatibu of the pro-
posed project had a catalytic effect on donor coordination in the health
sector and resulted in common objectives for action, sharing and adoption
of design standards for construction, iumunization programs and measures to
be taken in pharmaceuticals. There is an increased common understanding on
policy issues among donors, particularly UNICEF, Italy and the World Bank.
PART IV - TEE PROJECT
Project Preparation
44.       The proposed project preparation followed adoption by the Govern-
ment in 1982 of policies and approaches recommended by the 1981 economic
and health sector missions.  Two advances under the Project Preparation
Facility  (approved  in  November  1982  and  November  1984)  totalling
US$820,0000 equivalent helped establish a Directorate of Health Studies,
Planning and Statistics in the Ministry of Public Health. The proposed
project vas appraised in May 1984; negotiations vere held in Washington in
April 1985 and the Burkinabè delegation vas led by Mr. André Fayama,
Directeur de Cabinet in the Ministry of Financial Resources. The Staff
Appraisal Report (No. 5352-BUR) is being distributed separately to the
Executive Directors.  A  Supplementary Project Data Sheet is given  in
Annex III.



- 14 -
Project Objectives
45.       The project is designed as the firet in a series of interventions
in the health sector by IDA and other donors in support of the Governmnt's
strategy in health and population. It plans to rehabilitate and increase
the efficiency of the existing rural health infrastructure and institu-
tions, while simultaneously devising cost recovery and budgetary policies
that will enable Government in the long run to finance a broad-based rural
health  care system.  It supporta  the Government's efforts  to reorder
priorities vithin the existing health care system from the urban to the
rural population through efficiency improvements and the reallocation of
financïal and human resources. Moreover, the project provides the frame-
work for a continuing dialogue vith the Coverument on the development of
the sector.
46.       The proposed project would:  (a) strengthen existing basic health
and family plarning services, vith initial emphasis on the control of
communicable diseases and the treatuent of malaria; (b) further formulate
national health and population policies; and (c) strengthen the MOPH's
institutional capability in planning, evaluation, and project implementa-
tion and monitoring.
Detailed Features
A. Strengthening of Basic Health
47.       The project would upgrade 142 existing health dispensarïes into
CSPS  (para.  29)  in  15 provinces, foUowving a low cost approach.  To
complete the caverage of surgical care foreseen by the Goverument and to
ensure adequate referral of emergency cases requiring surgery, the project
would upgrade six existing medical centers to serve as surgical referral
centers (para. 29). Cost estimates of civil works for health facilities
are based on simple but functionally appropriate design standards developed
by the Ninistry of Public Health and successfully being used elsewhere in
the CSPS progran in Burkina. The average building cost per square meter
compares favorably vith costs for simnilar facilities in the region.
Moreover, the project foresees mobilizing rural communities to manufacture
bricks and to provide unskilled labor during the construction period. Each
CSPS vould be provided with year-round vater supply, and equipped vith a
refrigerator, motorbicycle or bicycle.
48.       Through the project, each CSPS staff, either already in place or
to be made available through reallocation of the existlng pool of health
providers, would receive training and supervision provided by the
Provincial Directorate of Public Realth in each of the 30 provinces. A
minimum of two training cycles would be completed in each province.
49.       For about 50 percent of the rural population who, largely due to
geographic dispersion, do not have ready access to a CSPS. the project
would finance tests and studies to find appropriate village-level



- 15 -
approaches that would be operational and financially viable on a national
scale. Limited tests have already started with assistance from a variety
of sources including the  British "Save the Children Fund", the Federal
Republic of Germany and the United Nations Fund for Population Activities.
50.       The project would provide vaccination coverage in 15 provinces
and major urban centers to children under age four against measles,
pertussis, poliomyelitis, diptheria, tetanus and tuberculosis. The 1-15
age group vould also be inoculated against yellow fever and meningitis.
Chloroquine would be provided and sold throughout the country in support of
a nationa'l malaria program. The credit would finance adequate amounts of
chloroquine for an initial two-year period. Replenishment of chloroquine
stocks vould be secured through a revolving fund financed by the sale of
the initial stock.  The proceeds from the sale of chloroquine would be
placed in an account in its Treasury which would operate as a revolving
fund on conditions satisfactory to the Association, to support primary
health care services. including the replenishment of chloroquine for the
anti-malarial program (Section 3.06 of DCA). In addition, as a condition
of disbursement, no credit withdrawals vould be authorized for chloroquine
until the Association is satisfied that adequate arrangements have been
made for bulk procurement, packaging, distribution and recovering costs
through sales (Schedule 1, para. 3 (c) of DCA).
B. Development of National Health and Population Policies and Programs
51.       Realth Policies.  To ensure that the Government, the Association
and other donors are coordinating efforts around a commonly understood
sector policy, the Government has submitted an updated statement of its
health policy (included in Annex IV). This policy may be modified as a
result of further studies, including inter alia, the studies and experi-
ments to be carried out under the Project. However, if these studies and
analyses would indicate the need for a reorientation of the national health
policy, the Government would consult about it with IDA as is reflected in a
supplemental letter attached in Annex IV.   Furthermore,  to maintain an
effective policy dialogue, the Government will: (i) organize annually a
meeting of all aid agencies participating in the financing of the Primary
Health Care Progran in arder to review progress made in its execution anci
to coordinate further assistance; and (ii) review in detail annually vith
the Association all expenditures t.ade in the health sector during the
previous year and proposed to be made during the upcoming year, regardless
of the source of financing of such investments. (Section 3.03 of DCA).
52.       The proposed project provides for studies aimed at determining
detailed measures needed to implement effectively health and popula-
tion  programs  and at  adjusting national policies  accordingly.   These
studies vould cover the following four areas: (i) users' fees for health
services, (ii) drug distribution, (iii) extension of basic health services
to villagers, and (iv) development of a population program.   All these
studies require operational field testing, most of which would be
undertaken in one specifically designated province. The Government vould
present the results of the studies to the Association by March 31, 1988,



- 16 -
for it. review and comment; prenant specific proposals for sub-projectt in
application of measures emanating from these atudies, by September 30,
1988; and start implementation of an agreed program by April 1, 1989,
(Schedule 3, para. 14 of DCA). Funds would be provided under the project
to finance these sub-projects. The Government vill follow agreed criteria
and procedures for the use of fundt for the implementation of 8uch sub-
project proposals (Schedule 3, para. 16 of DCA).
53.       Usera'  fees.   To strengthen the system of fees for services
(para. 39), the project would finance studies and teste to extend cost
recovery from the national hospitals to the provincial hospitals (para. 29)
and to the CSPS with a view to determining how various payment schemes
affect the quality of services and people's willingness to make use of such
services. Parts of these studies will be undertaken by experts provided by
the Government of Italy, following terms of reference which have been found
satisfactory to the Association.
54.       Drug distribution.  The prolect would provide about 24 man-months
of technical assistance to strengthen central drug procurement, to improve
prescription practices and to launch a public information campaign on the
benefits  of  generic  drugs.   To  improve  drug  distribution  from  the
provincial capitals to the village level, the project would include a field
research component to test how the private and public sectors and village
pharmacies could function most efficiently.  The Covernient vill:  (i) by
December 31, 1985, present tc the Association for its review and  comments:  `..
(a) a plan for strengthening national drug procurement and distribution;
and (b) an official list of pharmaceutical products authorized foQr
importation and distribution, in conformity with the World Bealth
Organization's essential drug guidelines;  (ii) subsequently adopt,  and
periodically review, such a list; (iii) by June 30, 1986, publish a
national drug formulary based on this list, and create a pharmaceutical
information service; (iv) carry out a program to inform the public about
its essential drug policy (Schedule 3, para. 15 of DCA); and (v) carry out,
jointly with IDA, an aanual assessment of the performance of SONAPHARM
(Supplemental letter in Annex IV).
55.       Extenision of Basic Heal1Jh Services to Villagers.   For  outlying
villages, the project vould study and test the kinds of health and
nutrition services that could appropriately be provided by villagers
theIselves vith the support of CSPS.  Simultaneously, it would test the
organizational and managerial requirements of the CSPS with regard to out-
reach, supervision and referral.
56.       To support current efforts to establish a national Population
Program, the project would provide technical assistance for the preparation
of a feasibility study to upgrade 8 of 15 maternal and child health and
maternity facilities in Burkina's two major cities. Funds are also provid-
ed under the IDA credit to implement the recommended improvements in these
facilities. In addition, the project would be co-ordinated with a national
Population Assistance Program vhich has been identified and prepared vith
assistance  from  USAID. This  program  would  strengthen the Government's



- 17 -
capabilities to undertake demographic analysis and surveys related to
family planning attitudes and practices.  It would develop and  diffuse
messages on family planning; train doctors, nurses and midwives in contra-
ceptive technology; and test various avenues, including the private sector,
for providing family planning services.  USAID is currently funding some
priority activities under this program; USAID approval of funds for the
entire program is expected in mid-1986.
C. Strengthening the Ministry of Public Realth
57.       At the national level, the project vould, through participation
of MOPH staff_ in managing its implementation, continue to support the
strengthening of the MOPR's health planning and coordinating capability
begun during project preparation.  It would complement a separate USAID
project providing 5 years   of -technical assistance in health planning,
economics, epidemiology and data collection. To support efforts to monitor
communicable diseases, to limit chances of epidemics, and to screen and
treat sleeping sickness, the project would provide two mobile epidemio-
logical surveillance units. The project would also provide office facili-
ties for eight Provincial Directorates of Public Health (para. 29).
Project Costs and Financing
58.       Total project costs are estimated at US$28 million equivalent.
Foreign exchàhge costs are estimated at US$17 million e'juivalent (about 60
percent). Base costs are in April 1985 prices. Price contingencies have
been applied as follows: inflation rates for foreign costs have been
estimated at 5 percent for 1985; 7.5 percent for 1986; and 8 percent for
1987-90. An annual inflation rate of 10 percent has been estimated for all
local costs during  the period  1985-90.   Physical contingencies of 10
percent have been added to the base cost for civil works, equipment and
architectural services. Cost estimates of civil works for health facili-
ties are based upon simple but functional designs prepared by the NOPR and
used on ongoing health programs in Burkina.
59.       The proposed IDA Credit of SDR 26.9 million (US$26.6 million
equivalent) would finance the foreign exchange component and about
87 percent of local costs, representing about 95 percent of total project
costs net of taxes.   The Government and beneficiaries vould meet the
remaining local costs of US$1.4 million equivalent.
Affordability and Cost Recovery
60.       The project  is expected to generate  an  increment  in annual
operating costs of US$0.9 million equivalent.   Vaccination campaign vould
amount to about US$0.4 million equivalent and chloroquine needed for the
anti-malaria caz.paign to about US$0.2 million equivalent. The remaining
US$0.3 million equivalent   include vehicle and equipment maintenance for
health facilities (para.47) and training (para. 48).   At the end of the
project, it is assumed that the donor community vould continue to finance



- 18 -
US$0.4 million equivalent in support of vaccination campaigna. Domestlc
resources would be required to finance about US$0.5 izdilion equivalent, all
of which would readily be met if cost recovery measures discussed in
para. 39 above are implemented.
61.       Studies and tests ta be financed under the project are expected
to identify additional cost recovery achemes which could increase substan-
tially the financial resources available for rural health care.  Cost
requirements and financing of this and other donor-financed program
activities vould be closely monitored-through annual consultations vith the
Government   (Section  3.03  of  DCA).   During  project  implementation,
incremental recurrent costs vould be met by IDA on a declining scale
(para. 67).
62.       Coverage and Replicability.  The project vould complete a nation-
wide health facilities network in rural areas and strengthen the health
delivery system which vill serve about 50 percent of the rural population.
Extending the health facilities network to provide health coverage to the
reinaining 50 percent population is not feasible due to the geographical
dispersion of this population in outlying villages; and so a different ap-
proach is needed to serve these areas. The project's operational research
component would seek viable, low-cost approaches to promoting self- help in
nutritional improvement* simple preventive measures, health education and
first-aid in outlying villages. If the project does not prove successful
in identifying such measuzes, these villages eould have to continue%to rely
on traditional healers and midwives and a distant CSPS for health care
until a vay could be found to provide them vith improved health services at
an affordable cost.



- 19 -
Procurement and Disbursements
63.       Procurement arrangements  are summarized in the table below, vith
the figures in parentheses showing amounts financed by IDA:
Procurement Nethod
Project Element          ICB       LCB    Other  N/A -/ Total Cost
-US$ Million--
Civil Works                                   7.7      3.4 b/ -         11.1
(7.7)   (3.4)             11.1
Furniture, Office Equipment,         0.6      0.2      0.1     -         0.9
Material, Supplies                (0.6)    (0.2)   (0.1)              (0.9)
Medical Equipment, Drugs             4.6      -        -       -         4.6
(4.6)                               (4.6)
Vehicles                             0.8      0.2      -       -         1.0
(0.8)    (0.2)                      (1.0)
Technical Assistance                          -        1.3     -         1.3
's        (1.3)             (1.3)
Professional Fees                    -        0.2      -       -         0.2
(0.2)                     (0.2)
Training                                      -        0.1     -         0.1
(0. 1)           (0.1)
Project Preparation Facility         -        -        -       0.8       0.8
(0.8)    (0.8)
Preinvestment Studies                -        -        -       0.3       0.3
(0.3)    (0.3)
Funds for Implementation of          -        -        -       5.0       5.0
Studies                                                     (5.0)    (5.0)
Recurrent Costs                      -        -        -       2.7       2.7
(1.3)    (1.3)
TOTAL                     6.0       8.3     4.9      8.8     28.0
(6.0)    (8.3)   (4.9)   (7.4)   (26.6)
a/ Not applicable
bi Fonds de l'Eau et de l'Equipement Rural.



- 20 -
64.       Contracte for equipmont, furniture, vehicles, materials and drugs
amounting to US$5.3 million equivalent, including contingencies, vould be
procured in accordance vith IDA's procurement guidelines for international
competitive bidding procedures  (ICB).   Exceptions  to ICB include:  '1)
contracte with a value of les8 than US$75,000 equivalent each (for a total
of US$400,000 equivalent) which would be avarded through locally advertised
competitive bidding procedures acceptable to the Association; and (ii)
small value items costing less than US$10,000 equivalent per contract (for
a total of US$100,000 equivalent) which would follow prudent local shopping
procedures acceptable to the Association (Schedule 4 (C) of draft DCA).
Purchases of medical equipment and drugs using UNICEF's international
procurement procedures vould be permitted where feasible as a recognized
means of limiting costs.
65.       Civil works contracts for the Provincial Directorates of Public
Health (DPSP) (US$0.9 million equivalent including contingencies), referral
centers (US$2.2 million equivalent), and for the supply of construction
materials for about 142 CSPS (US$4.6 million equivalent), which are unlike-
ly to interest foreign contractors (due to size and dispersion), would be
awarded following locally advertised competitive bidding acceptable to the
Association. CSPS construction materials costing less than US$10,000
equivalent   per contract may be procured on the basis of prudent local
shopping procedures acceptable to the Association. Architectural designs,
draft tender documents and master lists of furniture, equipment and
vehicles would be reyieved by IDA.
66.       Because the Government is unable to pre-finance expenditures to
be reimbursed under the IDA Credit, an IDA-financed Special Account of
US$1 million equivalent would be established (Section 2.02 (b) of DCA).
The Government would also establish a Local Advance Account for its own
local revolving fund for counterpart financing.   The  opening of this
account  and  the initial deposit of  CFAF 25 million would a  condition of
effectiveness (Section 5.01 (b) of DCA).
67.       Proceeds from the proposed Credit would be disbursed as follows:
(i)  100  percent  of  total  expenditures  for  civil  works
(US$9.6 million equivalent); equipment, furniture, vehicles,
materials and drugs exrept chloroquine (US$5.6 million
equivalent);   chloroquine   (US$0.2  million  equivalent);
technical    assistance    and    training    (US$1.8 million
equivalent); implementation of sub-projects (US$5.0 million
equivalent);  refunding  of  project  preparation  advance
(US$0.8 million equivalent);
(il) 95 percent of operating costs (US$0.9 million equivalent),
excluding salaries except for Project Management Unit staff,
until disbursement reaches US$0.48 million equivalenr,
60 percent thereafter until aggregate disbursement reaches
US$0.7 million equivalent and 30 percent thereafter; and
(iii) an amount of US$2.7 million equivalent would be unallocated.



- 21 -
Accounts and Audits
68.       The project provides for services of independent accountants to
audit the Special Account, the Local Advance Account and all other accounts
in respect of the Project for each fiscal year; audited statements would be
submitted to IDA no later than six months after the end of each fiscal year
(Section 4.01 (b) of DCA).
Organization and Management
69.       The office of the Secretary General of Realth in the Ministry of
Public Health vill be strengthened by the creation of a Project Management
Unit (PMU) which vould coordinate project implementation. It vould monitor
project costs, keep project accounts, and authorize all project expendi-
tures.  The setting up of an appropriate PMU project accounting system
would be a condition of Credit effectiveness (Section 5.01 (a) of DCA). Key
staff of the PMU include a director, an administrator and an accountant.
The  establishment  and  staffing of the PMU would be a condition of Credit
effectiveness (Section 5.01 (a) of-DCA).
70.       Construction Program.  Construction of the referral centers and
DPSP wvuld be undertaken by the private contractors under the supervision
of the Ministry  of Equipment.  Rehabilitation  of  the  CSPS vould be
undertaken through village self-help by concerned villagers themselves,
under the supervision of the Rural Water and Equipment Fund (FEER), an
independent public body under the Ministry of Water, which has a proven
capability in coordinating rural small works such as CSPS construction.
The conclusion of an agreement between the Ministry of Public Health and
the Ministry of Financial Resources, on the one hand, and the FEER on the
other. would be a condition of disbursement of the civil vorks component of
the project (Schedule 1, para. 3 of DCA).  The appointment of an engineer,
accountant and site supervisors to the FEER, to assist in coordinating the
CSPS building program, would also be a condition of disbursement on the
civil vorks component (Schedule 1, para. 3 of DCA).
71.       Technical  Assistance.   In  addition  to  available  Burkinabè
expertise, the project would provide 100 man-months (mlm) for technical
assistance  to be  utilized  as  follows:   in-service  training,  21 m/m;
economist, 24 m/m; drug specialists, 30 m/m; maintenance specialist, 4 m/m;
maternal andr child health and family planning specialist, 4 m/m; financial
specialist, 3 m/m; auditors,-14 m/m.
Project Benefits and Risks
72.       The project vill yield the folloving benefits:  First, it would
principally improve the quality and accessibility of health services
available to more than half the total population of Burkina. Second, it
would improve the quality of preventive and curative services by increasing
the skills and performance capability of rural health staff, by improving
the supply of essential drugs, and by promoting village-level health and



- 22 -
nutrition prograus. Thïrd, due to improved procurement and distribution
practices, essential drugs vould be available to the population at reduced
costs.  In addition, the gradual introduction of cost recovery measures
vould provide additional revenue required for more efficient functioning of
health services at all levels of the system. Pourth, the project would help
lay the basis for a national integrated program of maternal and child
health and family planning services in both urban and rural areas.  Fifth,
the project would help strengthen institutional mechanisms thus allowing
for improved health sector planning, policy implementation tnd donor
coordination.
73.       There are two primary risks.  The first risk is that institutions
and measures needed to mobilize resources for the health sector and to
enforce cost recovery may not meet expectations.   This risk would be
mitigated by an ongoing consultative process in the form of regular super-
vision missions, quarterly reports and annual meetings among Government,
IDA and other donors. A second risk stems from the Government's lack of
experience in implementing projects on a national scale in the population
and health sectors in Burkina.  It is already implementing localized
projects in the primary health care sector wn h the help of other donors
and seems to be capable of mobilizing the limited resources necessary to
carry out the projects.  Moreover, the project vould strengthen insti-
-tutions, create a rqrong Project Management Unit, and draw on ,5he support
and experience of other donors through the consultative process indicated
in para. 51, above. The largest and mcst costly component (infrastructure)
is entrusted to an experienced organizatien, the FEER, with demonstrated
achievements in rural areas of Burkina. The strengthening of the MOPK's
Secretary General's office and the Directorate of Studies and Planning will
contribute to a better coordination of the various inputs required to
improve health services through the project.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
74.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between Burkina Faso and
the Association and the Recommendation of the Committee provided for in
Article V, Section 1 (d) of the Articles of Agreement of the Association
are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
75.       Annex IV contains a Health Policy Statement prepared by the
Government and a Supplemental Letter reflecting agreement to: (i) consult
vith IDA prior to modifying the policy; and (ii) assess annually vith IDA
the   performance   of  the  newly  created  drug  importation  enterprise.
Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of Annex III.
Conditions  of effectiveness vould be the establishment of: (i) a Local
Advance Account (para. 66); and (ii) the Project Management Unit (including
appointment of the required full-time staff and establishment of its
accounting system).



- 23 -
76.       I am satisfied that the proposed Credit would comply vith the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
77.       I recomend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Credit.
A.W. Clausen
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C._
May 14, 1985



-24-                                      .   ANNEXI
TAULE a                                             Page b f 5
B~~~~T  a  *_ot   O M
ens                   swm~~~~uw omaom c~~ uzwua aànus.>C p
am  t~~~~~~~~~ nLWU RIA                                                         UM 
oua~~~ <CUTeaus A                              7.
OTL                                274.2      274.2        17.2
LG9.9      122.4       826.3
c   lm cw*,   CM)                      10.0   u 0.0          210.0            249.1                  IIIL1
M CW
CZLOGRSS or CIL uqcvàuur>            3.0        9.0        O2.0             6La                    53.0
POPKEMOU.HID-TIA  (TUOUUSIDI      4164.0     5071.0       14530.
M   POPUATION (Z Or TOTAL)          4.7         6.8        10.9             19.2                    29.7
vomanos moelo
PoLATE RN ZAR 2000 (NLL)                          -       10.0
SATIAna  mKILr               -                            34.7
POPULTION Ilf l                                            1.7
PoPIImoU DEmN
PIE SQ. I.                        15.2       18.5         23.1            32.5                     55.0
P  sq.  . JIC.LAID                36.7       41.4         50.1           119.2                   111.5
POPULATII AuI ShUDCTUhE (1>
0-14 rvs                         42.8       *3.9         U.7             45.6                    45.4
15-64 TUs                         54.3       53.2         51.9            51.5                    51.7
ISU AUlIt                          29         2.9          2.8             2.9                      2.9
POPUATIOI mou1a RATE (Z>
TOTAL                              1.9 le     2.0/e        2.1 le          2.8                      2 L
URUS                               5.7        5.7         6.0              6.2                     5.2
Cur  *m   RATE (PU uTus)            486        40.o        47.9             48.6                    47.0
CRi OUIR RaI  tP  TlOtM)            26.8       23.8        21.3             17.7                    15.2
eae EEFUIXT[O  RTE                   3.2        3.2         3.2              3.Z                     3_2
FAltLIT PLAJUINS                                                                                                       '
ACCEPTMS.   UAL (<TOUS              ..         .....
Ius  <Z0 w 1<u1m1   IEMOI)         ..          ._           .
In    or Fom nD.   CA
<1969-71.100>                     101.0      102.0        95.0            85.q                     91.6
pS CAPTA SUFIS WF
CALORIESCt or OFEQUIRDIEN)        92.0       89.0        95.0             96.4                    98.2
PmIann  (mCRa  ER DAr)            71.0       69.0         72.0            49.9                    56.7
OF  11CR AND" AND PULSE         19.0       19.0         19.0 Id         18.1                     17.0
CID (CAES 1-4) DLEINI RAI           71.0       *9.0         36.0            23.8                    11.7
LIT EXPCr. AT 5119 <C11A5)          37.5       42.0        4.3              48.4                    S1.7
INFANT MORT. RATE Cml TROUS)       234.0      188.0  -    157.0            117.5                   102.7
ACCES TO SAM 1TER <IFOP)
TOTAL         -                     ..       12.0         25.0 Ia         21.8      -             35.6
UAm                                 -.       35.0        50.0 W           61.5                    54.1
tItAL                              ._        10.0        23.0 7 14.2                             27.3
ACCES TO EICR    DISPOSAL
<I oF POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..        4.0         4.0 e           3O .0
UAUmm.                                       49.0        47.0 W           69.2                      .
RURAL                              ..          ..          ..             24.8                       .
FOPULAIEx PVU PRISICIA           81650.0    87430.0     48510.0         27477.8                  11948.3
POP. F  NUISIN PSON               3900.0 ff  3990.0      4950.0           3396.2                  2248.9
POP. PEu tiSPrrL MmE
TOTAL                           1720.I     1580.0       1600.0 Id       1089.0                   986.9
GRUAU                            210.0 jg   270.0       370.0 7d         395.2                   368.7
RURAL                           3090.0 l    2440.0     2470.0 /C        3094.0                  4012.1
AMISSIONS Pu HOSPTA.. U.             ..          ....
AVERAOE SIZE OF HJSEIOLD
TOtML                              7.5/h       ..
GRU...                                                     . ..          ..
ua                                  ..         ...
*VERAZ NO. OF PEUSONS/ROOI
TOTAL                               ..          .
un.                                 ..         .. ..
RtiRAL
TOAL                                ..         ..           ..              ..                      ..       
nRA                                 ..         ..          .                 .e
URAL                                ..         ..           .                ..
. ~   ~    g



-25-                                           AIWEI
Page 2 of 5
T AB L E  34
DPO   OLTA             - SOCIAL INDICATIS DTSA MUT
UrUS VOLTA                           ERPEEiCE CROUPS (WEI-IM    AVERS) La
mmT                  <fl BRCQIE ESTDIATE) lb
ICHaT      DLW INCaS  nICA         NIatE IN-e
194n2k    1970ILb    RSnNA/b-   somui or smiA           AnCa  s. or s
-s~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
£3UST10 ESOLIJOENT RATroc
pRIITs  TOTAL                      8.0        12.0         20.0            69.2                     91.0
HALE                    12.0        16.0        26.0             78.8                     90.5
FCPAIE                   5.0        9.0         15.0             57.6                     73.6
SErMYz: TorT.L                     1.0         1.0          3.0            13.1                     17.4
KIu£               .    1.0          2.0         4.0             17.6                     23.7
FEw                       ..         1.0         2.0              5.3                     14.1
VOCATIONAL <R OF SECOIDA>)          21.2      . 14.7         10.7             7.2                      5.3
PUIL-T -CNE "na
PRIIUS                            47.0        44.0         54.0            46.1                     38.6
SECNlARY                          20.0        23.0         20.0 la         25.9                     24.3
ADU1S LITERACT RATE (Z)              1.5 &       5.0 il      8.8l/           44.3                     35.6
PAsslt t CAUstIoUSA   vo             0.4         1.3          2.0 L           3.                      20.7
RADIO RECEIVERSITUOUSAIID POP        0.7        17.2         17.9            *:.9                    100.8
TV EECEIEUITDUUSAUD POl              0.1         1.2          1.6             2.0                     11.5
NsrPE  (rUIIt CEILBA
IllISESm) CIIICMATION                                                        .                      L.
pRu IOUISAI POPULAITOS               ..        0.3          0.2 nk  -       5                       17.2
CE?VIA AMUA ATrENODAMCCAPITA          ..         0.2          0.7 T7          1.4                      0.3
TOTAL LABO FORCE <1110153         2380.0      2779.0       3320.0
*fLE  PERCENT>                    47.1        46.8         46.1            36.3                     33.8
AGRICULTU (PERCENT)               92.0        87.0         82.0            77.4                     37.1
]NUS=ET (PERCENT)                  5.0         8.0         13.0             9.8                     17.4
PARTlClPATION RAE (PERCENT)
TOTL                              57.2        54.8         51.1            41.0                     36.3
nALE                              60.8        5118         55.3            52.1                     47.6
FEKALE                            53.5        50.9         47.0            30.2                     25.1
ECeONRIC DEPEHDENCI RATIO            0.8         0.9         0.9              1.2                      1.4
uom  anstRrune
PERCET F rPRIVATE I[CORtE
REcELE  B
MIGIEST t5 OF MIU5EHOLOS             ..
HIGISr 202 OF HOUSEROLDS            ..
LUJEST 202 OF HOUSEHOIDS             ....
LOWIST 42.OF IOUSENOS               ..
norum  s Crs
ESTINATEO ARSOLUII POVEI  INCQIE
IfEt (<US Pmu cPr>)
CRam                  -              .                    164.0 /k        168.3                    525.3
RURAL                               ..          ..        105.0            90.8                    249.0
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVER  1SIEE
LEVEL .USI PER CAPITA)
CR                                   .-          -           *-           107.7                    4771.
RURAL                               ,.          ..         53.0 Ik         65.0                    186.0
ESTMTEO POP. 1SD ABSOLLTE
POIVE     ICOE  LEVEL <Z>
URB.W .A                                        *            ..            34.7
RUgAL '                             ,           ,,                         6 b5.4
.  Tr AVAILALE
EUT APPLICABLE
la  Thear' avPatear  for aaeb Ladicaror ara populatiou-v4ghted arttbartc  _a..  Ceueraue of cocrter   nouS tha
ludicator. deped- on avalbility of data ad la ont unifor.
lb   uJes. otherbvia  oted. -Data for 1960 refer EC ay year batau_ 1959 ad 1961; -Data for 1970- batueen 1969 *nd
1971; sud data for HMut Raceat E.c:t_at  between 1980 snd 1982.
le  D. te engratLon population growst rate tL Lower tcan rata cf matural iereae.; Id 1977; le 1975: tF 1963;
1 1962; lh 1964; IL 1972; 1  978; lk 1979.
JUNE, 1984



-26 -
Pag           - 3 of 5
saitehuma- .1  ts Bl _«_mifim  *= _eIS   _e esasi mm le iUssias .. _U5 _siaa is dU. lb _al  _,*  __t. . ishi5
iMLSt Ilm  MI  iits  aleigna musa. %& Aamsiussiessmlsssi   digaisus  smi. isuqml    1114m.
lu% lm. .4 lut dm.                         bus         las.  Whliua      MMA m  ggt st  s aias Ius bn    etm s.al    u       pairga-ml
;$  - t    t'   e 01-t41 t_mw-   et   mamans_                              Im          et b I      s   es =
nu  Bd-e betk    *1PIlsule. Vu-   s _c-m a. mmii                ji            -S lbm «as.Al&U I t  «s      le mi   i.. 1mut   m
sii  fatam i                                                                       _    Zmaum et us Id.  ui, mav11 le"MMs le.""    SE us   imisi,  _r 5i lb mi
lilmemi ..MJ                                               2~~~~~~~MatUlmLlim    o 3d    etisaii   ilu tb mai fjauil
i Ui  i. -u I_é,_ _l all  id_ ilii  _ -* «t lusaut                                                                                             l
IqlrniuuL-kslmBs  t aiuimiieuai  -  m            i l        "  -.sM«                         __  .4 m-a                   . m 
INemt aim _                 m l t     se lis  li lus                        osisils usIAisIt.-.
afa  Pt_-9   _P            _ _ -    fLfi maa agt _; -l-- _x .-@ _4    t
151 se  lU          *           _us                                              _te     5J.rt  ,~-          ci _"       "      - ^ d        _    t
e-v" Lam  1B |E_w-1 -s-, 8U  u.            «"&tau  *W 2 _
_ _ X s u *~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t * _ __tss 1se *  _ mSIid 
--a    i   " mii- aspe lSiaia  a mmmI.  mIls 1-a.                        esslablae il- as d mat nasa. nugl    i.sel.haiai
nxW-"Smsi _al                 - te » Slm <- h                                  ...vui. 1 5 s. "-ie     "    »e
lii.  OI  m  mut asie.                                                          ty -  maS sLierial -seie-h.ie  assilsg  .isd-tim'un
Fa_u rut:.ruLfty                                              2-1, -  iteta. ts          a mi
-am %- . r m flam ai pesam  s   .,s.,.t.i                 asdisCm   s isis Sm isussmal aga t ga lle e   I1M  tI le smii
=Uoâ=t-     ~       selSIsà, ames Unit M.  . am9e                        seat.iaa  "à-»a. ulii. aie.>t g.SU   site  pa-haaar   s.t       
s    m    aih _i_ _A bls                          _ s t ru i     mlai.  is.   _C_ -I-.   É                                       _      au * _-«
3115.  m   a U  dais lg aataay     St.      .          -                                                   Tisai d -  e.t a- imss a  se  afdiadmISau
b-SO aff cba P..Jam         i  As, îma 150 11. ew   llC             ______________________________________________
____ al______   -JI                                               A __d __
i  .~           set -  ~  50 salas BeF  is- s iapubL-Iaei                 pus. -&I  e a-s.s. Il   .     Np#.aaa~eeU                     .s
- _  r_e u- ci.           s.        t       ..s         .1                         .«LF mi s   assis.         -  s  
M. sm m. _ _                  ii tlai.                                          150 .mdMi4 ise d_pagmi _    sas_11
dai-                                                                                                gagoix f  4S_*  s *s   r
At"  *._ __ __Oi _    ._r                          dl-bT- i t- IUr__  &a.11U
rr_r _l.  - Ce.'a *s_ . jae '             .'- -  iai              .Iss    £s,s        m   F?Dsrs-'   m 1r'             ul a
_ _s t~~on . agd                             gr i_.a                      _                  ."~   --.1                        .Wn  a s «M __r «e,~r
Iseai  *. r.seias  rsr 1. -a.   B'on                                                    - ia  ia  - _ a_ lt-l
__.sie m_ni _ile _i   IUr--)   l   t           e--L  e-h  s ,  pe,      _         s_      l, î _  Crm             s         l _. _1 _ ri
_ si-as rmu  ies.J. _i _mi lits -asi  sil e  ai 17.1                     lmsieSs.1155.li.isilr _js 5i5  _suif _ss
r555.lb  sIatl  i* tslh   ai    rt laies.  Îsa.  i s-nl_                                     i d  "Bsa  l    AIBee, .
PIAI   mm        i  Us_ m      j le   . m r r_        ib  suie                                     S r f * ,  S.  t _    _ r_I
JSilug -t          e   m -  ".  ai; - US  mi ss..seswaii
.s s. lsiisa  -a      l            daai .  ils eihl.  r a  ad st                         tif                         It ag -t- . _6.m _       e
s             l_ ea.                           is                                                              se-abs. l  s u  Baisa US.._e l
a o                   l,    e _ s a    la   1glu. le l        o  Masa                                                              _ ;r   _ t_e  a  _   -    _ a   _s  ae1tr
gEl.        -ma-itr                     as l          .                                                                                 _latsi*-aii
- Ce Bts0 imise -te. PiSas ala-l se matis                                 plada   -eai Saaim.seIssaie  _rtia  mseia
ia1m _,    Ci. ita -i.ieeai _eiiii- bas  s                 . b                      a.   usa' te  Il -. i jas                   r S        I r 
le.asaiC alla Bts Sm jgte     m ja_- lI_ _    e b   Pl. db2nag seel  .i_
Page    s             sDa t                                                        t.s pa- _s leU  _b j , e   t is   se _     *   _i  _-t
~~~~~~~~~. rafl    -                  "ez - y-..M    a»   r -Tr             -_Agbgi ._r7t Tr r_D
mmm. 15f 15<5.                                                                Paeii.5Sml  l5ate      l[r 1   .  _  *- T    _  r    _  o,lKI_   r ssas Trjei. t  lD  e m
1070. sU                                                                _  t_si due.P i l     *          _    _.  7t t  ot_
lesieeai as 11.155 ~ele..l  -fIBibdl7fl-lac                                                      l~ssjaî. asatias-asa iii-  -  -fâ
_t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~aa R. r-M_1 f é_>-_1 F , D -tg   t_«|t *-0
eletisl lOis.   l.                         l a     _ie .                                                eg 1    d_  _
----   D.lw  t_  et   _   _Z1 -_ _   r _ rtr                                                           ~ _D
lase sapsialiai      * mi 111541.                                   Ssii.d ima  -  lute, ta.iim   aemm     i 1u      asat  e  ai
tCCte-isa Blast_. 15,5 <ie,lsst> .   armi D  muai gessit jas_ i 1 semi ^sslaases  m- mus                   "         iM@sag-
« _ " _b _ ~~~~~~~~1 .c t.,_0 -r>-                           z           cs-L_4_[ . t  _           2-_
E S _ _rl_ t 71aaaace                       -tfll-  "          t          rc_rsU le. ;_M  t7 __0 r  I7 __.
papsiilsa Bat  t-eS  Cie-J    mi   -"-4    fÉ-. ill-i.aisesa ilmn-al ft-t-                                m  le. jsa      km jailiaia eif asi
Q.is.13fl fJU,jn(.i  mi-mua   il   kilts le.  BUémi e aid-                       a_ us l            fs   aifa sai  ji, asj          _ b          m
_r r_r  t cr Prim  M.-  t        _  f           e_c-t_r                    f_t _ g_  ___       a,
_s                    al t_  l r_    _r  _ :  al-*s.s                                u la _ele. iia se 
ISsU t.51 UsIJpe, SUéssi> - r      iss PaÈ d       i   _1 e                                             1 -est.   @  _    s l. - eta ib-
..Fo» «  ma v- MT.  gr                                       Mn    n~~~~~~apjaiai  iMS   iAum  Wsamjj
Diss   ssajeBs.-0 LeBlu   5j dI lasl e                 il -ss C_O.               _ Ca    l   mir le mm  di ..Ijai  a2 *las-  le_ r__ _
Batamu  lagaleais._ pele _i_ se..        1 tmjam    _rss    _  r- r etie        _aaas        r r iat.i _1-j _tpm ramsias -e        lb It _l_
*V.iiiii jam  ma_ri _tla s   a_.ls  mi_e  laCl. 191. s_s                          eleasCs «i .ai             T_ess _ssie   _sis as W- lsitSisiw
ut._          1"s h s ple                                                                                  . te aseu u        ià."i_-    l le ma =T 
am. -ja_el               la s s   _       totai-l _mmi  r_. 51 a-ass im1   -ta                                           r dal_  _l    _    ts  _  _ria t
*I Cillk..aSee.e _ esa a     s- im f-    51 -Là.     *-b sM                      a lai. *b   _o  edl  _                  .s  -
ld" aws a                                                                         Biabasaet%.1M   igw   .-£ _     mi  ali~t  m.Cleismas.l  nutea-ms
ja'  PimB_ _s - ilrd           1 u         elT -  jaha ail'  _ aslsa-    -         asi  mils-
MUr-df    Lr. gblaa 1910  T9   r_ i  dt                          _ _-.  rt_t ro _tw   s.    er - 1-1 _.d.-  r-                           g-
aIe Smid-baalu s us l   I pjeta Blse mmEe ie_    as.                 
plaitielis sq tsi. .1 emîleasasiai"th le lii aselie~  mme. b sa et
esiid.hase   is as   a    )        i          Ys  -ala.   te.    r _             se             ,          _ -     sj-   -g        s. ._...  11 e
dami rt _ z_ I_    _U. _9»  |0 tut JU                                          s                 sire ele._aarJU_
maslia erU rsnjls St  lel   mu3ele  5 Ilits  US  l
-OpIr 1                                                                                                                Daga.-I~~~~~~~~~alaila155 Blam  iS  dn
isasj.i,ieBe 1  s i           f (bUSt- I-U  - Plala Sf l. _1                      r r          -           ba    sa       s      et isisi tal
mmcri_ç_w plsaeas 51q* aIl _rI  les.n itaalit  ebim   51 aM                     J2iA          4J.Cle _t_i   o_ -sUS  tesma.blia
os (_ 14X rw (_r z_}-  _ b-«  r_U       =    " rc -  *B«s _nu., > éiaô__ _
tss  mi le - miaetsj 75e. BasCa .    Idas           is    -S     .                       a             e  s  i      s
SaiIm  iaseCi .t asSaI   ltl as _ui s_oi osii  daisie Ce_                        3~jlJ           - l_a tali le siaia. TsîIils  ws_s<     m__i-
s ai   isasi earUS _l p               sl      1S. 170 _        11 i-.d
P .-e or.  a". (_          1E9-     _Xeg     
s.. _aa a«t -a n l          *  -e    .    _   _ _   _ C     t                                                                    _ e  a
a                  se    ava           w    le vu  pj   e                                        B     a _    a_ a1
r am _i n   iBtii e_U  pa si.ii  miBlsitB se               te. casrte
a_ . MaeiaZ *_si tUBIl BOiS ss l_s  laI.                                       ims _?B.i_ 
le sall raB ef sasl <aima -_       l, _  r lid  muesa et_ pet asIAewt_s  hItB   a   ihaS-  aiil  I
as  ipja   -  a  s.1espi  1ts   alIl.asm .m-                                     pelai r_mu  r5 peInai pet     asai. mi mua_r  sla 
r.silasaalai ai lad-l.er  raeiB æl_    iseeld  ta _lfu                            saai
_imss5  0am  5f 1             _1 *ril  pe. _e mi 25t iwlm _1s lm
';.-~ ~ ~~~~~~pliSies Iale l Ie.sl  ais 'is. ts



- 27 -
EOIIC IUCIIT                                 AIINI~~6UUZ I
:P:    4 of 5
u 5 MrtUL NOcM  Il 199 la                                           k1al copomni rets if Vu.  <Z, rmtat I0 prical
Uts 111..    S                    îs70-112 wlo-7   191142  î1-s7
W AT OIMET PRICES                            112.1   100.0                        3.5     3.5      3.1      î.9
6BRS DIIIIE5TIC IN9ESNEIENT                   139.5    13.8                       2.9    13.5    -3.6    -2.4
BRIES IITIMb. SBIf17M                        -26.3    -2.6                       -1.4    12.1   1.2    11.1
CaEEfIT ICCEUT NME                            -67.4    -6.7                       4.5    15.1   -16.5   -15.5
BPUT  RF SM1119, IFS                          151.0    14.9                       4.7     3.9      2.4      M.
IIPONTS F N1111S, If5                        31.4    37.7                         3.6     6.5    -5.3       1.2
oMMPIn, LM  FONE M  PDIIUTIVITY
- VAUIE ADEI  1119941 a    LU   FUC  IN IE ib    V..  UM MMI1 9U I 1h
USn Min.    t                lin.    t               UIJ        Z
AIRICULTUE                                            368.6    41.0              .2.7    11.1             15W7    50.6
INDlUSTI, IIIIC, UTILITIES, CDWSTU JEIM              1I6.5    17.4                0.4    12.1             379.3    25.8
ERVICES                                               373.1    41.5               0.Z     6.1            2<70.2   n1.0
TOTAUERIAIE                                          987.2   100.0              3.3   100.0             301.6   100.0
_ TVENE  FINEE /c                                           E3rAL 6NEIIT
CF*F billion                                       1 oF S
m190    1981    1YI2   18        1SU  l           199      1991    1lm2     193       194,
CLMT RECEIPTS                41.2    44.9    50.2    52.2    S7.4                16.5    13.8    13.9    13.9    13.8
aOl ffIT EEP8IIITIES         33.4    36.7    56.8    64.7    51.4                11.7    11.2    15.7    17.2    1L4
CYIeNT SMUIS                  7.8     9.2    -6.6   -12.5       6.0               L7      Z5    -1.    -3.3        1.4
CAPITAL EPEMITIDES id         5.2     7.3      3.7      3.3     3.6               1.8     2 2      1.3     0.9      0.9
OVERAL. ilL41                16       0.9   -11.3   -15.8      2.4               0.9     0.3    -3.1    -4.2       0.6
av, CIEDIT IIID FRICES if                             1990    1991    192    1993    1   Il
fltlli. CFF Oatstamdinq Eni Pariai)
?   tl0 au hI4Sî-u0                                   3$.2    63.7    71.4    80.1    95.9
RAIK CREDIT TB PUILIC SECTE                            -3.4     1.      0.6    -6.9    -9.4
lAI  CRaDIT T0 PRIV4TE SECTM                           59.0    62.0    71.0    73.T    71.9
(Perctntqa or aInde llersI
IRDI  MID  IAI[-M      OaP)                            18.7    19.5    19.0    21.3    20.7
- IIftICIT l  IPEFLUIR l11S90100) Ib                  100.0   110.0   121.2   130.9   139.5
A"l Perceataq  Caus in:
61   FLTO  lb                                          10.0    10.0    10.2      F.0    SiO
* CRIEDMIT TO PUIILIC SECtR                                -47.9   147.1   -625  -1250.0  -244.4
MIE ClEDIT TO PRItITE SECMR                             7.2     5.1    14.5      3.E   -10.1
lai Fra 'Rcaat Ecanc Demabapmate, auqat 194. 1lF staff estimtes fwr 1994 figures; 193 data ae provisiual.
Jlb Last cmus  as in 1975; litat availabla astimtas ely fer 192.
Ici 1990 ad 1991 figur"i fra the CM, Septar 193; far latar  ars, ma lai b.
fdl Excludiîg extanally finacid ixnt.t apmniture.
Iei 194 bwlgat.
IfI Frai Inteuiil Financial Statiics, anuary 1994.
191 1994 figura as of the ami of  ach.b
Ihi For 1990-2 frae the EE; for latar yoes îe lai  above.                                                         miTE    IlIIIV5



=  28  -
TIRE  FAEN   N   CITAL FLO I
Paga 5 of S
NsCE  OF PAYMITU /a        -                                                        ,    M fEMNS WOVInIhnr[   1102-W) la
1991     IM2      1903     19H11
--  -  --                                                  U~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MNIRR.  E
Ailli UU                                                               -
EIPM   TSfMWO   L SM                   173.0   142.1    154.,   151.0                    LI      MT      IU             34.8    29.0
T           OF IU I -                 493.7   430.1   392.6   311.5                       O4TS        -                 3.3   23.5
MSIEURc! 9                            -310.7  -296.0  -237.7  -230.5                      IEUTS                          11.0     9.1
OTHERl U0U                    39.3    32.1
NET FACTOR tIIE lc                     -7.6   -10.7   -12.1,   -1.4
of iiche OLT int. playmts Id             1.2      7.6      7.4     10.7                   TITIL                         120.2   100.0
IET ThIISFhN  /1                       115.2    19.1      e.9      72.1                                                 -
SALE! M  mmIET ACCOUINT              -203.1  -216.9  -167.9  -165.9
EITEUI DET <DECE           31, 19831 Id
IFFICII CWT Il                         147.2   124.9    112.9    90.4                                                         UST lm.
MET OFFICIAL ILT UIfIM  I               69.J    70.7      92.7    14.1                   mLit nENT, IICL.  IfUlSI               681.2
Jih au.ts                             79.4    87.8    B9.3   109.3                      NIIIiITE  P_IYATE DENT
Aartiuatim                             9 .5     9.1      6.7    25.2&
1N                                                          MALt 015T"I  & OISUISE                3981.4
NET CIEDIT FUOIN TE TIF                  1.9      0.0      0.0      o.o
01ER WITI. (NET) 1                   -17.3   -11.1   -42.3   -25.5
CHAO   [I RESE    <increue  -i           LU.    24.5   -14.7    -0.9
INMMTS F PETM     PODUITS /a           50.1    51.7    48.5    52.6                      DENT SE13E!  TIII FOR 19  /l
L
llT OF EB11O1ME                                                                          PUBLIC DENT, tMCL   T EED                 .1
US9 1.00 a CFRF                       271.7   32B.6   391.1    437.0
lIC LENDIS ID¢EIIOME  31, 191  Id
OUTSTflINO & DISBUR5E1                 tL26
l  Data ure frai Aecnt ErnSc Deuumlts', lapt 1984,                                       UNIDSE                                 121.2
ecept as ndim utW  othemise.
/b/ IIIF staff estiets.                                                                  TOTAL                                  233.9
Ici Ezclndinq rnittamc".
idf Frai 1I  kOt Repartinq Service IDRS; projections fo  1994.
ler Includiq ruittunces, punsins,,tc.
lfU Iacladinq erras and aissiam, direct ivntmnt, slort-tn  capital.
discrepncy b        DIIS 4d S rnemt-rpoerted kbt, etc.
t;! OLT intrest payants plas amrtizatia. as a praptian of
mparts of 9DS and au-factor sevics.
met available.
DATE:  1119155
.,~~~J- -                 ,



29
ANNEX II
eTATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BURKINA
A. Statement of IDA Credits as of March 31. 1985
Borrower: BUEKINA FASO
Credit  IDA Fiscal                                      Amount (less cancellations)
Number      Year            Purpose                          IDA     Undisbursed
-    ---US$ million---- -
Fifteen Credits fully disbursed    -                         82.6
759-UV     1977    Small & Medium Scale Enterprise           3.3        0.50
766-UV     1978    Urban Development                        8.2         1.77
956-UV     1979    Education II                             14.0        6.62
982-UV     1980    Forestry                                 14.5       10.01
1013-UV     1980    Niena Dionkele Rice Development           6.5        3.84
1097-UV*    1981    Second Bougouriba Agri. Dev.             16.0 b/     7.72
1164-UV     1981    Fourth Righway                          46.0 b!    27.81
1218-UV     1982-   Third Rural Development Fund           _16.0 b/    10.70
1235-UV     1982    Third Telecommunications                 17.0 b!    11.76   ''
1284-UV     1982    Volta Noire Agricultural Dev.             6.8 b/     5.31
1285-UV     1982    Hauts-Bassins Agri. Dev.                 4.7 b/      3.54
1293-UV     1982    Koudougou Agri. Dev.                     7.0 b/      5.57
1482-BUR    1984    Perkoa Xining Explor. & Tech. Assis.      7.4 b/     6.36
TOTAL                                             250.00
of vhich has been repaid                          2.04
TOTAL nov held by IDA a/                          247.96
TOTAL undisbursed                                            100.51
B. Statement of IFC Investnents (as of March 31, 1985)
Amount in US$ Millions
Year      Obligator      Type Business       Loan       Equitv    Total
1978      SOVOLPLAS, S.A.   Plastic            .41       .13        .54
a/  Prior to exchange adjustment.
Computed at the rate of the approval dates.
u*    Beginning vith Credit 1097-UV, credits have been denominated in Special
Drawing Rights. The dollar amounts in these columns represent the dollar
equivalents at the time of :redit negotiations for the IDA amounts and the
dollar equivalents as of March 31, 1985, for the undisbursed amounts.



- 30 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
1.        Identification:  In November 1981, a joint health and education
sector mission opened the way for extensive health sector discussions with
the Government. In February 1982, a country economic mission reviewed the
principal issues in the context of Burkina's overall development strategy,
and reached agreement vith the Government on health- sector priorities and
possible components of a firat health project.
2.        Project Preparation:  Ministry of Public Realth;
August 1982 - April 1984
3.        Appraisal:  May 1984
4.        Negotiations:  April 1985
5.        Target effectiveness:  October 1985
Section II: Special Project Implementation Action.
NGne
Section III: Special Conditions
1.       Conditions of effectiveness:
(a)  establishment of the Project Management Unit (PM1). including the
setting up of an appropriate PHU accounting system (para. 69);
and
(b) opening of a Local Advance Account (para. 66).
2.        Conditions of disbursement:
(a) no withdrawals would be made for the purchase of chloroquine
until evidence satisfactory to the Association is provided
showing that adequate arrangements have been made for bulk
procurement of chloroquine, their packaging, distribution, and
for recovering costs through sales (para. 50);
(b) no vithdrawals vould be made for the construction of Centers for
Realth and Social Promotion (CSPS) prior to: (i) the adoption of
au agreement between the Ministry of Financial Resources, the
Ministry of Public Health (NOPH) and the Rural Uater and
Equipment Fund (pFEER); and (ii) the appointment of an engineer,
accountant and two initial site supervisors to the FEER (para.
70);



- 31 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
Other conditions:
(a)  .he proceeds f rom the sale of chloroquine would be put in an
account in its Treasury which would operate as a revolving fund
to  support  primary  health  care  services  including   the
replenishment of chloroquine for the anti-malarial program
(para. 50);
(b)  Government vould:  (i) consult with the Association if further
studies- and experiments indicate the need for a reorientation of
the national health policy; (ii) annually organize a meeting of
all aid agencies participating in the financing of the Health
policy; and (iii) review in detail annually vith the Association
all investments made in the health sector during the previous
year and expected to be made during the upeoming year, regardless
of the sources of f inancing of such investments (paras. 51 and
61);
(c)  by Narch 31, 1988, Government would present to the Association
the results of special studies related to Realth and Population
activities and included in the project; by September 30, 1988
present proposals to apply the results of these studies to the
remaixàder of the country;  and, by April 1, 1A89, begin to
lmplement these proposals (para. 52);
(d)  Government would follow agreed criteria and procedures for the
use of funds provided through the Credit for implementing the
results of special studies financed under the project (para. 52);
(e)  with respect to the national pharmaceutical policy, Covernuent
would: (i) prepare an investment plan for strengthening national
drug procurement and distribution; (ii) adopt an official list of
pharmaceutical   products   authorized   for   importation   and
distribution; (iii) review this list annually; (iv) publish a new
drug formulary; (v) create an HOPE pharmaceutical information
service (para. 54); and (vi), jointly with IDA, review annually
the performance of the new drug iniportation and wholesale
corporation and the opportuneness of allowing competition in drug
proclirement (para. 38); and
(f)  Government would have the Special Account, the Local Advance
Account, the FEER's accounts in respect of this project and all
other project accounts for each fiscal year audited by
independent auditors; audit reports would be furnished to the
Association within six months after the end of the fiscal year
(para. 68).



- 32 -
ANNEX IV
Page 1 of 9
BURCINA PASO
MINISTRY OF PUBLIC HEALTU
, 1985
International Development Association
1818 E Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Re:  Credit No.      BUR
(Health Services Development Project)
Statement of Health Sector Policy
Dear Sirs:
Please refer to the Development Credit Agreement (Health Services
Development Project) of even date herewith between Burkina Faso
(the Borrover) and tliJInternational Developie-nt Association (theo
"Association").
We are pleased to provide you in the Annex to this letter with a
statement of the Borrover's policy in the health sector. While this policy
may be modified as a result of further studies, including. Inter alfa, the
studies and experiments to be carried out under the Project, the Borrower
undertakes that no change in policy shall be adopted vithout fill and prior
consultation vith the Association.
Paragraph 9 of said statement of policy refers to the creation of a
parapublie enterprise for the importation of drugs. The Borrover will
provide the Association vith the instruments creating the said enterprise,
its statutes and a statement of its agreed operating procedures, as soon as
possible. The Borrower hereby confiras that the enterprise will operate
on, inter alla, the foelowing principles: (i) the enterprise shall be a
"Société d'conomie mixte" vith 51% of its shares held by the Borrover and
49Z by the private sector; (ii) drugs shall normally be procured on the
basis of international competitive bidding; (iii) the sales prices of drugs
shall be set at a reasonable mark-up over cost price and shall be the same
for publie and private purchasers; and (iv) its assets and staffing shall
be appropriate for its purpose.



-33-                       ANNEX IV
Page 2 of 9
The Borrover hereby undertakes to carry out an annual assesament of
said enterprise, jointly with the Association, in conjunction with the
annual revievs referred to in Section 3.03 of the Development Credit
Agreement.  Said assessment will focus  on, inter alia, (i) the organiza-
tional structure and operational procedures of the enterprise; (ii) its
management, its procurement procedures, and its performance in satisfying
the market (drug availability and affordability); and <iii) the opportune-
ness of alloving other firme to import drugs.
Please confirm your agreement vith the above by signing this letter in
the space provided.
Very truly yours,
BURRINA PASO
By _
Authorized Representative
CONFIRE       _
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENL ASSOCIATION
By _
Enclosure: Statement of Policy
in the Health Sector



ANNEX IV
34                       Page 3 of 9
TRANSLATION PRON THE
OFFICIAL FRENCU TMXT
May 9, 1985
BURKINA FASO
MINISTRY OF PUBLIC XEALTH
OFFICE OF TEE MINISTER
Ouagadougou, April 5, 1985
NATIONAL HEALTE POLICY
A.     POLITICAL BASIS
1.     As a result of the approval on March 14, 1979 of the National Health
Programming Document by the Council of Ministers, Burklna has adopted primary
health care as the basis of all its national health policy, in accordance vith
World Health  Organization's Resolution WHA 30.43 and the declaration of
Alma-Ata endorsed by the Covernment. This policy vas underlined once more in
the Policy Statement Speech of October 2, 1983.  In the face of the main
health problems confronting Burkina, the President has especially emphasized
the development of maternal and child velfare and assistance; an immunization
program against communicable diseases by increasing vaccination campaigus; and
miaking the population at large 3ensitive to good hygiene practice.
Consequently, the Ninistry of Public Realth is strictly committed,
since the advent of the People's Democratic Revolution, to reorganizing and
strengthening the fight against diseases.
The main objectives are, inter alia, to develop preventive measures, to
Lncrease the number and improve the skills of health vorkers and to enhance
their awareness through an approach to a genuinely popular type of health
because health. as a collective consumer item, is the people's major concern.
2.     Furthermore, the promotion of maternal and child health has been a
matter of constant concern for our government since 1984. and the integration
of family planning services has become since that date the cornerstone of a
comprehensive child spacing policy. This vill help foster social and health
development. On the other hand, the faster the development of maternal and
child care in the rural areas of the country, the more efficient it will be to
disseminate  the  essential  themes  of  family  planning  to  the  targeted
population. These two actions are mutually reinforcing.
3.     ECONOMIC CONSTRAINTS AND PROGRAM TO COdTROL RECURRENT COSTS
1.     While  emphasizing  the  fact  that primary  health  coverage  (health
facilities, equipment, personnel, drugs, knowledge of the environment) is nov
to be extended as far as possible, the government is avare that the main
constraint to such an expansion does not reside in the lack of investment
resources, but rather in the financial operation of the Government health
services.



- 35 -
ANNEX IV
Page 4 of 9
2.     It is therefore essential to adopt a political program to control
recurrent expenditures and to mobilize additional domestic resources iu order
to avoid that the desired expansion of the system, far from eliminating the
financial censtraints, may instead reinforce them.  This program is summarized
as follovs:
-    to  streamline  expenditures   through  a  better  geographical
distribution of equipment, stocks and points of sale and through a relative
increase of physical expenditures as compared to salaries.
-    to effectively emphasize the primary sub-sector  (first of all
CSPS) vithin the overall budget approved for the health cector's operating and
capital expenditures, in relation to expenditures on tecondary health,
especially if the total volume of resources available to the sector does not
increase.
-    to vork at preserving and if possible increasing the portion of
the national budget earmarked for the operation of health facilities,
especially in the rural areas, in relation to the other sectors, so long as it
can be sustained by the overall development of the economy and/or so long as
savings may be achieved elsevhere.
-    to have the users/beneficiaries pay part of the recurrent costs
nov borne by the Goiverament by introducing- fees for professional health care
delivery, by defining the communities' responsibilities in terms of the
maintenance of buildings, by malking available auxiliary personnel, etc.
3.     Rovever, the present knowledge of the financiai structure of health
services operations, the medicine distribution network nov being established,
the people's attitudes and receptiveness, and especially the impact of any one
system of rates and cost recovery vithin the available range, is still
inadequate for comprehensive and specific measures to be undertaken in all
areas.  The Government intends therefore to gradually adopt positive measures
along those lines of approach, in the light of the important operational
research and pilot schemes to be carried out under the health project (World
- Bank). Some very important measures are described in sections E and F below.
Other measures along the same line vill follov as soon as operational
recommendations are available, alvays bearing in mind Burkina's strong
commitment to control the financial constraints mentioned above.
C.    EVOLVING PLANNING PROCESS
1.     The national strategy assumes that the provision of services vill be
both simple and efficient with regard to cost, techniques and organization and
that they vill be easily accessible to the people concerned.
2.     This strategy is subject to an evolving planning process based on the
National Health Prograuming principles (see A.1) whereby the Gover.uent
undertakes:
a) to determine periodically the demographic and health situation on
the basis of relevant statistics, surveys and studies;



- 36 -
ANNEX IV
Page 5 of 9
b)  tc develop every five years on this basis a 5-year indicative plan
vith the purpose of:
determining the needs of the population;
*   promwting  a  dialogue  among  the  population  and  officials  on
achievements,   constraints,   availability  of  resources  and  the  plan's
objectives;
*    evolving a strategy and proposing a program directed first tovards
ma±ntaining and developing existing resources and then proposing nev
investments in the light of demographic projections, staffing, the operating
budget and financial participation of the population  (five-year plan and
census);
c)   to program each year the folloving year's activities to ensure
that they are geared to the country's political and administrative devel-
opments and concomitant vith the actual availability of human and financial
resources.
3.     Through this process, the Gdvernment commits itself to a planning
method by successive approximations starting from long term absolute
priorities, followed by the isolation of continuing actions deemed necessary
to preserve and better utillze existing-services and to provide for their
financing.  This process is accompanied by an iterative method for selecting             s
the most viable and feasible priorities. setting aside those that vould
rer,aire a very large mobilization of domestic rerources.
D.     PRIORITY OBJECTIVES OF HEALTH PLANNING, 1986-1990
1.     The means to be sought vill be strictly based on the following priority
objectives.  These are targets deemed attainable on the basis of current
knowledge (1985), but at any rate tu be reviewed at least every year in the
light of (a) cost, effect and impa,ct indicators that are to be continually
updated, (b) changes in available resources.
2.     General objective
To extend progressively the national health coverage, on a quantitative
and qualitative basis, to provide health services to all the population of
Burkina.
3.     Intermediate objectives
i)   Reorganize and strengthen the existing health infrastructure as
vell as central structures;
il) Institutionalize the primary health care system throughout the
country;
iii) Strengthen the planning capacity of the NMfnistry of Health;
iv)  Reinforce maternal and child health services, including family
planning;



- 37 -
ANNEX IV
Page 6 of 9
v)   Improve feeding and nutrition for the Burkina people;
vi) Ensure the control of endemic diseases;
vii) Establish a system of supply and distribution of pharmaceutical
drugs in order to make basic drugs accessible to all the people of Burkina;
viii) Strengthen health education and improve the sanltation and
environmental health services;
ix)   Imprcve the organization and coverage of occupational health;
x,    Ensure that the training of medical and paramed.'cal personnel is
responsive to the needs of health.services.
In order to reach these objectives a whole array of strategies and
measures has been proposed.
E.     MAIN LINES OF ACTION AND STRUCTURES
1.     Considering that the country cannot do everything all at once, the
national policy aifns at (a) reinforcing by 1990 actions already taken that
have really demonstrated their efficiency since 1979; (b) improving health
coverage and lo gstical support for a better organization'-and supervision of
services, a more adequate maintenance and supply of equipment and medicines;
(c) improving demographic and healti data collection, operational research and
evaluation; and (d) integrating financial planning in the national health
programming process, while mobilizing the f inancial resources required to take
charge of the projects financed vith external assistance and to operate the
whole health system.
2.     In the area of the reinforcement of ongoing actions, the Government
nims at:
*   maintaining the mobile immnunization system to provide an efficient
transition for the Expanded Programi of Immunization  (EPI) on a permanent
basis.
*    extending gradually EPI to all the cities and throughout the 30
provinces, to achieve complete coverage by 1990.
* . extending the malaria and diarrhoeal disease control operations.
improving childbirth conditions.
*   providing integrated family planning services with MCH in the
cities and provincial capitals.
*    improving educational and nutrition rehabilitation activities, the
detection of malnourished people, the provision of food and the extension of
truck gardening.
3.     In the area of improving health coverage, the Goveriment shall maintain
the five-level pyramidal system and vill increase its efficiency and



- 38 -
ANMEX IV
Page 7 of 9
effectiveness, particularly through a better allocation of personnel (in
accordance with standards established during the National Health Seminar of
January 31 - February 4, 1984); intensified follow-up training on management,
standardization,  improved  diagnostic  and  better  supervision;  and  the
utilization of health personnel, other officials and the media for the
education of the public at large.
4.     The pyramidal system is based on the following standards:
*    at the village level, the establishment of health committees and
Primary Realth Posta (PHP) that do not entail construction but vill be manned
by at least one village midwife and one village health vorker;
*   at the level of village groups consisting of 150,000 to 200,000
inhabitants, Nedical Centers (MC) responsible for the supervision of CSPS and
PHPs, prevention and promotion activities, maternity and MCR/family planning,
leprosy treatment, epidemiological and statistical surveillance, laboratory
and pharmacy services, minor surgery and oral-dental care;
*    for groupings of 400,000 to 500,000 inhabitants, Regional Hospital
Centers (CHR) that serve as referral to MCs and CSPS.
*    tewo national hospitals at Ouagadougou and Bobo-Dioulasso. These
density standards are_to be considered as the optimal coverage to be reached
only in stages: during the first phase 1986-1990 such coverage vil. not be
available for the whole country.
5.     Since (a) a look at the allocation of present resources (equipment,
personnel, funds) shows a double bias in favor of cities and hospital care,
and (b) this inequitable resource allocation runs counter to the objectives
of community-based primary health care, the Government will, for the period
1986-1990. direct on a priority basis the nei investments tovards the PSPs,
CSPS and CMs, of which 15 vill be equipped with a surgical unit (thus serving
tbe 30 provinces). Without calling into question the standards and uniqueness
of the pyramidal system, the Government opts as a matter of priority for a
type of facility (CSPS) which should provide all the basic care to a specific
population and représent the first level of health  service.  It vil  be
complemented by a referral level consisting of -xisting CMs and hospitals that
make up the second priority. Their management vill be improved through cost
recovery and their conversion into genuine referral centers.                             =
6.     In the area cf medicine supply and distribution, the Government is
committed to the policy of essential drugs, as proposed by the World Health
Organization, vith a view to bringing drug supply into line with the Most
widespread pathology in Burkina and with the financial resources of the
population  and  Governnent.   The key  elements  of  this  policy  are:  the
establishment of a national list of essential drugs; the introduction of a
form listing the international non-proprietary names of medicines with the
corresponding trade names; the education of prescribers and the public;
quality control of medicines; procurement on the basis of international
competitive bidding appropriate to the needs, in order to reduce prices;
promotior. of t-he traditional pharmacopoeia; local production if economically
justified and, in the mean time, local packaging of imported medicines,
whenever feasible.



- 39 -
ANNEX IV
Page 8 of 9
7.     With  regard  to distribution,  the Government has decided first to
exclude Government pharmacies from ONAP's jurisdiction and to relinquish them
by agreement to the provinces and neighborhood districts vhere they are
located.   Durtng  the  period  1986-1990, the Government vill promote  the
establishment of one pharmaceutical products varehouse per CM and per city
district, each of vhich vill have to follow the restricted nomenclature. In
addition, each province will establish a pharmacy in its capital, for a total
of about 80 pharmacies at the CM and city levels. The cost of the manager
shall be borne by the province (contractual status); the manager shall be
trained and supervised by the DPSP's pharmacist; his salary and other charges
vii be covered by the sale price of the medicine.
8.     The CSPS vii1  serve as depositories for pharmaceuticals and vill be
supplied  by  provincial  capitals  and  city  district  pharmacies.   Village
pharmacies are to be encouraged, but they vill continue as mutual associations
managed by health committees. This pharmacy network vill be the subject of an
operational research exercise under the project financed by the World Bank to
better determine the respective activicies of each unit and the relationship
between each link.
9.     With regard to central supply, the Government proposes to eliminate
ONAP and to replace it by a semi-public company with mixed private and public
ownership that will not inherit the liabilities of ONAP.  ONAP vili be
liquidated, in agreement with ONAP's suppli%rs, by the end of June 1985.  The
parastatal company vill be the only wholesaler and vill supply the private and
public  sectors.   Orders  vill  be  placed  on  the  basis  of  international
competitive bidding.  The importing company vill not have to support any
retail pharmacy. It shall in no case deliver two successive lots of mdicines
to private pharmacies, provincial pharmacies or governuent health facilities,
until the first delivery has been fully paid.
10.   Witn regard to data collection improvement and operational research,
the Directorate for Studies, Planning and Realth Statistics vill be
strengthened.   In  order  to  ensure  that  the primary health  care policy
continues to be responsive to the country's realities, operational research
viLl be conducted in the areas of family planning, organization and management
of health services, village health and nutrition promotion, drug distribution
and cost recovery.
F.     OTIER FINANCIAL AND FISCAL PROVISIONS
1.     In the financial area, economic studies vill be conducted during the
five-year plan to estimate the capital and operating costs of a national
primary health care system based on different assumptions. National health
programuing and every health project's file vill be coupled with a financial
study of related recurrent costs. Consultations between the Government and
the various foreign donor sources are to take place frEEiuently and at least
once a year.
2.     To remedy the budget shortcomings in favor of priumary health care, the
present policy of limiting the number of medical transfers and requesting
financial contributions from the transferred patients vill be continued.



- 40 -
ANNEX IV
Page 9 of 9
3.     The policy of payment of a hospitalization flat fee shall be extended
to all the hospitals and CMs on grounds of social equity and to improve their
operations. Similar tariff measures might be considered at the CSPD level in
the light of the results from projected operational research.
4.     In the case of outpatient care, there will be a charge for medicines.
Prices shall not be less than those charged by the provincial and village
pharmacy system.
5.     The decree  establishing the  rate  of contributions  for  companies,
agencies, public  and private  enterprises  that  enjoy- benefits  from  the
Directorate of Workers Health Services (DSST) shall be strictly enforced.
6.     To remedy the operating budget shortcomings, a special account is open
vith the Treasury.  This account is to be used for the operation of the
primary health care national system, including hospitals. Salaries of health
personnel are excluded.   The account shall be maintained by quotas from
occupational health services.   In addition,  75% of revenues from health
facilities shall be deposited in the special account as well as proceeds from
the sale of vaccination cards and chlèroquine.
The Minister of Public Realth
(signed)
Pharmacist-Major
Abdou Salam Kabore
:~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
77 .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



"'v
*Ir       ,               .I                                                                                                                                                                    IBRD 1856
'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- .                                _                                  -                                ',   NIGEI.
:  e#~~~~~UKINA@~MoEt)t 4r-
HEALTH SERVICES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                       r
PROJET DE DEVELOPPEMENT DES SERVICES DE SANT*                                                              GOROM GOROM  LI
1V                    kILOMIItS                                      15 t                      s  OJIB SOR                                 .2-r&.>       i#  **.    ..4
;o  àio   0  6010            N                                                                                                                 .\  o  O
*N.JiN\OOUAHIGOUYAONO__
Vd la 6WA.-Il A.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~l
:   10   #»   S  9E       ,                        gOUrtSfirUV tS                                                              *    PR"lNCI L TA S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PAYIPIA C>IAL
4J9 P~~;\'^t' '>\ V\tv-\' \ a _- ~~~~UNPAVEID ROAOS INATIONAL. PRIMARY. SICONDARVI *ALL WEATHE R USE
9   tg!i\;lV:<4,;\t        éJ-t.                    |        I~~~~~~~~~~~~~rouTEsS NONDITMEE INA TIONALES. PRIMAIlrEfS. CONDAIRESIUAG 1640  OUTES tISO
V                       \.)                    _,_ ~~~~~~~~~~~U14PAVIDRoO-AvOltSIRtIMMW AI4INDAJbFVI-ICNT!RIPtStINTfPIrfH  '* - INtERAONALDONoeBAUIE
-«    C O A S T   \   \*   *    rxlssrs@NcrS                |~~~~~~~ RP FERRAL. CEIÇERS
t_         e                        ?  ~~~~     ~ ~~~~~*_*    TO BE PINNC~EOf EAPMOJECO T_.                                         . 
t*-W   40rmri""* ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~AlREFNACS A L  ROE



