RESTRICT E D
FIE  Report No. P-110
This document was prepared for internal use in the Bank. In making
it available to others, the Bank assumes no responsibility to them for
the accuracy or completeness of the information contained herein.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATIONS
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON THE
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
AUTORIDAD PORTUARIA DE CORINTO
FOR A PORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
IN NICARAGUA
May 15, 1956



IdTEFNATJONALL BANK FMi R7CONSTRUCTION ANT) D  ELOPEEN
REPCFlT AhiD DECOMLiENDATTI1S CF T_iL -2  ',  TO 0   37EGUTIVE
LDTb:CTORC3  !t     J   <'T AT3T4. LUWOiI.Aj 'i9  M-TTz D)E
1.     I submit the folloiring report and recom.endations on a proposed
loan of $3.2 mrllion or its equivalent in other currencies to Autoridad
Portuaria de Corinto, iicaragua, (heroinafter sometimqes referred to as
the Port Authority) to finance a port rehabilitation and improvement
project i
PI.T I -   HI3OS;ICEI.
2,     in August l195, the Governmcnt of Nicaragua asked the Bank to con-
sider a loan of about   3.6 million to finance the rehabilitation and im-
provement of the port of Corinto according to a prelimainary design iwhich
had been prepared by a finni of engineering consultants.
3.     A Bank mission visited Nicaragua in September-October 1955 to study
the project.   As a result of suggostions made by the mission, the Govern-
ment, with the approval of the engineering consultants, modified the pro-
ject so as to reduce its estinmiated cost.
4e     In January 1956, in accordance with a suggestion from thae Bank, a
law r,as passed creating a Port Authority of Corinto to takce over the owner-
ship and operation of thie port from tlhe Pacific Railroad of Nicaragua.
5.     In a letter dated Ma.:rch 16, 1°56 (see R-952) the management of the
Bank infonred tlhe Goverrnment that it v.ould be prepared to enter iatO
negotiations for a loan to finance the foreign exclange costs of the pro-
ject as soon as the preliminary plans and cost estimates had been reviewed
by a nevr firm of engineering consultants to which the Government proposes
to entrust the detailed design and supervision of construction.    This
review Yas made in April 1956.
6.     Formal negotiations for a loan began in l.ashington on April 30, 1956.
1r. Modesto Armijo, ,Iinister of Leveloprient and Public VNork., represented
thae Government and also, in his capacity of Chairman of the Board, the Fort
Authority of Corinto.
7.     If the proposed loan vere made, it vould increase the total amount
of Bank loans to Nicaragua to $21,400,000.    The loans already made are
as follovs:



-2 -
Year     Serial No,o             Purpose                   Amount
1951       44 NI       Farm iMachincry                   $12OM000
1951       45 NI       First HighV;%ayr Project          $3c,5C0o,000
1951       52 INI      Grain Storage                     $ 550,000
1953       81 NI       Second Highwray Project           $3,500,000
1953       82 NI       Dirosel Povjer                    $  450 C000
1955      121 NI       Thcrajal Pover Project             v7,100,000
1955      122 NI       Poner DistrLbution Project        $  lhooo000
1955      130 MI       Agricultural Development Project   1n,500,000
Total       $1892 00 .000
Cf this total, $10,774s41L4 remained undisbursed and $1,671,115 had been
ropaid to the Bank as of March 31, 1956.  The Bank is not currently con-
sidering any further loans to Nicaragua,
PiRT II - DESCRTPIT-I0EH COF TljE PROPOLIED LOAN
Bor-roer and Guarantor
8.     The Borioxer 'would be the Autoridad Portl.taria de Corinto, an
au.tononous G-overnn,ent agency.  The loan Tiould be guaranteed by the
Republic of Nicaragua.
Anount
9.     The loan would be in the amotunt of $3,200,000 or its equivalent in
othier currencies,
Purpose
10.    The purpose of the loan w%rould be to finance the costs of imported
goods arnd services needed for the construction of a new quay at tlhe port
of Corinto, and for modernization of the port's equitnient and facil-ities.
The loan would cover interest and otlher loan charges during the period of
construction.
Interest,_Commission and Commitment Charges
11.    The loan would bear interest at the rate of 4 3/4% per annum, in-
cluding the statutory cormission of l%.  The commitment charge would be
3/4 of 1% per annum, and would cccrue from the effective date of the Loan
Agreement or a date 60 days after signature, whichever is the earlier.
Amortization
12.    The loan wrould be for a period of 20 years with a period of grace
of about three years corresponding to thie estimnated period of construc-
tion of the project.   It mvuld be amortized by semi-annual payments begin-
ning October 1, 1959 and ending October 1, 1967, as set out in the amortiza-
tion table of the draft Loan Agree-ment.



- 3 -
Prov-ision of Local CurrerIcy
13.     The Governw-knt has assured the Bark that it w1ll provide the
Port Authority  ith fana's safficinLt t,o cover tlhe loc.al currency costs
of the project (estiimlated at about 9 million cordobas) in the forlm of
aOdvances m.ade from bud-etary ap-propriations.  Interest andi a-mortization
on these acvances would be payable only out of earned surplus after all
other obligations of th.e Authlor-ity, including those arising fromi the Bank
loan ana the need to build up reserves, hlad been amet.
J,C.T,aj Tnstramecnts .-nd Le.-al Authiority
1h4     There are attached drafts of a Loan Arcreement between Autoridad
Portuaria de Corinto and the Bank (No. 1) and of a Guarantee A-reerrent
betwreen the 1epwublic of' ]Nicaragua and the Bank (No. 2).
15     'These a,greerments are sabstantially in the forras correntiy used
by tne Dank,   It,tention Lnay be draw-vn to the fo'1 owing provisiornse
Loan ALreement
Section 3,01, vhich provides, inter alia, that t'he methods
and procedures for procurerent would be deterr..ined by agree-
ment between the Bank and the horrow!er.
Section 5cOl (b), w,hfnich requiries the E:orroner to employ a
Port ihianager (Cerente cd.binistrador) satisfactory to the
Bank.
Section 5.01 (c), T;hich requires the Borrower to enploy
engineering consultants and also, e;xcet as otherwise
a-reed, contractors for the construction of the Project.
Qection 5.%0, which requires th.ne Porrower to fix aiTpropri-
a-te rates.
Section 5,09, w-hich requires the 113orro--er to obtain the
Bank's coinsent bef'ore un(ferta.ang other na-Aor w,orks or
ex;tending its responsibilities to other ports.
Section 7,01, 7rwhich. includes am.ong the conciitions for the
effectiveness of 'the loan the emplo0t-ent oi a port manager
anid engineerinrg consultants in accorda.nce -vwith Section
5.01 (b) and (c), and thie comipletion of local currency
financing arrangements satisfactory to the Bank.
G,uaFrantee Arreement
Q:--_ton 2003, ,hich requires local curr-ency financingz sup-
p'ied b-7 thLe Guarantor to be of the type described in para-
g:'apli L3 above.



Section 3.07. *7hich requi.rs the Guarantor to ensure that
v.mtervrorks suitable for sup-)lyinc- water to the towrn of
Corlnto and to the port's fire protection system will be
available by the time the project is completed.
16.     The Loan A-reement would have to be ratified by tl-ie Board
(Consejo Directivof of the Port Authority.   The Guarantee Agreem,ient
would have to be ratified by the Nicaraguan Congress,
17.     The report of the Committee provided for in AraicIe III, Section
4 (iii) of thie Articles of Agreement of the Bank is attaclhed (No. 3).
PAJ'-T III - APPRIOSAL OF TTE- PROPOSSED LOAN
18.     A detailed appraisal of the project (T.O. 104-b) is attached
(No. 4).   A report entitled "Ciurent Lconomic Position and Prospects of
Nicaragua" (v.H. 35-a) was distributed to the Executive Directors on
February 1, 1955 (Secretary's Mv`emorand%un 1-201).
Justification of the Project
19.    Corinto is the only good hiarbor on Nicaragua's Pacific Coast.
The greater part of Nicaragua's external trade passes through it, and is
likely to do so for many years to come.    In recent years, as a result
of' the expansion of exports,especially of cotton and cottonseed, Corinto
has been seriously congested.   The resulting delays in shinpc-nt have
harmed Nicaraguals relations with foreign buyers and also li-th thle shio-
ping companies, wllich recently placed a surcnarge of 20% on freighlt rates
to obtain somiie compensation for losses resulting from slovw turn-arounds.
20.     An expansion of port facilities is urgently needed, not only to
enable Corinto to handle present traffic, but also future increases.
Even alloving for the apparent end of the cotton boom, it seems probable
that over the long run traffic through Corinto vill gror at the rate of
about 3% per annum.   The expansion no.,w proposed would provide for the
estimated grovith of traffic over a period of about 20 years.
21.     To ensure that the port is efficiently operated, not only wvhen
the new facilities become available, but also during the construction
period, which is likely to be one of operational difficulty, the effec-
tiveness of the proposed loan would be conditional upon the appointment
of a suitable port manager, iho would in the first instance probably have
to come from ouLtside Nicaraguia  In the course of a few years, howrever,
he should be able to train pote-ntial Nicaraguan successors.
22.     The separation of the port from the railroad which has hitherto
owned and operated it, and the establishment of a Corinto Port Authority
as an autonomous goverment agency, should help to ensure efficient
operation.   I am pleased to note that the Government has arranged that
representatives of private enterprise in agriculture, commerce and ship-
ping respectively should sit on the Board of Directors of the Port
Authority.



- -
lActetho(e of Fro-cureon'ent
23.     The purchase of all equi-jrnent for t'.: project, and tlh,e award of
contracts for constructio;i ot:ler than thl4oe for -'-nor orerations *.;which
could best be nerformed by local contractors, would be subject to inter-
natiornal competitive bidJingC
Economic Situaiicn
24,    T'he last ecornomic report on iNicaragua, dated Febr-ary 15, 1255,
described the rapid increase in Ji\cara2Uals produhction and ex;ports since
1950, and Iheld cut good prospects of continued economic  pro-ress, al-
though at a slomer pace.   !-.t the sa.e time, the report pointed out that
in 1953 and 1954 inflationary bank credit e2mansion had imposed a strain
on the balance of payments.    In addition, e:port volume appeared to be
reaching a neak, and the prices of the country's main export crops, cotton
and coffee, v.ere likely to fall in thIe near future.  Th.e report stressed
that, in order to meet this situation, credit e-:ansion would have to be
lim.lited, government deficits avoided, and that the Government shlould ex-
tend its fiscal reform.;s and revie-:r its invcstanent proeram.
2",      ;.'hen thlis economic report was bein; w,ritten, Nicaragua was har-
vestinn record crops of cotton and coffee uhi-ich raised exports and national
income to unprecedentcd levels in 1955.   These high exports brought about
only a srmall increase in foreign excha-nge  reserves, hovever, because
bank credit continued to e%ipand anid imports rose to new heights.  The
boom crops of 1954/55 were followed by serious crop failures in lq-/56%
largely due to heavy rainse   Cotton production was reduced by 15% in
spite of a considerable increase in acreage; the coffee crop was at least
one-fourth below normal, and much of the corn crop was lost.    Happily,
prices kept un, but a fa'l in botl cotton and coffee prices is likIely to
take place before the next harvest.
26.     Nicaragua is therefore faced -ith a serious fall in e:rnort volume
and value in 1956 and has to reckon with tlhe likelihood thact next year
falling prices T,ill offset better crops.   -nfortunately, the country's
foreign exclhange reserves are not adequate to provide a satisfactory
cushion.
27,     The Go-vernment and monetar- authlorities of N.;icaragua are plan-
ning to 3m-nalinize the balance of payments deficit in 1956 by restricting
ban'k credit and avoiding a government deficit,   This will not be easy,
since several projects involving increased expenditures are under way,
and since it is feared that too drastic a restriction of bank credit
might seriously reduce production.    Over the lon-er run, hoi-ever,
Nlicaraguals prospects for economic progress are satisfactory.
28l e    n a leuter to the President of iNicaragua, dated February 15,
195, I drew his attention to the sizeable obligations Nicaragua had
incurred in the for:.- of medium and short term credits in 193 and 1954.
In his reply, the President elxpressed his a..areness of the problems



- 6 -
connected with the excessive ut-ilization of medium and short term
credits.   Since this exchange of views took place, there has been no
significant increase in NEcaraguaIs medi:um and short termi indebtedness,
and the country's external debt situation remains bas-cally the same
as presented in the Economic heport onf lebruary 1955.  Dtring 1956-
1957 payments on mediumxl term credits, contracted principally in 1953 and
1954, vill raise the country's external debtv service to the higih ]evel
of above    million annually.   This ;ill aggrava-te the balance of pay-
ments problem which Micaragua will have to face during these years.   On
the other hand, the service of long-termi1 external debt will remlin at the
moderate level of betwreeln 42 and ,2.5 million and below 5%Z of prospective
export earnings.   The proposed loan for tihe Port of Corirto will not add
significantl-y to this debt burden.
ProsTects of Ful--it of G ligations
29,     Under the supervision of e-:p-rienced consultants the project
should be efficiently executed.   ? ere is gYood reason to sunpose that,
under the no-naper:-ent described in paragra-phs 21 and 22 above,  tihe newir
facilities vrou d be operated efficient -r so as to justifyr the estina4tes
presented in tle technical report, according to -rvich the Port Authority's
earnings should be adequate to provide the local currency needed at pre-
sent exchange rates to purchase the foreign currency needed to service
the loan.
30.     Nicaragua shiould be able to miake available Ivithout undue strain
the foreign exchange needed to mieet the service of the loan in addition
to its other obligations.
PART IV -   CCJIp2Kr;CE _TH Ah2TICLES OF A(F7FI- ET
31.     I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the 2ank.
PART V -   flFOPllr!'.- IOI S
32.     I recommend that the Bank at this tine make to Autoridad Portuaria
de Corinto (with the guarantee of the Iepublic of Nicaragua) a loan of
$3,200,000, or the eqauivalent thereof in other currencies, for a term of
20 years, with interest (including conmmission) at the rate of 4 3/h% per
annum, and on such other terms as are specified in the draft Loan and
Guarantee Agreements attached, and that the Lxecutive Directors adopt a
resolution to that effect in the attached form (No. 5).
Eugene R. Black
Washington, D.C
May 15, 1956



