Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report NO: P-7368-KE
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ONA
PROPOSED CREDIT
OF SDR 113.1 MILLION
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF KENYA
FOR AN
ECONOMIC AND PUBLIC SECTOR REFORM CREDIT
August 1, 2000
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization



Intemational Development Association
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IDA/R2000-121/2
FROM: Vice President and Secretary                July 19, 2000
KENYA: Economic and Public Sector Reform Credit Project
Re-scheduling and Corrigendum
1.    The President's Report and Recommendation (IDA/R2000-121 dated June 8, 2000) on a
proposed Economic and Public Sector Reform to the Republic of Kenya which was distributed
for consideration on June 29, 2000 and subsequently postponed, is now being scheduled for
consideration at a meeting of the Executive Directors on Tuesday, August 1, 2000 under the
regular procedure.
2.    Attached are the revised pages of the President's Report and Recommendation. The
proposed Credit arnount has been reduced to SDR 113.1 million from the initial SDR 118.3
million to adjust for IDA reflows allocation (SDR 5.2 million), which were to have been
advanced to Kenya during 1999-00:
Cover page: line 13; for "SDR 118.3 million" read "SDR 113.1 million";
line 14, delete "of which SRD 5.2 million";
line 15, delete "have been allocated from IDA reflows";
line 20, for "June 29, 2000" read "August 1, 2000".
Summary:  line 7, for "SDR 118.3 million (US$ 157 million equivalent),
page       including IDA reflows of SDR5.2 million (US$ 7 million)"
read "SDR 113.1 million (US$ 150 million equivalent);
line 11, for "US$50 million plus US$ 7 million IDA reflows"
read "US$ 50 million".
Page 1:    heading, line 5, for "SDR 118.3 million (US$157 million equivalent)" read
"SDR 113.1 million (US$ 150 million equivalent)";
para. 1, lines 2-3, for "SDR 118.3 million (US$ 157 million
equivalent), including IDA reflows of SDR 5.2 million (US$ 7 million)"
read "SDR 113.1 million (US$ 150 million equivalent)".
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



- 2 -
Page 18:   para. 67, lines 1-2, for "US$157 million, including IDA reflows
(US$ 7 million)" read "US$ 150 million";
para. 67, lines 3-4, for "US$57 million, including US$7 million IDA
reflows" read "US$50 million".
Page 24:   para. 84, line 2, delete last sentence, "I also recommend that the Executive
Directors approve the IDA reflows allocation";
para. 84, last line, for "June 29, 2000" read "August 1, 2000".
3.   IDA reflows allocation to Kenya during 2000-01, once approved by the Board, will be
processed as a supplementary Credit, according to Bank procedures.
4.    Questions on this document should be referred to Mr. Kilby (ext. 80434),
Ms. Marlett (ext. 81858) or Mr. Agbonyitor (ext. 80439).
Distribution:
Executive Directors and Alternates
President
Bank Group Senior Management
Vice Presidents, Bank, IFC and MIGA
Directors and Department Heads, Bank, IFC, and MIGA



Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report NO: P-7368-KE
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ONA
PROPOSED CREDIT
OF SDR 113.1 MILLION
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF KENYA
FOR AN
ECONOMIC AND PUBLIC SECTOR REFORM CREDIT
August 1, 2000
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization



REPUBLIC OF KENYA
ECONOMIC AND PUBLIC SECTOR REFORM CREDIT
SUMMARY
Beneficiary:         Republic of Kenya
Project Task ID:     PE-P069501
Implementing Agency: Ministry of Finance
IDA Amount:          SDR 113.1 million (US$ 150 million equivalent)
Disbursement:        The proposed credit will be disbursed through the Central Bank of
Kenya. The first tranche of US$50 million will be disbursed on
effectiveness. Two additional tranches of US$ 50 million each will be
disbursed upon completion of specified actions.
Background:          The proposed Credit is to support the implementation of the
Government's Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (IPRSP). The
IPRSP aims to improve the living conditions for Kenyans through
measures to promote broad-based growth and poverty reduction by
encouraging income-generating activities and improved access to basic
social services.  Confronting systemic bottlenecks that inhibit the
effectiveness of public expenditure programs and private investment is
essential to make progress on the Government's objectives. The
Government is taking actions to combat corruption by strengthening the
capacity and autonomy of institutions that safeguard public
accountability and transparent fiduciary decisions.  Other reform
measures include redefining the role of the public sector, right-sizing
the civil service and building needed capacity; privatizing public
enterprises and shifting sector expenditures in line with the objectives
of the PRSP.
Description:         The Credit will focus on the following core areas: (i) improvement in
the governance framework, particularly in areas that would improve
transparency and prudential over-sight of Government spending; and
(ii) introduction of a budget consistent with the resource envelope
constraints determined by a realistic  Medium-Term  Expenditure
Framework (MTEF). (iii) Related to the MTEF, a shift is envisaged in
the composition of public expenditure towards the priority poverty
reduction programs identified in the forthcoming full PRSP. Other core
reform areas include (iv) implementation of right-sizing of the civil
service, in line with the core functions of the Government and the
priorities of the PRSP and (v) implementation of a new and more
ambitious privatization strategy.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED
ECONOMIC AND PUBLIC SECTOR REFORM CREDIT
OF SDR 113.1 MILLION (US$ 150 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO TIE REPUBLIC OF KENYA
1.   I submit for your approval the proposed Economic and Public Sector Reform
Credit to the Republic of Kenya for SDR 113.1 million (US$150 million equivalent).
The proposed operation supports the implementation of the first phase of a medium-term
reform program formulated in the context of Kenya's Country Assistance Strategy as well
as the interim poverty reduction strategy paper, which the Government prepared in
consultation with a broad segment of Kenya society and stakeholders and in collaboration
with the Bank and the IMF. The reforms aim to revive the flagging economy and
improve deteriorating living conditions through measures that emphasize infrastructure
and human resources development.  Specific actions focus on strengthening the
Government's governance framework, especially anti-corruption and fiscal transparency,
improving the management of public expenditures to redirect resources towards priority
economic and social services, privatizing large infrastructure parastatals so they can
deliver services better, and restructuring the Government, including reforming the civil
service. The main elements of the reforms being supported by the Credit are articulated
in the attached Letter of Development Policy. It is expected that the reform program will
also be supported by the IMF through a PRGF arrangement.
-1-



IV. THE PROPOSED CREDIT
A. CREDIT AMOUNT AND TRANCHING
67.   The Government of Kenya would borrow an amount of US$150 million to be
disbursed in three tranches, to support the implementation of its medium-term reform
program, based on the PRSP. The first tranche of US$50 million is to be released once
the credit becomes effective. Two tranches of US$50 million each are linked to specific
performance targets in the core reform areas.
-18-



V. RECOMMENDATIONS
84.   I am satisfied that the proposed Credit would satisfy the Articles of Agreement of
the Association and recommend that the Executive Directors approve it.
James D. Wolfensohn
President
By: Shengman Zhang
Managing Director
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
Date August 1, 2000.
-24-



Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report NO: P-7368-KE
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
OF SDR 118.3 MILLION
OF WHICH SDR 5.2 MILLION
HAVE BEEN ALLOCATED FROM IDA REFLOWS
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF KENYA
FOR AN
ECONOMIC AND PUBLIC SECTOR REFORM CREDIT
June 29, 2000
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR: JULY 1- JUNE 30
(FY98 and 1997198=JULY 1, 1997 to JUNE 30, 1998)
Currency Equivalent
Currency Unit= Kenya Shilling (KSh)
Market mid-rate: US$ 1.00 = KShI 76.7033 (June 1, 2000)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ACU                 AIDS Coordination Units
AG                  Attormey General
AIDS                Acquired inmunodeficiency Syndrome
AT&H                African Tours and Hotels
CAS                 Country Assistance Strategy
CBK                 Central Bank of Kenya
CfBK                Coffee Board of Kenya
CCK                 Communications Comnmission of Kenya
CID                 Crimninal Investigation Departnent
CTB                 Central Tender Board
C&AG                Controller and Auditor General
ESAF                Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility
EU                  European Union
HIV                 Human Immunodeficiency Virus
JICCC               Joint Industrial and Commercial Consultative Committee
GOK                 Government of Kenya
KACA                Kenya Anti-Corruption Commission
KNH                 Kenyatta National Hospital
KPA                 Kenya Ports Authority
KPC                 Kenya Pipeline Corporation
KPLC                Kenya Power and Lighting Company
KPTC                Kenya Posts and Telecommunications Corporation
KRA                 Kenya Revenue Authority
KRC                 Kenya Railways Corporation
KTDA                Kenya Tea Development Authority
LDP                 Letter of Development Policy
MOEST               Ministiy of Education, Science & Technology
MOFP                Ninistry of Finance and Planning
MOH                 Ministry of Health
MTEF                Medium-Tenn Expenditure Framework
NACC                National AIDS Control Council
NPEP                National Poverty Eradication Plan
O&M                 Operation and Maintenance
PER                 Public Expenditure Review
PFP                 Policy Framework Paper
PIP                 Public Investment Program
PRGF                Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility
PRSP                Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
SAC                 Structural Adjustment Credit
SIDA                Swedish International Development Agency
STID                Sexually Transmitted Infectious Diseases
SOE                 Statement of Expenditures
TA'                 Technical Assistance
Telecom             Telecommunication Kenya Limited
TKL                 Telecommunication Kenya Limited
UtNDP               United Nations Development Program
WFP                 World Food Program
Vice President:    Callisto Madavo
Country Director:    Harold Wackman
Technical Managerl
Task Team Leader:  Frederick Kilby
Task Coordinator:    Alberto Agbonyitor



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
ECONOMIC AND PUBLIC SECTOR REFORM CREDIT
CONTENTS
L BACKGROUND ............................................1
A. POLITICAL AND ECONOMIC CONTEXT ............................................                                1
B. POVERTY AND SOCIAL INDICATORS ...........................................2
C. RECENT ADJUSTMENT EXPERIENCE ...........................................2
D. THE ECONOMIC MANAGEMENT CHALLENGE ............................................3
IL KENYA'S REFORM PROGRAM ............................................5
A. REFORM PRIORITIES ............................................5
B. CONSISTENCY WITH THE CAS ..........................   .................                                    6
a.    Macroeconomic Performance ............................................6
b.    Economic Governance ...........................................6
c.    Portfolio Improvement and ProjectImplementation ...........................................        11
IL  TTIE PROPOSED PROGRAM  ........................................... 12
A. CREDIT RATIONALE AND COMPONENTS ........................................... 12
B. MEDIUM-TERM MACROECONOMIC FRAMEWORK ........................................... 12
C. DEEPENING ECONOMIC GOVERNANCE REFORMS ........................................... 13
D. CIVIL SERVICE REFORM  ........................................... 14
E. EXPENDITURE MANAGEMENT REFORMS ...........................................                                14
F. PUBLIC ENTERPRISE REFORM AND PRIVATIZATION ........................................... 16
G. PRIVATE SECTOR DEVELOPMENT ........................................... 17
H. COORDINATION WITH THE IMIF ...........................................                                    17
I. COORDINATION WITH OTHER DONORS ........................................... 18
J. LINKAGE WITH POVERTY ...........................................                                         18
K. FINANCING REQUIREMENTS ........................................... 18
IV. THE PROPOSED CREDIT ...........................................                                             18
A. CREDIT AMOUNT AND TRANCHING ...........................................                                  18
B. SUMMARY OF FIDUCIARY SAFEGUARDS ............................................ 9
C. TRANCHE RELEASE CONDITIONS .                ......................................................................... 19
D. IMPLEMENTATION ARRANGEMENTS ...........................                                                   21
E. BENEFITS AND RISKS ...........................                                                           22
V. RECOMMENDATIONS ...........................                                                                  24
Annex A:   Reform Actions Taken
Annex B:   Letter of Development Policy
Annex C:   Policy Matrix
Annex D:   At a Glance Tables
Annex E:    Key Economic Indicators
Annex F:    Key Exposure Indicators
Annex G:   Balance of Payments
Annex H:    Social Indicators
Annex I:    Status of Bank Group Operations
Fred Kilby, Albert Agbonyitor, Robert Utz (AFTM2), Melanie Marlett, Philippa Amiri (AFC05), Said Al Habsy
(LEGAF), Thyra Riley (AFTPF), Lucas Ojiambo, Oladipupo Adamolekun, Catherine Gachukia (AFMKE),
S. Ramachandran (EASPR)
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



REPUBLIC OF KENYA
ECONOMIC AND PUBLIC SECTOR REFORM CREDIT
CONTENTS (cont'd)
TABLE
Table 1:   Triggers of Base Case Scenario
FIGURES
Figure 1:   GDP Growth Rate
Figure 2:   Fiscal Balance
Figure 3:   Long and Med-Term net Official Capital Outflow
Figure 4:   Domestic Interest, Inflation and Foreign Exchange Rate Developments



REPUBLIC OF KENYA
ECONOMIC AND PUBLIC SECTOR REFORM CREDIT
SUMMARY
Beneficiary:          Republic of Kenya
Project Task ID:      PE-P069501
Implementing Agency: Ministry of Finance
IDA Amount:          SDR 118.3 million (US$ 157 million equivalent), including IDA
reflows of SDR 5.2 million (of US$ 7 million)
Terms:               Standard IDA terms: 40 years maturity with a 10-year grace period
Disbursement:        The proposed credit will be disbursed through the Central Bank of
Kenya. The first tranche of US$50 million plus US$7 million IDA
reflows will be disbursed on effectiveness. Two additional tranches of
US$ 50 million each will be disbursed upon completion of specified
actions.
Background:          The proposed Credit is to support the implementation of the
Government's Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (IPRSP). The
IPRSP aims to improve the living conditions for Kenyans through
measures to promote broad-based growth and poverty reduction by
encouraging income-generating activities and improved access to basic
social services.  Confronting systemic bottlenecks that inhibit the
effectiveness of public expenditure programs and private investment is
essential to make progress on the Government's objectives.  The
Government is taking actions to combat corruption by strengthening the
capacity and autonomy of institutions that safeguard public
accountability and transparent fiduciary decisions.  Other reform
measures include redefining the role of the public sector, right-sizing
the civil service and building needed capacity; privatizing public
enterprises and shifting sector expenditures in line with the objectives
of the PRSP.
Description:         The Credit will focus on the following core areas: (i) improvement in
the govemance framework, particularly in areas that would improve
transparency and prudential over-sight of Government spending; and
(ii) introduction of a budget consistent with the resource envelope
constraints determined by a realistic  Medium-Term  Expenditure
Framework (MTEF). (iii) Related to the MTEF, a shift is envisaged in
the composition of public expenditure towards the priority poverty
reduction programs identified in the forthcoming full PRSP. Other core
reform areas include (iv) implementation of right-sizing of the civil
service, in line with the core functions of the Government and the
priorities of the PRSP and (v) implementation of a new and more
ambitious privatization strategy.
Rationale for IDA
involvement:          The priorities of the reforms are fully consistent with Kenya's Country
Assistance Strategy (CAS) presented to the Board in September 1998.
The CAS notes specific GOK reform initiatives, which, if followed



through, would pave the way for a base case lending program,
including adjustment support. It highlights poor economic governance,
especially corruption, malfunction of public institutions, including
parastatals, and ineffective utilization of public resources as the main
challenges to economic growth and poverty reduction.   The
Government announced a Change Initiative in July 1999 and appointed
a new team to start confronting these long-standing development
problems. The preparations and actions already taken have set the
stage for supporting the Government in addressing these issues in the
context of the interim PRSP. However, the Government continues to
face substantial budgetary and balance of payments pressures. The
credit will enable the Government to consolidate its prudent fiscal
stance, while implementing structural and public sector reforms, and it
will help to enlist market confidence for the reform efforts.
Government
Commitment:          The Government has shown steadfast commitment to tighter control
over fiscal management, and the results are reflected in a reduced
deficit, reduction in inflation to single digits and a fall in domestic
interest rates. The renewal of the structural and public sector reforms
and the appointment of a change management team have strong
backing from the President as evidenced by a range of anti-corruption
efforts and changes in management of key public sector agencies.
Executive resolve is being leveraged by enlisting the support of key
institutions (such as Parliament and the Judiciary) and stakeholders.
Political reforms that resulted in a multi-party system and the
emergence of a variety of civic organizations have become a major
force in demanding greater public accountability. The credit will
support the implementation of an interim PRSP by the Government. It
will also complement the Government's PRGF arrangement recently
negotiated with the IMF.
Benefits:             The operation is designed to improve the environment for economic
governance and strengthen market confidence so that both public and
private resources would be used efficiently to promote growth and
improve living conditions. The emphasis on combating corruption is
necessary to provide the basis for improving public deliveries.
Reforms in the area of social services will include health and education,
especially in the rural areas. Reforms in the area of infrastructure
(telecommunication, transport and energy sectors) aim to strengthen the
base for income-generating activities, enhance Kenya's competitiveness
and attract private investment. However, given that the full benefits
from institutional change normally take time to materialize, sustained
implementation is essential. Owing to the lingering effects of recent
poor weather and the difficulty of restoring business confidence,
growth recovery is expected to be gradual, rising from 1.4 percent in
1999 to 5 percent by 2002/03.
Risks:               The main risk is that progress may be uneven or reversed in the run-up
to the next national elections given that the Government is embarking
on a broad range of difficult structural and institutional reforms.
Although the PRSP reforms have the full backing of the President, and



he has discussed and accepted them, Kenya's political will to undertake
necessary reforms, which challenge powerful vested interests, remains
to be tested. In addition, fears of continuing economic stagnation could
reinforce opposition to privatization and civil service reforms that
involve staff retrenchment and limiting employment in the public
sector. While no one can guarantee development without risks, the
operation is being designed to give encouragement to a coherent and
sustained implementation of the package. The program requires a
strengthening of independent institutions of economic governance, and
a demonstration of their ability to uphold their mandates. In addition,
the triggers call for an irreversible change in the economic wiring of
the country, by dismantling the reach of the state and moving to the
private provision of infrastructure.  An open approach to the
formulation of reforms and full public discussion and involvement of
stakeholders is being encouraged to build support for the program. The
reforms also require a strong management structure and administrative
capacity. The Bank and other development partners in the donor
community are prepared to provide technical assistance to minimize
capacity constraints and help to rebuild institutions.






REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED
ECONOMIC AND PUBLIC SECTOR REFORM CREDIT
OF SDR 118.3 MILLION (US$ 157 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE REPUBLIC OF KENYA
1.    I submit for your approval the proposed Economic and Public Sector Reform Credit to
the Republic of Kenya for SDR 118.3 million (US$157 million equivalent), including IDA
reflows of SDR 5.2 million (US$7 million). The proposed operation supports the implementation
of the first phase of a medium-term reform program formulated in the context of Kenya's Country
Assistance Strategy as well as the interim poverty reduction strategy paper, which the
Government prepared in consultation with a broad segment of Kenya society and stakeholders
and in collaboration with the Bank and the IMF. The reforms aim to revive the flagging economy
and improve deteriorating living conditions through measures that emphasize infrastructure and
human resources development. Specific actions focus on strengthening the Government's
governance framework, especially anti-corruption and fiscal transparency, improving the
management of public expenditures to redirect resources towards priority economic and social
services, privatizing large infrastructure parastatals so they can deliver services better, and
restructuring the Government, including reforming the civil service. The main elements of the
reforms being supported by the Credit are articulated in the attached Letter of Development
Policy. It is expected that the reform program will also be supported by the IMF through a PRGF
arrangement.
L. BACKGROUND
A. POLITICAL AND ECONOMIC CONTEXT
2.    Democratic reforms in the form of multi-party elections were initiated in the early 1990s,
and President Daniel arap Moi and his KANU party won the elections that were held in 1992 and
1997. The political reforms have resulted in a more open society, a vibrant press with greater
freedom of expression and the emergence of a variety of civil society organizations that have
become a major force in demanding greater public accountability and implementation of reforms.
While the political reforms have helped to achieve broader participation, the process has been
divisive, and it has contributed to diverting attention from long-term economic development
issues.
Fig 1. GDP Growth rate
3.    Per capita income was US$330 in 1999.  The        6--------------
economy is in its fourth year of a declining GDP growth  5
trend from 4 percent in 1995 to 1.4 percent in 1999 (Figure  4 4
1). The average population growth rate is 2.5 percent. The   '2 
erosion of critical infrastructure, ineffective use of public    f 2
resources, corruption, institutional bottlenecks, and low  o
investor confidence underlie the poor growth performance   Y95 Y96 Y97 Y98 Y99
during the past decades. Severe droughts, in 1997 and 1999,        Years
and El Nino floods in early 1998 disrupted agriculture.
1



Insecurity has dampened tourism. Aggregate demand is weak, due to stagnating rural incomes,
high real interest rates and the impact of fragile financial institutions on credit for the private
sector. The outlook for growth recovery is uncertain; business confidence is low, and savings and
investments are falling. Another drought is now seriously affecting agriculture and causing major
power shortages.  Although the structural challenges remain, there have been recent
improvements in the quality of macroeconomic management.  Average annual inflation
decelerated from a peak of 46 percent in the early 1990s to single digits since 1999, due to a
reduced fiscal deficit and the implementation of tight monetary policy.
B. POVERTY AND SOCIAL INDICATORS
4.    The Government has developed a system of poverty monitoring, based on household
surveys. Evidence from the most recent survey conducted in 1997 shows that more Kenyans are
living in poverty, with declining per capita income and diminishing access to basic social
services. Headcount poverty was estimated at about 52 percent in 1997. While most of the poor
reside in the rural areas, social distress in the urban areas is reportedly intensifying with rising
unemployment and increasing social tension. The gross primary enrollment ratio fell from 94
percent to 89 percent between 1989 and 1998; for the secondary schools it fell from 31 percent to
23 percent during the same period. In health, the capacity to sustain the existing network of
thousands of health facilities as well as trained health workers has significantly eroded. The
H[V/AIDS epidemic is taking a heavy toll. Life expectancy is estimated to have declined from
60 to 57 years during 1993-98, largely due to the HIV/AIDS epidemic.
5.    While factors affecting household living conditions are complex, there is a strong
connection between poverty reduction and growth in per capita income in Kenya. On average a
one percent rise in per capita income would reduce poverty by 2 percent, if income distribution
were to remain the same. Given the existing population growth rate of 2.5 percent, the impact of
a GDP growth rate of 3-4 percent on poverty would be negligible, especially if income
distribution were unchanged.  Accelerated economic growth is a prerequisite for poverty
reduction. For individual households, factors such as family size, lack of productive assets and
isolation from markets and social services increase poverty. The incidence of poverty falls with
the level of education. There is a strong association between the health status of households and
their incomes and poverty. The prevalence of malaria, for example, has an adverse impact on
incomes and poverty. While urban poverty is on the increase, those most likely to be poor are
rural residents, engaged in subsistence and pastoral activities, and without any education. The
arid lands are particularly susceptible to drought, crop failure and destitution. Corruption and
misuse of public resources that make income distribution worse increase poverty.
6.    In March 1999, the Government launched a National Poverty Eradication Plan (NPEP)
for 1999-2015, aimed at reducing the numbers of the poor by half by 2015. The plan stresses
empowerment and participation of civil society groups in service delivery and income generating
activities; better coverage of basic services with emphasis on education, health and water; and
broad-based economic growth biased towards the vast majority of the poor in rural areas. The
results of this exercise have been incorporated in the Government's interim Poverty Reduction
Strategy Paper (PRSP) which has been prepared in consultation with a broad range of Kenyan
stakeholders and in collaboration with the Bank and the IMF and other development partners.
C. RECENT ADJUSTMENT ExPERIENCE
7.    The last Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC) for Kenya (approved in June 1996) had the
objective of promoting faster growth and poverty reduction through reforms aimed at
strengthening basic infrastructure and human resource development. The operation sought to
enhance the efficiency of public institutions, particularly to: (i) achieve stable fiscal and financial
2



policies in the medium term; (ii) improve the quality of budgetary resource use through
expenditure shifts to identified priorities; (iii) improve infrastructure services through the
restructuring of large infrastructure parastatals; and (iv) improve the efficiency of the civil service
through voluntary retirement, rationalization of 12 ministries, pay reform and expansion of
needed capacity. The reform program was based on the Policy Framework Paper (1996-98)
prepared by the Govermnent. The credit was reinforced by an ESAF arrangement with the IMF.
8.    Despite sustained market-oriented policies, especially in trade, exchange rate
management and in the financial sector, the overall implementation of the program was
unsatisfactory. Though Government performance in the preparation and implementation of the
program was good initially, performance fizzled out after the credit became effective. The
political pressures associated with the 1997 elections were cited as major reasons for the poor
implementation. Even though the Government revived the reform program after the elections,
momentum had been lost, and it became clear that more far-reaching measures were needed. For
example, the public enterprise reforms required divestiture, rather than management contracts; the
civil service reform program was refocused on fundamental issues of the role and core functions
of Government. Thus, it was decided to close the SAC so that the Government could prepare a
new program. The Bank's management felt that a future program should make a conscious effort
to build support for its implementation. It should involve an intensive participation/consultation
process with Parliament, the private sector, implementing agencies, civil society and relevant
stakeholders. Moreover, there should be greater emphasis on up-front actions.
D. THE EcoNoMIc MANAGEMENT CHALLENGE
9.    Macro-Fiscal Performance. The Government adopted a prudent fiscal stance in
1998/99. Steps were taken to (i) postpone agreed pay increases awarded to teachers and civil
servants, (ii) limit future pay increases and
(iii) impose limits on new hiring. The fiscal     Fig 2. Fiscal balance
deficit (before grants and on commitment
basis) improved to 2.5 percent of GDP in   Cf    FY93 FY94 FY95 FY96 FY97 FY98 FY99
FY98 and to 0.7 percent of GDP in FY99    a   0 r
(Figure 2). While the measured fiscal deficit   z                 1
improved,   poor   public  expenditure    e
management remained a source of serious     -10-
concern.   The poor quality of public                        Years
spending has been reflected in the growing
lack of access to and erosion of basic public
services. The local costs of development projects and of operation and maintenance are grossly
under-funded; this and the poor monitoring of programs have resulted in poor services. There are
pressures from the wage bill, debt service arrears, interest on domestic debt and pending bills.
10.   The public resource management problems have persisted during 1999/00, due in part to
a revenue shortfall and higher than budgeted expenditures on famine relief, the population census,
support for the anti-corruption efforts through KACA and the rehabilitation of the courts'. There
is, in addition, continuing pressure from the wage bill and from rising interest payments resulting
from the lagged effect of the surge in the Treasury bill rate in the first half of the fiscal year. To
contain the measured fiscal deficit from these pressures, including the weakened revenues,
1999/00 development expenditure was cut by 28 percent and operations and mnaintenance (O&M)
by 2 percent relative to 1998/99. These stringent measures helped to maintain low inflation, and
l For example, the initial revenue estimate for the 1999/00 budget was K Sh. 192.672 billion; the revised
estimate in May 2000 was KSh. 179.885 billion, a shortfall of 6.6 percent. Overall, revenues declined by 3
percentage points of GDP between 1998/99-1999/00, as the economy weakened.
3



interest rates declined.  However, the reduced spending means further delays in project
completion and slowdowns in urgently needed repairs to Kenya's dilapidated infrastructure. The
reduced O&M expenditure further compromises the delivery of basic economic and social
services to households and businesses.
11.    Net outflows of long-term and medium-term official capital are large, equivalent to an
average of 1.75 percent of GDP a year during 1995-99 (Figure 3). External debt service arrears
are estimated at US$96 million at the end of April 2000. External debt arrears and claims on the
Government from domestic sources
sap market confidence. Negative net          Fig 3: Long and med-term net official
transfers, due to external debt service                   capital outfows
and low levels of concessional aid
could have longer-term consequences          300 -
for the budget if Government has to              1
borrow domestically at high interest         2001
rates to finance external debt service.   E 100 -
Official reserves are equivalent to       to
about 2.5 months worth of imports.
The current account deficit narrowed                Y95    Y96    Y97    Y98    Y99
to 3 percent of GDP in 1999, largely                                Years
reflecting the compression of imports
in the sluggish economy. But export performance also weakened, reflecting mainly weak world
prices, poor incentives and restrictive marketing arrangements for key exports, especially coffee
and tea, which together account for a third of export receipts.
Figure 4: Domestic interest, inflation and foreign exchange rate developments.
Short-term interest rate               EMaton                           xchange Rates
22.0                                  (change over previous year)     SUSLCU
20.0 - _     -    -               10.0                               90 1
1 8.0    --------------            8. °    ---- ------- -------,  -----l  80    ---------------------
6.0  ------------------ - ----      I                 - - I
16.0 - ------------------ ---                                       70---- ---------- 
4.0 ----------         -
14.0 - -------------               2.0 -60 -t''' "
12.0  -  t   t                     0.0                               50  -------------------------------------
10.0   -   -   -                   2.0      -  --------------------  -  40
8    _ _ _OD__        _ _         -.0                                  0    0 0   O OQ, 0°' ' 0
OD     co m X  X                     a? CtO $$D O. g3 °) X  4   0    O,Cse      
2            o-z                               a ,-   Nominal|
12.    In addition, mracroeconomic conditions are fragile.   Although exchange rate and
inflationary pressures have eased, and interest rates have declined, following the sharp rise during
the second half of 1999 (Figure 4), these improvements obscure serious development
management problems, including arrears on external debt and reduced expenditures needed to
support the delivery of basic services. There is still the risk of rising interest rates for the budget
and private sector recovery, forcing further stringent expenditure policy in an economy that is
already stagnating. Since earlier domestic borrowings are of short-term maturity and must be
rolled over as they come due, higher interest rates could apply to most of the debt stock. The
resulting escalation of interest expense could be considerable and government domestic debt
would increase rapidly. This would make it even more difficult to finance basic services;
4



moreover, the existing budget crunch already limits the financing of some reforms, especially
retrenchment.
13.   In such an environment, rebuilding market confidence is essential.  Clearly, the
Government must move decisively forward with reforms if it is to improve prevailing market
perception. While markets generally assess risk well, they may be slow to be convinced of the
reforms and interest rates may linger at high levels. External support would, among other things,
help lower domestic interest rates as the risk premia embedded in them decline. Such an interest
rate decline would affect all domestic borrowings, and the risk of a debt spiral would be avoided.
II. KENYA'S REFORM PROGRAM
A. REFoRM PRIORITIES
14.   A series of public expenditure reviews (including the last PER prepared in collaboration
with the Government and donors in 1997) and various Government policy papers highlight the
systemic, institutional and structural factors that underlie Kenya's fiscal and financial problems
noted above. Kenya's public sector is over-extended, and Government is no longer able to
maintain investments acquired over the past decades to deliver even basic services. Budgets have
become persistently over-committed, and the quality of spending is poor.  The central
Government currently spends about one quarter of GDP, while basic services deteriorate;
infrastructure assets have eroded because of poor maintenance, and this undermines private
investment and economic growth. While a structure exists for preparing the budget, the execution
of the budget has persistently fallen short of expectation; O&M and development expenditures
have been chronically depressed, as the wage bill and the cost of debt absorb resources. The
expenditure management process performs poorly in ensuring that funding is made available to
support budgeted allocations for the delivery of basic services. Weak enforcement of financial
rules and cases of grand corruption have fueled cynicism about responsible public conduct and
accountability. This has undermined the confidence of the private sector and its investments.
Major public institutions, including public enterprises, are a drain on resources and generally
provide poor services. A revamping of the role of Government, restructuring of public
institutions and their functions, and changes in public policy are needed to rebuild the confidence
of the private sector and to make progress on Kenya's development objectives of reviving the
economic growth process and achieving broad improvement in living conditions.
15.   The Government announced a Change Initiative in July 1999 to start redressing these
long-standing issues. It appointed a Change Team to manage the reform effort in the context of
the NPEP that was launched in early 1999. The reforms and the appointment of the "change
management" team have the full backing of the President. The members of the Change Team,
drawn from the private sector and international organizations, occupy key public sector positions;
they include the Head of the Public Service, key Ministry of Finance officials and others in key
ministries, such as Agriculture, Information, Transport and Communications. The focus of the
economic reforms is to implement a series of structural reforms, institutional reorganization and
public policy changes to plug the drain of resources by the public sector and to revive private
investment. The priority reforms center on the following areas:
* Combat corruption by strengthening the mechanisms to enhance transparency and
enforce public accountability and to foster good use of public resources, including aid
resources;
5



*  Revamp the structure of the Government and improve the quality of public
administration, while reducing the size of the civil service.
*  Reform the budgeting and expenditure management process to emphasize support for
development priorities and to focus resources on improving access to basic services in
identified priority sectors;
*  Accelerate public enterprise reforms, including privatization, to reduce the burden on the
budget and encourage private investments; and
*  Promote the private sector through sound economic management and by removing
infrastructure, and institutional constraints on the private sector.
B. CONSISTENCY WITH THE CAS
16.   The Government's reform priorities are fully consistent with Kenya's CAS, which was
presented to the Board in September 1998. The CAS highlighted poor "economic governance",
especially corruption, malfunctioning public institutions and ineffective utilization of public
resources, including aid resources, as the main factors underlying the economic decline and rising
poverty. The governance problems are further reflected in slow disbursement of the existing
portfolio. Bank assistance has been in the Low Case since 1998. The Low Case scenario focuses
on targeted support to vulnerable groups, piloting projects with GOK to improve financial
management and accountability in selected activities, and aiding the improvement of economic
governance through appropriate non-lending services and policy advice.
17.   The CAS proposes a multi-faceted strategy for combating corruption, with emphasis on
redressing the systemic factors, particularly a comprehensive reform of the role of the state and
strengthened institutional and individual accountability. The CAS also outlines specific measures
to complement the systemic approach; these include privatization, deregulation to limit rent-
seeking behavior and reorganizing the civil service, including pay reform. Progress on GOK's
reform initiatives would pave the way for a base case lending program, involving primarily
adjustment support. These base case triggers call for progress in reforms in three broad areas: (a)
macroeconomic management, (b) economic governance reforms, and (c) portfolio performance.
A summary of the base case triggers from the CAS in Table I shows GOK performance. The rest
of this section discusses the Government's progress in these key areas. In addition, a list of the
key reform actions undertaken by the Government since the Change Team assumed office is
shown in Annex A.
a.   Macroeconomic Performance
18.   As noted earlier, Government has maintained a prudent macro-fiscal framework,
resulting in a reduction in the measured fiscal deficit and reduced inflation as well as lower
interest rates in recent months. The IMF staff anticipates an agreement on a PRGF at the end of
July 2000. However, the macroeconomic situation and overall development management remain
difficult, as arrears on external debt accumulate. The fiscal stringency has compromised the
implementation of development expenditure programs and financing of O&M needed to deliver
basic economic and social services.
b.   Economic Governance
19.   Strategic Plan for Public Sector Reform. Governance issues are at the center of the
Government's strategic plan for public sector reform. The main objectives of the strategic plan
are to create a smaller and more effective public service, achieve greater transparency in the use
6



Table 1: Triggers for Base Case Scenario
Key Areas                      Expected Action                                      Actual Action
a. Macroeconomic        Satisfactory macroeconomic management as    Recent staff visit by the IMF commended the authorities for their
Management              evidenced, for example, by compliance with an    handling of the difficult macroeconomic situation. The IMF staff
IMF arrangement                              have completed negotiations on an SDR 200 million PRGF
arrangement which will be considered by the IMF Board at the
end of July.
b.Economic Governance  Progress on public sector restructuring; minimum  A reform program to restructure the Government, including the
Reforms                requirements:                                  civil service, is under implementation with Bank-supported TA.
(i) Redefinition of the core functions of     Paper defining core functions of Government issued. Number of
Government                                    niimstries and permanent secretaries reduced from 27 to 15. A
review process to restructure the ministries has been completed.
Government approved retrenchment and civil service reform
program designed in collaboration with major donors.
(ii) Privatization of KPTC                    Bill to split KPTC into regulatory agency (Communication
Commission of Kenya - CCK) and two separate entities
(Telecom Kenya Ltd. -TKL) and POSTA was signed into law in
November, 1998. Separation was effected in July 1999.
License was granted to second cellular operator in February,
2000
Cabinet made decision to sell 49% of TKL to strategic investor.
The privatization of Kenya Telecom was launched on April 11,
2000. Transaction expected to be completed in the 3rd quarter of
2000.
Improved public expenditure management        A review of the expenditures of core ministries was undertaken
through MTEF; minimum required are:            during 1998/99. GOK held a workshop in October 1999 to
introduce senior government officers to the principles and
objectives of the MTEF. The 2000/01 budget is being prepared
using MTEF principles. GOK is also preparing the MTEF for the
period 2000101 to 2002/03.
(i) Balanced budget (for central Government)  Fiscal balance % of GDP 1998/99: inc. grants 0.7; exc. Grants
starting in 199S/99                           0.0
Fiscal balance % of GDP 1999/00: inc. grarts 0.9; exc. Grants -
(ii) Non-recurrence of unbudgeted expenditures  0.6
(as noted in 1997 PER)                        A circular has been issued to combat potential abuses, and
financial control officers appointed by the Treasury to oversee
expenditures in each Ministry.
Strengthening accountability institutions:    Director and Assistant Directors of KACA appointed between
minimum requirement is adoption of a           April and October, 1999. Cabinet approved conditions of service
comprehensive anti-corruption strategy        for KACA staff, (90 cases under investigation, 11 in court). A
(including coordination of various efforts by  bill to strengthen KACA and make it autonomous of the AG is
KACA, KRA and CBK, and development of a       to be adopted by Cabinet by June 2000 and presented to
prevention-focused strategy)                   Parliament by October,  2000.  KACA has prepared a
comprehensive anti-corruption strategy for implementation.
GOK strengthened the autonomy of KRA through legislation;
KRA Act was amended to reduce ex-officio members of the
Board from 5 to 2 and to ensure that Board members could be
removed only for good reasons; staff members involved in
corruption were removed. The Banking Act was amended to
help reduce insider lending in the banking system and to give
CBK power to supervise banking institutions and impose
penalties on delinquent banks.
c.   IDA    Portfolio  Improved disbursement ratios of at least 20    Disbursement ratio at April-end 2000 is 19.60/o. Government
Performance            percent per year for investment projects      issued a circular to improve flow of funds to projects. Circular to
facilitate flow of funds from Special Accounts made operational.
Reduction in problem projects (no more than 30  Four problem projects out of twelve (33%) as of mid-May, 2000.
percent in 1998/99 and 20 percent in 1999/00 and  At the beginning of FY01, two will have closed bringing the ratio
2000/01)                                       down to 20%
7



of public resources, strengthen the institutional and legal basis for combating corruption, and
raise private sector confidence in public policy and economic management. Specific reform
proposals focus on reorganizing public sector institutions and their management, reforming the
legal and judicial system, and intensifying interaction with civil society. The Strategic Plan was
prepared following consultations at a senior-level workshop attended by all Permanent
Secretaries and chief executives of public enterprises and representatives of the private sector.
20.   Combating Corruption: The Government's initiative to combat corruption involves
ensuring transparency and strengthening institutions responsible for enforcing accountability.
The establishment of an autonomous Kenya Anti-Corruption Authority (KACA), the appointment
of a Director to head the institution and the approval of a budget and staff for KACA represent
major efforts to combat corruption. KACA is now fully operational, and it has open lines for
reporting corruption cases. It has received 800 complaints so far, of which ninety are under
investigation and eleven are in court. KACA has undertaken various preparatory activities,
including a baseline corruption survey completed in April 2000 and the formulation of an anti-
corruption strategy for implementation. The strategy involves civic education, prevention,
including closing loopholes in the existing laws, investigation and enforcement, including
prosecution. A Bank IDF is supporting the implementation of the strategy. In addition, DFID,
GTZ, SIDA and the Netherlands have pledged financial support.
21.   KACA has received support from the Parliamentary Select Committee on Anti-
Corruption that was established in 1998 and submitted its report in May detailing the pervasive
nature of the corruption problem. The report includes a long list of public officials alleged to
have been involved in corrupt practices. The work of other Parliamentary Oversight Committees,
especially the Public Accounts Committee and Public Investments Committee, supported
KACA's efforts.
22.   Key public agencies have been reorganized and management changed in response to
complaints about flagrant corruption. For example, a Nairobi City Council Oversight Board has
been appointed. Top officials in the Ministry of Lands and Resettlements have been replaced,
and past decisions on land disposal, which are widely believed to have been tainted with
corruption, are being reviewed; a major initiative in land reforrn has been launched. Top
managers of the Mombasa port have been replaced, resulting in improved performance and
increased profits. Similar actions have been taken with regard to the Kenya Coffee Board, and
the Kenya Tea Development Authority as discussed in more detail below (see para. 52). Where
KACA is on firm legal grounds for pressing such offenses, it is pressing legal charges in the
courts. Examples of such cases include those against high level officials of the Ministry of
Education and Ministry of Works. The Banking Act was amended to help reduce insider lending
in the banking system and to strengthen the Central Bank's power to supervise and impose
penalty on delinquent banks. In addition, the Government has decided to transfer responsibility
for food distribution in the drought-stricken areas to UNDP, WFP and local NGOs. This change
demonstrates the Government's renewed commitment to poverty alleviation; it is designed to
eliminate the corruption associated with the involvement of government agencies in the relief
process and to ensure that the food relief reaches those in distress.
23.   The Government is strengthening the procurement system to limit abuses and to get value
for public expenditure programs. An estimated 78 percent of the non-wage costs of public
purchases pass through the tender process, which has serious shortcomings.  The main
weaknesses relate to: (a) an inadequate legal framework and out-of-date procedures and supply
manuals that have not been updated in over 20 years; (b) a lack of transparent and competitive
processes; (c) dearth of skilled staff; and (d) time-consuming adjudication by Tender Boards. To
relieve the capacity constraints, the Kenya Tender Reforms and Enhanced Capacity Project is
being implemented with support from the Bank. In addition, the authorities have taken steps to
8



limit financial abuses by restructuring the procurement and tendering system. Private sector
representatives have been appointed to reshape membership of the Central Tender Board (CTB).
An Appeals Board for tender decisions has been established with three of its seven members
nominated by the private sector. To promote transparency, there is quarterly reporting of
activities, including bids received and acted upon. Since the CTB reforms, more than 60 percent
of the recommendations of the Ministerial Tender Boards have been over-turned. The recent
award of a license to a second cellular operator was done in a transparent fashion; the bid
openings and the decision of the tender committee were televised. In contrast to some earlier
privatization actions, the transaction was untainted by accusations of corruption.
24.   The Kwach Report on judicial reform to enhance the integrity of the judiciary was
completed in 1998, and its implementation initiated. Actions taken include improved
compensation and introduction of a code of ethics for the judiciary, asset declaration by judicial
staff and tracking of cases pending. Beginning in 2000, a process of rotating judges and
magistrates serving more than four years in a district was instituted to limit undue local
familiarity with judicial personnel. A Legal Sector Reform Coordinating Committee that was
established in March 1999, with Bank support, is now finalizing a legal sector reform program
and action plan, including reform of the commercial code, for implementation.
25.  Public Resource Management and Public Accountability: Kenya's system of financial
management has some strengths, notably the existence of a core of skilled top level managers at
the Treasury, the Central Bank and the Office of the Controller and Auditor General (C&AG). A
computerized system of fiscal accounts, a budget framework and a code of financial regulations
have been established to support the annual budget cycle and weekly Treasury bill transactions.
The Kenya Revenue Authority has been relatively effective; it mobilized up to 29 percent of GDP
in revenues in the 1990s. The powers and autonomy already granted to the C&AG by the Kenya
Constitution and various acts of Parliament are considered prerequisites for performing audit
functions and enforcing the financial regulations effectively. However, there are weaknesses in
budget execution, enforcement of the financial rules, and the quality and timeliness of financial
information. The independence of the C&AG in terms of funding, staffing and personnel
management and control remains a central reform issue. The C&AG is not able to retain qualified
personnel, partly because of poor employment conditions. Thus, under-staffing is a major reason
for delays in completing audit reports and presenting them to Parliament.
26.   Steps are being taken to relieve pressing staffing problems. The Public Service
Commission has delegated authority for staffing decisions to the C&AG. The C&AG will offer
terms of service that will not to be bound by civil service guidelines. Some 25 staff have been
hired, and the C&AG has developed a plan of action with budgetary requirements for 2000/01 to
hire more staff, including recalling retired staff on contract, to help reduce the 3-year lag in
presenting audit reports to Parliament. A financial management information project (supported by
IDA, SIDA and DFID) is being implemented to update hardware and streamline the system of
financial information flows. These measures are being reinforced by the IMF. An IMF technical
assistance mission, which visited Kenya in February 2000, recommended the adoption of IMF
fiscal transparency standards, and the Government has agreed to prepare and implement a
program to meet these standards.
27.   Reform of the Budget and Expenditure Management Process: The execution of the
budget and service delivery are weak in part because the budgeting process is not reliable in
ensuring funding for allocations. Over-optimistic resource estimates and failure to be selective in
project financing often result in shortfalls in executing the approved budget effectively. A lack of
budget discipline has resulted in many authorizations for project and other expenditures by
various govermment officials that are neither priority nor in the budget; donor pressures account in
9



part for such projects.  The resulting over-commitment of expenditures also led to the
accumulation of pending bi.ls and difficulties in planning and delivering services in an orderly
fashion. The Government is in the process of revamping the budgeting and expenditure
management process under a three-year medium-term expenditure framework (MTEF). The
program stresses fiscal discipline through a realistic assessment of resources, and a budgeting
process backed with institutional reforms and close monitoring by finance officers, to reinforce
linkages among spending allocations, core functions and development priorities. The preparation
process involves political commitment to priorities, consulting with key government departments,
and approval of program priorities by the Cabinet. The MTEF budget is to be presented to the
Parliament in June 2000.
28.  Reform of the Role and Functions of Government: The restructuring of the role and
functions of the Government evolved from a civil service reform program initiated in 1992, with
the objective of refocusing public resources to improve access to basic services. The original
program succeeded in reducing the size of the civil service, but had no fiscal impact, mainly
because of increased hiring of teachers and increases in their pay. Kenya's public servants are
not over-paid. There are still too many people on the public payroll; at the same time, there are
shortages of professional skills. Total government staff, including the civil service, teachers and
security staff, is 490,897. Local government staff and parastatal workers bring the total number
of public sector employees to over 600,000. Wages and statutory commitments of the
Government absorb 58 percent of the budget in 1999/00 (8.7 percent of GDP), excluding transfers
to pay wages and salaries of state agencies, including educational and anti-corruption agencies.
29.   The number of ministries has been reduced from 27 to 15, resulting in duplications and
redundancies that need to be phased out. A review of the functions of ministries and their
personnel that will help to restructure the ministries and implement a program to phase out
redundant staff has been completed. A redundancy and safety net package has been prepared in
collaboration with the donors interested in providing financial support. The plan matches the jobs
to be dropped against the functions that are to be abolished or privatized or contracted out. The
design of the reform package covers: (i) a time table for implementing the retrenchment plan,
including up-front actions; (ii) mechanisms for ensuring effective personnel and payroll control;
and (iii) pay reform and a capacity building program.
30.   Public Enterprise Reform: Kenya had 207 public enterprises at the start of the
privatization program in 1992. Though the reform program has been sustained, the pace of
implementation stalled in recent years, due to various factors, especially the complexity of the
reform process for the enterprises involved; lack of consensus among stakeholders, including
workers, enterprise managers and associated businesses; failure to explain the reform program to
the public; and the large costs involved in compensating affected employees.
31.   The reform of the telecommunication sector has advanced markedly. A bill to split
KPTC into a regulatory agency plus two separate entities (POSTA and Telecom) was signed into
law in November 1998, and the actual separation was effected in July 1999. A license has been
granted to a second cellular operator. Cabinet has increased the proportion of the first block of
shares of Telecom Kenya to be sold to a strategic investor from 26 percent to 49 percent. The
privatization process for Telecom Kenya was launched in April 2000.
32.   For energy, the regulatory and competitive environment is being improved, including
measures to separate generation and transmission from distribution. A regulatory body has been
established. To encourage competition, Kenya Power and Light Company has been split to
separate generation from transmission and distribution. A pricing study has been completed, and
the results were implemented to raise tariffs by an average of 30 percent and to strengthen the
financial base of the power sector entities.
10



c.   Portfolio Improvement and Project Implementation
33.   The portfolio conditions in the CAS Triggers are close to being met. The disbursement
ratio was 19.6 percent at the end of April (compared to 20 percent target). There are four
problem projects out of twelve (33 percent) as of mid-May, 2000. At the beginning of FY01, two
will have closed bringing the ratio down to the 20 percent target. The proportion of projects at
risk is 50 percent.
34.   An extensive internal portfolio review held in May/June 1999 showed strong links
between specific project performance and broader deficiencies in public sector management,
especially: (a) weak government commitment or ownership; (b) lack of capacity; (c) inadequate
counterpart funds; and (d) financial management weaknesses and irregularities. The difficult
fiscal situation in recent months worsened counterpart fund constraints. Improvement in systemic
project management issues, such as financial management and accountability, are considered key
to making improvements in project performance.
35.   In addition to corruption and procurement issues noted earlier, delays in executing donor-
funded projects are attributed in part to cumbersome bureaucratic processes and overlapping
control over project finances. Changes have been initiated to improve the flow of donor funds in
special accounts, by bringing these accounts on-shore and, more specifically, under the control of
the project implementing entities. The Government issued a circular on March 1, 2000 to
implement this initiative, and it is monitoring the situation to ensure the implementation and
report on the outcomes of the circular. Government has put in place an operational framework
for the establishment of project specific on-shore special accounts to improve the flow of funds to
the district level. Furthermore, the Government has established a Task Force to revise the
relevant laws, financial regulations and procedures which inhibit the timely flow of funds to
donor-funded projects. In addition, Government established a Task Force to review and amend
the Exchequer and Audit Act with a view to improving the flow of funds to development projects,
while safeguarding transparency.
36.   Specific actions targeted on IDA's portfolio have also been taken. Following the
launching of the "change initiative", Govermment sought to improve portfolio implementation. A
joint Bank/GOK portfolio review meeting was held in August 1999, and GOK is implementing
the recommendations from that meeting, which include reform of the procurement process.
37.   Internal process changes have been instituted to help achieve performance targets. Each
project team has taken into account the specific recommendations from the June (1999) Portfolio
Review in subsequent supervision or mid-term review missions. Project teams (such as Micro
and Small Enterprises, Early Childhood, and Lake Victoria projects) have initiated processes to
restructure or cancel funds. The suspension of disbursements for the Energy Project was lifted in
August 1999, after compliance with key provisions of the legal agreements.
38.   Although some aspects of the portfolio are performing below expectations, there is some
progress on the development objectives. For example, actions taken in the energy sector to adjust
tariffs have improved the financial base of the energy entities. Similarly, one of the civil works
contracts (50km) under the Nairobi-Mombasa Road credit has been completed on schedule, and
the larger contract (100km) covering a key artery of Kenya's transport system is proceeding on
schedule for completion by August, 2000. The quality of the construction has been impressive.
The Early Childhood Development credit, at mid-term, has achieved more than 70 percent
(9,313) of the target training for preschool teachers/caregivers in the last two and half years, for
the benefit of 486,000 preschool children in the program. The Sexually Transmitted Infectious
Diseases Project supported the establishment of the National AIDS Control Council and the
declaration of AIDS as a national emergency. Condom use has increased dramatically from 2.4
11



million in 1995 to 100 million currently. The project has improved STI drug availability at all
health facilities. Tendering for over 100 contracts under the El Nino Emergency Project is
virtually compl ete, and construction is under way for dozens of projects throughout the country.
39.    i'    are zurrently twelve projects in the portfolio of which four (33 percent) are
problem -ra -As. 1 hlree of the four problem projects are long-term problem projects: Parastatal
Reform,      >na Development, and Lake Victoria.  The Parastatal Reform Project was
granted a par :ial xtension to support the privatization of KPTC, and will close in June 2000. The
Institutionral "gn7,hiopment Project was extended to June 2000 to allow the Government to utilize
the balance of the credit to support the public sector reform program and the Change Initiative,
and Wii c4'Ios G :s scheduled in June. A mid-term review of the Lake Victoria Project was held in
June  99, toa help refocus its activities. An extensive supervision mission is now planned for
June 2DC10 tO : arrv out a reassessment and formally restructure the credit, and to cancel funds
unlikely tco be utilized. This should bring the project in line for possible upgrading within the
next 5-sa- yet::. Yfli. remaining problem project, National Agricultural Research Project II, is
currelftlP o;a ryig out its mid-term review and will be restructured by the end of the fiscal year,
with a 30, pcmAs`   ?anccellation of funds. These actions will improve the quality of the portfolio.
With 'the cic,i;um2 awo problem projects in June 2000, the percentage of problem projects at the
beginrnin   f     would decrease from 33 percent to 20 percent -as targeted.
40.    OV7ve TJa next several months, the Bank will work with the Government to consolidate
and expand pn ogress on the flow of funds, and use appropriate restructuring to reduce the number
of probAir amprojects in the portfolio. Monitorable improvement in the flow of funds to the
distnct-:iv-s an;d adoption of a up-front actions on expenditure management will be important to
create an ru .n. environment for the successful outcome of future operations.
111. THE PROPOSED PROGRAM
A. CRE:DT 1T I.ON7ALE AND COMPONENTS
41.    Th I._ 4adir will support concrete reforms in the five core areas, outlined as triggers in the
CAS, correspondling to key policy matters in the interim PRSP. The interim PRSP is also
underpinned b,  TM!F PRGF, which will be considered by the IMF Board at the end of July
2000. Tho Srve. core, areas of the program to be supported under the Credit are:
*       *An . c.I vQnt in the governance framework, particularly in areas that would help to
ensu'r V-At pu- blic sector spending is untainted by corruption.
*       vThc i'-t cduction of a budget consistent with the resource envelope constraints determined
by a rta.isL`^ Medium-Term Expenditure Framework (MTEF).
*    4>8.+Ret'   7 1}e MTEF, a shift in the composition of public expenditure towards the priority
' tion programs identified in the forthcoming interim  Poverty Reduction
St§rait,cn Pa pr (PRSP).
*     [mp3..rn-J~   ation of a right-sizing of Government, consistent with a refocusing of the public
s c    ito: 1, st:s core functions and the policy priorities of the forthcoming PRSP and MTEF.
*    Lr.-. 'plem e.a*ns-in of a new and more ambitious privatization strategy.
B. MEDEUT.-TY E-M MACROECONOMIC FRAmEWORK
42.    7-Pe me5dium-term  (2000/01-2002/03) macroeconomic outlook is difficult, with slow
growth and the .isk of mounting fiscal and financial pressures. The center-piece of the reform
program invclves measures that would help to gain firmer control of the fiscal and financial
situation. Sp£ lflc'c struLctural reforms seek to contain the growth of the wage bill, while raising
12



the quality of public expenditure programs. Reduction in the Government's domestic debt and
stable interest rates would create an environment favorable for reviving private confidence.
Improved public resource management, focused and efficient public spending, recovery of key
infrastructure assets through public enterprise reform and complementary private investments are
expected to enhance the prospects for economic growth. However, the pace of economic growth
recovery is likely to be gradual, since the kinds of structural and institutional reforms being
undertaken take time to yield results. In addition, drought and power shortages are affecting
production in agriculture, industry and services. GDP growth is expected to improve from 1.4
percent in 1999 to 3 percent in 2001 and to over 5 percent in 2003. Inflation is expected to
remain in single digits at about 5 percent.
43.  In order to reduce the burden of taxation in the private sector Government, revenues are
expected to be reduced from 27 percent of GDP in 1998/99 to 24 percent of GDP by 2002/03.
The framework envisages a primary surplus (net of interest payments) averaging 3 percent of
GDP that would allow a reduction in domestic debt. However, even with a prudent fiscal and
financial stance, the macroeconomic outlook is complicated by the need to deal with arrears on
external debt, the bunching of debt service at the start of the medium-term reform period, civil
service wage pressures and costs associated with the reforms. Thus, the overall macroeconomic
situation will remain difficult. The fiscal gap is fluid, estimated at an average of 2 percent of
GDP during the three-year period, and will need to be filled largely from increased donor support.
In addition, some components of the reform programn, particularly retrenchment and capacity
building, require external financing. Borrowing domestically to meet these costs and to pay
external debt risks raising interest rates and frustrating the objective of promoting faster growth.
External financial assistance is, therefore, essential for implementing the reforms in a stable
environment. The fiscal and financial outlook is expected to improve by the third year of reforms,
after the pressures due to the bunching of debt service and retrenchment recede, and the financial
benefits of reduced domestic debt service and the civil service reform are felt.
C. DEEPENING EcoNowc GOVERNANCE REFoRms
44.   Anti-Corruption Measures. In addition to actions noted earlier, the existing Anti-
Corruption Act is to be amended to give KACA police powers of investigation and prosecution
and to make it independent of the executive arm of the Government. KACA has developed a plan
to increase its staff (currently 90) and to acquire the appropriate skill mix over the next three
years. An Anti-Corruption and Economic Crimes bill is being finalized with provisions to define
corruption broadly to include fraud and embezzlement. The amendments proposed by KACA
have been harmonized with the Anti-Corruption and Economic Crimes Bill prepared by the
Parliamentary Select Committee on Anti-Corruption. The statute of limitations - currently 3 years
- will be abolished for serious fraud, embezzlement and corruption. In addition, the modality of
asset declaration by high level public officials is under consideration. (KACA staff members
already declare their assets annually).
45.   Procurement reforms are being extended to all levels of Government and major public
institutions, including local government and the public enterprises. As an intermediate step,
Government is to issue new procurement regulations, including relevant implementation
arrangements, sanctions and documents. Subsequently, a procurement bill will be presented to
Parliament. A Directorate of Public Procurement will be established to make sure the new
regulations are publicized and to exercise oversight responsibilities and ensure compliance with
the regulations. The Appeals Board will be made a legal entity.
46.   The main thrust of legal sector reforms under way is to consolidate the independence of
the judiciary. Specific measures are to: complete the de-linking of the judiciary from the civil
13



service; introduce alternative dispute resolution to avoid long delays in the current system;
modernize company and commercial laws and to strengthen the capacity of the system by hiring
more personnel and developing infrastructure, including computerization. In addition, the number
of commercial judges will be increased to a level that will help to clear the backlog of pending
commercial cases. Work is under way to approve a judicial code of conduct which will regulate
the conduct of and propose disciplinary measures on all judicial officials.
47.   Transparency and Public Accountability. The Government is implementing a multi-
pronged strategy to improve the management of public resources and fiduciary risk. Ultimately,
fully empowering the C&AG as the supreme audit institution in the Government will require
establishing its constitutional autonomy relative to the Executive. The legislation needed to
provide constitutional autonomy to the C&AG has been drafted. The Government is committed
to this principle and has undertaken to introduce this legislation as part of a broader package of
constitutional changes under consideration. In addition, to consolidate the authority of the
C&AG over all public entities, the role of the Auditor General Corporations will be abolished and
its functions merged with those of the C&AG. The Government has approved the establishment
of a Task Force, to review and recommend modalities for restructuring the Office of the C&AG
to enable the production of timely and high quality audits. The 1997/98 and 1998/99 audits are to
be completed and presented to Parliament during 2000/01.
D. CIVIL SERVICE REFORM
48.    The focus of the renewed civil service reform effort is to restructure the Government and
redefine its role and functions selectively to achieve a smaller and more efficient system of public
administration and a manageable wage bill that will help to sustain basic services in a stable fiscal
environment. Some 32,000 Government employees are to be retrenched at an estimated cost of
KSh. 12 billion (1.5 percent of GDP). Financial Donor support for the retrenchment is estimated
at KSh 8 billion (US$100 million). Savings in the wage bill are estimated at 0.7 percent of GDP
starting in the third year of the program. Retrenchment measures will be accompanied by
adequate provisions that limit new hiring as well as strict hiring limits in other parts of the public
sector including the uniformed service. Interim personnel control measures to avoid re-entry of
retrenched staff into public service will be in place pending Government roll out of an Integrated
Payroll Database in 2000/01. In order to ensure the cost-effectiveness of retrenchment measures,
the Government is reviewing pension regulations with a view to deferring pension payments until
those retrenched reach the regular retirement age. The Integrated Payroll Database is essential to
close the revolving door from retrenchment back into the public service. The implementation of
these measures will ensure that the targeted overall savings on the government wage bill will be
available for improvement in the delivery of basic services.
49.   Other components of the reforms include (a) re-introduction of the merit system,
especially regarding top management and professional positions and (b) a viable pay policy
designed to increase real income for civil servants within an affordable wage bill. It is envisaged
that Government will implement a comprehensive plan for capacity building and training, with
particular attention to skill gaps identified as part of the reform exercise.
E. EXPENDITURE MANAGEMENT REFORMS.
50.   The main features envisaged under the MTEF, which has been introduced during the
2000/01 fiscal year, comprise compliance with a hard budget constraint, including sector
expenditure ceilings; and limits on the wage bill to reflect the restructuring of the Government
and the civil service reforms. It is also envisaged that the spending units will operate in line with
budget priorities; funding for the announced budget allocations will be reliable to support orderly
planning and expenditures on basic services during the budget period. Reforms will shift sector
14



spending in consonance with the PRSP and stated priorities in the areas of agriculture, primary
education, preventive health care and roads maintenance.
51.   Agriculture. Agriculture accounts for 70 percent of Kenya's labor force, 60 percent of
export earnings and 45 percent of government revenues. Agricultural expansion has the potential
to impact significantly both on rural household incomes directly and through the multiplier effect
on the whole economy. The Government's program to stimulate agricultural production is based
on a consultative process involving all concerned stakeholders and agents operating in the sector.
The key areas comprise providing in extension advice and infrastructure development services
that are truly public goods in nature : land reform, liberalization of output marketing and
privatization of sector public enterprises.  Extension services for smallholder maize and
traditional crops, and rural roads to provide access to urban and external markets are emphasized.
The Roads Board Act has been amended to provide a framework for managing road development
resources at the local level. While some 120 restrictive laws and regulations covering virtually all
products and facets of Kenyan agriculture that are inappropriate in a liberalized economy are to
be removed, action is constrained by staff shortage in the office of the Attorney General.
52.   The Government carried out audits of the Coffee Board of Kenya (CfBK) and Kenya Tea
Development Authority (KTDA), in response to allegations of corruption in these institutions.
The audits revealed large scale financial mismanagement, long delays in paying farmers, fraud
and embezzlement that have reduced incentives and undermined performance. Several top
managers of CfBK have been sacked. Proposed reforms include (i) separating the regulatory
function of the coffee board from its marketing role, with the aim of liberalizing coffee
marketing, and (ii) liberalizing small farmer tea processing by abolishing KTDA in its present
form to allow individual tea factories to operate independently. In the sugar sector, consultations
have taken place among stakeholders on sector policy reforms, especially the organization of
sugar marketing, tariff policy and the privatization of the sugar mills. Other measures involve
reviving income-generating activities in the arid and semi-arid lands, and safeguarding the food
security safety net. Additional agriculture sector issues will be analyzed with stakeholder
involvement and appropriate reforms designed and implemented.
53.   Education. Kenya's education system is extremely expensive, accounting for 48 percent
of government employees and over half of the Government wage bill. Education accounts for
over 40 percent of government recurrent expenditure, compared to 30 percent for Sub-Saharan
Africa.  In addition, parents contribute (through textbooks, maintenance of school buildings,
equipment and uniform) close to 30 percent of primary school expenses and 55 percent of
secondary school expenses. There are too many subjects, resulting in high textbook costs to
parents and low pupil-teacher ratios that are not cost-efficient. Parallel to the overstaffing of
many schools, reflected in an extremely low pupil teacher ratios of 16:1 at the secondary and 30:1
at the primary levels, critical teacher shortages exist in Mathematics, English and Science.
Reforms target both an increase in the efficiency of schools as well as improvements in access
and quality to reverse declining trends, such as in enrollments, retention rates and test outcomes.
54.  Specific reforms have been designed to reduce the burden of the high school costs to
parents and to extend access. The core reforms are to rationalize the primary school curriculum,
including reduction of the number of subjects from 13 to 7 and reduction of the number of
examinable subjects from 7 to 5. Similarly, for secondary schools, reforms seek to rationalize the
curriculum, including reduction of subjects from 36 to 17, limiting core curriculum to 10 subjects
and limiting examinable subjects to a maximum of 9 and a minimum of 7. Greater efficiency is
to be achieved by the even posting of qualified staff, as well as strengthening school level
managers and the role of parent representatives in school management. Resources within the
MOEST budget will be reallocated to fund expanded textbook provision, bursaries for poor
students, school feeding program and equipment.
15



55.  Health. While in the past Kenya achieved significant improvements in public health
indicators, a deterioration of the national health status has become obvious since the late 1980s.
The health service system is no longer capable of sustaining the previously realized gains in
infant and child mortality and life expectancy. Government expenditures on health services have
been declining in real terms, while demand on health services has been rising. In line with the
National Health Strategic Plan, more health sector resources need to be channeled to primary
health care, with emphasis on reproductive services, non-wage recurrent services and local level
health facilities; less support would need to be given to tertiary and secondary health care.
Resources allocated to Kenyatta National Hospital (KNH) and other urban hospitals are being
limited to generate savings for primary and rural health care.
56.    HIV/AIDS. The HIV/AIDS epidemic, with an adult infection rate of 13.9 percent at the
end of 1998 and rising, poses a very serious challenge to all development efforts. While the
Government has embarked on an intensive national and multi-sector response to the epidemic, the
costs for care are expected to rise as an increasing number of HIV-infected persons progress to a
stage with clinical AIDS. Meeting these costs requires prioritizing interventions through a
rational and transparent process. Educational programs, uninterrupted supply of HIV test
material, anti-tuberculosis drugs and the recurrent costs for HlV/AIDS-related activities are high
priorities for combating the AIDS epidemic. The Govermment is developing a work plan for the
National AIDS Control Council (NACC), including plans for integrating HIV/AIDS programs
into the sector ministries, a budget and credible financial management plan. Such resources will
need to be directed to the local level.
F. PUBLIC ENTERPRISE REFORM AND PRIVATIZATION
57.   A new privatization strategy has been finalized. The strategy stresses an open process
that would enlist public support for the reforms. It also stresses a phased approach that would
give due weight to the complex issues of sector policy and objectives, competition policy, quality
standards, tariffs and investment issues. According to the new approach, Government is
relinquishing its direct involvement in commercial activities and focusing on providing an
appropriate regulatory framework and competitive policy regime for private initiatives. The
renewed privatization reform program is being formulated in a participatory fashion, giving high
priority to the infrastructure units that have significant potential to impact on growth and poverty
reduction. These include telecommunications, power, railways, the ports and water. Enhancing
the development impact of the telecommunication reforms requires resolving issues, such as (i)
the transparency of the process, (ii) an appropriate sector policy, including pricing and
competition and regulatory regime, and (iii) building the capacity for CCK, the regulatory
agency, to enhance its effectiveness. As part of the effort to make the privatization process of
Kenya Telecom transparent, the Government will prepare a short list of qualified potential
investors for the due diligence process. Bids will be opened publicly. Appropriate technical
assistance is being sought, with Bank support, to redress capacity and sector policy issues.
58.   With regard to the other parastatal entities, Government has decided to offer a unitary
concession to a private operator for the railway; the reform strategy paper, including modalities of
implementation, is to be submitted to Parliament. In the case of the Kenya Ports Authority, the
privatization of the container terminal, tug-boat and stevedoring is planned, so that Kenya can be
competitive relative to its neighbors in Mozambique and Tanzania. Reforms will result in public
sector involvement being limited to core administrative, security and safety issues. In the case of
power, further restructuring will be pursued to prepare for expanded private sector participation in
both distribution and generation within a competitive framework. A cabinet decision to divest all
remaining state shares in the financial public enterprises is being implemented, covering Kenya
Commercial Bank, Housing Finance Company of Kenya and Kenya Reinsurance.
16



59.   The Government has prepared an updated privatization strategy that will be highlighted in
the June 2000 budget; the Government will appoint investment and policy advisors to strengthen
capacity for managing the reform effort with support from IDA. The attorney general will issue a
legal opinion that the proposed privatization strategies for the public utilities sector are consistent
with the current law and that no further legislative action is required to implement the
privatization policy reforms for these entities. The Government will provided progress report on
agreed milestones of the privatization program as specified in the updated privatization strategy
(with emphasis on the Railway, Ports, Energy, Water and Sugar sectors).
G. PRIVATE SECTOR DEVELOPMENT
60.   In addition to removing infrastructure deficiencies that significantly increase the
transaction costs of doing business in Kenya, the Government's approach to promoting the private
sector involves dealing with severe inefficiencies in the regulatory and institutional environment.
These constraints have contributed to a decline of private investments. More importantly, the
efficiency of investment has declined significantly.
61.   Based on initial consultations with the private sector, the Government has identified
specific short-term measures, which would reduce the impact of the serious bottlenecks on
growth. In the area of deregulation, Government has started with actions to simplify licensing
procedures. Since January 1999, local authorities are to issue only one business permit to a
business enterprise.  The Government plans to publicize the streamlined local government
licensing requirements, focusing on the small enterprises because of the disproportionate impact
of the multiple licensing requirements on these enterprises. In addition, the Government will
review all other Trade Licensing Acts with a view to repealing those that constrain businesses.
The privatization of infrastructure should lead to a relaxation of the major constraints imposed by
the poor services in telecommunication, the ports and utilities. Reforms as well as better
expenditure management for road maintenance will also reduce transport costs. Improved budget
discipline from public resource management reforms should help to lower real interest rates. In
addition, the judicial reforms should reduce court delays as well as legal costs.
62.  The Joint Industrial and Commercial Consultative Committee (JICCC) has been revitalized
as a regular forum for consultations between the Government and the private sector. The
Government established the Inter-ministerial Committee on Industrialization as a working group
of the JICCC. As the basis for establishing a reform agenda, this Committee has embarked on a
process of analysis of major industrial and agro-industrial sectors to identify sources of
regulatory, policy and institutional failures. The results of this work will feed into a dialogue
between the private sector and the Government and to reforms that will improve the policy
regime for private sector investments and growth.
H. COORDINA11oN WITH THE IMF
63.  In April 1996, the IMF Board approved a new three-year ESAF arrangement for Kenya.
The ESAF arrangement expired on April 26, 1999 as a consequence of GOK's failure to address
certain issues in the area of economic governance. At the time of the Kenya Article IV in
December 1999, Fund staff members were advised by their Board to proceed with caution in
negotiating a PRGF program with the Government. Since then, the IMF staff has reported that
the 1999/2000 fiscal situation is manageable. The staffs of the Bank and the IMF are
coordinating their advice to the authorities to ensure consistency on the macroeconomic as well as
governance and sector reform measures. The staffs of the Bank and the IMF have prepared a
joint assessment of the interim PRSP and agreed with the Goverrnent on a timetable and process
for preparing the full PRSP in the next fiscal year. The IMF staff and the authorities have
reached agreement on a Memorandum of Economic Policies, which provides a basis for a PRGF
arrangement, which is expected to be considered by the IMF Board in July.
17



I. COORDINATION WITH OTHER DONORS
64.   A number of donors participating in the reform program have indicated willingness to
provide both technical and financial assistance to support its implementation. These donors -
DFID, African Development Bank and the EU - have been working with the Bank and the
authorities to formulate measures covering retrenchment, pay reform and capacity building. The
African Development Bank is expected to provide US$39 million in a proposed structural
adjustment credit operation that would be linked to measures supported by the IDA credit. DFID
is expected to provide US$90 million support. The EU is expected to provide US$ 49 million.
These funds targeted to the civil service reforms will be disbursed on the basis of an agreed
retrenchment and civil service reform plan.
J. LINKAGE WITH POVERTY
65.   The Credit aims to jumpstart the implementation of Kenya's interim PRSP and improve
the outlook for economic growth and the delivery of basic services that will reduce poverty.
Systemic bottlenecks, including corruption and malfunctioning public institutions, have eroded
the effectiveness of public spending and limited access to basic services. The emphasis on fiscal
transparency and sound public resource management, for making progress on the Government's
poverty reduction objectives. In agriculture, reforms targeting deregulation and removal of
restrictive marketing arrangements for tea and coffee, which account for about a third of export
earnings, are important for redressing the abuses created by existing marketing arrangements for
these crops that undermine incentives and production. These reforms have the potential of giving
impetus to income generating activities in rural agriculture as well as non-agriculture sectors. In
education, reforms aimed at reforming the curriculum and reducing the large number of subjects
in primary and secondary schools are designed to reduce the prohibitive costs of large numbers of
textbooks for the benefit of children from poor homes. The education program also involves
increased bursaries and feeding for school children from poor homes. Reforms targeting
HIV/AIDS and preventive care stand to improve the health status of the poor, particularly the
targeted shifting of the budget of the Ministry of Health from large city hospitals to more cost-
effective prever,tive care and local level health facilities. Significant poverty reduction is likely in
the outer years as growth accelerates (5-6 percent) and jobs increase; this requires sustained
implementation of the reforms. External financing support will make it possible to undertake the
reforms, while expanding core public services that benefit the poor.
K. FINANCING REQUIREMENTS
66.   Kenya's fiscal and financial situation is difficult and under pressure from large principal
payments on extemal debt, the high interest costs on domestic debt and costs of financing the
reforms and accumulation of arrears. The fiscal gap for 2000/01 is projected at 1.6 percent of
GDP, excluding principal payments on external debt that are equivalent to 3.7 percent of GDP.
The overall balance of payments surplus declined to US$6 million in 1999 from US$57 million in
1998, reflecting higher debt payments and net capital outflows. Borrowing domestically to
finance external debt and the reforms will put pressure on the fiscal and financial situation. It will
be difficult to sustain the reforms without concessional external assistance.
IV. THE PROPOSED CREDIT
A. CREDIT AMOUNT AND TRANCHING
67.   The Government of Kenya would borrow an amount of US$157 million, including IDA
reflows (US$7 million) to be disbursed in three tranches, to support the implementation of its
medium term reform program, based on the PRSP. The first tranche of US$57 million, including
18



US$7 million IDA reflows, is to be released once the credit becomes effective. Two tranches of
US$50 million each are linked to specific performance targets in the core reform areas.
B. SUMMARY OF FIDUCIARY SAFEGUARDS
68.   Disbursements: Disbursement arrangements will follow the simplified procedures
approved by the Board on February 1, 1996. The Borrower shall open an account at the CBK,
prior to furnishing to the Association the first request for withdrawal from the Credit Account and
thereafter maintain in the CBK a deposit account in US dollars on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Association. All withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be deposited by
the Association into the Deposit Account. If after deposit in this account, the proceeds of the
Credit are used for ineligible purposes (i.e. to finance items imported from non-member
countries, or goods in the standard negative list), IDA will require the Borrower to either (a)
return that amount to the account for use for eligible purposes; or (b) refund the amount directly
to IDA, in which case IDA will cancel an equivalent undisbursed amount of the Credit.
69. Reports: The Borrower will (a) furnish to IDA quarterly reports on the exact amounts
received into the Deposit Account; (b) furnish to IDA the details of a PMG Account into which
the local currency equivalent of the Credit proceeds will be credited; (c) furnish to IDA a report
of the equivalent in local currency of withdrawals from the Deposit Account showing that the
PMG Account has been credited accordingly; and (d) furnish to IDA quarterly reports on receipts
and disbursements from the Deposit Account.
70.   Audit: The Ministry of Finance will arrange for the audit of the Deposit Account, upon
request by IDA in accordance with auditing standards, terms of reference, and by auditors
acceptable to IDA. The Ministry of Finance will make the report on the audit of such records
available to the IDA within four months of the close of the Government's fiscal year.
C. TRANCHE RELEASE CONDITIONS
71.   Kenya has embarked on a medium-term reform program, being implemented within the
framework of the interim PRSP. The main elements of the reform program are set out in the
Letter of Development Policy (Annex B) and summarized in the matrix of actions (Annex C).
72.   Board Presentation Conditions The actions which trigger Board presentation of the
Credit have been agreed during the past few months of dialogue with the Government. Bank and
IMF staff have undertaken a satisfactory assessment of the interim PRSP as required. The
Government has agreed on an appropriate macroeconomic framework with the IMF. Satisfactory
macroeconomic management is required during the program period. In addition, the Government
has taken the following actions.
Anti-corruption, Accountability and Transparencj. The Government has:
*  Prepared an action plan to enhance fiduciary transparency for implementation, including an
interim action plan for strengthening the audit function of the C&AG to improve the quality
and timely completion of audit reports (including project-related reports) to less than 3
months after due date.
*  Issued updated comprehensive procurement regulations for implementation in all public
institutions.
19



Restructuring of Government and Civil Service Reform
* Cabinet has approved a retrenchment plan and an outline of a civil service reform program
which has the support of key donors and an agreed time table for implementing the reform
plan.
Public Enterprise Reform and Privatization
* Government has prepared an updated privatization strategy that would be highlighted in the
June 2000 budget. The strategy includes specific privatization transactions and transparent
processes, including public disclosure, that would be undertaken in the next three years and
would include appropriate milestones for the program.
Expenditure Prioritization The Government has:
* Presented to Parliament a budget (for 2000/01) consistent with MTEF to emphasize resource
allocations to priority poverty-reducing activities; and
+ Established quarterly budget commitments, rather than monthly commitments, for core
poverty programs.
Portfolio Improvement
? The Government has established an operational framework for project-specific on-shore
special accounts and provided evidence that flow of funds to the district level has improved.
73.   Second Tranche Conditions In addition to maintaining an appropriate macroeconomic
framework, GOK will have fulfilled the following conditions before the release of the second
tranche.
Anti-corruption, Transparency and Accountability.
*  The Government will have started implementing Plan to enhance fiduciary transparency, the
quality and timely completion of audit reports, and extension of the auditing role of the
C&AG to public agencies, including public enterprises.
*  Cabinet will have approved the new comprehensive procurement bill.
3  Cabinet will have approved judicial code of conduct which will regulate the conduct of and
propose disciplinary measures on all judicial officers.
Restructuring of Government and Civil Service Reform
* The Government will have implemented restructuring plan to reduce staff in line with
reduction in core functions, commencing with the removal of the duplication resulting from
the merging of ministries from 27 to 15.
Public Enterprise Reform and Privatization
* The attorney general will have issued a legal opinion that the proposed privatization strategies
for the public utilities sector are consistent with the current law and that no further legislative
action is required to implement the privatization policy reforms for these entities.
Expenditure Prioritization. The Govermment will have:
* Presented quarterly report on the transfer of budgeted funds for core poverty programs to the
districts and funding of the NACC operations (HIV/AIDS programs).
* Publicized quarterly report on public expenditures.
Private Sector Development
* The Government will have liberalized small farmer tea processing by abolishing KTDA in its
present form and allowing individual tea factories to operate independently.
20



Portfolio Improvement. The Government will have:
+ Established Task Force to revise Exchequer and Audit Act and other financial regulations and
procedures with a view to improving timely flow of funds to the districts level; and
* Taken steps to implement the recommendations of the task force.
74.   Third Tranche Conditions. For the release of the third tranche, GOK will have (i)
maintained an appropriate macroeconomic framework, (ii) completed public consultation process
for full PRSP satisfactory to the Bank and (iii) developed a mechanism for monitoring the results
of the core poverty programs. In addition, the following conditions will have been fulfilled
before the release of the third tranche.
Anti-corruption, Transparency and Accountability. The Government will have:
* Presented a bill to Parliament to merge the C&AG and Auditor general Corporations, and
make the C&AG autonomous.
* Presented audited accounts for 1998/99 to Parliament.
* Presented a new comprehensive procurement bill to Parliament.
Restructuring of Government and Civil Service Reform
i The Government will have provided progress report satisfactory to the Bank on the
implementation of the civil service restructuring plan.
Public Enterprise Reform and Privatization. The Government will have:
* Provided progress report on agreed milestones of the pri vatization program as specified in the
updated privatization strategy (with emphasis on the Railway, Ports, Energy, Water and
Sugar sectors).
* Brought Telecom Kenya Limited to the point of sale.
Expenditure Prioritization. The Government will have:
*  Reviewed and rationalized primary school level curriculum, including reduction of taught
subjects from 13 to 7 and reduction of examinable papers from 7 to 5.
*  Reviewed and rationalized curriculum for secondary schools, including reduction of subjects
from 36 to 17. Limit core curriculum to 10 subjects and limit core curriculum to a maximum
of 9 and a minimum of 7 examinable subjects.
*  Presented report on the financing and expenditures on the core poverty programs that
demonstrates fund release to the core poverty programs are consistent with budgeted 2000/01
quarterly commitments.
+  Developed a financing plan for National Aids Control Council and make it operational,
including a financing plan for ministerial HIV/AIDS programs.
*  Presented quarterly report on public expenditures.
Private Sector Development
* Cabinet will have approved Sessional Paper separating the regulatory function of the coffee
board from its marketing role, with the aim of liberalizing coffee marketing (e.g., licensing
requirements). Details of the implementation of agreed upon liberalization would be part of
the final PRSP.
D. IMPLEMENTATIoN ARRANGEMENTS
75.   The overall responsibility for the implementation of the reforms rests with the Change
Management Team, which includes high level officials in the Office of the President, and the
21



Ministry of Finance and key sector ministries. The team has the full support of the President.
The Bank and other donors will provide technical assistance for the implementation effort as
needed. The preparation of the interim PRSP, which the operation is supporting, has been Kenya-
led. There were intensive consultations with key departments within the Government to raise
internal awareness and understanding of the reform challenges and to build support for its
implementation. The process involved consultation in workshops with a broad segment of the
private sector, civil society and representatives of the development community, including NGOs
as well as multilateral and bilateral agencies. A Secretariat, an MTEF Working Group and
various Sector Working Groups established in the Ministry of Finance to support the formulation
and coordination of the reforms provide the institutional support for, follow-up on
implementation.
E. BENEFITS AND RISKS
76.   The proposed operation is undoubtedly risky. Many skeptics believe that Kenya cannot
change under the present Government, which has faltered in addressing systemic reforms. The
Bank's CAS foresaw this possibility by establishing tough triggers for moving to Base Case
lending. In effect, the triggers call for a change in the balance of power within Kenya. First, they
require a strengthening of independent institutions of economic governance, and a demonstration
of their ability to uphold their mandates. In addition, the triggers call for an irreversible change in
the economic wiring of the country, by dismantling the reach of the state and moving to the
private provision of infrastructure. The CAS also called for a gradual rise in lending to ensure that
the Bank was supporting the substance rather than the chimera of reform. In order to maximize
the pressure for change, the Bank paid close attention to winning support for this tough stance
from other donors. However, the CAS did not fully appreciate the vulnerability of the economy to
a private sector confidence crisis, or foresee the desire of the President to launch a program of
radical change during his remaining years in office. This confluence of events presents the Bank
with an unprecedented opportunity to support a process of peaceful change, but also a risk that if
the economic pressures on Kenya ease any reforms may be summarily reversed.
77.    The risks are compounded because the very changes the Bank is supporting implicitly
threaten vested interests, who benefit from the old approaches. The Change Team, with the
support of the President, are taking a different direction. First, they are trying to turn a new page
to improve things going forward, rather than punish past crimes. Second, the President has
supported every decision to replace officials where there is evidence of continuing involvement in
corrupt practices. Third and most importantly, they are addressing theft, fraud and corruption that
have permeated the system. Clearly the President is aware of the problem he faces in trying to
overhaul his administration. In the circumstances, it is not surprising that many of the changes
appear technocratic, quiet and opportunistic. The Change Team are undeniably politically
skilled. The evidence is increasingly convincing that President Moi wants to preside over a
peaceful political transition in a country that is changing for the better.
78.   Many opposition figures would prefer this effort to fail, for fear that the Government
cannot really be trusted over the long haul or that it would dim their own chances of election.
While most Kenyans would buy into the overall vision espoused by the Government, there are
many groups who might fiercely oppose some aspects of the reform because they benefit from
some particular aspect of the system. It is difficult in such circumstances to build a reform
coalition, and there is an obvious possibility of slippage during the heat of a political election
campaign. In addition to these purely political risks, continuing economic stagnation also clouds
the prospects for reform. In the public sector, the weak economy could increase fears of
prolonged unemployment for staff who will be declared redundant. Weak business confidence
and high domestic interest rates will make asset sales more difficult, or at least adversely affect
prices. Finally, from a purely administrative standpoint, the need to move on a broad range of
22



difficult structural and institutional reforms could test the country's limited management and
administrative capacity, especially given the need to groom a new generation of public sector
senior officials to replace the current Change Team once their contracts expire.
79.   The financial risks to the Bank are modest. The Bank's exposure has stabilized at around
$2.4 billion since 1995. But there are great risks to the Bank's credibility within Kenya where, as
a result of extensive consultations, many of our interlocutors have applauded our insistence on
meaningful change. And Kenya is likely to be widely viewed as a test case for the Bank and
Fund role in the PRSP process.
80.   The Bank has tried to work closely with the Change Team, but without rushing to lend.
The first tranche of the proposed credit will be released almost a full year after the Team began
work. During this time, the Change Team has explained their vision and tapped into the
groundswell of public opinion in favor of reversing the erosion in the quality of everyday life in
Kenya. The openness and transparency with which the interim PRSP has been developed is in
stark contrast to the secretive approaches that have been the hallmark of previous programs. This
process should help build expectations and strengthen the hand of the reformers in Government.
81.   The prospect of support from the Bank and other development partners has strengthened
the hand of the Change Team in overcoming internal opposition to change and initiating reforms
that demonstrate that Kenya has moved onto a new path. This is a calculated risk for both the
Bank and the Government. For the Bank, a pro-active approach may be misconstrued as softness,
but to hold back support at this time would undermine the whole change effort. The risks for the
Government are more severe. Board approval of the Credit should send a strong and positive
signal to the markets. This should build confidence and facilitate a sustained reduction in real
interest rates. But if the Govermment were not to follow through, the policy lapse would be
immediately transparent. The Government would face a resurgence of the politically costly
domestic debt spiral it is desperately trying to avoid.
82.   Within Kenya the extraordinary opportunity provided by the PRSP has illustrated to
stakeholders a need for re-engagement. In the PRSP framework, conditionalities are not dictated,
but suggested reforms are designed to push the envelope of the Government's own ideas and
address its governance agenda as an essential means for effectively tackling the challenge of
poverty. The implementation of the PRSP will set the framework for further support going
forward, and a strong program could be supported with a sequence of adjustment loans.
83.   This credit is intended to strengthen the credibility of the reform effort. Accordingly,
conditionalities are limited to areas which are within the administrative capacity of the
Government, but are stretch goals from a political standpoint. Second, reforms that are being
supported signal a change from the past interventionist approach, notably deregulation in the
agricultural sector, that would bring benefits to the poor. Further, a coherent and sustained
implementation of the package will support parallel work on a full PRSP, which would be ready
by April next year. The Bank and donors will provide needed technical assistance to minimize
capacity constraints.
23



V. RECOMMENDATIONS
84.   I am satisfied that the proposed Credit would satisfiy the Articles of Agreement of the
Association and recomnmend that the Executive Directors approve it. I also recommend that the
Executive Directors approve the IDA Reflows Allocation.
James D. Wolfensohn
President
By: Shengman Zhang
Managing Director
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
June 29, 2000
24



I of 3
ANNEX A
KENYA: KEY REFORM ACTIONS SINCE   L  i
(As of May 24, 2000)
L GOVERNMENT RESTRUCTURING & CIVIL SERl'vh. IZE ORM
23rd July 1999        President Moi announces a dramatic Change Iritiative and appoints a new
team, including personnel from  the private sector and international
organizations, to revive and manage the reform process. -iace f.eam 'ed by Dr.
Richard Leakey, Head of the Public Service., includ.ir tzee Permanent
Secretaries at the head of the key ministries of Finan"ce, S'ue,and
Transport and Communications. Two other professionras .N-.erm appointed
Financial Secretary, Ministry of Finance, Deputy Pe n    Secretary/
Director of Agriculture
6M September 1999      The core functions of Government are re-defined. Number o½-istes were
cut down from 27 to 15 as a first step in civil service cnu t') improve
efficiency and effectiveness.  A number of top civi saer ants, --iuding
politically influential Pernanent Secretaries, are displaced.
18-19 February2000    GOK and other stakeholders gather to develop a Strategic :PIan for public
sector reform.
31st March 2000       A review process to restructure the ministries is conmpleted.
4h May 2000            A redundancy and safety net package matching the f>zi   £  e  to be
abolished, privatized or contracted has been prepared inj collabration w.vith
donors. Approximately 32,000 Government employees wll P   reten. cheed by
end-June 2000 producing a saving of about 0.7% of GDP starfing1 the tird
year of the reform program.
--. ANTI-CORRUPTION AND ENHANCING ACCOUNTACBIf-UTY &NJ
TRANSPARENCY
2th July 1999         The Government suspends the sale and transfer of p- ili a r   iAclading
Parastatal holdings
Sept-Oct. 1999        At least 15 senior public sector officials, over 100 judic,al sys.e ...rplovees
and about 40 central government employees of various ievels. including from
the Office of the President, dismissed
5th November 1999      Authority for the management of the Auditor General's staff de.gated from
the Public Service Commission to the office of the Auaditer General to bolster
its independence.
18'6 November 1999    CTB expanded to include two new members from the p. vate sector. (A
private sector individual had already been appointed as chair, and a number of
Change Team members were had joined
Controller and Auditor General's office strengthened wit addionai staff to
help clear the backlog of pending audits
23 rd November 1999   Top officials of the Ministry of Lands and Resettlem.nt saol.i ied4uding the
long-serving Commissioner. A high level conuriission cf in.-- .ry based in the
Office of the President appointed to review past corrapt lartd  &anrac-13ns.
14fh January 2000     The food distribution function in drought stricken areas -s aenst'-f;nred firorn the
Government to local NGOs and commiunities to cIirr.  e gu"es and to
25



Page 2 of 3
ensure food reaches the poor. The new system is in place; corrupt and
political food diversions have been curtailed
19th January 2000     A Consultant's Report on Public Procurement Reforms ratified by the National
Steering Committee. The final report was approved on 25th April, 2000 and
forwarded to the Attorney General on 10th May, 2000. Thereafter, it will be
submitted to Cabinet for approval and subsequent publication by 1st July,
2000.
4h February 2000      Competent and reputable private sector people appointed to an Oversight
Board to manage Nairobi City Council's financial and service delivery
systems following investigator allegations of corruption and mis-management.
Board to be operationalized shortly with broad powers to clean up City Hall.
World Bank support is planned.
31" March 2000        Sacking of several school headmnasters found in corrupt practices.
March 2000            A comprehensive Anticorruption and Economic Crimes Bill with provisions
to define corruption more broadly to include fraud and embezzlement
produced in close collaboration with the Parliamentary Select Committee on
Anticorruption, KACA and the Attorney General's office. The Bill is
attached to a motion already made and should be debated in Parliament during
the 2nd half of 2000.
19h April2000         Prosecutions of top Ministry of Agriculture officials for corruption.
Yh May 2000           Implementation of the Kwach Report on judicial reform started with the
improved compensation, introduction of a code of ethics, asset declaration by
judicial staff, tlacking of cases pending and rotation of judges and magistrates
serving more than four years in a district. A Legal Sector Reform Committee
is finalizing a reform program and action plan, with World Bank support.
91h May 2000          The Parliamentary Select Committee on Anticorruption submits its report to
Parliament which is subsequently widely reported and debated by the press.
The report includes a list of public figures allegedly involved in corrupt
practices.. This list has become popularly known as "the list of shame".
KACA is expected to investigate the allegations
12Ih May 2000         111 corruption cases generated by KACA to date, of which 16 completed with
8 more to be completed by end-May, 2000. There has been one conviction
and eight cases are in court, some involving senior public officials
17h May 2000          A Code of Conduct Bill drafted covering all public officials and includes
provisions regarding declaration of assets and conflict of interests. Debate is
expected in the 2nd half of 2000.
II PUBLIC ENTREPRISE REFORM AND PRIVATIZATION
30th June 1999       Kenya Posts and Teleconmunuications Company (KPTC) separated into a
regulatory agency (Communications Commission of Kenya - CCK) and two
separate entities (Telecom Kenya - TKL) and Postal Services.
23rd September 1999    A new management team is placed in the Kenya Ports Authority overseen by
the new Permanent Secretary of Information, Transport and Communications.
Performance remarkably improves and within eight months Kenya Ports
records profits of Kshs I billion, largely as a result of curtailing corrupt
procurement.
January 2000          New Kenya Coffee Board Members are appointed with the objective of
improving the Board's management
24th February 2000    Special audit report made public by the Minister of Agriculture that revealed
mismanagement at KTDA.
26



Page 3 of 3
29t* February 2000    Second cellular license awarded following a transparent and competitive
bidding process.
3yd March 2000        Minister of Agriculture through his Permanent Secretary, presents the report to
the KTDA Board where he indicated that the same report had been shared
with the relevant investigatory bodies like KACA and CID.
11  April 2000       Privatization of Telcom Kenya launched (transaction to be completed in the
3rd quarter of 2000).
Other privatization in process, such as the full privatization of Kenya
Commercial Bank (35% of GOK shares to be sold) and Kenya Re-insurance
Corporation, commercialization of Postal Services, concessioning of Kenya
Railways, concessioning of the Container Terminal and other non core
services of the Port to convert Kenya Ports Authority into a land lord port, and
full privatization of Kenya Reinsurance Company.  Fresh privatization
strategy being prepared with new management of privatization being selected.
IV. PUBLIC EXPENDITURE MANAGEMENT REFORM
29* October 2000      MEF principles and objectives adopted and under implementation for the
2000/01-2002V03 budgets and for the first time the budgetary process engages
all lne ministries and departments.
1I  November 1999    Four leading accounting firms engaged to verify the validity of pending
payrnents to government suppliers and contractors of Kshs 8.7 billion. Their
report has shown that Kshs 5.2 billion have discrepancies and recommend
against payment.
23d November1999    National AIDS Control Council established to provide a national and multi-
sector response to HIV/AIDS declared a national disaster. Private sector and
civil society represented. World Bank support requested.
3d December 1999      A Gazette Notice is published transfening annual funds for the first time from
the Local Authorities Transfer Fund to local Authorities.
20* December.1999    Finance officers accountable to Treasury and who countersign all ministerial
expenditure commnitments are assigned to line ministries.
6h January 2000       The Kenya Roads Act obtains the President's assent.  Disposition for
nomination of the Board members and the Interim Support Secretariat were
decided during a stakeholders' workshop held on 17th February, 2000 and ill
lead to the establishment of the Board by June, 2000.
I18Jle March 2000   A workshop attended by a wide cross-section of stakeholders - Ministers,
Permanent Secretaries, the private sector, religious groups, parliamentarians,
NGOs, etc., - discuss the contents of the Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy
Paper.
27



Ann4x B
REPUBLIC OF KENYA  PagelofM 1
MINISTRY OF FINANCE & PLANNING
Telegraphic Address: 22921                                           THE TREASURY
FINANCE-NAIROBI
FAX NO. 330426                                                         P.O. Box 30007
Telephone: 338111 1
When replying please quote                                                  NAIROBI
Ref. No EA/FA 62/347101/E                                                 02 June 2000
Mr. James Wolfensohn
President
World Bank
Washington DC
Dear /Y vJg  )              > A
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
LETTER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY
1.    Beginning in 1986, the Government of Kenya initiated a broad range of
reforms focused on the public sector, the financial sector, the trade and the exchange
rate regime and the privatization of public enterprises. These reforms aimed at
improving the performance of the economy. While the effort succeeded in making
the economy more market-oriented, the need for institutional and structural reforms
remained. Since July 1999, we have renewed our efforts to confront the institutional and
structural factors in order to return the economy to a high growth path, to create jobs and to
raise the standard of living for all Kenyans. The key reforms aim to scale down the role of
Government by restructuring public enterprises and the system of public administration,
refocus public spending in order to extend access to basic services, strengthen the institutions
responsible for enforcing fiscal accountability in order to combat corruption, and to encourage
private investment. We have sustained the reform renewal initiated in July 1999. We have
enhanced the independence and capacity of key governance institutions in order to ensure
good use of our resources. For example, the Kenya Anti-corruption Authority (KACA) is
spearheading and coordinating measures to combat corruption, and we have strengthened the
Authority by providing additional resources and through greater involvement of the private
sector in the management of its affairs. We have given resources and authority to the
Controller and Auditor General and to the judiciary to enhance their independence. We have
also been encouraging parliament and its relevant institutions to play a more active role in the
management of public affairs. In addition, legislative measures to strengthen these key
institutions are underway.
2.    In other areas, the number of ministries has been reduced from 27 to 15, and this has
paved the way to formulate a ministerial rationalization plan and design a retrenchment and
civil service reform prograrn for implementation. Key public agencies have been reorganized
and their management changed in response to flagrant corruption and investigations. For



AMex B
Page 2 of 15
example, top management of key institutions, (such as the Ports Authority, Ministry of Lands
and Settlement, Kenya Coffee Board, Kenya Tea Development Authority, National Hospital
Insurance Fund and Central Tender Board (CTB)), have been replaced with encouraging
results. The Ports Authority has become profitable, and since the CTB reforms, more than 60
percent of the recommendations of the Ministry Tender Boards have been over-turned.
Several cases of misuse of public resources involving high level public officials are pending
in the court system. In addition, we have transferred responsibility for food distribution in the
drought-stricken areas to UNDP, WFP and other donors that are working directly with local
NGOs to serve those affected. This change is designed to eliminate the corruption associated
with the involvement of government agencies and to ensure that the food reaches those in the
distressed areas.
3.    We are in the process of advancing the reform effort by launching in June 2000 the
implementation of an interim poverty reduction strategy - 2000/01-2002/03. In recognition
of the fact that Government policies and use of resources have far-reaching implications for
all Kenyans, we made every effort to consult and enlist participation and support of all
Kenyan stakeholders in the formulation of our reform program. Prior to the advent of the
PRSP, a Consultative Forum to Review Economic Performance, chaired by President Daniel
Arap Moi, was held in early 1998. At that meeting, participants highlighted the weak links
between the annual budget allocations and expenditures, and national policies. They identified
lack of a clear and functioning public expenditure management process as a major problem
and agreed on a set of measures to redress the situation. At subsequent workshops of
Permanent Secretaries and accounting officers held in April 1998 and October 1999, the
officials recommended public expenditure reforrns, including the introduction of a Medium
Term Expenditure Framework (MTEF), as a mechanism for allocating resources for national
development. The recommendation, was approved by the Cabinet in December 1999, and an
institutional framework was established to prepare and follow up on its implementation.
4.    The preparation of the MTEF and the PRSP process started in January 2000; prior to
that, a National Poverty Eradication Plan (NPEP) had been formulated, with extensive
participation from the private sector, media, NGOs and Government agencies. Though the
NPEP came out as a response to the commitments made during the World Social Summit for
Development (WSSD), it aided our readiness for the PRSP process. The climax of these
consultations was the National Consultative Forum in March 2000 organized by the
Government to discuss a draft Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (IPRSP). The
Forum brought together 300 participants representing Kenyans from all walks of life, NGOs
and intemational agencies, including the Bank and IMF. What emerged from these
consultations is that national priority be given to preparing and implementing a strategy to
reduce poverty. Specific issues also emerged, including public safety, law and order; human
resource and infrastructure development; the HIV/AIDS epidemic, the need for good
governance, and the need to mainstream gender in development.
5.    This letter of Development Policy reflects the key issues that emerge from the IPRSP.
A time table is in place to (i) complete public consultation process for a full PRSP and (ii)
develop mechanism for monitoring core poverty programs. The full PRSP, which we expect
to issue in 2001,will enrich our analysis and policies; but it will not change the development
challenges and the key issues we need to confront.
B. Recent Economic and Social Developments
6.    In addition to the renewal of reforms, the Government has maintained a prudent fiscal
and financial stance. The fiscal deficit fell from 7.1% of GDP in 1993/94 to 0.7 percent of
GDP in 1999. The inflation rate fell from 46 percent in the early 1990s to 5 percent in 1999,
due to tight fiscal and monetary policies. Yet, Kenya's economic performance and social
2



Amenx B
Page 3 of 15
development has been below expectation. The economic growth rate fell from 4.6 percent in
1996 to 1.3 percent in 1999, well below the average population growth rate of 2.6 percent.
All the major sectors - agriculture, industry and tourism - are in decline. On the external side,
the balance of payments position has weakened, from a surplus of US$398 million in 1996 to
US$6 million in 1999. Large net outflows of medium and long-term capital have emerged;
gross official reserves have declined. Overall, the economy faces mounting challenges:
stagnation, rising unemployment and social tension and worsening insecurity; low savings
and investments; pressures from external and domestic debt service and arrears on external
debt. Corruption, ineffective use of public resources and deterioration in basic services
needed by families and businesses are serious concerns to the Government.
7.    As a direct result of the sluggish economic growth, living conditions of the vast
majority of Kenyans have worsened. The growth of government services and official safety
net programs is minimal (rising at 0.8 per cent in 1997 and 1.2 percent in 1998), far less than
the average population growth rate. There is widening income inequality and disparity in
access to social services. The preliminary results of the 1997 welfare monitoring survey show
that the poor constitute more than half of the population. Women constitute the majority of
the poor and also the majority of Kenyans. Three quarters of the poor are rural residents and
are clustered in socio-economic groups that include small farmers and pastoralists in arid and
semi-arid areas. They lack access to basic assets, especially land, and to health facilities, safe
drinking water and education.
C. Reform Priorities
8.    The main development objectives in the medium-term are to return the economy to a
high growth path to generate enough jobs and to make marked progress in poverty reduction.
The strategy involves revitalizing our human resources as well as rehabilitating the
infrastructure base for economic activity, and taking measures that will improve access to
basic services and revive business confidence. The core reforms involve:
* Consolidating the prudent fiscal and financial stance that has been achieved;
S strengthening the governance framework, with sustained campaign against
corruption and rebuilding institutions that enforce accountability for the way
public resources are used;
* Restructuring and privatizing of public enterprises with emphasis on
infrastructure (railway, telecommunication, ports, water and power), making
maximum use of private sector capital, as well as technology and management;
*  Restructuring the role of the Government and reform of the public service to
make it effective and to improve public services;
*  Reforming the budgeting and expenditure management process through the
MTEF, efficient implementation of development initiatives and shifting resources
to basic economic and social services (rural access roads, basic education, health
facilities and safe drinking water) relevant directly for reviving economic growth
and reducing poverty; and
* Consulting with and supporting the private sector to expand investments.
9.    Macroeconomic Management. We want to consolidate the stable fiscal and
monetary stance noted earlier. Our program aims to (a) reduce the tax burden to provide
incentives for production, and (b) reduce the share of public expenditures relative to GDP,
while maintaining the level of public expenditure in real terms. Real economic growth is
projected to pick up slowly from 1.3 percent in 2000 to 3 percent in 2001 and to 5 percent in
2003. We envisage primary budget surpluses to reduce domestic debt and provide favorable
3



Amexx B
Page 4 of 15
interest rates and a macroeconomic environment that will encourage private investment. But
we face a large financing gap arising from the effects of the bunching of debt service in the
last three years, external debt arrears, and the costs (such as for the civil service reform)
associated with the reform program. External assistance, including debt scheduling, is
essential to meet the financing gap.
10.       Improving the Governance Framework: Improvement in the govemance
framework is the centerpiece of our reformn efforts, and we are working with both the Bank
and the IMF to ensure a coherent program. Our aim is to limit waste and misuse of public
office for private gain and to achieve better results from our tax revenues and aid resources. In
summary, the following are the main areas for Government action in the effort to strengthen
the economic governance framework in the medium term:
* Strengthen the independence and capacity of institutions responsible for
enforcing accountability, including KACA, the Parliament, the Controller and
Auditor General and the Judiciary and take other necessary steps to combat
corruption;
* Increase the transparency in procurement procedures in all parts and all levels of
the public service;
* Streamline measures to improve the flow of funds to implement projects
effectively;
- Implement a code of ethics for all public servants, including asset declaration by
public officials and their immediate family members.
* Decentralize local authority administration and strengthen its capacity to improve
services.
11.     We are strengthening KACA to facilitate the direct fight against corruption. The
Parliamentary Select Committee on corruption has, in consultation with KACA, drafted a
comprehensive Anti-Corruption and Economic Crimes Bill, which will be presented to
Parliament. The independence of KACA from the Executive branch will be protected and
resources provided to enable it to undertake active investigation and timely prosecution. As
well as pursuing cases of past corruption, KACA is promoting a prevention-orientated
strategy, including public education, to deter future occurrence. Other measures will include:
introducing a system of monitoring performance of public servants and strengthening the
Efficiency Monitoring Unit. We are actively preparing legislation on a Code of Ethics
for all public office holders.
12.   We are working out the modalities and form of a "wealth disclosure" system
for senior officers. The Cabinet has approved the principle of asset declaration by
public employees and their close family members. The asset declaration bill will be
presented to Parliament during the 2000/01 fiscal year, following the completion of
work in progress on the modalities of the asset declaration process and its
implementation. Although, in the immediate future, civil servants cannot be denied
the opportunity to engage in business, all public office holders will be required to
disclose any conflict of interest between their public duties and private business.
They will be barred from any Government affairs that touch on such conflicts of
interest. The public must be assured that Government obtains value-for-money when
letting contracts. Responsible Ministries and other agencies will be required to ensure
exacting standards are demanded in contracts and that implementation strictly adheres
to the quality and quantity specified, within the price and on time.
4



Page 5 of 15
13.    The office of the Controller and Auditor General (C&AG) is an important
institution that is essential
in ensuring compliance with the financial regulations.  Government finances,
accounting and internal audit systems and procedures are being strengthened to ensure
more efficient delivery of public services, and to improve transparency and
accountability in the use of public funds. We will commission a Task Force to review
and recommend modalities for restructuring the Office of C& AG to enable the
production of timely and high quality audits.
14.   Other measures include the recently concluded recruitment for the newly established
Finance Officers. An Integrated Financial Management System is to be introduced in all
ministries and districts over the next 18 months. The system will provide timely and accurate
information on disbursements, payments and commitments, and will control over-
expenditures, unauthorized payments and pending bills. Intemal financial controls for budget
implementation have been strengthened, including the creation of a budget monitoring unit, to
monitor progress in project implementation and posting of financial officers to spending
departments to ensure fund release for budgeted activities only. During the next fiscal year,
the key results we expect are the following.
(i) Prepare an action plan to enhance fiduciary transparency for implementation,
including an interim measures for strengthening the audit function of the C&AG, to
improve the quality and timely completion of audit reports (including project-related
reports) to less than 3 months after due date;
(ii) Start implementing Plan to enhance fiduciary transparency, the quality and timely
completion of audit reports, and extension of the auditing role of the C&AG to public
agencies, including public enterprises;
(iii) Present bill to Parliament to merge the C&AG and Auditor general Corporations,
and make the C&AG autonomous;
(iv) Complete and present the 1997198 Audit Report to Parliament; and
(v) Complete and present the 1998/99 Audit Report to Parliament.
15. The procurement system is being strengthened to limit abuses. The main weaknesses
relate to: (a) an inadequate legal framework, out-of-date procedures and supply manuals that
have not been updated in over 20 years; (b) a lack of transparent and competitive processes;
(c) limited skilled staff; and (d) time-consuming adjudication by Tender Boards. Among
recent actions, national procurement regulations have been established and a procurement bill
has bee drafted under the Kenya Procurement Reforms and Enhanced Capacity Project. In
addition, the authorities have taken steps to limit financial abuses by restructuring the
procurement and tender system. Private sector representatives have been appointed to
membership of the Central Tender Board (CTB). An Appeals Board for tender decisions has
been established with three of its seven members nominated by the private sector. To
promote transparency, there is quarterly reporting of activities, including bids received and
acted upon. However, the current measures cover only the central Government. Further
procurement reforms are being pursued to cover all levels of Govemment and major public
institutions and agencies. During the 2000/01 fiscal year, we will implement the following
actions to strengthen procurement:
(i) Issue updated comprehensive procurement regulations for implementation in all
public institutions
(ii) Cabinet approval of new comprehensive procurement bill
(iii) Present new comprehensive procurement bill to Parliament.
5



AMnex B
Page 6 of 15
16.   The bill makes provision for the establishment of a Directorate of Public Procurement
to exercise oversight responsibilities to ensure compliance with the regulations. It also makes
provision for making the Appeals Board a legal entity.
17.   We are taking actions to improve the flow of funds to projects as part of the effort
to implement our development projects portfolio effectively.  The delays in portfolio
implementation with regard to donor-funded projects are attributable to cumbersome
bureaucratic processes and overlapping controls, which slow down access to funds, resulting
in delayed execution and cost-overuns. Changes have been initiated to improve the flow of
donor funds in special accounts, by bringing these accounts on-shore and, more specifically,
under the control of the project implementing entities. The Government issued a circular on
March 1, 2000 to implement this initiative. Furthermore, the Government has authorized the
establishment of an a Task Force to review the relevant laws, financial regulations and
procedures which inhibit the timely flow of funds to projects. During the 2000/01 fiscal year,
we will achieve the following results.
(i) Establish operational framework for project-specific on-shore special accounts and
provide evidence that flow of funds to the district level has improved;
(ii) Establish Task Force to revise Exchequer and Audit Act and other financial
regulations and procedures with a view to improving timely flow of funds to the
district level;
(iii) Take steps to implement the recommendations of the task force.
18.   Judicial reform has been initiated to enhance the integrity of the judiciary. Actions
already taken include improved compensation and introduction of a code of ethics for the
judiciary and asset declaration by judicial staff. A Legal Sector Reform Coordinating
Committee, established in March 1999, has finalized a legal sector reform program and action
plan, including reform of the commercial code, for implementation. The highlight of the
reform program is to consolidate the independence of the judiciary through financial de-
linking from the civil service. We will introduce alternative dispute resolution as well as case
load and case flow management, including the tracking of cases, to avoid long delays in the
current system; modernize company and commercial laws and strengthen the capacity of the
system by hiring more personnel and developing infrastructure, including computerization.
Lack of adequate accommodation for courts, in the face of limited financial resources of the
Government, has been. a major constraint. To redress this problem, Income Tax House is
being renovated to accommodate commercial courts. Phase I of the renovation works is to be
completed by June 2001 and Phase II by June 2002. In addition, the number of commercial
judges will be increased to a level that will facilitate clearance of the backlog of pending
commercial cases. We also intend to approve the judicial code of conduct which will regulate
the conduct of and propose disciplinary measures on all judicial officials.
19.   Local Authorities will be the target of focussed intervention to improve local
economic governance over the medium-term. Through the Local Authorities Transfer Fund
(LATF) mechanism, local authorities will be improving their local services and financial
management through submitting improved budgets, financial accounts, debt resolution plans,
local revenue enhancement plans, and local authority service delivery plans in order to
receive the LATF monies annually. In addition, local authorities will be introducing a local-
level Integrated Financial Management System (IFMS) to assist in the efficient and
transparent management of all local expenditure and revenues. Furthermore, a special LATF
monitoring system is being established to monitor the use of all LATF monies as well as other
local govemment expenditures as needed. Local govemment reforms will focus on five
related areas, which are the core areas of the Kenya Local Government Reform Program.
6



Annex B
Page 7 of 15
*   Reform of the legal framework of local authorities;
*   Development of decentralization policy;
* Enhancement of local government finances through the implementation of revenue
sharing programs, particularly the LATF and the Road Maintenance Levy Fund, and
the strengthening of local revenue mobilization capacity (particularly through rates
and user charge reforms and implementation of the single business permit);
*   Strengthening of financial management capacity and accounting, control and audit
mechanisms; and
*   Development of the capacity to deliver services (water and sanitation, access roads,
etc.), plan and implement infrastructure projects using more community-based
participatory planning.
E. Privatization and Reform of Public Enterprises
20.    While the privatization of public enterprises has made some progress, with
168 out of the original 207 already privatized, parastatal reform has been fairly
slow. Out of the listed 33 strategic parastatals, only 6 have generated modest
economic benefits to the economy.
Box A - Actions Planned - (18-24 months)
Completion of the privatization of Telkom Kenya and the Commercialization of Postal Services
Concession of Kenya Railways
Concession of the Container Terminal and other non-core services of the Port to convert Kenya Ports
Authority into a land lord port;
Concession of selected services of Nairobi Water and Sanitation Department;
Privatization of electricity distribution through Kenya Power and
Lighting Company;
Privatization of Kenya Pipeline;
Privatization of Kenya Commercial Bank;
Privatization of Kenya Reinsurance Company;
Privatization of Mumias Sugar Company through IPO and if necessary sale of a portion of shares to a
strategic investor;
Privatization of Chemelil Sugar Company;
Privatization of Agro-Chemical and Food Company Ltd. (ACFC);
Involvement of private sector in Kenya Airports Authority through the award of concessions;
Privatization of Kenya National Trading Corporation (KNTC)
through liquidation;
Privatization of Pan African Paper Mills; and
Privatization of East African Portland Cement Company through sale of shares on the Nairobi Stock
Exchange.
However, substantially large economic benefits, especially resources for domestic debt
reduction and attraction of
ubstantial private investment and managerial resources for infrastructure development, can be
mobilized through future privatization program. During the implementation of Phase I of the
parastatal reform, the following important lessons were learnt and the lessons will be used to
inform the formulation of future programs:
*  The need to change the approach to the reform of strategic enterprises by building
public-private partnerships that bring high quality management, capital and
technology to improve services;
*  The need for adequate and appropriate institutional and legal framework, capacity
7



Annex B
Page 8 of 15
to formulate appropriate sector policy, including policies on pricing, investment
and competition;
* The need for transparency and accountability as well as wide participation of
citizens, including open bid process and public disclosure of decisions, to enlist
public support for the reform process;
* Regional cooperation, such as drawing on cross-border resources and linkages;
and
* Adequate safety nets for staff that may need to be retrenched.
21.   The Government is committed to withdrawing from commercial activities. To this
end, an updated privatization strategy and program, with an implementation plan that would
set out the privatization transactions to be carried out with appropriate milestones is being
formulated. The program is emphasizing the large infrastructure and service enterprises,
especially Kenya Telekom, Kenya Railways, the Kenya Ports Authority and the Kenya
Pipeline Company. The privatization of Kenya Telekom is well advanced and is expected to
be completed during the 2000/01 fiscal period. The approach to privatization transactions
during the next 2-3 years would involve sale to strategic partners, such as for Telekom Kenya;
unitary concession, for example, for the railway infrastructure and Mombasa port; and sale of
shares through the Nairobi stock market. The recent cabinet decision to off-load remaining
Government shares in the financial institutions will be carried out. Specific measures will be
taken to ensure transparency, such as presenting semi-annual reports, including independent
audits to parliament after which information will be released to the public on the companies to
be privatized, method of privatization and the process to be followed. Winning bids will be
publicly disclosed. Specific actions expected during 2000/01 are the following:
(i) The Attorney General will issue a legal opinion that the proposed privatization
strategies for the public utilities sector are consistent with the current law and that no
new legislation is required to implement the privatization policy reforms for these
entities;
(ii) Cabinet approval of an updated privatization strategy that would be highlighted in
the June 2000 budget. The strategy will include specific privatization transactions and
transparent processes, including public disclosure, that would be undertaken in the
next three years and would include appropriate milestones for the program;
(iii) Government will provide progress report on agreed milestones of the
privatization program as specified in the updated privatization strategy paper (with
emphasis on the Railway, Ports, Energy, Water and Sugar sectors);
(iv) Expedite the completion of the separation of assets and liabilities of KPLC and
KenGen. Prepare and publicize restructuring plan to aid competition in the sector;
and
(v) The privatization of Telekom Kenya will be brought to the point of sale.
Government will use a transparent bid process and public disclosure of decisions and
transactions.
F. Public Service Reform
22.   The primary objective of reforms is to create headroom that will allow for improved
services, based on selectively hiring skilled staff and a wage bill that the Government can
afford. Under existing circumstances, basic public services have been deteriorating and
inequities in access have emerged. The public wage bill is a major source of pressure on
public finances. But the size of the public service, including teaching and security forces, is
close to half a million, which is excessive compared to developing countries in similar
circumstances as Kenya. At the same time there is severe shortage of managers and
8



Annex 13
Page 9 of 15
professional staff. Government action to reduce the numbers of the civil service from 27 to
15 has created duplications and redundancies that have to be phased out.
23.   The work to identify the core functions of Government has been completed, and
activities to be retained, contracted or privatized have been identified. Our development
partners, including the Bank, DFID, African Development Bank and the EU have been
working with us to formulate and implement a civil service reform plan covering 32,000
personnel to be retrenched over a period of two years. In addition to retrenching redundant
staff, key components in the design of the reforrn package include (a) pay reform taking into
account what the budget can bear, (b) re-introduction of the merit system, especially
regarding top management and professional positions, (c) capacity building and (d)
mechanism to ensure personnel control. Interim personnel control measures to avoid re-entry
of retrenched staff into public service will be in place pending Government roll out of an
Integrated Payroll Database in 2000/01.  In order to ensure the cost-effectiveness of
retrenchment measures, we are reviewing pension regulations with a view to deferring
pension payments until those retrenched reach the regular retirement age. We will implement
a comprehensive plan for capacity building and training, with particular attention to skill
gaps. We will focus on the following key and specific actions during 2000/01.
(i) Cabinet approval of retrenchment plan and outline civil service reform program
which has the support of key donors and an agreed time table for implementing the
reform plan;
(ii) Implement retrenchment and civil service reform plan to reduce staff in line with
reduction in core functions, commencing with the removal of the duplication
resulting from the merging of ministries from 27 to 15;
(vi) Provide progress report satisfactory to the Bank on the implementation of the
restructuring plan;
(v) Redeploy needed numbers of managers and professionals, using a merit-based
system, to key change-related positions in the civil service. Publicize and enforce
guidelines relating to the involvement of civil servants in business activities;
(vi) Maintain ceiling on wage bill specified in the fiscal program; and
(vii)Roll out to the ministries/departments the Integrated Payroll and Personnel
Database System.
24.   Management of public services will be improved to ensure that retained activities are
undertaken efficiently. In this regard contractual appointment of managers and chief
executives will be used to enhance effectiveness. Savings from a reduced workforce, lower
running costs and more efficient operations will have to be matched against increased pay,
allocations to operations and maintenance and public capital investment.
.G. Expenditure Reforms and Priorities
25.   Within the context of the PRSP process, we are in the process of revamping the
budgeting and expenditure management process under a three-year medium-term expenditure
framework (MTEF). A key issue is to improve budget reliability and ensure budgeted funds
are made available to support allocations and policies identified in the budget. The program
stresses fiscal discipline through a realistic assessment of resources and a budgeting process
backed with institutional reforms and close monitoring by finance officers to reinforce
linkages among spending allocations, core functions and development priorities.  The
preparation process involves consulting key govemment departments and donors. The MTEF
budget is to be presented to the Parliament in June 2000. The benefits envisaged under the
MTEF comprise close links between budget and policy priorities, compliance with a hard
budget constraint, including sector expenditure ceiling; and limits on the wage bill to reflect
9



Amex B
Page 10 of 15
the restructuring of the Government and the civil service reforms. Spending units will operate
in line with budget priorities; funding for the announced budget allocations will be reliable to
support orderly planning and expenditures on priority services during the budget period.
During the 2000/01 budget period, we will:
(i) Present to Parliament a budget consistent with MTEF-PRSP to emphasize
resource allocations to priority poverty-reducing activities. Establish quarterly
budget commitment, rather than the single commitment, for core poverty
programs;
(ii) Prepare quarterly report on public expenditures
(iii)Establish quarterly budget commitments, rather than the single
commitments, for core poverty programs. Reforms will shift sector spending
in consonance with the PRSP and stated priorities in the areas of agriculture,
education, health, safe water and infrastructure;
(iv) Establish an objective, rational and poverty-focused resource allocation criteria
for the resources flowing to districts. Publicize the criteria and the allocations;
(v) Publicize quarterly report on the transfer of budgeted funds to core poverty
programs to the districts and the utilization of such funds at the local level.
(vi) Present report on the financing and expenditures on the core poverty programs
that demonstrates fund release to high priority sectors are consistent with budgeted
2000/01 quarterly commitments.
26.   Agriculture accounts for 70 percent of Kenya's labor force, 60 percent of
export earnings and 5 percent of government revenues. Given its importance, and the
stagnation of the sector in the past decade, we feel a need to revisit rural development
issues and detennine how to revive the sector. Meanwhile, steps need to be taken to
encourage the expansion of rural income-generating activities by abolishing restrictive
regulations and marketing agencies, rural road improvement and involvement of farmers and
other concemed stakeholders in decision making and implementing mutually identified
measures. The deregulation effort requires assessing and removing some 120 restrictive laws
and regulations (covering all major crops, dairy, irrigation policy, environmental management
& co-ordination, disease control, land use and forestry) that are inappropriate in a liberalized
economy. Our approach to expenditure sector reform is to focus on services that are of public
good nature (extension, road transport infrastructure and disease control) , while encouraging
appropriate private role.
27.   In the area of income-generating activities, reforms are under way for coffee and tea,
which together account for about a third of exports. We carried out audits of the Coffee
Board of Kenya (CfBK) and Kenya Tea Development Authority (KTDA), in response to
allegations of corruption in these institutions. The audits revealed large scale financial
mismanagement, long delays in paying farmers, fraud embezzlement that have underrmined
performance in the two sectors. Several top management staff of CfBK have been sacked.
We have taken action to begin restructuring the institutional arrangements for marketing these
two major crops. Similarly reforrns are being pursued in the sugar sector, which caters for an
estimated 2 million people. Consultations have taken place among stakeholders on sugar
sector policy reforms, especially the organization of sugar marketing; fraud connected with
the importation of refined sugar and related tariff policy; financial irregularities in the sugar
mills; the privatization of the sugar mnills and compensation of the mill employees. We
prepared a sugar sector reform policy. A sugar bill to reduce Government control over
appointments and actions of the Sugar Board is to be presented to Parliament during 2001.
10



Annex B
Page 11 of IS
Another key issue relates to promoting food security through consumption smoothing and
social protection intervention. The priority reforms are the following:
(i) Implementation of the liberalization of tea sub-sector reforms , especially small
farmer tea processing, by abolishing KTDA in its present form  and allowing
individual tea factories to operate independently
(ii) Cabinet approval of Paper separating the regulatory function of the coffee board
from its marketing role, with the aim of liberalizing coffee marketing (e.g. licensing
requirements). Details of the implementation of agreed upon liberalization measures
would be part of the final PRSP.
28.    Education: After the high enrolments of the two post independence decades, there
has been a reversal at all levels of education characterized by non-enrolment, high level of
drop-outs/low completion rates particularly among girls, and poor transition rates from one
level of education to the other. The reduced enrolments and other poor performance is
attributed to the high cost of education worsened by the burden of cost sharing which has had
a negative impact on access, equity and quality of education. Education accounts for over half
of the Government wage bill and 40 percent of government recurrent expenditures. The high
costs of education to parents reflect, in part, an over-loaded curriculum, resulting in high
textbook costs to parents, over-staffing in some schools and low pupil-teacher ratios. Parallel
to the overstaffing of many schools, reflected in low pupil teacher ratios of 16.1 at the
secondary school level and 30:1 at the primary level, both according to regional and
international standards, critical teacher shortages exist in mathematics, English and science.
Many children perform poorly or fail in these subject areas. Reforms in the education sector
will target both increases in the efficiency of schools as well as improvements in access,
equity and quality to reverse declining trends in enrolments, retention rates and test outcomes.
Our highest priority will be to improve access to basic education; we will pursue the target of
attaining Universal Primary Education (UPE) by lowering costs to parents.
29. To improve access to basic education, our policies emphasize measures that will reduce
costs. Rationalization and review of the curriculum will result in reduction of the number of
subjects and textbooks and the range of equipment required, and make schools affordable and
more accessible for the poor. At the same time, equitable distribution of teachers will be
carried out. Other policy measures will include improvement in management and utilization
of resources. Some of the strategies will include decentralization of teacher and school
management to the district/school levels supported by capacity building and more autonomy
of district/school boards, parents and teachers associations and school committees. Besides,
pupil teacher ratios will be revised upwards at both primary and secondary school levels in
order to allow more efficient distribution of teachers among schools. In order to provide
educational opportunities for children with special needs and those who are currently out of
school, increased resources targeted to orphans, child workers, nomadic groups, rural poor
and slum dwellers will be provided. Bursaries will be provided for primary school children
from poor households to cover user charges. At secondary school level, more day-schools
will be encouraged by providing equipment and other support materials. Textbooks will be
standardized so that they can be utilized for longer length of time than is the practice today.
Together, bursaries will be targeted to girls in day secondary schools.
30.    At the tertiary level, the focus will be on shifting to rationalized degree programs,
which provide skills required for a modem economy. Means testing and targeting of the
higher education loans scheme and affirmative action will be emphasized for bright students
from poor households pursuing courses in demand within the economy and increase the
11



Amex B
Page 12 of IS
numbers of women receiving assistance. During the year 2000/01, we will give priority
attention to the following issues.
(i)Review and rationalize primary school level curriculum, including reduction of
taught subjects from 13 to 7 and reduction-of examinable papers from 7 to 5.
(ii) Review and rationalize curriculum for secondary schools, including reduction of
subjects from 36 to 17. Limit core curriculum to 10 subjects and limit core
curriculum to a maximum of 9 and a minimum of 7 examinable subjects.
(iii) Present results of the review and audit of existing student bursary and loan
scheme
(iv) Cabinet approval of strategy to improve targeting of bursary and loan scheme to
ensure that financial support benefits mainly the poor
31.   The cost-reducing measures are expected to stimulate demand for schooling
and increase the gross enrolment ratios in primary and secondary schools from 88 percent to
95 percent and from 23 percent to 30 percent respectively by 2002 while increasing access to
education for girls and other disadvantaged children, including the physically handicapped
children.
32.   Health:  Kenya's health policies and objectives are contained in the Health Policy
Framework Paper (1994) and the National Health Sector Strategic Plan (1999-2004). While
the perfornance of Kenya's public health sector in the past was relatively satisfactorily,
compared to neighboring countries, a deterioration of the national health status has become
apparent since the late 1980s. An impressive service network of over 3,000 health facilities
and more than 25,000 trained health workers is no longer capable of sustaining the past gains
in infant and child mortality and life expectancy. Government expenditures on health
services have been declining in real terms, while demand on health services is rising. In line
with the National Health Strategic Plan, more health sector resources need to be channeled to
primary health care, with emphasis on reproductive services, non-wage recurrent services and
local level health facilities; less support would need to be given to tertiary and secondary
health care. The most striking feature of the three year implementation plan is the proposed
real shifts of financial, human and other resources away from curative services to
preventive/promotive rural health services sub-votes in order to translate stated health policy
objectives to tangible and targeted activities that provide maximum benefits to the majority of
the vulnerable groups.
33.   The HIV/AIDS: HIV/AIDS was declared a national disaster by the President in
1999. The AIDS epidemic poses a very serious challenge to all development efforts, and its
control is a top priority. Consistent with this, the Ministry of Health (MOH) proposes to
implement HIV/AIDS control activities to prevent the transmission of HIV among the
population with a focus on the vulnerable groups. While the Govemment has embarked on an
intensive national and multi-sector response to the epidemic, the costs for care are expected to
rise as an increasing number of HIV infected persons progress to a stage with clinical AIDS.
Meeting these costs requires prioritizing interventions through a material, anti-tuberculosis
drugs and recurrent costs for HIV/AIDS related activities are likely to be high priorities for
combating the AIDS epidemic. Government would develop a work plan for the National
AIDS Control Council (NACC), including plans for integrating HIV/AIDS programs into the
various sector ministries, a budget and credible financial management plan. Such resources
would need to be directed to the local level. Results require a greater role for managing
services at the level of users.
12



Annex B
Page 13 of 1S
34.   During the 2000/01 budget period, we will emphasize action to achieve the following:
(i) Reduce the budget for Kenyatta National Hospital (KNH) from 14.6 percent to
13.6 percent of the MOH recurrent budget. Increase funding for rural health care
service delivery and expand immunization program;
(ii) Strengthen capacity and coordination to respond to the HIV/AIDS epidemic at all
levels by establishing and making operational AIDS Coordination Units (ACUs) and
National AIDS Coordination Council (NACC) at all levels; and
(iii) Develop a financing plan for NACC and make it operational, including a
financing plan for ministerial HIV/AIDS programs.
35.   Other Infrastructure: To improve rural access to urban and external markets, the
program to involve local agencies in maintaining rural roads funded through the Road
Maintenance Fuel Levy Fund (RMFLF) is to be strengthened. The Kenya Roads Board Act
that received Presidential Assent on January 6, 2000 provides a framework for managing road
sector resources. We will issue clarification of the Kenya Roads Board Act on the roles of the
(i) District Road Committees, (ii) Local authorities in the road sector and (iii) the purpose of
the road funds allocated to the districts. In addition, the Kenya Roads Board will be made
operational. In the case of water, the key issues relate to the institutional, legal and policy
framework for the development of both rural and urban schemes. Strengthening community
management is essential for promoting rural water schemes.  This will involve the
disengagement of government from direct provision of services and giving a large role to the
private sector and communities in financing, developing and managing water supply and
sanitation services. It will also be essential to develop and extend infrastructure for the
distribution and management of water supply and sanitation to the large numbers of poor
people living in informal settlements. Far-reaching reforms require reviewing the Water Act
and the Local Government Act. We are facing a serious power crisis, which is related to
drought and delays in implementing power projects and to the policy environment, which
underlined the financial viability of power entities in the past decades. In consultation with
stakeholders, we are managing the shortage through load shedding, and we plan to arrange for
imports from Uganda.
H. Private Sector Development
36.   Consultative Process: We recognize that only the private sector can create value for
Kenya's economy and that our primary mission is to assure that obstacles and constraints to
the process of private sector value creation are minimized. In this connection, we have close
working relations with the Joint Industrial and Commercial Consultative Council in regard to
measures that will regain the confidence of the private sector. Central to the consultative
process, we are committed to undertaking with the private sector a process of policy analysis
focused on specific sub-sectors. These analyses will contribute to the identification jointly
with the private sector of facilitating public policies designed to bolster the flagging
competitive advantages of key industrial clusters. The priority sectors chosen for value-chain
analysis (coffee, cotton/textiles/garments, tourism, pyrethrum, processed foods, leather and
leather products) are those which offer the greatest opportunity for increased employment and
household incomes.
37.     Financial Sector Reforms: The prevalence of a large number of small and weak
banks has in the recent past threatened the stability of the banking industry. Moreover, partly
because of poor lending practices and weaknesses in the judiciary, which constrain loan
recovery efforts, most banks carry very high levels of non-performing loans.  In the
immediate future, efforts will be directed towards restoring the stability of the banking sector
13



Ann&x B
Page 14 of 15
by increasing the frequency of on-site inspections, intensifying off-site surveillance and
encouraging more of the small banks to merge. The Banking Act has been extensively
revised to enhance the powers of the Central Bank to supervise banks and ensure compliance
with prudential regulations. The Central Bank will intensify on-site inspections to ensure that
by the year 2001 each institution is inspected once every year. On-site inspection will
continue to be complemented by off-site surveillance, which is now able to provide reliable
early warning signals on the status of institutions. In addition to surveillance, the paid up
capital base of commercial banks and non-bank financial institutions will be progressively
increased to a sound level. This will be done either through additional capital injection or
encouragina small banks to merge. We will coordinate with the Central Bank on
establishment of Credit Reference Bureaus. Towards this end, appropriate legislation will be
put in place by the end of the year to allow institutions disclose their non-performing loans to
the credit reference bureaus. The Government will coordinate with the Central Bank on
establishment of Credit Reference Bureaus. We will accelerate its divestiture of the financial
public enterprises during the three-year period to 2002 by selling its shareholding in Kenya
Commercial Bank, National Bank of Kenya, Development Bank of Kenya, Stanbic, Housing
Finance Company of Kenya, Consolidated Bank and Industrial Development Bank.
I. Gender Issues
38.   Women in Kenya make fundamental contributions in socio-economic development
although most of these contributions are not even recognized in official statistics. These
include: housekeeping; child rearing; health care and family planning activities; search for
fuel and water supplies; agricultural, trading and commercial activities; as well as in industrial
production. These extra activities translate into longer working hours for women and young
girls, which have been estimated at about 2 extra hours per day longer than in the case of
men. Studies in Kenya indicate that women are more vulnerable to poverty than men. For
instance, 69 percent of the active female population work as subsistence farmers compared to
43 percent for men. Given that rural farmers are among the very poor in Kenya, this relative
dependence on subsistence farming explains the extreme vulnerability of poor rural women in
Kenya. The problems are more severe in arid and semi-arid regions where women and young
girls spend most of their time searching for water and fuel while at the same time struggling
to meet the household obligations. In the medium term far-reaching reforms will be
introduced that will facilitate gender mainstreaming and gender equity. On the issues of
gender-mainstreaming, we will finalize a national policy on gender which will recommend
the establishment of a gender Commission. Other issues in this area will include
* Women rights to land ownership and access to other productive assets;
* Ensuring representation of women on Land Boards;
* Presenting an Affirmative Action and Equality Bill to Parliament;
* Increasing to at least 30 percent women in decision making organs of the
Government;
*  Presentation of Equality Bill to Parliament; and
* Publication and dissemination of Lady Effie Owuor Report, whose
implementation calls for tabling a family protection and equality bill to
Parliament.
14



Page 15 of 15
J. Personal Safety and Security
39. We believe that level of unemployment has contributed to social tension and anti-
social behavior that have contributed to undermining economic growth, especially in
tourism and in urban commerce. For this reason, we attach importance to improved
performance by the police and other law enforcement agencies and reduction in
crime. We will review existing training programs and the state of facilities and
equipment in the police force with a view to ensuring that they are prepared for the
task. A code of ethics for law enforcement services will be developed during the
fiscal year for implementation.
40.  In Conclusion, issues I have outlined in this Development Policy Letter are
consistent with the IPRSP that will form the basis of our reform agenda over the next
three years. A number of targets will require extra capacity to realize their full
implementation. While the Government is fully committed to the implementation of
the policies contained in this letter and in the IPRSP, the collaboration and continued
support of our development partners will be essential. The 2000/01 budget, which will
be the first based on the IPRSP, has factored activities that will require budget support
in order for them to be realized. Consequently, the Government look forward the
Bank's support and that of other stakeholders in order to turn the economy around and
to reduce poverty levels in the country.
Hon. Chrysa          kemo, EGH, MP
inance
1 5



Page 1 of 4
KENYA: POLICY ACTIONS FOR 2000/01
Annex C
Major Reform Area   Initial Actions                                           Further Actions/Implementation             Implementation/Results
PRSP                   Adopt the interim  PRSP, emphasizing poverty-reducing                                            Complete public consultation process for full PRSP
reform measures.                                                                                satisfactory to the Bank
Agree with the IMF  on appropriate macroeconomic                                                 Develop a mechanism for monitoring core poverty
framework.                                                                                       programs
Anti-cornuption:       Prepare an action Plan to enhance fiduciary transparency,  Start implementing action Plan to enhance
(a)Transparency and    including an interim  action plan for strengthening the audit  fiduciary transparency, including an interim
Accountability         function and to improve the quality and timiely completion of  action plan for strengthening the audit function  Continue implementation of fiduciary reforms
audit reports (including project-related reports) to less than 3  to improve the quality and timely completion
months after due date.                                of audit reports (including project-related
reports) to less than 3 months.
Make public initial findings of the interim Oversight Control
Board to the Nairobi City Council.
Present audited accounts for 1997/98  to  Present bill to Parliament to merge the C&AG and
Parliament.                               Auditor General Corporations, and make the C&AG
autonomous.
Present audited accounts for 1998/99 to Parliament.
(b)Procurement Reform   Issue updated comprehensive procurement regulations for  Cabinet approval of new  comprehensive  Present new  comprehensive procurement bill to
implementation in all public institutions.            procurement bill.                          Parliament.
(c)Judicial Reform                                                            Cabinet approval of the judicial code of  Implementation of Code of Conduct
conduct which will regulate the conduct of and
propose disciplinary measures on all judicial
officials.
Restructuring of       Cabinet approval of a retrenchment and outline civil service  Implement retrenchment plan to reduce staff in  Provide progress report satisfactory to the Bank on
Govemment and Civil  reform program, which has the support of key donors and an  line with reduction in core functions and  the implementation of the restructuring plan.
Service Reform         agreed time table for implementing the plan.           starting  especially  with  removal of the
dup:ication resulting from  the merging of  Redeploy  needed  numbers  of managers  and
ministries from 27to IS                   professionals, using a merit-based system, to key
change-related positions in the civil service. Publicize
and enforce guidelines relating to the involvement of
civil servants in business activities.
Maintain ceiling on wage bill specified in the fiscal
program
Roll out to the ministries/departments the Integrated
Payroll and Personnel Database System



Page 2 of 4
Major Reform Area   Initial Actions                                             Further Actions/Implementation               Implementation/Results
Public Enterprise       Cabinet approval of updated privatization strategy that  The AG to issue a legal opinion that the   Provide progress report on agreed milestones of the
Reform and              would be highlighted in the June 2000 budget. The strategy   proposed privatization strategies for the public  privatization program  as specified in the updated
Privatization           will include  specific privatization  transactions to  be  utilities sector are consistent with the current  privatization strategy paper (with emphasis on the
undertaken in the next three years and would include  law and that no further legislative action is  Railway, Ports, Energy, Water and Sugar sectors).
appropriate milestones for the program.                 required to implement the privatization policy
reforms for these entities.
Select investment advisers for the privatization
of the Power Pipeline, Railway and Ports.
Expedite the completion of the separation of
assets and liabilities of KPLC and KenGen.
Prepare and publicize restructuring plan to aid
competition in the sector.
Prepare shortlist of qualified  potential investors  for                                            Bring Telecom Kenya to the point of sale.
privatizing Telecom Kenya Ltd., and begin due diligence
process
MTEF - Expenditure      Present to Parliament a budget consistent with MTEF-PRSP   Establish an objective, rational and poverty-
Prioritization and      to emphasize resource allocations to core povery-reducing
Poverty                 activities. Establish quarterly budget commitment, rather  focused resource allocation crteria for the
than the single commitment, for core poverty programs;  resources flowing to districts. Publicize the
criteria and the allocations.
Establish quaterly budget conunitments, rather than single                                          Publicize quarterly report on the transfer of budgeted
commitments, for core poverty programs. Reforms will shift                                         funds to core poverty programs to the districts and the
sector spending in consonance with the PRSP and stated   budgeted funds to core poverty programs to  utilization of such funds at the local level. Act on
priorities in the areas of agriculture, education, health, safe  the districts and the utilization of such funds at  report as appropriate
water and infrastructure.                               the local level.
Present  report  on  the  financing  and   Present updated  report on  the  financing  and
expenditures on core poverty programs that  expenditures  on  core  povery  programs  that
demonstrates fund release to high priority  demonstrates fund release to high priority sectors are
sectors are consistent with budgeted 2000/01   consistent with budgeted 2000/01 quarterly financial
quarterly financial plans.                  plans.



Page 3 of 4
Major Reform Area             Initial Actions                                 Further ActionstmI lementation            Implementation/Results
(a) Health                    Reduce the budget for KNH from 14.6 percent to
13.6 percent of the Ministry of Health recurrent
budget Increase funding for rural health care
service delivery and expand immunization program.
Strengthen capacity and coordination to respond to   Develop a financing plan for NACC and make
the HIV/AIDS epidemic at all levels by establishing  it operational, including a financing plan for
and making operational AIDS Coordination Units
(ACUs) and National AIDS Coordination Council  ministerial HIV/AIDS programs.
(NACC) at all levels.
(b) Education                                                                                                           Review  and  rationalize  primary  school  level
curriculum, including reduction of subjects taught from
13 to 7 and reduction in examinable subjects from 7 to
5
Review and rationalize curriculum for secondary
schools, including reduction of subjects from 36 to 17.
Limit core curriculum to 10 subjects and linit core
curriculum to 8 examinable subjects.
Publicize results of the review and audit of  Cabinet approval of strategy to improve targeting of
existing bursary and loan scheme          bursary and loan scheme to ensure that financial
suppott benefits nainly the poor
(c) Roads                     Clarify amendments to the Kenya Roads Board Act  Make Roads Board operational
in terms of the role of the (a) District Roads
Committees, (b) Local authorities in the roads sector
and (c) purpose of roads fund allocated to districts
Private Sector Development     Liberalize small farmer tea processing by abolishing
KTDA in its present form and allowing individual
tea factories to. operate independeritly
Cabinet approval of Paper separating the regulatory
function of the coffee board from its marketing role,
with the aim of liberalizing coffee marketing.
Implementation to be part of the final PRSP.



Page 4 of 4
Major Reform Area             Initial Actions                                Further Actions/Implementation             Implementation/Results
Household safety and security  Begin to implement measures aimed at improving   Continue  implementation  of safety  and
household safety and the quality of policing and  security  program, including  adoption  of
safety nationwide                              monitorable performance contract
Portfolio Improvement         Establish  Operational framework  for project-  Establish Task Force to revise Exchequer and  Present to Parliament amendments (based on Task
specific on-shore special accounts and provide  Audit Act and other financial regulations and  force recommendation) to the Exchequer and Audit
evidence that flow of funds to the district level has  procedures with a view to improving timely  Act for streamlining flow of funds to development
improved                                       flow of funds to the districts level.      projects.
Report on the implementation of procurement reforms
and update quarterly reporting on the implementation
of the March 2000 circular to facilitate flow of funds to
Special Accounts.



Kenya at a glance                                                           AnnexD
Sub-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                        Saharan      Low-
Kenya     Africa  Income      Development diamond
1998
Population, mid-year (millions)                     28.7       627     3,536                Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atlas rnethod USS)                  330        510      520
GNP (Atlas method, USS billions)                     9.5       323     1,842
Average annual growth, 1993-99
Population (%)                                       2.5       2.6       1.7                    X               G
Labor force I7%)                                     2.7       2.6       1.9     GNP                            6ross
per                           primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1993-99)                            capita                     enrollment
Poverty (% of populatlon below national poverty line)
Urban population (% of total population)              31        33       30
Life expectancy at birth (years)                     57         50       63
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)               ..       92       68
Child malnutrition (% of children urnder 5)           23        33       36               Access to safe water
Access to safe water (% of population)                53        43        73
Illiteracy (% of population age 1S+)                   .        40       31
Gross primary enrollment (% of school-age populaion)  89        78      107                 Kenya
Male                                                89        85       112                 Low-incone group
Female                                             88         71       102
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1979    1989      1998      1999
Economic ratlosV
GOP (US$ billions)                          6.2      8.3      11.6      10.9
Gross domestic investment/GDP               18.1    20.6      14.4      15.3                    Trade
Exports of goods and services/GDP          25.8    23.1       24.6      24.7
Gross domestic savingstGDP                 16.4    17.3        9.5       7.1
Gross national savings1GOP                 13.0    14.4       13.5       9.8
Current account balance/GDP                 -7.2    -8.1      -4.0      -5.3     Domes6 c
Interest payments/GDP                       1.7      2.4       1.5       1.3     DStic                       Investment
Total debt/GDP                             43.6    70.3       58.1      63.2         g
Total debt service/exports                  18.3    39.3      25.7      27.4
Present value of debt/GDP                   0.0
Present value of debtexports                0.0
Indebtedness
1979-89  1989-99    1998      1999   1999-03
(average annual growth)
GOP                                 4.0     2.2      1.8        1.6      3.5-Kna - ownor  gu
GNP per capita                      0.3    -0.1      0.2      -1.9       1.2      -Kenya            Lo-income group
Exports of goods and services       3.0     1.7    -5.8        4.5       5.0
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1979    1989      1998      1999     Growth of investment and GOP (/)
(% or GDP)                                                                       20
Agriculture                                34.6    30.7       26.1      27.0    is
Industry                                    19.9    18.9      16.2      16.8    10
Manufacturing.                            12.3    11.6       10.8      11.2     5
Services                                   45.6    50.4       57.7      56.2      o
-54.   94   95   9    97   99
Private consumption                        64.4    64.8       74.5      77.1    *r 
General government consumption              19.2    17.9       16.1     15.7                   G0  GDP
Imports of goods and services              31.6    30.4       32.3      32.8
(average anlnual growth)                1979-89  1989-99      1998      1999     Growth of exports and Import (%)
Agriculture                                  3.2     1.2        1.6      1.0    40
Industry                                    3.7      2.0        1.3      1.4    3
Manufacturing                              4.7      2.5       1.3       1.4    2
Services                                     4.9     3.3       2.1      -2.3    *o
Private consumption                         3.8      2.5      -3.8      11.7
General govemment consumption               2.1    10.7        11.0    -11.5   -10
Gross domestic investment                   0.5      3.1       5.8      -6.4    -
lmports of goods and services               -0.3     7.9       -4.2     -1.7                 Expots     *    Imports
Gross national product                       3.9     2.5       2.7       0.5
Note: 1999 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.



Kenya
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1979     1989      1998      1999     Inflation 1%)
Domestic prikes
(% change)                                                                        so
Consumer prices                              10.2    -26.3       6.6       7.2    40
Implicit GDP deflator                         5.6      8.4      10.6       5.0    30
20 4 X.
Government finance                                                                10-
(% of GOP, Includes curmnt grants) o
Current revenue                               0.0    25.5       27.6      24.1            94   9f   9D   97   9r   99
Current budget balance                        0.0      2.5       2.7       1.3                 GOP dellator    0  CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                       0.0    -4.7        0.1      -1.7
TRADE
(UIS$ mwilions)                             1979     1989       1998     1999      Export and Import levels (USS mill.)
Total exports (fob)                         1,128     913      2012      1,813     3soo
Fuel                                        186       42       149       144    3S000
Coffee                                      302      153       212       174     20oo
Manufactures                                145      137       220       238    zro-r
Total imports (cii)                         1,693    1,978     3.307    3.295      Ioo      
Food                                         90      114      1,044    1,116    1.0_
Fuel and energy                             402      315       532       532      500
Capital goods                               341      497       920       842        a
Export price index (1995=1400)                72       81         99       85            93   s    45  s5   r   Oa  9s
Import price index (1995=100)                130      132         86       96                 GExports      CImports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                     56       61        115       89                                        ......
BALANCE ot PAYMENTS
(US$ mdilions)                                       1989       1998     1999      Current account balance to GDP (%)
Exports of goods and services               1,571    1,905     2,849    2,616      3
Imports of goods and services               1,922    2,417     3,737    3.479      2
Resource balance                             -351     -511      -888      -863        n
Net income                                   -224    -244       -133      -278     .o  s    s4   95   9    9s   98   99
Net current transfers                        124       79        554      564    -2
Current account balance                     -451      -676      -467      -577    ;3
-4-
Financing items (net)                        754      736        509      553    .5-s
Changes in net reserves                      -303      -60       -42       24    .8
Memo:
Reserves including gold (USS millions)       669      327        783      697
Conversion rate (DEC. localUSS)               7.5    20.6       60.4      68.4
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1979    1989       1998      1999
(USS millions)                                                                     Composition of 1999 debt (USS mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed        2,718    5,862      6,724    6.894
IBRO                                       274      889        147       91
IDA                                        149      893      2,198     2,340                G:859   9
Total debt service                           299       756       743       727
IBRD                                        34      150         84       76   |B:2,340
IDA                                          2        8         30       40         F: SS7
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                            116      379
Ofricial creditors                          189     384         19       -33
Private creditors                          205      163         41      262                                   C: 13i
Foreign direct investment                   84       62          .E |                  E: 2.000
Portolio equity                              0        0          ..       ..                              0:612
World Bank program
Commitments                                 137     393        245         0     A - IBRD                      - 84519151
Disbursements                               61      245         84       153     B-IDA    0 - Other multiateral  F - Priwate
Principal repayments                          7      79         81        87     C-IMF                       C -5)11514Mm
Ned lows                                    54      165          i        66
Interest payments                           28       79         33        29
Net transfers                               26       86        -30       37
Development Economics                                                                                                 6/2100



Annex E
Page 1 of 2
Kenya - Key Economic Indicators
Actual               Estimate            Projected
Indicator              1994    1995    1996    1997    1998    1999    2000    2001    2002
National accounts (as % of GDP)
Gross domestic product'                 100     100     100      100     100     100      100     100      100
Agriculture                            33      31       30      27      26       27      28      28       29
Industry                               17       16      16      15       16      17      17       17      18
Services                               49      53       54      57      58       56      55      54       54
Total Consumption                        78      84      84       89      91      93       93      93       92
Gross domestic fixed investment          16      17      16       15      14      15       16      16       15
Government investment                   3       0        4       3       3        3       3        3       3
Private investment                     14       17      13      12      12       12      12       13      12
(includes increase in stocks)
Exports (GNFS)b                          37      33      33      28       25      25       25      24       25
Imports (GNFS)                           34      39      37       36      32      33       34      34       32
Gross domestic savings                   22      16      16       11       9       7        7       7        8
Gross national savingsc                  19      16      20       15      14       10      10      10       11
Memorandum items
Gross domestic product                 7149    9047    9220   10572   11579   10603   11042   11654   12360
(USS million at current prices)
GNP per capita (USS, Atlas method)      260     280     320     350      360     360      390     380      380
Real annual growth rates (%. calculated from 1982 prices)
Gross domestic product at market prices    2.6  4.4    4.1     2.1      1.8     1.6     2.5      3.0      3.5
Gross Domestic Income                 7.9      2.7     4.8     2.8      0.4    -0.5      0.3     0.5      5.6
Real annual per capita growth rates (%, calculated from 1982 prices)
Gross domestic product at market prices    0.0  1.8    1.6    -0.4    -0.6    -0.8       0.2     0.7      1.2
Total consumption                      6.4    10.5     0.2      3.9    -2.0    -1.5    -2.4    -1.1       0.4
Private consumption                    0.2    11.9     0.3    -2.1    -6.8      5.0    -1.5    -0.4       0.1
Balance of Payments (USS millions)
Exports (GNFS)b                       2647    2948    3019    2972    2849    2616    2753    2854    3055
Merchandise FOB                     1484    1924    2083    2060    2012    1813    1835    1933    2069
Imports (GNFS)b                      2420    3512    3366    3770    3737    3479    3708    4007    3941
Merchandise FOB                     1761    2636    2512    2944    3028    2840    3047    3269    3206
Resource balance                       227    -563    -347    -797    -888    -863    -955   -1153    -886
Net current transfers                  148     408     433      497     554      564     522     576      546
Current account balance                100    -385      -14    -390    467    -498    -592    -725    -492
Net private foreign direct investment    4      33      13       40      40      40       40      40       40
Long-term loans (net)                 -122      29      -12    -106     -36    -188    -155       91      192
Official                              -23     294      94      23        7      -33      99      58       -4
Private                               -99    -265    -106    -130      43    -155    -254        33      195
Other capital (net, incLdcerors&oommisions)  122  190  431     461      504     622      730     824      452
Change in reserves"                   -104     133    -417       -5     -42       24     -23    -230    -192
Memorandum items
Resource balance (% of GDP)             3.2    -6.2    -3.8    -7.5    -7.7    -8.1    -8.7    -9.9    -7.2
Real annual growth rates ( YR82 prices)
Merchandise exports (FOB)              7.0    18.8    12.5    -6.2       9.0     5.4     7.5      5.0     4.1
Primazy                              -6.8    27.1    12.0   -14.9    13.0    10.1       8.0      4.4     4.2
Manufactures                         1o.2     9.4    18.8      5.2      2.9     7.7     5.9      6.2      6.2
Merchandise imports (CIF)             30.6    17.3    -2.7      8.9      1.6    -2.3    -0.2      0.1      3.0
(Continued)



Annex E
Page 2 of 2
Kenya - Key Economic Indicators
(Continued)
Actual               Estimate             Projected
Indicator              1994    1995    1996    1997    1998    1999    2000    2001    2002
Public finance (as % of GDP at market prices)'
Current revenues                      31.1    31.0    28.9    27.4    27.6    24.1    24.1    24.2    24.1
Current expenditures                  27.8    25.1    25.2    24.5    24.8    22.8    22.4    21.7    20.8
Current account surplus (+) or deficit (-)    3.3  5.9  3.7     2.9     2.7      1.3     1.7     2.5      3.3
Capital expenditure                    6.9     6.5     5.4      5.0     4.0     3.2      3.4     3.5      3.3
Foreign fmnancing                     -0.4    -0.4    -0.4    -0.9    -0.9    -1.3       1.1      0.6    -0.4
M-onetary indicators
M2/GDP                                40.6    41.5    52.9    48.6    47.3    45.5    45.5    45.5    45.5
Growth of M2 (%)                      30.4    18.6    44.4      8.2     9.7     2.4      7.6      8.2     8.7
Private sector credit growth 1        42.9    78.1    88.7    80.7   349.5    87.6    98.5    98.4    98.2
total credit growth (%)
Price indices( YR82 =100)
Merchandise export price index       122.0   133.2   128.2   135.1   121.0   103.5    97.4    97.7   100.4
Merchandise import price index        77.4    99.0    97.1    99.2    99.1   101.0   107.4   116.4   110.9
Mierchandise terns of trade index    157.7   134.5   132.0   136.2   122.1   102.4    90.7    84.0    90.6
Real exchange rate (US$/LCU)W        113.1   117.8   113.4   124.4   129.5   144.6   144.6   144.6   144.6
Real interest rates
Consuinerprice index (%change)        28.8     1.5     9.0    11.2      6.6      7.2     7.8      7.2     3.8
GDP deflator (% change)               35.2    11.2     8.7    15.5    10.6       5.0     5.0      5.0     5.0
a. GDP at factor cost
b. `GNFS" denotes "goods and nonfactor services."
c. Includes net unrequited transfers excluding official capital grants.
d. Includes use of IMF resources.
e. Consolidated central government.
f. "LCU" denotes "local currency units." An increase in US$/LCU denotes appreciation.



Annex F-
Page 1 of 1
Kenya - Key Exposure Indicators
Actual               Estimate             Projected
Indicator              1994   1995    1996    1997    1998    1999    2000    2001    2002
Total debt outstanding and          7168    7376    6904    6486    6724    6894    6645    6543    6610
disbursed (TDO) (US$m)'
Net disbursements (US$m)a           -348     106    -175       89      396     167    -249       -98      65
Total debt service (TDS)             877     894      841     665     677      727      707     612      422
(US$m)'
Debt and debt service indicators
(%)
TDO/XGSb                          268.7   248.0   227.0   215.4   232.6   259.4   237.6   225.2   212.2
TDO/GDP                           100.3    81.5    74.9    61.3    58.1    65.0    60.2    56.1    53.5
TDS/XGS                            32.9    30.1    27.6    22.1    23.4    27.4    25.3    21.1    13.5
Concessional/TDO                   47.3    52.5    56.8    57.5    59.5    62.5    69.4    74.7    75.0
IBRD exposure indicators (%)
IBRD DS/public DS                  21.5    19.6    17.2    17.5    14.7    10.5        6.9     4.6      3.6
PreferredcreditorDS/public         34.1    36.6    38.1    47.0    40.7    35.2    31.0    28.8    37.9
DS (%)o
BRD DS/XGS                          5.8     4.8      4.0     3.2      2.9     2.9      1.7     1.0      0.5
IBRD TDO (US$m)                    501     435      312     213      147      91       50      26       13
Of which present value of
guarantees (US$m)
Share of IBRD portfolio (%)          ..      ..       ..      ..       ..      ..
IDATDO(US$m)d                     1789    1977    2062    2032    2198    2340    2587    2846    2947
IFC (US$m)
Loans
Equity and quasi-equity /c
MIGA
M1GA guarantees (US$m)
a. Includes public and publicly guaranteed debt, private nonguaranteed, use of IMF credits and net short-
term capital.
b. "XGS" denotes exports of goods and services, including workers' remittances.
c. Preferred creditors are defined as IBRD, IDA, the regional multilateral development banks, the IMF, and the
Bank for International Settlements.
d. Includes present value of guarantees.
e. Includes equity and quasi-equity types of both loan and equity instruments.



Arex G
Kenya - Balance of Payments                                                                                     Page l ot 2
(USS millions at cutrent prices)
Base-case (most likely) projection
Actual                        Esdimate                                 PronediO,s
1994        1995        1996         1997      1998         1999        2000         2001        2002         2003         2008
Total iexports ofGNFS'                            2647.3      2948.4       3019.4      2972.4     2849.4      2616.0       2753.0      2854.0       3054.9      3251.3
Meahandie(0FOB)                               1483.9       1923.8      2083.3      2059.5     2012.0       1812.6      1835.0       1932.9      2068.8       2197.4
Nonfactoraevices                              1163A        1024.5       936.2       912.9      837.4       803.4        918.0        921.0       986.1       1053.9
Totl ImporlsofGNFS                                2420.0      3511.7       3366.3      3769.5     3736.9      3479.2       3708.2      4006.6       3940.6       4087.9
Merchandise(FOB)                              1761.3      2636.0       2512.2      2944.0     3028.1      2840.4       3047.3      3269.1       3206.3       3326.2
Nonfactorservices                              658.6        875.6       854.0       825.5      708.8       638.7        660.9        737.5       734.3        761.6
Resource balance                                   227.3      -563.3       -346.8      -7971       .887.5     .863.2       .955.2      -1152.6      -885.7       -836.5
Not factor income                                 -361.3      -320.1       -225.9      .172.2     -133.5      -278.3       -252.4       -213.3      -209.6       *200.0
Factorcrceipts                                   20.9        25.8        21.5         38.6      41.2         41.5        43.3         51.4        60.1         68.9
Pactorpaynents                                  382.2       345.9       247.4        210.8      174.7       319.8        295.7       264.7       269.8        269.0
Interet (scheduled)                         382.2       345.9        247.4       210.8      174.7        145.1       121.0         90.0        95.1         943
TotWlinterestpaid                        29.9       325.4       247.4        192.1      140.1       145.1        121.0        90.0         95.1        94.3
Net adjustments to cheduled interest    352.3        20.5         0.0         18.7       34.6         0.0          0.0         0.0          0.0         0.0          0.0
Otherfactorpaymcnts                           0.0         0.0          0.0         0.0        0.0       174.7        174.7        174.7       174.7        174.7
Netprivatecwrentt uesfm                            147.5       408.0        433.1       497.0      554.0       564.2        522.3       575.7        545.9       457.9
Currnt receipts, ofwhich                        208.2       451.2       436.9        532.5      518,6       608.0       567.2        622.0       593.8        507.5
Workers' remittances            .             0.0         0.0         0.0          0.0        0.0         0.0          0.0         0.0          0.0         0.0
Curent paments                                   60.7        43.2         3.8        35.5       -35.4        43.8        44.9         46.3        47.9         49.6
Net official current trnsfers                        0.0         0.0         0.0          0.0        0.0         0.0          0.0         0,0          0.0         0.0
Curent ctountmtalance                               13.5      -475A4      -139.6       -472.2     .466.9      .577.3       -685.4      -790.3       -549.4      -578.7
Officialcapital pants                               86.8        90.1        125.2        82.5        0.0        79.1         93.8        65.3         57.6        60.5
Private investment (net)                             4.0        33.0         13.0        40.0       40.0        40.0         40.0        40.0         40.0        40.0
Directfoteigninvetmtent                          4.0        33.0         13.0        40.0       40.0        40.0         40.0        40.0         40.0        40.0
Poitfolio investmets                            °0,0         0.           0,0         0.0        0.0         0.0          0.0         0.0          0,0         0.0
NetLT'1bosnwing                                   -122.1        28.9        -12.5      -106.4      -35.9      -188.0       -155.0        90.9        191.8       138.0
Disburseme:t                                   233.0       694.2        437.2       286.6      454.1       746.5        272.5       339.8        330.6       340.0
Rep yments (scheduled)                         459.6       439.4       451.7        439.7      502.0       573.0        555.0       490.0        326.0       265.0
Total uPrcipalspsid,                      296.5       439.4       451.7        439.7      423.0       458.0        555.0       490.0       326,0        265.0
Net adjusurents to scheduled repayments    163.1         0.0         0.0         0.0       79.0        115.0         0.0          0.0         0.0          0.0         0.0
Net otheLT inflows                             104.5      .225.9         2.0         46.7       12.0      .361.5        127.5       241.1        187,2        63.0(contiU
L Gedsandntrctservices.
b D&ta-YRtieal dat ftm Debt Repating System (DRS). other dat projected by country operations division staff.
e. 'Lr denotes 'Icng4r.'



Arms G
Kenya - Balance of Payments (continued)                                                                                    p    20f2
liwe-cow (most likelyr) Projection                                           (USS millions at current pyices)
Achto                          Esdmate                                    PFojedron
1994        1995         1996         1997       199X         1999         2000         2001         2002         2003         200B
Adjustbmetstoschdlleddebtservice                     515.4         20.5         0.0         18.7       113.6       115.0          0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0
Debtservicenotpaid                               515.4        20.5          0.0         10.7      113.6        115.0          0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0
Rcduction in arears/prepayments (.)                0.0          0.0         0.0          0.0        0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0
Othercapitalflows                                   .393.3        169.8       431.3        442.7      390.8        506.9        729.7        823.7.       452.4        632.7
Netshozt.termcapital                             -65.0          6.1       -84.3        251.2      410.0          0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0
Net capital flows ne.i.d                           0.0        184.2       166.0         36.0        0.0        586.0        797.0        721.0        420.0        250.0
Errors and omissions                            -328.3       .20.5        349.6        155.5      -19.2         79.1         -67.3       102.7         32.4        382.7
Change innet inteenatinal reserves                  .104.3        133.1      -417.4         -5.2      -41.6         24.3        -23.1        -229.6      -192.4       -292.5
(- indicates inaeue in assets)
Menorandum items
Total gross reserves,ofwhich                      625.3       473.1        869.6        811.0      783.4        696.8        734.0        996.5       1227.9       1494.4
Total reserves ninusgold                      610.1        457.7       854.S        788.0      783.4        696.8        734.0        996.5       1227.9       1494.4
Gold(atyear-endLondon price)                   15.2         15.4        14.8         23.0        0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0
Total grossreserves(inmonthss'importsG&S')          2.7          1.5         2.9          2.4        2.4          2.2          2.2          2.8          3.5          4.1
Exchange rates
Annualavesage(LCUUSS)t                              56.1         51.4         57.1         58.7       60.4         70.3         72.7         74.5         76.3         78.2
Atendyear(LCU/JSS)                                  44.8         55.9         55.0        62.7        61.9         72,9         73.6         75.4         77.2         79.1            -
Indexrealaverageexchsngerate(YR82 -100)            113.1        117.8        113.4        1244       129.5        1446         144.6        144.6        144.6        1446           0.0
CufrentAccount Balance as% GDP                         0.2         -5.3        -1.5         4.5        -4.0         -5.4         -6.2         .6.8          4.4          -4.3
4. 'ne.i.' denotes 'not el6ewhere included.'
e. 'O & S' denotes 'goods and services.'
t 'LCU' denotes 'local curency units.'
g. The index ofthe real exchange rate reflects USSILCU, so an increase is an appreciation at the rcal exchange rate.



Kenya Social Indicators                                               Annex H
Latest single year            Same regionlincome group
Sub-
Saharan         Low-
1970-76     1980485      1993-98            Africa       income
POPULATION
Total populafion, mid-year (millions)           13.7         19.9         29.3            627.3        3,536.4
Growth rate (% annual average)                 3.6          3.6         2.1               2.2           1.4
Urban populaton (% of populabon)                12.9         19.8         31.3             33.3          30.5
Total fertility rate (births perwoman)           8.1          7.7         4.6               5.4           3.1
POVERTY
(% of population)
Natonal headcount index
Urban headcount index                           ..           ..
Rural headcount index
INCOME
GNP per capita (US$)                            250          310          350               510           520
Consumerprice index (1995=100)                     6          21          129               128           136
Food price index (1995=1 00)                       .           0          130
INCOMEICONSUMPTION DISTRIBUTION
Gini index                                        ..           ..         44.5
Lowest quintile (°b of income or consumption)    2.6           ..          5.0
Highest quintile (% of income or consumption)   60.4           ..         50.2
SOCIAL INDICATORS
Public expenditure
Health (% of GDP)                                .            ..         2.2               1.5           1.3
Education (% of GNP)                           6.3          6.4          6.5              4.1            3.2
Social security and welfare (% of GOP)
Net primary school enrollment rate
(% of age group)
Total                                           88           78          65                 ..           86
Male                                          93           78          63                 ..           89
Female                                        83           77          67                 ..           82
Access to safe water
(% of populatfon)
Total                                            ..          27          53
Urban                                         ..          61           67
Rural                                         ..           21          49
Immunization rate
(% under 12 monfhs)
Measles                                         ..           63          32                58            80
DPT                                              ..          70          36                53            82
Child malnutrition (% under 5 years)              ..            .          23
Life expectancy at birth
(years)
Total                                           51           56          51                50            63
Male                                          49           54           50               49            62
Female                                        53           58           52               52            64
Mortality
Infant (per thousand live births)               98           66          76                92            68
Under 5 (per thousand live births)             156           90         124               151            92
Adult (15-59)
Male (per 1,000 population)                  467          417          442              432           235
Female (per 1,000 population)                379          339          418              383           208
Matemal (per 100,000 live births)               ..           ..         590
2000 World Development Indicators CD-ROM, World Bank



Annex I
Page 1 of 2
KENYA
Status of Bank Group Operations (Operations Portfolio)
Closed Projects:   109
Difference Between
Board                                                    Last PSR                                                            Expectted and Actual
Date                                               Supervision Rating bl              Oriainal Amount in USS Millions         Disbursemntsw
FiscalDgeo nt                                                  mpeetf-_
Year  Active Projects                          Obecvesoen    Imolementation             IBRD        IDA    Cancel.  Undisb.     Orig. Frm Revd
1993    P001348   PARASTATAL REFORM TA               U               U                      0       23.32         0     1.31      2.28        0
1994    P001353   MICRO & SMALL ENTERP               s               S                      0       21.83         0    15.81     13.28      9.49
1995    P001367   INST. DEVELOPMENT                  U               U                       0      25.35         0     6.84      8.69        0
1995    P001333   SEXUALLY TRANSMITTED               S               S                      0         40          0     5.18      4.48        0
1996    P001331   ARID LANDS                         S               S                      0         22          0      11.9    10.91        0
1996    P035691   NAIROBI MOMBASA ROAD               s               s                      0         50          0    20.74     16.82        0
1996    P001319   URBANTRANSPORT                     S               s                      0        115          0    58.64     23.45        0
1997    P034180   EARLY CHILDHOOD DEV               S                S                      0        27.8         0    20.06      8.87        0
1997    P001344   ENERGY SECTOR REFORM              S                S                      0        125          0   105.89     89.88        0
1997    P046838   LAKE VICTORIA ENV.                 S               U                      0        12.8         0     8.52      4.38        0
1997    P001354   NARP II                            S               U                      0        39.7         0    20.44     -4.32        0
1999    P056595   EMERGENCY INFRAS.REHAB             S               s                      a         40          0      33.5    32.83         0
IBRD             IDA           TOTAL
Original Principal:              1,256,214,900    2,911,351,040    4,167,565,940
Cancellations:                    270,343,572      294,775,885     565,119,457
Disbursed:                        985,871,328    2,327,648,664    3,313,519,992
Undisbursed:                                0      325,581,011     325,581,011
Repaid:                           916,859,662      128,075,304    1,044,934,966
Due:                               57,276,326    2,166,724,098    2,224,000,424
Exchange Adjustment:               18,366,988               0       18,366,988
Borrower's Obligaton:              75,643,313    2,166,724,098    2,242,367,411
Sold 3rd Party:                    11,735,341               0       11,735,341
Repaid 3rd Party:                  11,735,341               0       11,735,341
Due 3rd Party:                             0                0               0
a. Intended disbursemenrts to date minus 'actuel disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.



Page 2 of 2
Kenya
Statement of IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
As of 4/30100
(I US Dollars Millions)
Held                      Disbursed
FY Approval                  Company           Loan       Equity Quasi Partic  Loan  Equity Quasi Partic
2000 AEFAAAGrowers          0.4S      0    0       0   0.38      0     0     o
1998 AEFAARClinic              0    0.5     0      0     0    0.5      0     0
1995 AEFBawanRoses          0.25      0     0      0   0.25     0      0     0
1994 AEF Capital Fish       0.19      0     0      0   0.19     0      0     0
1997 AEF Ceres              0.93      0     0      0   0.93     0      0     0
199S AEF Deras Ltd.            I      0    0       0      1     0      0     0
1996 AEFEquitea             0.22   0.12     0      0   0.22   0.12     0     0
1992 AEF Future Hotel       0.28      0     0      0   0.28     0      0     0
1996 AEFK-RepBank              0      1    0       0      0      1     0     0
1995 AEFKihingoRose          0.2      0     0      0    0.2      0     0     0
1996 AEF Landmak            0.38      0     0      0   0.38      0     0     0
1998 AEFLocland              0.5      0     0      0    0.5      0     0     0
1997 AEFMakini              0.45      0     0      0   0.45      0     0     0
1999 AEFMeruLtd.             0.5      0     0      0    0.5      0     0     0
1999 AEF Multi Hauler       0.75      0     0      0   0.75      0     0     0
1997 AEFRedhill Flrs        0.27      0     0      0    0.2      0     0     0
1999 AEFTrnasenergy         0.88      0     0      0   0.88      0     0     0
1999 ANSPAR                    2   0.67     0      0      0   0.67     0     0
1997 CFC                      10      0    0       0     10      0     0     0
1980183/98                   DBK                       10      0     0      0      4      0     0     0
19S2 Diamond Trust             0    0.S    0       0      0    0.     0     0
1994/99                      EARC                       0   0.05     0      0      0   0.05     0     0
1985 EBP                    0.21      0    0       0   0.21      0     0     0
199S GBHL                      7      0    3       0      7      0     3     0
1982 IPS(K)                    0   0.55     0      0      0   0.55     0     0
1986 IPS(K)-Allpack            0   0.05     0      0      0   0.05     0     0
1986 IPS(K)-Fnigoken           0   0.06     0      0      0   0.06     0     0
1986 IPS(K)-PremFood           0   0.11     0      0      0   0.11     0     0
1994 Intl Hotels-Ken        4.29      0     0      0   4.29      0     0     0
1999 K-RepBank                 0   0.43     0      0      0   0.12     0     0
1999 Kenya Comm. Bank         30      0     0      0     10      0     0     0
1983/91                      LIK                        0   0.03     0      0      0   0.03     0     0
1995 MagadiSodaCo.             5      0     0      0      5      0     0     0
1970n4f7717911/88/99/9496    Panafican                14.5     0     0      0   14.5      0     0     0
1972 TPS (Kenya)               0   0.04     0      0      0   0.04     0     0
Total Portfolio:                   90.28   4.41    3      0  62.11    4.1      3     0
Approvals Pendini Commitment
Loan      Equity Quasi Pasiic
2000 AEF Eustoma Ltd         383      0     0      0
1999 AEF Greenland           400      0     0      0
2000 AEF Liki River         1000      0     0      0
2000 AEFMagana            114S.64     0     0      0
1999 CDSC K a                  0    178     0      0
2000 Kipevu 11             17900   1050  2100 17900
2000 Kipevu l-BLINC            0      0     0  2100
2000 Mabati                 7000      0 4500       0
1999 NIC                   15000      0     0      0
2000 NIS Restr Fclty           0 10000      0      0
Total Pending Commitment             42831.64 11228  6600 20000



MAP SECTION






IBRD 261SOR
SUDAN                            >
To Kopoeto                        \..
(N 6> tsKENYA
rURKANA                                             No%Ifrl/ q              To Addis Abobo                                            MA/ ER
rkano~ ~ ~~
La\ \- - t. (TurkeJnO                E- <                             /ffMANDE
RIFTA                    Kit/                                                  
<    >   VALLEYS    X                       EASTERN                               /                                        r
NORT4\   J
J >t x, , . | t > ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~WAJR    JIR
'atJl
(. <tPOO .............. 4- *SAMBURU   - S/E 
*   NZOIA I  M MARA?&/ET \      ./  s                                                                     
UASIN ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C
I~~~~~~~~~IH.
D _ vIST8ARICT; \,fASTERN o
A        ; \<          (    ,.,                     /tM~~~~~~~                                                      ~     ~~~~~~~ERU      T. Gio.mom
\,- SIAYA ...... <: f ... 9.>? iw '° .W~\ ... >KIRINYAGA .......  ,
INTNATIONAL BOUNDAR'IGESRISSA
i       £         iERI~~~CHO'5;.aC, YR > > iUx                                                                               AIS
.   NAROK,.\ :At
Grup, any  dIFTt an he legal stu   f  y t         y  o 
Ten ormT oraeptance                                                                                          TANAoRIVf u     'uoe
.  MACHAKOS   ,                             
- v   V !IADY                                                 7/ C O AAS TADO
O          "AOR TOWNS                     4     ;        <N                                                                  >        i':..~'' 
NATIONAL CAPITAL                     TAruh              "\ di'Z>~/1X                                                         - o 
MAIN ROADS \  AT  UIX-. .,.,~.,
>+NATIONAL AIRPORTS                                    bVol ?.7-;?---?      
*    INTERNATIONALAIRPORTS                                                                                                SUDANh n>\<   y;-J9
-         ^-DISTRICT BOUNDARIES                                               \      ,     S                            
-f@INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                                                                                        &....  .,_;<
?D       50      10        5         0iioee\\                6       -    -        S     KEtNYA         E 
This rap was prepared by the Map Unit of the World Bcank. 0            50             lOOMiles           Tof` B?UNDIA   
The bouncdaries, coiors, denominations and any other information                                       To                                     BUoo   {  '":      i\TANZNAW  .Oe?
shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank                                          r      m[                              rt,   . ...-:
Goup  n  jdgeto  the begrIhrtatus of any territory, or any                                                     1          ??-     :       1     zx       t     
enG.dorse;.ment o .r gm;epto.n,eo such boundaries.V                                                                   - ;      - - .9    gMu                -    



