Report No. PID8966
Project Name                     Kenya-Economic and Public Sector Reform...
Credit
Region                           Eastern Africa
Sector                           Multi-sector Operation
Project ID                       KEPE69501
Borrower                         The Republic of Kenya
Implementation Agency            Ministry of Finance
Treasury Building, Harambee Avenue
P.O. Box 30007
Nairobi, Kenya
Tel: (254) 2 338111
Date initial PID was Prepared    April 21,  2000
Date of this PID                 July 28, 2000
Country Team Review Meeting      March 3, 2000
OC Review Meeting                March 31, 2000
Project Appraisal Date           May 8, 2000
Project Board Date               August 1, 2000
Country Background
Kenya has a population of 29 million and a per capita income of US$330. The
country has enjoyed a remarkable political stability. Democratic reforms, in
the form of multi-party elections, initiated in the early 1990s have resulted
in a more open society, a vibrant press and the emergence of civic
organizations that are a major force in demanding further and deeper reforms.
The Government has maintained a prudent fiscal stance with a fiscal deficit
of 0.7T of GDP in 1998/99; inflation is in single digits. But the overall
economic situation is difficult. The 1999/00 budget has been hit hard by a
shortfall in revenues, resulting mainly from lower than expected corporate
and import taxes. Net outflows of long-term and medium-term capital -
related mainly to the bunching of debt service and reduced concessional aid -
are large, averaging 1.75w of GDP a year since the mid-1990s. Kenya is
finding it difficult to maintain basic public assets and services it
developed in the past decades. The last policy-based operation, approved in
June 1996, was cancelled without disbursing the final tranche because of
inadequate implementation. Political pressures associated with the 1997
elections were a major reason for the poor performance. Though the Government
revived the reform program after the elections, momentum had been lost. It
was realized that new more far-reaching measures were needed.
The numbers of the poor are rising, with declining per capita income and
falling access to basic social services. Headcount poverty is estimated at
about 52t in 1997.   The gross primary enrollment ratio fell from 949 to 89t
between 1983 and 1998; for secondary schools it fell from 31t to 23; during
the same period. The HIV/AIDS epidemic is taking a heavy toll. In March
1999, the Government launched a National Poverty Eradication Plan (NPEP) for
1999-2015, aimed at reducing the numbers of the poor by a half.    The plan



stresses empowerment of civic groups in income generating activities; and
better coverage of basic services with emphasis on education, health and
water. The NPEP has been incorporated in the Government's Interim Poverty
Reduction Strategy Paper (IPRSP), which has been prepared in consultation
with a broad range of Kenyan stakeholders and in collaboration with the Bank
and the IMF.
Credit Rationale and Objective
The Government announced a Change Initiative in July 1999, and it appointed a
new team to manage the reform renewal. The change team (as well as the
President and Cabinet) have publicly embraced the PRSP as an instrument for
building consensus within Kenyan society on the need for, and direction of,
reforms. The priorities of the reforms are fully consistent with the Bank's
Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) presented to the Board in September 1998.
The CAS highlights problems of economic governance, especially corruption;
malfunctioning public institutions, including public enterprises; and poor
utilization of public resources, as the main challenges to economic growth
and poverty reduction. The Government's commitment to improving the use of
public resources is evident from the reduced fiscal deficit and its
restrained approach to domestic borrowing, and the preparations that have
been made to implement a medium-term expenditure framework (MTEF) in the
coming fiscal year - starting in July 2000. Reforms are at various stages of
implementation. For example, a functioning anti-corruption agency has been
established, and further legislation is underway to strengthen its capacity
and legal autonomy. The office of the Controller and Auditor General (C&AG)
has been strengthened with more skilled staff to raise the quality and timely
completion of audit reports. A bill is being prepared to enhance the
autonomy of the C&AG. Flagrant corruption in many public agencies, such as
the coffee, tea, and fisheries boards, and the Ministry of Lands, is being
uncovered, and new managers have been brought in to restore control.
However, some aspects of the reforms, especially the civil service reforms,
face a severe budget crunch. The development budget for 1999/00 has been cut
by 28w, compared to the previous year, implying delays in urgently needed
repairs to Kenya's dilapidated infrastructure. Since earlier domestic
borrowings are of short-term maturity and must be rolled over as they come
due, higher interest rates could apply to most of the debt stock. There is a
risk of rising interest rates for the budget and private sector recovery,
forcing further stringent expenditure policy in an economy that is already
stagnating. Thus, external financing is essential to support the reform
effort.
The Credit will support the Government to sustain and consolidate its efforts
to achieve a prudent fiscal and financial stance, while implementing
structural and public sector reforms, and provide the budget space and
improved efficiency for increased targeting of interventions for the poor.
The reforms aim to enhance the outlook for growth and a return to the path of
progress that had been made in poverty reduction in Kenya in the 1970s and
1980s.
L
oan Description:
The credit is focused on reforms under way in the following five core areas
which are considered to be triggers in our CAS. Specific policy actions and
monitorable indicators have been developed during appraisal and negotiations
on the basis of consultations held in the preparation of the IPRSP. The
reforms are being reinforced by an IMF agreement with the authorities on a
- 2-



PRGF arrangement.
*       An improvement in the governance framework, particularly in areas that
would help to ensure that public sector spending is untainted by
corruption.
*       The introduction of a budget consistent with the resource envelope
constraints implied by a realistic MTEF.
*       Related to the MTEF, a shift in the composition of public expenditure
towards the priority poverty-reducing programs identified in the IPRSP.
*       Implementation of a right-sizing of Government, consistent with a
refocusing of the public sector on its core functions and the policy
priorities of the IPRSP and MTEF.
*       Implementation of a new and more ambitious privatization strategy.
Financing
IDA financing is SDR 113.1 million (US$150 million equivalent). The credit
will be disbursed in three tranches; the first tranche of SDR 37.7 million
(US$50 million equivalent) will be disbursed on effectiveness. The second and
third tranches of SDR 37.7 million (US$50 million equivalent) each are linked
to performance on specific indicators. Additional support is being provided
by DFID, African Development Bank and the EU for specific components of the
reform program.
Environment
The proposed operation has no major environmental issues that need to be
addressed.
Implementation Arrangements
The overall responsibility for the implementation of the reforms rests with
the Change management Team, which includes high level officials in the Office
of the President, the Ministry of Finance and other key ministries. The team
has the full support of the President. The Bank is stressing actions that
flow from the IPRSP consultation process that can enjoy broad political
support to sustain the implementation of the reforms.
Risks
The main risk is that progress may be uneven or reversed. Kenya's political
will to undertake necessary reforms, which challenge powerful vested
interests, remain to be tested. Fears of continuing economic stagnation
could reinforce opposition to reforms that involve retrenchment and limiting
employment in the public sector. Kenya is facing severe external shocks,
including a devastating drought and a sharp deterioration in the terms of
trade: declining prices for tea and coffee that account for about a third of
exports, and sharp increases in oil prices. In addition, the broad range of
difficult structural and institutional reforms require a strong management
structure and administrative capacity. While no one can guarantee
development without risks, the operation is being designed to give
encouragement to a coherent and sustained implementation of the package. The
CAS triggers call for a change in the balance of power within Kenya. First
they require a strengthening of independent institutions of economic
governance, and a demonstration of their ability to uphold their mandates.
- 3 -



In addition, the triggers call for an irreversible change in the economic
wiring of the country, by dismantling the reach of the state and moving to
the private provision of infrastructure. The CAS also calls for a gradual
rise in lending to ensure support for the substance rather than the chimera
of reform. An open approach and full public discussion and involvement of
stakeholders has been encouraged to build support for the program. The Bank
and other development partners are prepared to provide technical assistance
to minimize capacity constraints.
Program Categories
The proposed credit contributes to improving economic management, private
sector development and poverty reduction
Contact Points
The InfoShop
1818 H Street NW
Washington D. C. 20433
Telephone:   (202)  458-5454
Fax:   (202) 5221550
Fred Kilby
Technical Manager
AFTM2
Tel: (202)  458   0434
Processed by the InfoShop week ending July 28, 2000.
- 4 -



