                                      Document of
                                    The World Bank




                                                                     Report No: 30969

                        IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                        (IDA-34060 IDA-34061 IDA-34062 IDA-34063)

                                          ON A

                                        CREDIT

                         IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 113.1 MILLION

                                 TO THE REPUBLIC OF

                                        KENYA

                                        FOR AN

                    ECONOMIC AND PUBLIC SECTOR REFORM CREDIT




                                     January 31, 2004




Poverty Reduction and Economic Management 2
Africa Region

                               CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                        (Exchange Rate Effective January 31, 2005)

                                 Currency Unit = SDR 1 = US$1.52
                               Kenya shilling 1 = US$ 76.90
                                         US$ 1 = KES 0.013

                                       FISCAL YEAR
                                     July 1 to  June 30




                          ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS     Country assistance strategy
DCA     Development Credit Agreement
EC      European Commission
GDP     Gross domestic product
IMF     International Monetary Fund
I-PRSP  Interim poverty reduction strategy paper
LDP     Letter of Development Policy
MTEF    Medium-term expenditure framework
PRGF    Poverty Reduction Growth Facility
PEM-AAP Public expenditure management assessment and action plan




                               Vice President:    Gobind Nankani
                             Country Director     Makhtar Diop
                              Sector Manager      Kathie Krumm
            Task Team Leader/Task Manager:        Fred Kilby

                                            KENYA
                     Kenya Economic and Public Sector Reform Credit


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            6
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                              9
6. Sustainability                                                                11
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 12
8. Lessons Learned                                                               14
9. Partner Comments                                                              15
10. Additional Information                                                       16
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             17
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             27
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             28
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             29
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             30
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                31
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            32

Project ID: P069501                                                  Project Name: Kenya Economic & Public Sector Reform
Team Leader: Frederick Kilby                                         TL Unit: AFTP2
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: February 3, 2005


1. Project Data
                   Name: Kenya Economic & Public Sector Reform                    L/C/TF Number: IDA-34060; IDA-34061;
                                                                                                     IDA-34062; IDA-34063
   Country/Department: KENYA                                                              Region: Africa Regional Office

        Sector/subsector: Central government administration (40%); Law and justice (20%);
                            General transportation sector (15%); Crops (15%); General
                            education sector (10%)
                  Theme: Standards and financial reporting (P); Public expenditure, financial
                            management and procurement (P); State enterprise/bank
                            restructuring and privatization (P); Judicial and other dispute
                            resolution mechanisms (S); Regulation and competition policy (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 03/03/2000                                     Effective: 08/15/2000                08/15/2000
     Appraisal: 05/22/2000                                         MTR:                             05/10/2002
      Approval: 08/01/2000                                      Closing: 06/30/2002                 04/30/2004



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVERNMENT OF KENYA/MINISTRY OF FINANCE
                      Other Partners:      European Commission, Department for International Development (UK)

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Gobind Nankani                                 Callisto Madavo
Country Director:               Makhtar Diop                                   Harold Wackman
Sector Manager:                 Kathie L. Krumm                                Fred Kilby
Team Leader at ICR:             Fred Kilby                                     Fred Kilby
ICR Primary Author:             Wendy S. Ayres


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        U
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       M
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          U


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
The objective of the Economic and Public Sector Reform Credit was to support the implementation of
Kenya's interim poverty reduction strategy paper (I-PRSP) presented to the Bank's Board with the
proposed credit on August 1, 2000, and to improve the outlook for economic growth and the delivery of
basic services. The credit in addition would help Kenya to contain a worsening macroeconomic situation
and looming fiscal and financial difficulties·including bunching of external debt service payments,
accumulating external debt arrears, and large net outflows of long and medium-term capital--which were
making it difficult to mobilize resources to finance the rehabilitation of basic infrastructure needed for
growth. The major drought in 2000 (the worst since 1961) that resulted in severe food, water, and power
shortages added to the strain.

The credit would achieve these objectives through provision of budget support that was directly linked to
continuing sound macroeconomic management, improvements in economic governance, and improvements
in IDA portfolio management. Approval of the credit was also expected to provide confidence to donors
and investors that the government was on the correct reform path and thus contribute to mobilizing
additional external aid and help to reduce interest rates. The credit complemented a three-year arrangement
under the PRGF, totaling SDR 150 million that was approved by the Board of the IMF on August 4, 2000.
The PRGF was intended to support the government's reform program, particularly improved governance,
implementation of appropriate macroeconomic and structural reforms, and significant reallocations of
expenditure to priority areas, such as health and education.

The credit objectives were, and remain, appropriate. The credit sought to support serious efforts of the
Government of Kenya to improve economic governance and public sector management, stimulate economic
growth, and bring poverty eradication to the top of the policy agenda. Despite weaknesses, Kenya's
I-PRSP was relatively well articulated in comparison with those of other countries, had been prepared in a
highly participatory manner, and provided a detailed poverty profile and specific indicators for measuring
progress towards achieving the International Development Goals (which have been supplanted by the
Millennium Development Goals). Moreover, the government was starting to implement a broad reform
agenda that focused on addressing longstanding governance issues. The government announced in July
1999 the Change Initiative and installed the Change Team to start to redefine the role of government,
reorganize ineffective public institutions, and reform public policy. The Change Team had been working
for nearly a year when the Board considered the credit.

The credit's objectives also supported the objectives of the Bank's country assistance strategy (CAS),
discussed by the Board on September 24, 1998. These were to support the government's own efforts to
improve economic governance and achieving fiscal adjustment. Specifically, the credit would support all
three areas of emphasis in the CAS: (a) public sector restructuring to create a more responsive and
effective public sector, (b) public expenditure management reform to ensure efficient use of public
resources, and (c) strengthening of accountability mechanisms to restore institutional checks and balances
and to fight corruption. The approval of the credit signaled the Bank's move from a low-case to a
base-case and, thus, to adjustment lending for Kenya.

3.2 Revised Objective:
The objectives of the program were not formally revised during implementation. The new government did,
however, present an updated Letter of Development Policy to the Bank on May 28, 2003 presenting a
somewhat different strategy for achieving the program objectives. For example, instead of moving quickly
to turn control of infrastructure parastatals over to the private sector, it proposed introducing private sector



                                                       - 2 -

participation selectively in existing operations. It also decided to draft a privatization bill to provide a legal
and institutional basis for privatization transactions.

3.3 Original Components:
The credit was designed as a three-tranche operation so that the Bank could calibrate its support to
performance, and was expected to be fully disbursed by June 30, 2001. The credit was to support reforms
in seven core areas, laid out in the program policy matrix. The reform areas were
outlined as triggers in the CAS, and corresponded to key policy areas in the I-PRSP. They were:

(1)      Sound macroeconomic management and preparation of the PRSP. Reforms were aimed at
reducing the government's domestic debt and lowering interest rates, reducing the tax burden to provide
incentives for production, and raising the quality of public spending. Disbursement of the first tranche of
the credit was based on the government reaching agreement with the IMF on an appropriate
macroeconomic framework. Disbursement of the next two tranches was contingent on the government
maintaining an appropriate macroeconomic framework as agreed with the IMF. Disbursement of the third
tranche was also conditional on the government completing public consultations for the full PRSP and
developing a mechanism for monitoring core poverty programs.

(2)      Governance. Actions to which the government committed included (a) implementing the action
plan to enhance fiduciary transparency, including the interim action plan to improve the quality and timely
completion of audit reports to less than three months; (b) gaining cabinet approval of a new comprehensive
procurement bill and presenting the bill to parliament for enactment, (c) gaining cabinet approval of and
implementing the judicial code of conduct; and (d) presenting a bill to parliament to merge the office of
Auditor General (Corporations) with the office of the Controller and Auditor General.

(3)      Redefining the role of the state and civil service reform. These reforms were intended to create
a smaller and more efficient system of public administration and to release resources to for investment,
essential operations and maintenance, and delivery of basic services to the poor. Some 32,000 public
employees were to be retrenched, in line with the reduction in functions of the government arising from the
merger of ministries from 27 to 15. The retrenchment was expected to cost about 1.5 percent of GDP, and
result in cost savings of 0.7 percent of GDP starting in the third year of the program. The planned roll out
in 2000/01 of an integrated payroll database was to prevent reentry of retrenched staff back into public
service. Other elements of civil service reform included reintroducing the merit system for determining
compensation and promotion, and introducing a viable pay policy designed to increase real income for civil
servants.

(4)      Public enterprise reform and privatization. As with civil service reform, reforms would help
redefine the role of the state from providing commercial services to focusing on policymaking and
regulatory functions. Conditions included (a) seeking the legal opinion of the attorney general that no
further legislative action was needed to privatize key infrastructural services, including
telecommunications, power, railways, ports, and water; (b) providing a progress report on milestones laid
out in the privatization strategy; and (c) bringing Kenya Telkom to the point of sale.

(5)      Public expenditure reform. These reforms aimed at ensuring that core poverty programs
(specifically, agriculture, primary education, preventive health services, and maintenance of roads) were
fully funded in line with the financing plan. Conditions included (a) presenting quarterly reports on the
financing and spending on core poverty programs that demonstrated that fund releases were in line with the
financing plan; (b) reducing the number of taught courses and examinable subjects in primary and
secondary schools to reduce costs to parents; and (c) funding and making operational the National AIDS


                                                       - 3 -

Control Council.

(6)      Private sector development. These were intended to improve the investment climate. Conditions
included (a) liberalizing tea processing of small farmers by abolishing the Kenya Tea Development
Authority and allowing individual tea factories to operate independently; and (b) gaining cabinet approval
of a sessional paper liberalizing coffee marketing.

(7)      Improvements in managing the Bank portfolio. Reforms aimed at improving the flow of funds
to projects, and reducing the number of problem projects in the portfolio. Conditions included (a)
establishing a taskforce to revise the Exchequer and Audit Act and other financial regulations and
procedures; and (b) implementing its recommendations.

3.4 Revised Components:
Project elements were not formally revised after the new government assumed office. The project closing
date was, however, extended twice. The first extension from June 30, 2002 to June 30, 2003 was granted
to allow the government additional time to complete reforms specified in the action plan dated June 12,
2002 for implementing the remaining conditions of the credit. These included in particular reforms to
improve economic governance and to strengthen public sector institutions (privatization of the large
infrastructure public enterprises, procurement, strengthening accountability and audit functions,
restructuring the civil service, and adopting a judicial code of conduct). The Bank team concluded that
closing the credit and canceling the second and third tranches would create major difficulties in the dialogue
between the Bank and the Kenyan authorities. Extending the credit would permit the Bank team to review
the government's action plan and take appropriate action, including restructuring or canceling the credit,
depending on the outcome of negotiations between the IMF and the government on the Poverty Reduction
and Growth Facility that were underway at that time. The second extension from June 30, 2003 to April
30, 2004 was granted to allow the new government additional time to meet the third tranche conditions
contained in the update to the Letter of Development Policy on the grounds that the project objectives were
still achievable, the borrowers performance was satisfactory, and the borrower had prepared a specific
action plan acceptable to the Bank to complete the project. At the time of the extension request, the new
government had been particularly successful in implementing governance reforms, had met nearly all
conditions for the release of the second tranche and had made substantial progress in meeting the third
tranche conditions.

An IDA reflows allocation for 2000 of SDR 2.5 million was approved in January 2001 and disbursed in
April 2001. The second tranche of the credit was approved on December 4, 2003, after the new
government that took office in January 2003 satisfied all but two of the remaining conditions, for which
waivers were granted. The two conditions that were not fully met included restructuring the civil service
and fully protecting core poverty expenditures, both of which were substantially met at the time the second
tranche was approved.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
Quality at entry is rated moderately satisfactory. The program's development objectives were reasonably
clear and appropriate, although too broad to allow assessment of the program's contribution to their
achievement. They were consistent with the government's I-PRSP·itself based on broad consultations with
parliament, the private sector, NGOs, development partners, and other stakeholders·the detailed Letter of
Development Policy dated June 2, 2000, and the Bank's CAS. The program design rightly emphasized
prior actions that the government would have to comply with before the first tranche would be released,
including key reforms to improve economic governance, civil service reform, and expenditure prioritization.
The design also benefited substantially from collaboration with other development partners, who shared the



                                                      - 4 -

risks. The IMF supported the government's development strategy through a PRGF arrangement. The
African Development Bank prepared its own adjustment credit with tranche release conditions based on the
conditions of the Bank program. The Department for International Development (United Kingdom) and the
European Commission supported the civil service reform effort with financing to cover costs of staff
retrenchment. A joint donor team negotiated the credit conditions with the government on the basis of the
Bank credit document. The donors agreed to schedule the release of their tranches on the basis of the
triggers agreed with the Bank. The program design was enhanced by knowledge gained through analytical
work on social sector expenditures and poverty, a government poverty update based on the poverty
monitoring system established with Bank technical assistance, and a report on growth performance of the
economy. Finally, the design reflected the advice provided by the Bank's Regional Operational Committee
and other reviewers.

Other strengths characterized the design. The program document (Report and Recommendation of the
President) contained reasonably well-specified monitorable output indicators against which government's
performance in implementing agreed actions could be assessed. It appropriately identified the risks the
program would face. In particular, it recognized as substantial the risk that the government would not
complete the agreed reform program, given its poor performance throughout the 1990s in completing
earlier reform programs agreed with the Bank and the IMF. It also noted that pressure to halt or reverse
reforms would be heightened during the period prior to elections planned for December 2002. The program
document recognized that continued weak economic performance would strengthen political resistance to
civil service reform and would make selling parastatals at attractive prices more difficult. It also pointed
out correctly that financial risks to the Bank were modest. Finally, to strengthen the capacity of
government to implement the reform program, Bank and other donors agreed to provide technical
assistance to improve accountability and strengthen financial management across government. The IMF
provided technical assistance on revenue administration, banking sector issues, and statistics. The Bank
provided support to the government to carry out annual public expenditure reviews and to formulate the
medium-term expenditure framework. Prior to credit effectiveness, the Bank provided advice on
privatization and on the design of retrenchment packages through the Parastatal Reform Technical
Assistance Project. The Bank country team also prepared short notes for the government Change Team,
covering governance, growth, tax effort, expenditure management, agriculture, and local government
reform.

The program design, however, suffered from significant weaknesses. Most importantly, the Bank
overestimated the willingness and ability of a government with a very poor track record to implement
reforms that threatened vested interests, despite its appointment of the Change Team to lead the reform
process and its initiation of reforms to improve economic governance. It also wrongly assumed that the six
members of the Change Team, who were drawn from the Bank or from the Kenyan private sector and who
were paid much higher salaries than other government officials, could on their own overcome internal
opposition to change and implement a far-reaching reform program. Many failed programs of the past
clearly demonstrate that conditional lending rarely induces a government to implement and sustain reforms
that it does not wish to undertake. Moreover, many of the agreed reforms would have been difficult to
achieve in only one year even with strong political will, because of the need for the government to negotiate
with key stakeholders, such as civil servants facing the loss of their jobs. Gaining approval of important
laws, bills, and circulars by parliament can also take considerable time, particularly as the Kenyan
parliament meets relatively infrequently. In addition, tranche release conditions were too numerous and
covered too many areas. The credit should have focused on a smaller set of key reforms that were critical
to stimulating economic growth and reducing poverty, with others named as milestones. Some indicators
were vague or difficult to measure, such as one specified as "start implementing an action plan to enhance
fiduciary transparency." Quality at entry was assessed by a team led by a Bank vice president, and found


                                                      - 5 -

satisfactory.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Achievement of the objectives of the project is rated moderately unsatisfactory. While attributing outcomes
to the program is not possible, neither economic growth nor delivery of basic services have improved since
the credit was approved in 2000. Kenya's economy continued to stagnate, with GDP growing by 1.2
percent in fiscal 2002, and by 1.8 percent in fiscal 2003, well below the rate of population growth of 2.5
percent per year. Only in 2004 are there signs of recovery. While accurate data is not yet available, income
poverty is likely to have increased. The high cost of transportation, electricity, telephone services, and
water supply continues to hamper Kenya's competitiveness in international markets. Private investment
remains low due to continued uncertainty regarding the government's policy stance. Performance on
services to the poor, an objective of the reforms intended to improve the budget process and public
expenditure management, has been mixed. According to the 2003 Kenya Demographic Health Survey,
vaccination coverage declined from 65 percent of children in 1998 to 60 percent in 2003. Infant and child
mortality are now significantly higher than in the early 1990s (under-one mortality now stands at 77 per
1,000 live births versus 66 a decade ago, and under-five mortality stands at 115 per 1,000 live births
versus 96 a decade ago). Mortality of both adult men and women has also risen sharply over the decade, in
part due to the impact of HIV/AIDS. Education performance, on the other hand, has improved
substantially, with gross enrollment rising from 92 percent in 2002 to 104 percent in 2003. The credit did
allow Kenya to prevent a worsening of its macroeconomic situation. It also supported implementation of
key reforms, such as enactment of legislation designed to combat corruption, which are expected to
improve prospects for future growth.

4.2 Outputs by components:
Component 1: Sound macroeconomic management

Macroeconomic management is rated satisfactory. The government sustained a reasonably stable
macroeconomic framework throughout the program period. The average annual inflation rate declined to
just 0.8 percent in 2001 and exchange rates exhibited little variability. Limited progress with governance
reforms, however, prevented the IMF from completing the first review of the PRGF as scheduled. The
IMF suspended disbursements in December 2000, after the establishment of the Kenya Anti-Corruption
Authority was declared unconstitutional. Other donors quickly followed. Lower than expected external
financing, lack of privatization receipts, and weak economic growth led to the emergence of a budgetary
financing gap in 2001/2002 of 2.5 percent of GDP, making implementation of the expenditure program as
envisaged impossible.

Component 2: Governance

Implementation of governance reforms is rated satisfactory due to the achievements of the new government
in this area. Performance under the previous government was unsatisfactory. After significant delays, a
bill to merge the office of the Auditor General (Corporations) with the office of the Controller and Auditor
General was finally passed by parliament on May 8, 2002. To enhance fiduciary transparency, the
government developed a integrated financial management information system; as of October 2004 it had
been partially implemented within the ministries and at the districts. The government has complied with the
condition to regularly submit audited accounts of the government to parliament. Procurement regulations
were gazetted in March 2001 establishing a uniform and transparent procurement system for all public
procurement, including the practice of publicly announcing the results of government tenders. The
regulations also established a procurement appeals board and a directorate of public procurement to


                                                      - 6 -

monitor implementation of the new procurement regulations. A procurement bill addressing key issues in
line with World Bank comments was approved by cabinet on May 16,2003 and submitted to parliament
where it is awaiting passage. Parliament rejected the Code of Conduct and Ethics bill in December 2000
on the grounds that it contravened the principle of separation of legislature, executive, and judiciary.
However, after the new government came to power, parliament passed on May 2, 2003 two key pieces of
anti-corruption legislation. These were the Anti-Corruption and Economic Crimes Act, which created the
Kenya Anti-Corruption Commission (which replaced the Anti-Corruption Police Unit), and the Public
Officer Ethics Act, which requires all public officers (including the members of the executive, parliament,
and the judiciary) to regularly declare their assets. Satisfying a second tranche condition of the credit, the
Judicial Service Commission approved and published on May 16, 2003 the Judicial Service Code of
Conduct and Ethics that is fully consistent with the Public Officer Ethics Act.

Component 3: Redefining the role of the state and civil service reform

Implementation of civil service reform and efforts to redefine the role of the state are rated moderately
unsatisfactory. During fiscal 2001 23,448 civil servants were retrenched, a 9 percent shortfall from the
original target of 32,000. The process was unable to continue due to the filing of law suits by individuals
against the restructuring, and by parliamentary opposition to the program. Following agreement with the
Bank that retrenchment in parastatals would largely meet the same objective, a total of 6,908 staff were
retrenched from publicly funded organizations, still a shortfall of 5 percent of the target. The new
government obtained a waiver from this second-tranche condition on the grounds that the civil service
restructuring could not be completed because of circumstances beyond the control of the administration.

Despite the retrenchments, the public sector wage bill did not decline--a major objective of the civil service
reform. A major factor was that teachers were granted significant salary increases by the previous
government, which the incoming government was bound to honor. The incoming government also gave a
significant salary increase to the police as part of its anti-corruption campaign. The role of the state
generally did not change. Although the government reduced the number of ministries from 27 to 15, it did
not shrink the number of ministers, making defining the core functions of government difficult. The new
government has again increased the number of ministries, which now stand at 23. Neither the merit system
for determining compensation and promotion, nor the new pay policy had been introduced by the time the
credit closed. The integrated payroll database that was intended to prevent reentry of retrenched civil
servants back into public service was not in use at credit closure, although implementation is planned for
March 2005.

Component 4: Public enterprise reform and privatization

Implementation of the measures to reform and privatize public enterprises is rated unsatisfactory.
Although the Attorney General issued his legal opinion on June 13, 2000 stating that the government's
privatization strategy submitted to the Bank was consistent with current law and that no further legislative
action was needed, little progress was made during 2000­04 in restructuring or privatizing key
infrastructural services. The cabinet rejected in November 2001 the highest bid made for Kenya Telkom on
the grounds that it was too low. Valuations of telecommunications enterprises fell sharply during 2001/02,
making it impossible for the government to obtain its asking price. The new government decided not to sell
Kenya Telkom, but rather to improve its efficiency and profitability. It also agreed to bring more
competition to the telecommunications market by licensing by the end of 2003 a third mobile operator and
by not renewing Kenya Telkom's monopoly on international services when it expires in December 2004.
As of October 2004, a third mobile operator has yet to be licensed. After awarding the tender for the sale
of Kenya Reinsurance in October 2002, the government suspended the process. It reduced its



                                                       - 7 -

shareholdings in Kenya Commercial Bank from 35 percent to 25 percent in July 2004, after the credit
closed, by allowing the bank to make a rights issue to which the government did not subscribe. With the
assistance of the International Finance Corporation as transactions advisor, some progress was made
towards privatizing the Kenya Railways Corporation; the concessioning process being conducted jointly
with the government of Uganda is expected to be complete by June 2005. Although the government
reorganized the Kenya Power and Light Company and initiated its financial restructuring during the
program period, the government had not reduced its shareholding below 51 percent by the time the credit
closed. The government also made limited progress in implementing its plans to privatize the Kenya Ports
Authority, and to attract private sector participation to manage Nairobi's water utility (it has made
progress to put the operations of the water utility on a commercial basis). The government, however, did
successfully privatize Mumias Sugar, reducing its proportion of shares from 71 percent to 38 percent
through sale on the Nairobi stock exchange in September 2001. During the program period, the role of the
state did not shift from provider of commercial services to one focusing on policy making and regulatory
functions.

Component 5: Public expenditure reform

Implementation of the program to improve public expenditure management is rated moderately satisfactory.
Some progress was made to improve budget planning and execution. A medium-term expenditure
framework (MTEF) was introduced during fiscal 2000 based on a fiscal strategy paper that specified
priorities for reducing poverty. While an important step, as of the close of the program the MTEF had had
little impact on actual budgetary allocations, because the MTEF process has been used more of a planning
instrument than a budgeting instrument. Progress was also made in funding core poverty programs,
although the government was not able to fully protect core poverty expenditures, especially in the
development budget. This was in part because the core poverty program was significantly expanded during
the time the credit was active, as with the introduction of the free primary education program. The lower
than planned resources from external financing and privatization also played a role. Finally, weaknesses in
Kenya's expenditure management systems made it difficult for the government to devise fully effective
protective arrangements. The new government received a waiver from this second tranche condition in
seeking approval of the disbursement of the credit's second tranche.

The government complied with other conditions under this component. It strengthened the capacity of the
budget monitoring unit in the Treasury to monitor and control expenditure commitments, which regularly
reported on fund releases and expenditures on the core poverty programs. The government also provided
quarterly budget review reports to the Bank that assessed expenditure performance. The number of taught
courses and examinable subjects in primary and in secondary schools were successfully reduced through
issuance by the Ministry of Education of a circular dated September 20, 2000. Finally, the government
made operational and adequately funded the National AIDS Control Council during the years of the
program, each year agreeing with IDA to a financing plan.

Component 6: Private sector development

Implementation of reforms to promote private sector development is rated satisfactory. The Kenya Tea
Development Authority was transformed into an independent agency through a legal notice that took effect
on July 1, 2000. The new institution--the Kenya Tea Development Agency--was incorporated under the
Companies Act as a private entity owned by small-scale tea farmers through their respective tea factories.
The reform has significantly stimulated the growth of tea exports and contributed to the a decline in the gap
between the world market price of tea and the price received by farmers. Finally, the cabinet approved a
sessional paper separating the regulatory functions of the Coffee Board from its marketing functions and


                                                      - 8 -

proposing the establishment of the Kenya Coffee Marketing Authority to assume the responsibilities of
marketing and of a coffee auction system. These reforms, unfortunately were not sufficient to improve
incomes of coffee farmers, who continue to receive only 30 percent of the auction price of coffee compared
with the 70 percent received by tea farmers.

Component 7: Improvements in managing the Bank portfolio

This component is rated satisfactory. The government steadily improved the flow of funds to projects
throughout the program period by timely submitting statement of expenditures allowing prompt
replenishment of Special Accounts, and by transferring funds directly to project accounts. By the time the
program closed, just seven days were required to transfer funds from the Special Accounts to the project
accounts, compared with 30 days at the start of the program. To address the problem of misappropriation
of funds by district commissioners, the authorities established bank accounts for each line ministry in each
district as of July 1, 2001.

The government also established a task force to revise the Exchequer and Audit Act and other financial
regulations and procedures and implemented many of its recommendations. Draft bills to replace the
Exchequer and Audit Act and to separate financial management functions from audit functions were not
passed by parliament. The cabinet in May 2003 approved revised versions of the bills. Parliament passed
the Public Audit Act in December 2003.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Not applicable.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not applicable.

4.5 Institutional development impact:
Institutional development impact is rated modest. The program initiated or advanced the establishment of
new institutions to improve governance, strengthen public expenditure management, and improve
management of the Bank portfolio, many of which the government is now strengthening. For example, the
new government has succeeded in passing versions of the governance bills and has established the Kenya
Anti-Corruption Commission. It is also implementing the action plan to strengthen public sector
management.

Other reforms, however, have failed to bring about significant institutional change. For example, while the
government has prepared an MTEF each year since fiscal 2000, the MTEF still operates as a parallel
process to the annual budget formulation exercise, and has failed to bring about significant reallocation of
expenditures to high priority areas. The program did little to alter the role of the state. Little progress was
made in privatizing large infrastructure parastatals, most of which remain under the control of government.
Although the civil service was reduced and the number of ministries decreased, the core functions of
government were not redefined. At the time the credit closed, investor confidence remained muted due to
both the high costs of doing business in the country and ongoing political uncertainty.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The influence of factors outside the control of the central administration on program outcomes was
significant. Most important is the failure of parliament to pass key pieces of legislation aimed at stemming
corruption, which were conditions for approval of the annual IMF PRGF-supported program. The



                                                      - 9 -

parliament also blocked completion of civil service reforms until a sessional paper was presented and
discussed. Individuals delayed some of the reforms by filing lawsuits challenging their legality. The high
court eventually declared some of the reforms as unconstitutional, including the establishment of the Kenya
Anti-Corruption Authority. Although the government agreed with the Bank and the IMF on an alternative
approach to address governance issues, they were not implemented prior to the election. The new
government was much more successful at encouraging parliament to enact legislation to address corruption.


5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
The influence of factors within the control of the administration on program outcomes was substantial.
The previous government within six months of the release of the first tranche demonstrated a general lack
of commitment to the reform program, dropping three members of the Change Team in March 2001. The
government often complied with the specific requirements of the Bank and the IMF, but did not truly
reform government institutions. It thus prepared an MTEF, but failed to use it as a tool to reallocate
resources to high priority areas. The new government has performed better, but has not been able to
implement the far-reaching reform program that is needed to spur economic growth. Among the greatest
failings of both administrations was their inability to privatize any large infrastructure parastatal. The
decision of the previous administration to halt the sale of Kenya Telkom, despite completing the sales
process, is a particularly noteworthy failure, which deprived the country of resources that could have been
used for poverty-reducing expenditures, and likely prevented the emergence of more efficient and lower cost
telecommunications services. The government also failed to implement measures that would have
promoted transparency, such as rolling out the integrated financial management information system.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Not applicable.

5.4 Costs and financing:
The credit provided SDR 113.1 million (US$150 million equivalent) to be disbursed in three tranches of
SDR37.7 million (US$50) million each. (The original credit amount of SDR 118.3 million specified in the
President's Report and Recommendation dated June 8, 2000 was reduced to SDR 113.1 million to adjust
for the IDA reflows allocation of SDR 5.2 million which was to have been advanced to Kenya during
1999­2000.)

IDA reflows totaling SDR 4.05 million were also approved. The credit was expected to be fully disbursed
in one year. The first tranche of SDR 37.7 (US$50 million equivalent) was released once the credit became
effective on August 15, 2000, on the basis of the reforms that the government had already undertaken.
Two additional tranches of SDR 37.7 each were expected to be released during fiscal 2001 based on
performance relative to agreed monitorable indicators. The IDA reflows allocation for 2000 of SDR 2.5
million was approved in January 2001 and disbursed in April 2001. The second tranche was finally
approved on December 3, 2003, after the new government satisfied most of the remaining conditions and
obtained waivers for two others that it could not meet. The second tranche was disbursed on December 18,
2003. The credit closed on April 30, 2004 and the third tranche of SDR 37.7 million (US$50 million
equivalent) was cancelled. By early 2004 it was clear that the new government would not meet the
conditions related to private sector participation in large infrastructure utilities by the credit closing date
and a further extension of the credit could not be justified.

The Development Credit Agreement (DCA) was amended four times. The DCA was amended on January
24, 2001 to provide additional assistance of SDR 2.5 million in support of the program through an IDA
reflows tranche. It was amended on June 24, 2002 to provide additional assistance of SDR 1.15 million to



                                                      - 10 -

supplement the second tranche of the credit, representing the fiscal 2002 allocation under IDA's Fifth
Dimension Program. The DCA was amended on June 26, 2003 to provide additional assistance of SDR
400,000 to supplement the second tranche of the program, representing the fiscal 2003 allocation under
IDA's Fifth Dimension Program. The DCA was amended on November 10, 2003 to incorporate the new
government's Letter of Development Policy dated May 28, 2004 in the legal agreement.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Sustainability of the reforms that have been implemented is rated likely. These include reforms to improve
governance, strengthen public expenditure management, and improve management of the Bank portfolio.
That the government implemented specific reforms signals its commitment to them, and therefore its
willingness to sustain and deepen them. For example, the government has recently appointed the top
management of the Kenya Anti-Corruption Commission and has strengthened the police and the Office of
the Controller and Auditor General, thereby strengthening capacity to enforce the nation's laws against
corruption. To improve public expenditure management, the government is continuing to implement the
action plan that formed part of the 2003 public expenditure assessment (PEM-AAP). By October 2004, it
had met five of 16 benchmarks specified in the action plan, and is close to meeting a sixth. The
government has also succeeded in increasing the share of spending devoted to programs that benefit the
poor, with the Free Primary Education Project being a prominent example.

To improve its budget formulation process, the government is implementing a new timetable that initiates
the process in October to ensure that the public expenditure review, the preparation of the medium-term
expenditure framework, and the budget process are aligned. The government is preparing in November a
budget outlook paper that will be approved by cabinet to provide ministries with early indications of their
medium-term financial allocations, reflecting overall government strategic priorities laid out in its PRSP. A
budget strategy paper that translates all core government policy statements into coherent medium-term
expenditure plans will follow in January. This will be discussed with parliament to gain political
acceptance of the final budget. Such acceptance is expected to lead to improved budget execution.

The government is also acting to shorten the audit cycle, an important step in combating corruption. It has
completed the audit of government accounts for fiscal 2003 and plans to complete the audit for fiscal 2004
by March 2005, thereby nearly eliminating the backlog. The government is also continuing to implement
the integrated financial management information system. As of October 2004, the system was being
piloted in the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Planning and National Development. Plans are to
roll it out to the districts within a year. The government is clearly satisfied with the impact of other
reforms, such as those liberalizing tea marketing and in revising the school curriculum and is unlikely to
reverse them.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
A follow-on budget support credit is under preparation, with Board presentation scheduled for July 2005.
This operation, the Economic Recovery Strategy Support Credit, which is included in the Bank's 2004
CAS, is expected to build on and deepen the reforms that have been implemented under the Economic and
Public Sector Reform Credit. While the precise elements have yet to be defined, the credit is expected to
support reforms to improve governance, fiscal management, private sector competitiveness, agriculture,
and monitoring and evaluation. The operation will be a single tranche operation, based on substantial
actions that the government takes prior to negotiation. The Economic Recovery Strategy Support Credit is
envisaged as the first in an annual series of poverty reduction support credits grounded in an agreed
medium-term framework of policy and institutional actions laid out in the PRSP.



                                                      - 11 -

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
The Bank's overall performance in lending was satisfactory. The Bank's performance in identification was
moderately satisfactory. The decision to provide budget support to the government--and therefore to move
from a low case to base case lending scenario--was taken with recognition of the significant risks involved.
Certain CAS base case triggers addressed in the credit had not been met at the time the credit was approved
by the Bank management, such as improved public expenditure management through the use of the MTEF
and privatization of Kenya Telkom. In addition, the CAS explicitly recommended that no more than
US$100 million in loans be made available in the first year of base case lending.

The Bank's performance in preparation and in appraisal was satisfactory. Recognizing that the risks of
failure were high, the Bank team coordinated closely with the IMF team that was preparing the PRGF and
with other donors to identify a reform program that would address the long-standing issues of governance
in Kenya and permanently improve the investment climate. The Bank ultimately agreed with the
government to a reform program that, had it been implemented, would have likely set the country on a
long-term path of economic recovery. The Bank was, however, too optimistic about the government's
willingness and ability to implement such an ambitious program in just a single year. The Bank was also
unrealistic about the likelihood that a six-member Change Team, comprising government outsiders without
a strong political constituency, could bring about extensive reform. Further, the Bank did not take pay
adequate attention to understanding how various groups (such as retrenched civil servants) might be
affected by reforms and did too little to encourage the government to obtain their support.

7.2 Supervision:
Bank performance in supervision was satisfactory. The Bank fielded six missions during the program's 3½
years of implementation, with missions taking place every six months. Missions lasted about two weeks
each and typically comprised five to ten members, who investigated a wide range of sectoral, economic, and
public sector management issues. The sector manager participated in all missions. In addition, two
economists based in the World Bank Nairobi office continually monitored implementation progress.
Supervision was carried out in close collaboration with the IMF and the other donors. Supervision
missions typically overlapped with those of the IMF, and teams from both the Bank and the Fund
participated in joint meetings in areas of mutual interest, such as governance, civil service reform, and
public expenditure management. The IMF's assessments of fiscal performance and macroeconomic
framework provided a reference point for evaluating overall progress in implementing the reform program.


Supervision missions focused on progress in achieving the conditions for second and third tranche releases.
Although indicators for tranche release conditions were sometimes vague or involved process rather than
results, the Bank supervision team focused primarily on results. For example, although a third tranche
release condition was that the government provide a report to the Bank outlining progress on agreed
milestones of the privatization program, the Bank team assessed performance on the basis of actual
progress towards privatization, not on the willingness of the government to provide the report. Moreover,
rather than accept the condition of bringing Kenya Telkom to the point of sale as meeting a third tranche
condition (which the government did in late 2001) the Bank instead focused on the outcome of the
process--the failure to close the deal--in its assessment of government performance. This was appropriate
given the extension of the credit, as the original indicator was intended was intended only to show
intermediate progress towards the final sale. The Bank team also respecified some of the conditions to
ensure that progress was made in important areas before releasing the second and third tranches of the



                                                      - 12 -

credit. For example, in October 2002, the Bank team indicated to the government that in addition to
meeting the specific conditions for tranche releases it would need also to provide evidence of commitment
to reform, such as taking clear steps to implement the 2001 Country Financial Accountability Assessment,
which had been produced since the credit became effective. The Bank team also requested that the
government submit to the Bank for comments the Public Financial Management and Accountability bill
before presenting it to parliament for enactment. Although such actions could be interpreted as the Bank
toughening its stance, these decisions were made to ensure that no further funds were released until the
government indicated its commitment to reform. The Bank team appropriately relaxed its stance when the
new government took office and demonstrated genuine commitment to reform. The Bank team did not
focus on addressing civil service reform beyond retrenchment--although the Operations Committee
explicitly called for this in its decision meeting on the credit--because this was covered under the Public
Sector Management Technical Assistance Project that became effective in November 2001.

The program was rated satisfactory through September 2001, although the government signaled its loss of
commitment to the program by March 2001, when it dropped three members of the Change team. It was
rated unsatisfactory until the new government assumed power. It was then upgraded to satisfactory on the
basis of the reforms implemented by the new government, allowing the release of the second tranche. No
further project supervision reports were prepared following release of the second tranche, because it was
clear that the third tranche conditions would not be met by the time of the credit's scheduled closing in
April 2004. Hence the disconnect between the project rating of satisfactory noted in the final project
supervision report, dated December 23, 2003, and the rating of moderately unsatisfactory given in the ICR.


7.3 Overall Bank performance:
The Bank's overall performance was satisfactory. In lending, although the risks to providing budget
support materialized, the Kenya country team members that prepared and appraised the project coordinated
closely with the IMF, with other donors, and with the government to design a far-reaching reform program
that if implemented would have helped move the country to a higher growth path. The Bank team,
however, was too quick to accept the government's assurances that it was, this time, committed to reforms,
which resulted in second and third tranche conditions that were unrealistic. Supervision was thorough and
focused on results, leading appropriately to an unsatisfactory rating of the program until the new
government demonstrated through specific actions its commitment to the reform program.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The borrower's performance in preparation was moderately satisfactory. The government worked closely
with the Bank team to develop a reform program to which both could agree. It also demonstrated its
commitment to the reform program by installing the Change Team to lead the reform effort and by
implementing key prior actions, such as gaining cabinet approval of a civil service reform program and an
updated privatization strategy. The borrower, however, overestimated its ability to gain the approval of
parliament for many important reforms.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
The borrower's performance in implementation was unsatisfactory. Soon after the credit became effective,
the borrower's commitment to the program faltered. In the face of opposition from the parliament and from
private citizens through the courts the government halted implementation of many of its reform efforts. The
government also failed to implement many of the reforms that did not require agreement of the parliament,
such as the privatization of Kenya Telkom and other parastatals. While reducing the size of the civil
service, it agreed to increase remuneration for many of those remaining and thereby failed to achieve



                                                       - 13 -

reductions in the overall public wage bill, a major objective of civil service reform. It dropped three
members of the Change Team in March 2001, indicating a loss of commitment to the overall reform
program. Only when the new government assumed power were key reforms implemented, such as those to
improve governance.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
Not applicable.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
The overall performance of the borrower was unsatisfactory. The borrower was not able to implement the
reform program, despite being granted additional time of nearly two years to do so. As a result, the
economy has continued to grow below the rate of population increase, and services to the poor have not
improved significantly. The new government has made a promising start to reverse the decline of Kenya's
economy, implementing and deepening many of the reforms of the program, particularly those addressing
governance and public sector management. However, it has moved only cautiously to articulate and
implement the difficult reforms that would help to significantly improve the investment climate, such as
promoting private sector participation in infrastructure utilities. The Bank stands ready to support
continued reforms through the Economic Recovery Strategy Support Credit that is under preparation and
the poverty reduction support credits scheduled to follow.

8. Lessons Learned

Focus on results in specifying conditions. Conditions such as retrenching civil servants, or implementing
an action plan are intermediate indicators, whose ultimate purpose should be clearly specified in the
program matrix. For example, the program matrix should include as an outcome of civil service
retrenchment, "reduce the public sector wage bill." Otherwise, misunderstandings may arise between the
government and the Bank as to the actual intent of the reform and therefore success in achieving it.

Allow adequate time for implementation of reforms. Far-reaching reforms, especially those requiring
approval of parliament, require time to build support among key stakeholders. One or two years is not
likely to be adequate to implement a substantial program of reforms, especially in the year or two before an
election. For credits lasting only a year, specifying intermediate steps in a longer-term process leading to a
specific outcome makes more sense than specifying final outcomes as triggers for tranche releases or new
credits.

Be guided by government's commitment to reforms. Assessing government commitment to reform is
difficult, particularly when key decisionmakers, such as the minister of finance, profess their commitment
to the program. Successfully implementing reforms requires the support of many stakeholders, and their
views need also to be assessed before including a reform as a tranche release condition in a policy based
credit. The Bank can be guided by government's identification of priorities in their reform program as a
strong indicator of where commitment lies. In addition, government's track record in implementing reforms
should be considered evidence of willingness and commitment rather than verbal assurances and promises
of future implementation.

Understand the impact of the reforms on various stakeholders and work with government to develop
mitigation strategies to gain support for reform. Care should be taken to fully understand the impact of
reform on key stakeholders. Formulating a strategy through which government mitigates adverse impacts
on groups that stand to lose from reform, with their full participation, can help to gain support for the
program.



                                                     - 14 -

Focus on a limited set of key reforms. Basing the reform program on a small number of reforms (10 or
less) that in the judgment of the Bank and of the government are essential for accelerating growth and
poverty reduction would help the government focus its efforts on achieving the reforms that really matter
rather than dissipating its energy on reforms less critical at this particular stage.

Offer a series of annual single tranche budget support credits, rather than multitranche operations.
Single-tranche operations, which are approved only after the government has implemented agreed reforms
require both the government and the Bank to be realistic about what is possible, and then to agree on a
program of prior actions that is acceptable to both sides. Such an approach limits the risk to the
government of counting on support that never materializes, and to the Bank of committing funds to support
the country's economic and social development that are not actually utilized. This approach also allows
flexibility to adjust to new information and changing circumstances during implementation of the
medium-term program.

Take care to build effective partnerships with the IMF and other donors in designing and supervising
policy based lending operations. Working closely with the IMF and other development partners in
defining the reform program allowed the Bank to benefit from analytical work and knowledge of others,
leverage financial resources and support for implementation, and share the risks of failure.

Consult with the parliament, civil society, and other stakeholders in designing and implementing the
reform program, and develop an effective communications strategy. The Bank designed the program with
the central government authorities without adequately consulting other key national stakeholders.
Ultimately, the parliament and civil society groups blocked implementation of key reforms. Although
costly in terms of time and effort, gaining the broad support of stakeholders is critical for the success of
major policy reforms.

Support increased participation of the private sector in the economy through deregulation,
concessioning, and other forms of public-private partnerships, rather than insisting on privatization of
specific enterprises. Privatization of public enterprises is institutionally and politically complex, requiring
time and careful sequencing of actions. Supporting actions that increase private sector involvement in the
economy, rather than insisting on the privatization of a specific set of public enterprises would enable the
government to build consensus for reform and would provide flexibility to address unanticipated issues as
they arise.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
External Resources Department of the Ministry of Finance. The report is a good analysis of critical
issues of the Credit. The assumption made by the Bank on reforms by Government is an issue that require
thought in future. Factors that affected further release of funds, is as a result of perhaps aiming to high.

The issues of both governments (KANU and NARC) not implementing privatization programs as agreed
stand out in the report. Such privatization is necessary if Kenya is to attract investment.

The lessons learnt in the Credit should be taken into account while developing the Economic Recovery
Strategy Support Credit so that conditions are practically doable. Extensive consultations should be
undertaken to ensure that stakeholders own the process. Political support is critical in areas where
legislation is required.



                                                     - 15 -

On the whole the report is a fair presentation of the Credit.


(b) Cofinanciers:
European Commission. The European Commission (EC) supported Kenya's economic and public sector
reform program through a parallel operation of 50 million that was launched in 2000 in the context of the
Change Initiative that sought to enhance public sector management capacity and develop institutions to
tackle corruption. The EC's program aimed to reduce the burden of the wage bill on the exchequer, and
thereby provide fiscal space for pro-poor expenditure programs, by supporting civil service retrenchment.
Only the first installment of the program was disbursed, supporting the retrenchment of officers in the
Kenyan Agriculture Research Institute. The second installment of the program was eventually cancelled in
the wake of the suspension of support under the IMF PRGF program due to insufficient progress in
governance reforms. The wage bill, meanwhile, continued to grow and only limited additional resources
were released for poverty-focused programs. Due to the failure to reduce poverty by creating the fiscal
space through a reduction in the public sector wage burden (the specific objective of the EPSR Credit was
a cost savings of 0.7 percent of GDP by the third year of the program, but the wage burden actually
increased), the outcome of the program should be rated unsatisfactory, as should the borrower's
performance.

The key lesson drawn from the failure of this program is that a focus on outputs and outcomes rather than
inputs should form the basis of policy dialogue under macroeconomic support. This lesson is specified in
the ICR. Happily, this lesson has effectively already been put into practice through the cooperation
Between the Bank and the EC in the preparation of their respective budget support programs. The EC in
particular has proposed a set of seven targets and indicators for education, health, and public financial
management that are drawn from the government's list presented in the Investment Program for the
Economic Recovery Strategy (Kenya's PRSP). The EC intends to disburse its resources during the second
and third years of its operation in accordance with achievement in meeting the specified targets, which
provides a powerful incentive for the ministries to set realistic targets, allocate budget to achieve them, and
regularly monitor and report on results. The EC is pleased that the Bank intends to harmonize its own
program closely with that of the EC.

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
Not applicable.

10. Additional Information




                                                     - 16 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix


                                    Second Tranche Release Matrix


Second Tranche Condition                                            Status and Next Steps

Macro and PRSP

1.    The government has maintained a    This condition has been met. The government has maintained a
satisfactory macroeconomic policy        satisfactory macroeconomic framework and agreed a new PRGF
framework, as outlined in paragraph 9    arrangement with the IMF in November 2003.
of the LDP (Section 2.02d of DCA).

Governance

2.    The Borrower has, consistent       This condition has been met. Government introduced the merger bill as
with paragraph 14 of the Letter of       part of the Miscellaneous Statute Amendment Bill in parliament in April
Development Policy (LDP), taken          2002. Parliament passed the bill on May 8, 2002. The president signed
measures, including, if necessary, the   the bill and the two organizations have been merged.
presentation of legislation to
parliament, to merge the office of the
Auditor General (Corporations) with
the office of the Controller and
Auditor General.

3.    The Borrower has, in accordance    This condition has been met. With respect to (a) there were two
with paragraph 14 of the LDP,            developments. First, district treasuries have been reorganized. The
submitted to the Association a           treasury issued circular 7/2001 of April 25, 2001, to provide for direct
progress report satisfactory to the      accountability by operating separate bank accounts for each vote at the
Association on the implementation of     district treasury to assure both accounting officers and district department
the Borrower's plan to (a) enhance       heads (Appropriations-in-Aid holders) that funds allocated to them from
fiduciary transparency involving         the exchequer are utilized. Second, to improve fiduciary transparency
public resources, and (b) improve the    (as described in paragraph 14 of the LDP) the government is introducing
quality and timeliness of audit reports. an integrated financial management information system. Public Sector
                                         Management Technical Assistance Project. After delays in 2001/2002
                                         implementation has commenced: key infrastructure such as cabling has
                                         been installed; the implementation team has been trained; and orders
                                         have been placed for two production servers. There are reasonable
                                         prospects that the integrated financial management information system
                                         will be fully operational by the end of 2004.

                                         With respect to (b), the Controller and Auditor General's audit reports
                                         for 1997/98, 1998/99, and 1999/00 have been completed and submitted
                                         to parliament. The 2000/01 reports were finalized and submitted to
                                         parliament by June 2003. The 2001/02 report was completed in
                                         November 2003. After the completion of the 2001/02 report, the backlog
                                         is expected to be cleared and further reports to be on time. To facilitate
                                         the production of quarterly audit reports by the Controller and Auditor
                                         General, the government has taken steps to move ledger production from
                                         the computer services' mainframe computer to the accountant general's
                                         department, and introduced computers to line ministries and district
                                         offices to facilitate quick and reliable capture of data.




                                                      - 17 -

Second Tranche Condition                                      Status and Next Steps

4.   The Borrower's cabinet has, as    This condition has been met. The Minister of Finance signed

specified in paragraph 15 of the LDP,  new procurement regulations (2000) on March 16, 2001. The

approved the new proposed              Attorney General gazetted the Regulations on March 30, 2001.

procurement law whose objective shall  The attorney general gazetted the regulations on March 30, 2001

be to (a) establish a uniform and      (Kenya Gazette Supplement 24, Legal Notice 51) to apply to

transparent procurement system for all public procurement (except those exempted, for example, on

public procurement (including public   security grounds) by public entities. A treasury circular has been

enterprises); (b) establish a          distributed to all public institutions to enforce the regulations.

procurement appeals board; and (c)     The regulations entrust the tender board of each procuring entity

establish a directorate of public      (under the chairmanship of its accounting officer) with the

procurement.                           authority to award contracts. The regulations established a
                                       procurement appeals board and a directorate of public
                                       procurement to monitor the implementation of the new
                                       procurement regulations. The press is briefed regularly on the
                                       outcome of appeal cases (and they are posted on the treasury
                                       website). The directorate of public procurement office has been
                                       appropriately staffed. The inspection unit has been active in
                                       monitoring and evaluating public entities on how they are
                                       implementing public procurement regulations and providing
                                       necessary advice.

                                       A procurement bill acceptable to the Bank was approved by the
                                       cabinet on May 16, 2003. This followed a protracted process.
                                       An earlier procurement bill was approved by the cabinet, and
                                       published, at the same time that the new procurement regulations
                                       were approved in March 2001. Subsequently, the bill was
                                       withdrawn when it was realized that key issues had not been well
                                       addressed. After consultations with stakeholders (including
                                       national accountancy organizations), a revised bill was drafted.
                                       The bill was again submitted to cabinet on July 25, 2002 and
                                       approved, although on this occasion Bank's comments were not
                                       taken into account. This version of the Bill was never debated in
                                       parliament. Instead following the election at the end of 2002, the
                                       new government drafted a revised public procurement and
                                       disposal of assets bill, 2003. This bill which is acceptable to the
                                       Bank was approved by the cabinet, but has not yet been approved
                                       by parliament.

5.   The Judicial Service Commission   This condition has been met. The preparation, approval, and
has approved the Judicial Code of      enforcement of a judicial code of ethics is linked to wider
Conduct, as specified in paragraph 18  legislation on the public office ethics. Parliament rejected in
of the LDP.                            December 2000 an earlier Code of Conduct and Ethics Bill and
                                       the new government presented a revised and strong bill to
                                       parliament as soon as it took power. The parliament has
                                       approved this bill, which came into law on May 2, 2003
                                       following presidential assent. The judicial code of conduct has
                                       been approved by the Judicial Service Commission and gazetted
                                       on May 16, 2003.




                                                    - 18 -

Second Tranche Condition                                        Status and Next Steps

Civil service reform

6.   The Borrower has submitted to       This condition has not been fully met and a waiver is
the Association reports, satisfactory to recommended. This condition required retrenching 32,000
the Association, showing progress in     personnel from the civil service over a period of two years. In
implementing its civil service           practice 23,448 civil servants were retrenched in 2000/01 before
restructuring plan specified in          the program was interrupted by law suits by private individuals
paragraph 23 of the LDP, including a     against the civil service restructuring program, together with
reduction of staff corresponding to the  parliamentary opposition. The previous government was
reduction in the core functions of the   reluctant to move ahead because of the political sensitivity of the
government and including the removal     issue. It did attempt, however, to meet the objective of achieving
of duplication of functions.             comparable fiscal savings by retrenchment in publicly funded
                                         organizations. A total of 5,613 staff have subsequently been
                                         retrenched from publicly funded organizations. In total,
                                         therefore, 29,061 civil servants and staff in publicly funded
                                         organizations were retrenched over a three-year period, against a
                                         target of 32,000 civil servants in two years. The government's
                                         progress reports outline the way in which the implementation of
                                         retrenchment in publicly funded organizations has been made
                                         consistent with the civil service retrenchment program. An
                                         estimate of wage savings has been provided in both cases.

                                         The new government is taking steps to address again the issue of
                                         civil service rightsizing through ministerial rationalization and
                                         net attrition, although in doing so its faces financing constraints.
                                         A specific commitment in the updated LDP is to reduce the size
                                         of the civil service by 5,000 per year through natural attrition. In
                                         the updated LDP, the government also focuses on reducing the
                                         burden of the public service wage bill by setting firm targets for
                                         reducing the share of the wage bill over time. A waiver is
                                         recommended as substantial retrenchment was achieved, the
                                         shortfall on target was relatively small taking into account
                                         additional retrenchment in publicly funded organizations, and the
                                         new government is committed to move forward with the
                                         rightsizing process.

Privatization

7.   The Attorney General of the         This condition has been met. The Attorney General issued a
Borrower has, as provided in             legal opinion on June 13, 2000 stating that the government's
paragraph 21 of the LDP, issued a        privatization strategy submitted to IDA was consistent with
legal opinion that the updated           current law and that no specific privatization law was required to
"Privatization Strategy Paper" as it     give legal effect to the proposed strategies. Subsequently, the
relates to the public utilities sectors  new government started preparing a privatization bill with the
(railways, ports, electricity and water) objectives of legally establishing both the privatization process
is consistent with the current law and   and institutional arrangements to enhance transparency in
that no further new legislation is       privatization transactions. The cabinet has approved a draft
required to implement the privatization  privatization bill, but parliament has not yet passed it.
of these entities.




                                                      - 19 -

Second Tranche Condition                                          Status and Next Steps

Public expenditure reform

8.    The Borrower has submitted to the    This condition has been met. Quarterly budget review reports,
Association a report showing the           assessing expenditure performance in the four quarters of both
previous quarter's public expenditures in  2000/01 and 2001/02 have been made available to the Association.
accordance with paragraph 25 of the        Reports covering the first two quarters of 2002/03 have also been
LDP.                                       made available, as has the third quarter report in draft

9.    The Borrower has, in accordance      This condition has not been fully met and a waiver is

with paragraph 25 of the LDP, submitted    recommended. The condition requires the government to define

to the Association reports satisfactory to and finance a core poverty expenditure program within the terms

the Association on the financing and       of the credit each year. The government has identified core

expenditures on core poverty programs.     poverty programs and has submitted quarterly reports regularly.

Such reports shall demonstrate the         These reports indicate that funds allocated to core poverty

release of funds to the said programs and  programs have increased over time in both the recurrent and

that funds released are in accordance      development budgets, in part because the definition of the core

with the 2000/2001 budget. For the         poverty program has expanded. Thus, budget allocations for core

purpose of this paragraph, the term "core  poverty recurrent expenditure (including expenditure on wages

poverty programs" shall be those which     and interest payments) went up from 7 percent of the total in

are particularly important to the poor and 2000/01 to 17 percent in 2002/03. Similarly, the allocation for

the disadvantaged members of the           core poverty development expenditure grew from 14 percent to 25

society.                                   percent of the total estimates during the same period.

                                           However, the government has not been able to fulfill its
                                           commitment that funds allocated in the budget for core poverty
                                           programs are released to spending units in full and actually spent.
                                           The goal of fully protecting core poverty expenditures has been
                                           technically difficult in a way that was not fully appreciated at the
                                           time the credit was designed. The new government has taken
                                           steps to strengthen mechanisms that are expected to fully protect
                                           spending on core poverty programs. A waiver is recommended.

10. The Borrower has submitted to the      This condition has been met. The government has provided
Association a report showing that          project reports that demonstrate there is adequate funding for
National Aids Control Council has been     National AIDS Control Council so far, except in areas where there
funded and is operational, as provided in  is limited capacity to implement the program. A satisfactory
paragraph 34 of the LDP.                   budget and financing plan was agreed for 2001/02. In the
                                           financial year 2003/04, Ksh. 18 million allocated to the National
                                           AIDS Control Council has been released.

Private sector development

11. The Borrower has taken all             This condition has been met. Liberalization of the tea sector was
measures necessary, including the          implemented by transforming the Kenya Tea Development
enactment of new legislation or            Authority into an independent agency through a legal notice
amendment of existing legislation, (a) to  effective on July 1, 2000. The new institution, the Kenya Tea
liberalize small farmer tea processing     Development Agency., was incorporated under the Companies Act
activities, (b) abolishing the Kenya Tea   as a private entity owned by small-scale tea farmers through their
Development Authority, and (c) to          respective tea factories. This ended government control over
implement policy measures to allow         small farmer tea processing activities and individual tea factories.
individual tea factories to operate        The Kenya Tea Development Agency now manages all 45 small-
independently, all in accordance with      scale tea factories.
paragraph 27 of the LDP.




                                                      - 20 -

Second Tranche Condition                                           Status and Next Steps
Portfolio improvement

12. The Borrower has established a         This condition has been met. A task force, chaired by the deputy
task force under terms of reference        accountant general, with satisfactory terms of reference, was
satisfactory to the Association to review  established by the government in 2000 and issued
and prepare revisions to the Exchequer     recommendations. In line with the recommendations, the
and Audit Act and other financial          government has improved the flow of funds to the districts by: (a)
regulations and procedures with the view   channeling payments for reimbursement through central bank
to improving the timely flow of budget     transfers between accounts, rather than writing checks and
resources to the districts as outlined in  transmitting them by post; (b) providing funds upfront for donor-
paragraph 17 of the LDP.                   financed projects; (c) issuing Treasury Circular No. 3 of March
                                           2000, which shortens the process of accessing funds from off-
                                           shore bank accounts; (d) instructing ministries to submit
                                           exchequer requisition for funding immediately after an Authority
                                           to Incur Expenditure has been issued; and (e) issuing circular letter
                                           7/2001 of April, 25, 2001, which reorganizes the operations of
                                           district treasuries and provides for separate bank accounts to be
                                           opened by every vote represented in the districts, and for the direct
                                           channeling of funds to these accounts.


                                           A key part of the task force's work concerned two new pieces of
                                           legislation to replace the Exchequer and Audit Act, and to separate
                                           financial management functions from audit functions. Drafts of
                                           the Financial Management Bill and the Audit Bill (prepared in
                                           consultation with the Controller and Auditor General) were
                                           circulated to a wide range of stakeholders, including accounting
                                           officers, for their review and comments. Versions of the bills
                                           acceptable to the IDA were approved by the cabinet on May 16,
                                           2003 and published on June 6, 2003. Parliament passed the Public
                                           Audit Act in December 2003.

13. The Borrower has, as specified in      This condition has been met. Statistical tables sent to IDA on a

paragraph 17 of the LDP, submitted to      regular basis show an improvement in the flow of funds to donor-

the Association progress reports           funded projects. Issues in the past have concerned the prompt

satisfactory to the Association on the     replenishment of the Special Accounts because of delays in

implementation of the government's         submitting statements of expenditures. Since 2001, the

March 2000 circular regarding the          Accountant General's department has been working closely with

processing of payments of donor-funded     External Resources Department of the Ministry of Finance to

projects utilizing off-shore special       ensure smooth and faster flow of funds to the projects. Regular

accounts.                                  reports on progress show that the transfer of funds from the
                                           exchequer has improved discernibly. Funds have been transferred
                                           directly to the project bank accounts and they have been made
                                           available to project managers in good time, resulting in contractors
                                           and suppliers getting paid promptly. The government is regularly
                                           monitoring the implementation of the March 2000 circular with a
                                           view to ensure that identified constraints are promptly addressed.
                                           The latest report on flow of funds for IDA projects covering the
                                           first quarter of 2003/04 was submitted to IDA in November 2003.




                                                      - 21 -

                                     Third Tranche Release Matrix


Third Tranche Condition                    Status

Macro and PRSP

1.    The Borrower has (a) submitted to    (a) This condition was met. The PRSP Action Pan was
the Association a report showing that      presented to the Bank in September 2002. Consultations on the
public consultation process for the full   full PRSP were extensive and successful.
PRSP has been successfully undertaken,
and (b) developed a mechanism for          (b) This condition was not fully met. The budget monitoring

monitoring core poverty programs, all as   unit in the Ministry of Finance reports on fund releases and

outlined in paragraph 5 of the LDP.        expenditures on the core poverty programs. Refinement of the
                                           system to match budget codes with the codes for expenditure
                                           outturns and to facilitate expenditure reporting is ongoing. The
                                           new government in the update to the LDP committed to
                                           strengthen the mechanisms for fully protecting and monitoring
                                           spending on core poverty programs by the end of June 2003.

2.    The government has maintained a      This condition has been met (see second tranche matrix).
satisfactory macroeconomic policy          The government has maintained a satisfactory macroeconomic
framework, as outlined in paragraph 9 of   framework and agreed a new PRGF arrangement with the IMF
the LDP (Section 2.02d of DCA).            in November 2003.

Governance

3.    The Borrower has presented the       This condition was met. As noted in the matrix of second
1998/1999 audited accounts of the          tranche release conditions, the audit reports of the Controller
government to parliament in accordance     and Auditor General for 1997/98, 1998/9, and 1999/00 have
with paragraph 14 of the LDP.              been completed and submitted to parliament. The 2000/01
                                           reports were finalized and submitted to parliament by June
                                           2003. The 2001/02 report was completed in November 2003.
                                           All backlogs have been eliminated. A target date of end of
                                           December 2004 has been set to clear all backlogs of audits of
                                           parastatals.

4.    The Borrower has, as specified in    This condition was not fully met. The procurement bill was
paragraph 15 of the LDP, presented to      approved by the Cabinet on May 16, 2003. In the LDP update,
its parliament the new comprehensive       the government has promised to publish the bill immediately
bill on procurement.                       and place before the parliament for enactment in its next
                                           session.




                                                      - 22 -

Third Tranche Condition                     Status

Civil service reform

5.    The Borrower has submitted to the     This condition was not fully met (see second tranche
Association a progress report satisfactory  matrix). With the support of the Bank and other development
to the Association showing progress         partners, the government is undertaking a ministerial
achieved in the implementation of the       rationalization and staffing review exercise to identify
civil service restructuring plan as         functions that can be contracted out, commercialized, or
specified in paragraph 23 of the LDP.       eliminated, with a view to bring the wage bill down from 9
                                            percent to 8.5 percent. Based on this, some functions such as
                                            cleaning and security services have been contracted out in
                                            some ministries. Strategic plans have been developed for all
                                            ministries and departments. These plans are leading to further
                                            rationalization of government functions and structures. The
                                            government is implementing a voluntary early retirement
                                            scheme aimed at eliminating 21,000 staff positions. Of these,
                                            the government has budgeted funds from its 2004/05 budget to
                                            pay 3,000 employees. So far, a total of 270 employees have
                                            voluntarily applied to the scheme. The implementation of
                                            VERS has been delayed due a resistance by the public service
                                            trade unions who have sent the case to court. It is also
                                            expected that 8,000 employees will leave the public service
                                            within the next four years as a result of natural attrition.

Privatization

6.    The Borrower has submitted to the     This condition was not fully met. The government has made
Association a progress report satisfactory  substantial preparations, but the privatization of the strategic
to the Association on the implementation    infrastructure parastatals--electricity, telecommunication,
of the Borrower's privatization program     railways and the port--with potential to significantly stimulate
as contained in the updated privatization   growth is not likely in the near future. A privatization bill has
strategy paper, with regard to the          been prepared and presented to parliament, but has not yet been
privatization of Kenya Railways             passed.
Corporation, Kenya Ports Authority,
public enterprises in the electricity       Kenya Railways Corporation. A decision to privatize Kenya

sector, water utilities, and the public     Railways Corporation through a unitary concession has been

enterprises in the sugar sector as outlined made. Procurement of transaction advisory services

in paragraph 21 of the LDP.                 progressed to the completion of evaluation of bids. However,
                                            the Government was unable to proceed due to the lack of funds
                                            to finance transaction advisory services. The International
                                            Finance Corporation is providing transaction advisory services
                                            required to concession the railway operations.

                                            In the LDP update the government committed to take all
                                            supporting actions necessary to enable the concession to
                                            succeed by September 2003. Subsequently, it was decided to
                                            concession the railway jointly with the government of Uganda.
                                            This process is expected to be complete by June 2005.

                                            Kenya Ports Authority. A decision to concession the container
                                            terminal and convert KPA to a landlord authority was made by
                                            the previous government. The new government has committed
                                            to convert KPA to a landlord authority by June 2004.
                                            However, options are still be studied.




                                                      - 23 -

Third Tranche Condition    Status

Privatization              Kenya Power and Light Company. The company has
                           initiated its organizational and financial restructuring.
                           The government has not reduced its shareholding below
                           51 percent.

                           Mumias Sugar Company. Privatization was completed.
                           Government share holding has been reduced from 71
                           percent to 38 percent.

                           Nairobi Water. In an effort to determine objectively the
                           best private sector participation option to be
                           implemented for Nairobi Water, the government sought
                           and obtained Public-Private Infrastructure Advisory
                           Facility funding for a study. The report was finalized
                           and a strategy paper was submitted to cabinet approval.
                           The government has decided to operate the utility on a
                           commercial basis without participation of the private
                           sector. [right?]

                           Kenya Reinsurance Corporation. After awarding the
                           tender for the sale of Kenya Reinsurance in October
                           2002, the government suspended the process.

                           Kenya Commercial Bank. The government reduced its
                           shareholdings in Kenya Commercial Bank from 35
                           percent to 25 percent, in July 2004, after the credit
                           closed, by allowing the bank to makes a rights issue to
                           which the government did not subscribe.




                              - 24 -

Third Tranche Condition                              Status

7.    The Borrower has taken all measures under      This condition was not met. Actions (a)­(l) were
its control to offer for sale 49 percent of Kenya    completed in 2000. However the previous
Telkom shares to prequalified bidders through an     government decided not to award the bid. The new
objective, transparent and competitive tender        government is preparing its own strategy for Kenya
process acceptable to the Association as specified   Telkom. The government has committed in the LDP
in paragraph 21 of the LDP. For the purpose of       update not to renew Telkom's monopoly on
this condition, the term "to offer for sale" shall   international services when it expires in December
mean that the Borrower has taken the following       2004. It also agreed to prepare an action plan with a
steps: (a) invited firms to pre-qualify, (b) carried clear timeframe for the privatization of Kenya Telkom
out the pre-qualification exercise and publicly      by September 2003. This is not yet been done and is
announced the pre-qualified bidders (if any), (c)    awaiting enactment of the privatization bill.
signed Confidentiality Agreements with pre-
qualified bidders, (d) invited bidders to the data
room, visits to the field, discussions with
management and government officials, (e) drafted
legal documents and information memorandum
given to bidders, (f) investors have provided
comments on draft legal documents. Thereafter,
meetings with all bidders to discuss their
comments and negotiations on the aspects of the
transaction will have taken place, (g) Government
has drafted the final bidding documents, including
legal documents and final timetable, (h) final
bidding documents have been issued to bidders,
(i) legal documents signed by bidders are
received, (j) the evaluating commission reviews
the documents, (k) the government announces the
companies that have completed this step and are
allowed to bid, (l) price proposals are received in
sealed envelops, (m) the envelopes are opened in
public and the award of the bid is announced
immediately, and (n) closing of the transaction.

Public expenditure reform

8.    (a) The Borrower has, in accordance with       This condition was not fully met (see second
paragraph 25 of the LDP submitted to the             tranche matrix). As noted against condition 1,
Association reports satisfactory to the Association  above, the government has committed to
on the financing and expenditures on core poverty    strengthening the mechanisms for fully protecting and
programs. Such reports shall demonstrate the         monitoring spending on core poverty programs by end
release of funds to the said programs and that       June 2003.
funds released are in accordance with the
2000/2001 budget. (b) The Borrower has
submitted to the Association a report showing the
previous quarter's public expenditures in
accordance with paragraph 25 of the LDP.




                                                      - 25 -

Third Tranche Condition                 Status


9.    The Borrower has submitted to     This condition has been met. The government has provided
the Association a financing plan,       project reports which demonstrate that adequate funding has been
satisfactory to the Association, for    provided for the budgeted activities of the National AIDS Control
National AIDS Control Council and       Council, except in 2000/01 when the council experienced capacity
the ministerial HIV/AIDS programs       constraints. Fund releases for the council during the first half of
as provided in paragraph 34 of the      2001/02 were satisfactory. A satisfactory financing plan was been
LDP.                                    agreed for all years to 2004/05.

10. The Borrower has rationalized       This condition was met. A government circular dated September
the primary school curriculum,          20, 2000 reduced the number of examinable subjects from 7 to 5
including the reduction of taught       commencing on January 1, 2001. The number of taught subjects
subjects from 13 subjects to 7          has been reduced from 13 to 9.
subjects and a reduction of
examinable subjects from 7 to 5 as
provided in paragraph 30 of the LDP.

11. The Borrower has rationalized       This condition was met. The September 20, 2000 circular from
the curriculum for secondary schools,   the Ministry of Education also amends the secondary education
including: (a) the reduction of         curriculum from January 1, 2001. It reduces the number of
subjects from 36 to 17, (b) limiting    subjects taught within the ceiling of 17­18. It limits the core
the core curriculum to 10 subjects,     curriculum to a maximum of 9 and a minimum of 7 examinable
and (c) limiting the core curriculum to subjects.
a maximum of 9 and a minimum of 7
examinable subjects as provided in
paragraph 30 of the LDP..

Private sector development

12. The Borrower's cabinet has          This condition was met. The Coffee Sessional Paper,
approved a sessional paper separating   satisfactory to Bank, was published. It proposed separating the
the regulatory functions of the Kenya   regulatory functions of the Coffee Board from its marketing
Coffee Board from its marketing role    functions, and creating a Kenya Coffee Marketing Authority to
as outlined in paragraph 27 of the      take over the role of marketing coffee, and a coffee auction system
LDP.                                    (with improvements to emulate the reform of the Kenya Tea
                                        Development Authority). The Coffee Act was amended to reflect
                                        these recommendations. The reforms, however, had not been
                                        implemented by the time the credit closed.




                                                      - 26 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost (in US$ million equivalent)
                                            Appraisal  Actual/Latest Percentage of
                                             Estimate   Estimate      Appraisal
                    Total Project Costs        150         110.1          73%

      Total Financing Required                 150         110.1          73%




                                         - 27 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

Not applicable.




                                      - 28 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                  No. of Persons and Specialty                    Performance Rating
                                      (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)             Implementation Development
                    Month/Year  Count           Specialty                            Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
               October 1999


 Appraisal/Negotiation
               May 2000


 Supervision
               February 2001              7    Sector manager (1),                      S               S
                                               economists (3), country
                                               program coordinator (1),
                                               senior counsel (1), senior
                                               operations specialist (1)
               September 2001             5    Economists (2), sector manager           S               S
                                               (1), country program coordinator
                                               (1), education economist (1)
               October 2002             11     Team leader (1), sector manager          U               U
                                               (1), economists (3), country
                                               program coordinator (1), country
                                               director (1), fiduciary risk and
                                               accountability specialist (1), task
                                               coordinator (public expenditure)
                                               (1), procurement specialist (1),
                                               health specialist (HIV/AIDS) (1)
               December 2002              5    Team leader (1), sector manager          U               U
                                               (1), economists (2), private sector
                                               specialist
               June 2003                  4    Team leader (1), economists (2),         S               S
                                               former sector manager

 ICR
               September 2004            4     Team leader (1), economists
                                               (2), former sector manager



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                   Actual/Latest Estimate
                                    No. Staff weeks                     US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation
  Appraisal/Negotiation                       66                                289
  Supervision                                 67                                240
  ICR                                         10                                 35
  Total                                     143                                 564




                                               - 29 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 30 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 31 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

Report and Recommendation of the President, August 1, 2000 (Report P-7368-KE)
Development Credit Agreement and its four amendments
Project supervision reports
Mission aide memoires
Tranche Release Document, November 14, 2003




                                              - 32 -

- 33 -

