           MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
                                             OF THE
                   INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                            TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
     ON A PROPOSED WAIVER OF TWO SECOND TRANCHE CONDITIONS AND
                         RELEASE OF SECOND TRANCHE AND
               AMENDMENT OF DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
   REPUBLIC OF KENYA -ECONOMIC AND PUBLIC SECTOR REFORM CREDIT
                                     (CREDIT NO. 3406-KE)


1.      The Economicand Public SectorReform Credit (Credit No. 3406-KE)in an amount of
SDR 113.1million (equivalentto US$l50 million)was approved by the IDA Board on August 1,
2000. The Credit was designedto support the implementation of Kenya's InterimPoverty
Reduction Strategy Paper (I-PRSP)and improve the outlook for economicgrowth and poverty
reduction in the medium term.The Credit was to be disbursed in three tranches.The first tranche
of SDR 37.7 million (equivalentto US$50 million) was released after the Creditbecame effective
on August 15,2000.The remaining two tranches of SDR 37.7 million each are yet to be released.

2.      The Republic of Kenya has made satisfactoryprogress in implementingthe Program
supported by the Credit,maintained a satisfactorymacroeconomic framework,and fulfilled 10of
the 12specificconditionsfor release of the secondtranche.Waivers for two of the conditions,
contained in paragraphs6 and 9 of Part A of Schedule2 to the DevelopmentCredit Agreement,
are sought on the grounds set forth in paragraphs33 and 36, respectively,of the attached
Amendment and Tranche Release Document.The Development Credit Agreement is being
amended to incorporate the attached updated Letter of Development Policy dated May 28,2003.

3.     In view of the above, I recommend that the Executive Directors approvethe above
mentioned waivers. FollowingBoard approval,the country will be notified of the availabilityof
the second tranche of SDR 37.7 million.

                                                                           James D. Wolfensohn
                                                                                       President



                                                                          By: ShengmanZhang
Washington,D.C.
November 14,2003


                                  Vice President : CallistoE. Madavo
                                Country Director: Makhtar Diop
                                  SectorManager: Robert Blake
                                 Lead Economist: Frederick Kilby
                                    Task Manager: Praveen Kumar


 Republic of Kenya-Economic and Public SectorReformCredit (Cr. No. 3406-KE)
               Release of SecondTranche-Waiver of Two Conditions
                      Amendment of DevelopmentCredit Agreement

                      Amendment and TrancheRelease Document

                                     I.      BACKGROUND

Objectiveof the Credit

 1.     The Economic and Public Sector Reform Credit (EPSRC) was prepared in
2000 to assist the government in jumpstarting the implementation of Kenya's Interim
Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (I-PRSP) and to improve the outlook for economic
growth and poverty reduction in the medium term. The immediate objective was to
contain the fragile macroeconomic situation and looming fiscal difficulties at the time,
including large net outflows of long and medium-term capital. The fiscal situation was
making it difficult to finance the rehabilitation of basic infrastructure needed to facilitate
private investment. The economy was stagnating, with loss of private sector confidence.
The overall situationwas exacerbatedby severe drought conditions during 1999/00.

2.      The EPSRC was approved within the context of the 1998 CAS that had placed
IDA's assistanceto Kenya in the Low Case lending scenario in view of serious concerns
about economic governance, envisaging a three-year lending program of $150 million.
The CAS saw weak economic governance - referring to poor management of public
resources, corruption, weak rule of law, and uneven implementation of policy reforms        -
as central to weak economic performance. The CAS set out tough triggers for advancing
to a base case scenario involving progress in macroeconomic management, economic
governance, and portfolio performance.

3.     In 1999-2000,the government took many actions that encouraged IDA to proceed
with preparation of the EPSRC. The government prepared the I-PRSP in consultation
with a broad range of Kenyan stakeholders and in collaboration with IDA and the IMF
and other development partners. Most importantly, the government appointed a credible
team consisting of skilled professionals drawn from the private sector and international
organizations to manage the reform effort. The team had been successfully working
unhindered for almost a year when the Credit was considered by the Board. The Credit
supported the reform program articulated by the Government in its Letter of
Development Policy (LDP) dated May 28,2003.


recognized the risks involved in proceeding with this operation and the Credit was
4.     The EPRSC was IDA's response to this new situation. However, IDA clearly

designed with conditionality that required close monitoring of the technical and
governance issues. Conditionality was wider than immediate economic issues, including
the establishment of institutions supported by new legislation with long-term impact in

mind. The Credit instrument itself was designed as a three tranche operation so that IDA
 support was linked to program performance.

The New Government and the Updated LDP

 5.     In December 2002, Kenya saw an historic change in government from the
political party that had been in power ever since independence to the National Rainbow
Coalition (NARC). The new government came to power on an agenda of promoting good
govemance, economic reforms and improved social services, and it has quickly moved to
demonstrate its strong commitment to fighting corruption. Its initial focus has been on
setting up institutions for better govemance and for reversing the economic decline that
has continued over more than a decade.

6.      The new government released in June 2003, the Economic Recovery Strategy for
Wealth and Employment Creation (ERS) describing its medium-term strategy for growth
and poverty reduction. The ERS draws upon the Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper being
prepared by the Govemment. In May 2003, the Government also prepared an updated
LDP (attached to this document) that confirmed to IDA the direction in which the new
government wanted to move on economic reforms supported by the Credit. The updated
LDP demonstrates the new Government's commitment to the spirit of the reform
program supported by the Credit, describes its strategy in all the reform areas that were at
the core of the EPSRC, and commits it to well-defined actions within a specified time
frame. In its dialogue with the Government, IDA has agreed to give the Government
more time to reformulate its strategy, and to provide technical support where requested,
on the issues of civil service restructuring and private sector participation in the
commercial activities of public enterprises. The DCA will be amended to incorporate the
updated LDP.

Disbursements so far

7.      The Credit amounting to SDR 113.1 million (equivalent to US$l50 million) was
envisioned to be disbursed in three tranches: one upon effectiveness and two subsequent
tranches. The first tranche of SDR 37.7 million (equivalent to US$50 million) was
released after the Credit became effective on August 15, 2000. Subsequently an IDA
reflows allocation for FY2000 amounting to SDR 2.5 million was approved and
disbursed in April 2001. Two tranches of SDR 37.7 million each were expected to be
released during 2000/01, at the latest by June 30, 2001, on the basis of performance
relative to agreed monitorable indicators. The two remaining tranches are yet to be
released due to delay in carrying out agreed actions. Following a request from the
government, the closing date of the Credit was extended for one year, from June 30, 2002
to June 30, 2003, on the basis of an agreed Action plan. The closing date was extended a
second time to 30 April 2004, following a request from the new government, on the basis
of an action plan incorporated in the updated LDP. Two IDA reflow allocations of SDR
1.15million and SDR 400,000 have been attached to the second tranche release.




                                            2

                                11.     AMENDMENTDCA  OF

 8.      The DCA will be amended to incorporate the updated LDP by adding the words
 ",and an additional letter of developmentpolicy dated May 28, 2003 (hereinafter called
 the updated LDP)," to second line of paragraph (A) in the Preamble to the DCA. The
 amended paragraph in the Preamble will read as below:

     WHEREAS: (A) the Association has received a letter of development policy
     (hereinafter called the LDP), and an additional letter of development policy
     dated May 28, 2003 (hereinafter called the updated LDP), from the Borrower
     describing a program of actions, objectives and policies designed to achieve
     structural adjustment of the Borrower's economy (hereinafter called the
     Program), declaring the Borrower's commitment to the execution of the
     Program, and requesting assistance from the Association in support of the
     program during the execution thereof; and

                         111.   RECENTECONOMICDEVELOPMENTS

9.      The new govemment inherited an economy with good macroeconomic stability
but very subdued economic activity. Nominal GDP grew by -0.2 percent in 2000, 1.2
percent in 2001 and 1.1 percent in 2002. The prospects are modest for 2003, partly
because of the recent terrorism alert which has adversely affected the tourism industry.
Inflation has remained under control and the overall inflation rate actually declined from
5.8 percent in 2001 to 1.9percent in 2002. Inflation increased in the first half of 2003 due
to increase in food and fuel prices, but has decelerated more recently, as supply side
pressures have eased. The exchange rate has been largely market-determined and
relatively stable. Helped by increasing horticulture and AGOA-induced exports and a fall
in imports, the balance of payments position has been comfortable in the past two years
and foreign exchange reserves are rising. In June 2003, official reserves covered 3.8
months of imports of goods and services compared with 3.2 months at the end of 2001.
The stock of external debt is low by international standards. Kenya is not eligible for
HPC relief under the current ratios for the initiative and external debt service payments
are on a falling trend.

10.     However, there are underlying risks to macroeconomic stability. A key issue is
the high level of domestic debt which is more than 25% of GDP. Interest payments on
domestic debt are about 2.7 percent of GDP and account for 14 percent of total
government expenditure. Liabilities of parastatals arising from bank loans, overdue
pension contributions, and government guaranteed public borrowings are estimated to be
large and a significant source of contingent risks. Other fiscal risks arise from pending
bills and stalled projects. The financial sector is another potential source of instability.
The banking sector has about 30% non-performing loans and underprovisioning is an
issue. The government-controlled banks have about 50% non-performing loans.

11.     Macroeconomic stability masks significant structural weaknesses in the economy
which have been behind the low growth rates during the past decade. More important
from a policy viewpoint is the structure of public spending which is highly skewed in


                                            3

favor of recurrent wage-bill expenditure leaving little for investment in physical and
human capital and delivery of services. The lack of investment in the utilities and
infrastructure combined with their poor management has significantly constrained the
growth of the economy. Investment response to the improved governance environment
has been weak so far due to policy uncertainties. Addressing these structural issues is the
challenge that Kenya faces in its efforts to recover economic growth and reduce poverty.

 12.    The ERS addresses many of these structural issues. It targets an annual GDP
growth rate of 4.7%, reducing poverty levels by 5% and creating 500,000jobs annually
during 2003-2007. This Strategy will provide the background for discussions at the
Consultative Group meeting to be held in November 2003. Following the CG meeting,
the ERS is expected to be revised and presented to the IDA and the Fund for Joint Staff
Assessment in December 2003. Main themes of the ERS are:

        Strengtheninginstitutions for governance including implementation of the
        recently enacted Anti-Corruption and Economic Crimes Act and The Public
        Officers Ethics Act, strengthening security and law and order;
    0   Rehabilitating and expanding physical infrastructure specifically the road network
        including rural access roads and energy sector;
        Improving access to and quality of education and health services;
        Improving the investment climate particularly for micro and small enterprises;
        and
    0  Restructuring public expenditures and improving their effectiveness.
IMF's relations

13.    Kenya's previous three-year arrangement under the Poverty Reduction and
Growth Facility (PRGF) was approved in August 2000 in an amount of SDR 190million.
After one withdrawal of SDR 33.6 million, the PRGF-supported program suffered major
setbacks in the late 2000 and never recovered. The program expired in August 2003. The
IMF has negotiated a new three-year arrangement under the PRGF in an amount
equivalent to SDR 175 million. The arrangement is scheduled to be considered by the
IMF Board on 21 November 2003. Seven disbursements are contemplated during the
three-year period.

                  Iv. OVERALLPROGRESSONTHEREFORMPROGRAM

14.    Apart from maintaining a stable macroeconomic framework, the Bank's EPSRC
supported reforms in five areas corresponding to key policy matters in the I-PRSP:

   (i) Improving the governance framework. This included strengthening of anti-
   corruption machinery; procurement reforms involving issuance of new regulations
   and setting up a Directorate of Public Procurement; legal sector reforms to
   consolidate the independence of judiciary; and fully empowering the C&AG as the
   supreme audit institution in the government;




                                              4

     (ii) Civil service reforms. These reforms aimed at creating a smaller and more
     efficient system of public administration and reducing the wage bill to a manageable
     level. Some 32,000 employees were expected to be retrenched as part of this reform;
     (iii)Expenditwe management reforms. These reforms aimed at using MTEF to
     establish a hard budget constraint; strengthening budget monitoring and reporting;
     and restructuring expenditure in line with the I-PRSP priorities in the areas of
     agriculture, education, health and HIV/AIDS;
     (iv)Public enterprise reform and privatization. These reforms involved implementing
     the strategy for privatization in telecommunications, ports, railway, energy, water and
     sugar sectors; and
     (v) Private sector development. The reforms included measures to deal with
    inefficiencies in the institutional environment such as simplifying licensing
    procedures and strengthening of mechanisms for consultation between the
    government and the private sector.
15.      The reform program involved important institutional changes, preparation and
enactment of new legislation, and other politically hard decisions about civil service
retrenchment and privatization of infrastructure services. Progress was initially very slow.
The government had difficulty in moving on new legislation in a highly politicized
environment and in the face of parliamentary opposition. Capacity constraints,
particularly in the office of the Attorney General affected the processing of some
legislation. The civil service restructuring exercise was interrupted in 2001 following law
suits by private individuals against the restructuring program. Privatization in general was
delayed due to a number of factors including legal challenge and a shortage of finance for
essential pre-privatization downsizing. In the case of Kenya Telkom, the process of
selling 49% of Telkom shares to the winning consortium had reached an advanced stage
but the Government decided that the consortium could not provide the necessary
assurances on their technical experience and knowledge.

16.      The new government's commitment to improving the economic governance
framework is strong and visible. In the ten months since coming to power, the
government has enacted, or is in the process of enacting, many major pieces of legislation
setting up and strengthening the institutional framework for governance, thereby going
much beyond the conditionality of the Credit. Specifically, the government has:

0   Enacted the Anti-Corruption and Economic Crimes Act which creates and empowers
    a Kenya Anti-Corruption Commission to investigate corruption and economic crimes.
    The Act was not a condition of the Credit but was an IMF prior action for negotiating
    a new program.

   Enacted and implemented The Public Officer Ethics Act that requires all public
   officials including the executive, members of parliament and the judiciary to disclose
   their wealth regularly. The Act was not a condition of the Credit but was an IMF prior
   action for negotiating a new program. The Judicial Service Commission has also
   published a Judicial Service Code of Conduct under the provisions of this Act.



                                              5

 0  Approved bills on public procurement, public audit, and government financial
    management. These bills have been published and are awaiting deliberation by
    Parliament. The bills on public audit and financial management go beyond the Credit
    conditionality.

0   Initiated work on judicial reform focused on rooting out corruption in the judiciary
    and improving access tojustice and the speed and transparency of legaljudgments.

 17.    Civil service rightsizing continues to be politically sensitive but the government is
nonetheless moving forward. As part of another IDA project, the Public Sector
Management Technical Assistance Project (PSMTAP), the government is carrying out an
exercise to identify functions in various ministries that can be abolished, contracted out,
commercialized or eliminated. In the LDP update, the government has committed to
prepare a detailed strategy for civil service rightsizing and pay reform. The technical
work required for this is going on but is taking longer than expected because of capacity
constraints.

18.     The new government remains fully committed to private sector participation in
commercial activities of public enterprises and is in the process of formulating a strategy
and laying down the framework for privatization. As a first step, the government is
preparing a privatization bill to provide legal and institutional basis for privatization
transactions. This bill was not a condition of the Credit. The draft bill has been approved
by Cabinet and the final bill is expected to be published in November. On large
infrastructural utilities - railways, ports and urban water - the stance and modalities for
private sector participation remain largely the same as before and the government has
committed in the updated LDP to take this preparatory work to its logical conclusion
within a stated time frame in each case. The government is also finalizing a privatization
strategy for other public enterprises.

19.     In the telecommunications sector, in line with the Bank's current technical
advice, the Government is taking steps to bring more competition to the market. As part
of its commitments in the LDP update, the government has approved a license for a
third mobile operator who has been authorized to start operating in December 2003. The
government has also decided not to renew Telkom's monopoly on international services
when it expires in 2004. The government is also in the process of finalizing a new
strategy on the privatization of Telkom.

20.    The government has been working on reforming the budgeting and expenditure
management process. In FYOO, a three-year MTEF was adopted with a view to
strengthening linkages between budget and policy priorities, improving resource
predictability for sector ministries, and restructuring public expenditure in line with the
PRSP priorities. IDA is supporting the implementation of the MTEF through the
PSMTAP. Progress in implementing and institutionalizing MTEF has been slow so far.
Part of the problem has been frequent adjustments to the fiscal framework in view of
dwindling government resources. A MTEF review is being carried out, the findings of
which will be implemented during the 2004/05 annual budget cycle.



                                              6

21.     A government owned process of annual Public Expenditure Review is becoming
institutionalized. Following a PER carried out in the budget year 2002/03, the
government has decided to carry out another PER exercise in the year 2003/04 to
underpin the 2004/05 budget. The focus of the new PER exercise is to carefully cost, and
project additional resources required by ministries to implement the ERS and arrive at a
medium-term strategy to align expenditures with the ERS priorities. The PER Technical
Working Group which monitors the PER process, and in which IDA participates along
with other donors, has been functioning effectively since the beginning of 2003. These
developments underlie a greater willingness on the part of government to infuse
transparency into budgetary processes and to work with both external and domestic
stakeholders on budget priorities.

22.     A consolidated action plan for public expenditure management reform bringing
together the recommendations of the Country Financial Accountability Assessment 2001
and the recently concluded Public Expenditure Management Assessment and Action Plan
is being implemented. This action plan sets up the agenda for reform in the areas of
public accountability and financial management in the medium-term. Implementation of
the Integrated Financial Management Information System has now commenced after
previous delays and the system is planned to be hlly rolled out to line ministries by mid
2004 and to districts by end 2004.

23.     While budgeted expenditure on core poverty program went up, the government
has not been able tofully protect the releases and expenditure, as detailed in paragraphs
36 to 37 below. The Ministry of Planning and National Development has taken steps in
the current budget year to strengthen the measures for monitoring and protecting releases
to core poverty programs.

24.     In summary, the new government is committed to the reform program supported
by the Credit and the progress of reform has been satisfactory except for the two areas of
civil service rightsizing and the monitoring of core poverty programs. However, in other
areas, the governmenthas taken actions which go beyond those required by the Credit.
            v.       STATUS OF 12 SPECIFIC SECOND TRANCHE RELEASE ACTIONS

            1. The Borrower has, consistent with paragraph 14 of the Letter of
                Development Policy (LDP), taken measures, including, if necessary,
                the presentation of legislation to Parliament, to merge the office of
                the Auditor General (Corporations)with the office of the Controller
                and Auditor General (C&AG).

25.     This condition has been met. Government introduced the merger bill as part of
the Miscellaneous Statute Amendment Bill in Parliament in April 2002. The Bill was
passed by Parliament on May 8, 2002 and signed by the President and the two offices
have subsequentlymerged.

           2. The Borrower has established a Task force under terms of reference
                satisfactoryto the Association to review and prepare revisions to the
                Exchequer and Audit Act and other financial regulations and


                                              7

                  procedures with the view to improving the timely flow of budget
                  resourcesto the districtsas outlined in paragraph17 of the LDP.

 26.     This condition has been met. A task force, chaired by the Deputy Accountant
 General, with terms of reference satisfactory to IDA was established by the government
 in late 2000 and subsequently issued recommendations. Immediately prior to and
 following the establishment of the Task Force the government has taken the following
 measures to improve the flow of funds to the districts: (1) channeling payments for re-
 imbursement through Central Bank transfers between accounts, rather than writing
 checks and transmitting them by post; (2) issued Treasury Circular No.3 of March 2000,
which shortened the process of accessing funds from off-shore bank accounts; (3)
 instructed ministries to submit exchequer requisition for funding immediately after an
Authority to Incur Expenditure (AIE) has been issued; and (4) issued circular letter No
 7/2001 of 25 April, 2001 which re-organizes the operations of District Treasuries and
provides for separate bank accounts to be opened by every vote represented in the
districts, and for the direct channeling of funds to these accounts.

27.     A key part of the task force's work concerned two new pieces of legislation to
replace the Exchequer and Audit Act, and to separate financial management functions
from audit functions. Drafts of the Financial Management Bill and the Audit Bill
(prepared in consultation with the Controller and Auditor General) were circulated to a
wide range of stakeholders, including Accounting Officers, for their review and
comments. Versions of the Bills acceptable to the IDA were approved by the Cabinet on
May 16, 2003 and published on June 6, 2003. They are now awaiting deliberation by
Parliament.

             3. The Borrower has, in accordance with paragraph 14 of the LDP,
                 submitted to the Association a progress report satisfactory to the
                 Association on the implementation of the Borrower's plan to (a)
                 enhance fiduciary transparency involving public resources, and @)
                 improvethe quality and timelinessof audit reports.

28.     This condition has been met. With respect to (a) there were two developments.
First, district treasuries have been re-organized. The Treasury issued circular No 7/2001
(April 25, 2001) to provide for direct accountability by operating separate bank accounts
for each vote at the District Treasury to assure both Accounting Officers and District
Department Heads (Appropriations-in-Aid holders) that funds allocated to them from the
Exchequer are utilized. Second, to improve fiduciary transparency (as described in
paragraph 14 of the LDP) the government is introducing             an Integrated Financial
Management Information System. A copy of the Accountant General's progress report on
the development of the Integrated Financial Management Information System for the
quarter ending March 2003 has been received and the status was reviewed during the
PSMTAP supervision mission soon after. After delays in 2001/2002 the implementation
phase has commenced: key infrastructure such as cabling has been installed; the
implementation team has been trained; and orders have been placed for two production
servers. There are reasonable prospects that the Integrated Financial Management
Information System will be fully operational by the end of 2004.



                                               8

29.     With respect to (b), while regular progress reports were not produced by the
government, the condition has been met through the following actions. The C&AG's
 audit reports for 1997/98, 1998/9 1999/00 and 2000/01 have been completed and
 submitted to parliament. The 2001/02 report is expected to be completed by November
2003. After the completion of the 2001/02 report, the backlog will have been cleared and
further reports will be on time. To facilitate the production of quarterly audit reports by
the C&AG, the GOK has taken steps to (i) move ledger production from the Computer
 Services' mainframe computer to the Accountant General's Department; and (ii)
introduce computers to line ministries and district offices to facilitate quick and reliable
capture of data.

           4. The Borrower has, as specified in paragraph 17 of the LDP,
                submitted to the Association progress reports satisfactory to the
                Association on the implementationof the government'sMarch 2000
                Circular regarding the processing of payments of donor-funded
                projectsutilizingoff-shorespecial accounts.

30.     This condition has been met. Statistical tables sent to IDA on a regular basis
show an improvement in the flow of funds to donor-funded projects. Issues in the past
have concerned the prompt replenishment of the Special Accounts because of delays in
submitting Statements of Expenditures (SOEs). Since 2001, the Accountant General's
department has been working closely with External Resources Department of the
Ministry of Finance to ensure smooth and faster flow of funds to projects. Regular
reports on progress show that the transfer of funds fkom the exchequer to projects has
improved discernibly. Funds have been transferred directly to project bank accounts and
they have been made available to project managers in good time, resulting in
contractodsuppliers getting paid promptly. The Government is regularly monitoring the
implementation of the March 2000 Circular with a view to ensure that identified
constraints are promptly addressed. The last report on flow of funds for IDA projects -
covering the lStquarter of 2003/04 - was submitted to IDA in November 2003


           5. The Borrower's Cabinet has, as specified in paragraph 15 of the
               LDP, approved the new proposed procurement law whose objective

               system for all public procurement (includingpublic enterprises);(ii)
               shall be to (a) establish a uniform and transparent procurement

               establish a Procurement Appeals Board; and (iii) establish a
               Directorateof Public Procurement.

31.    This condition has been met. The Finance Minister signed new Procurement
Regulations (2000) on March 16, 2001. The Attorney General gazetted the Regulations
on March 30,2001 (see Kenya Gazette Supplement No. 24, Legal notice No. 51) to apply
to public procurement (except those exempted, for example, on security grounds) by
public entities. A Treasury circular has been distributed to all public institutions to
enforce the Regulations. The Regulations entrust The Tender Board of each procuring
entity (under the chairmanship of its Accounting Officer) with the authority to award
contracts. The Regulations established a Procurement Appeals Board and a Directorate
of Public Procurement (DPP) to monitor the implementation of the new procurement


                                            9

regulations. The press is briefed regularly on the outcome of appeal cases (and they are
posted on the Treasury website). The Directorate of Public Procurement has been staffed.
 The Inspection Unit has been active in monitoring and evaluating public entities on how
they are implementing public procurement regulations and providing necessary advice.

32.      A Procurement Bill acceptable to IDA was approved by the Cabinet on May 16,
2003. This followed a rather protracted process. An earlier Procurement Bill was
 approved by the Cabinet, and published, at the same time that it approved the new
Procurement Regulations in March 2001. Subsequently, the Bill was withdrawn when it
was realized that key issues had not been well addressed. After consultations with
stakeholders (including national accountancy organizations), a revised bill was drafted.
The Bill was again submitted to Cabinet on July 25, 2002 and approved. This version of
the Bill was, however, never debated in parliament. Instead following the election at the
end of 2002, the new government drafted a revised Public Procurement and Disposal of
Assets Bill, 2003. This Bill, which is acceptable to IDA, was approved by the Cabinet on
May 16, 2003 and published on 24 June. The Bill is now awaiting deliberation by
Parliament.

            6. The Borrower has submitted to the Association reports, satisfactory
                 to the Association, showingprogress in implementingits civil service
                 restructuringplan specifiedin paragraph 23 of the LDP, including a
                 reduction of staff corresponding to the reduction in the core
                 functions of the government and including the removal of
                 duplicationof functions.

33.     This condition has not been fully met and a waiver is recommended. This
condition required retrenching 32,000 personnel from civil service over a period of 2
years. In practice 23,448 civil servants were retrenched in 2000/01 before the program
was interrupted following law suits by private individuals against the civil service
restructuring program, together with parliamentary opposition. The previous government
was reluctant to move ahead because of the political sensitivity of the issue. It did
attempt, however to meet the objective of achieving comparable fiscal savings by
retrenchment in publicly funded organizations. A total of 5,613 staff have subsequently
been retrenched from the publicly funded organizations. In total, therefore, 29,061 civil
servants and staff in publicly funded organizations were retrenched over a three year
period, against a target of 32,000 civil servants in two years. The government's progress
reports outline the way in which the implementation of retrenchment in publicly h d e d
organizations has been made consistent with the civil service retrenchment program. An
estimate of wage savings has been provided in both cases

34.     As mentioned above in paragraph 17, the new government is taking steps to
address again the issue of civil service rightsizing through ministerial rationalization and
net attrition, although in doing so it faces financing constraints. A specific commitment
in the updated LDP is to reduce the size of the civil service by 5,000 per year through
natural attrition. In the updated LDP, the government also focuses on reducing the
burden of the public service wage bill by setting firm targets for reducing the wage bill
share of GDP over time. A waiver is recommended as substantial retrenchment was


                                              10

 achieved, the shortfall on target was relatively small taking into account additional
retrenchment in publicly funded organizations, and the new government is committed to
move forward with the rightsizing process.



            7. The Attorney General of the Borrower has, as provided in
                paragraph 21 of the LDP, issued a legal opinion that the updated
                "Privatization Strategy Paper" as it relates to the public utilities
                sectors (railways, ports, electricity and water) is consistent with the
                current law and that no further new legislation is required to
                implement the privatization of these entities.


34.      This condition has been met. The Attorney General issued a legal opinion on
June 13th2000 stating that GOK's privatization strategy submitted to IDA was consistent
with current law and that no specific privatization law was required to give legal effect to
the proposed strategies. Subsequently, the           government started preparation of a
Privatization Bill with the objectives of legally establishing both the privatization process
and institutional arrangements to enhance transparency in privatization transactions. The
Cabinet has approved a draft Privatization Bill and the final bill is expected to be
published in November. The government has also prepared a strategy for deciding on
privatization of public enterprises.

           8. The Borrower has submitted to the Association a report showing the
               previous quarter's public expenditures in accordance with
               paragraph 25 of the LDP.

35.    This condition has been met. Quarterly budget review reports, assessing
expenditure performance in the four quarters of both 2000/01 and 2001/02 have been
made available to the Association. Reports covering the first 2 quarters of 2002/03 have
also been made available, as have the third and fourth quarter reports in draft.

           9. The Borrower has, in accordance with paragraph 25 of the LDP,
               submitted to the Association reports satisfactory to the Association
               on the financing and expenditures on core poverty programs. Such
               reports shall demonstrate the release of funds to the said programs
               and that funds released are in accordance with the 2000/2001
               budget. For the purpose of this paragraph, the term "core poverty
               programs" shall be those which are particularly important to the
               poor and the disadvantaged members of the society.

36.    This condition has not been fully met and a waiver is recommended. The
condition requires the government to define and finance a core poverty expenditure
program within the terms of the Credit each year. The government has identified core
poverty programs and quarterly reports have been submitted regularly. These reports
indicate that funds allocated to core poverty programs have increased over time in both
the recurrent and development budgets, in part because the definition of core poverty
program has been expanded. Thus budget allocation for core poverty recurrent


                                              11

 expenditure (excluding expenditure on wages and interest payments) went up from 7% of
the total in 2000/01 to 17% in 2002/03; similarly the allocation for core poverty
 development expenditure grew from 14% to 25% of the total estimates during the same
period.
 37.     However, the government has not been able to ensure that funds allocated in the
budget for core poverty programs are released to spendingunits infull and actually spent.
 In 2000/01, actual expenditure on core poverty programs was 89% of the budget
 estimates and that on development was 58% of the estimates. In 2001/02 actual
 expenditure was 92% for recurrent estimates and 73% for development estimates. The
three main reasons for the gap between budgeted amounts and actual expenditure are (i)
the fiscal stress experienced due to low level of external development assistance during
this period; (ii) weaknesses in reporting and monitoring systems. The government has
cited recurring problems of obtaining accurate information on donor funding, especially
when payments are made directly; and (iii) weak commitment to the core poverty
programs in line ministries. In some instances, ministries have reallocated resources out
of core poverty programs into other areas.
37.     As stated in the updated LDP, the Government has taken steps to ensure that core
poverty programs are fully financed in accordance with their budget allocations during
the budget year 2003/04. It has redefined the set of core poverty programs in conjunction
with development partners and finalized mechanisms for fully protecting and monitoring
spending on such programs in consultation with line ministries. It is expected that these
mechanisms will be able to ensure full financing for the core poverty programs. The
Public Expenditure Review being conducted by the government in this budget year will
report on the financing of core poverty programs as well as physical progress associated
with these programs.

38.     In summary, while overall allocation and expenditure on core poverty programs
has increased over the past three years, the goal of ensuring releases and expenditures in
accordance with the budget has not been fully met. The goal of fully protecting core
poverty expenditure has been technically difficult in a way that was not fully appreciated
at the time of designing the Credit. The new government has taken steps to strengthen
mechanisms which are expected to fully protect spending on core poverty programs. A
waiver is recommended.

           10.   The Borrower has submitted to the Association a report showing
                 that National Aids Control Council (NACC) has been funded and
                 is operational,as providedin paragraph34 of the LDP.

41.     This condition has been met. The government has provided project reports
which demonstrate there is adequate funding for NACC so far, except in areas where
there is limited capacity to implement the program. IDA is in agreement with the
absorptive capacity problems. A satisfactory budget and financing plan was agreed for
2001/02. In the current budget year 2003/04 Ksh. 18million allocated to NACC has been
released.




                                            12

            11.   The Borrower has taken all measures necessary, including the
                  enactment of new legislation or amendment of existing legislation,
                  (a) to liberalize small farmer tea processing activities, (b)
                  abolishingthe Kenya Tea Development Authority(KTDA), and (c)
                  to implement policy measures to allow individual tea factories to
                  operate independently,all in accordance with paragraph 27 of the
                  LDP.

42.     This condition has been met. Liberalization of the tea sector was implemented
by transforming KTDA into an independent agency through a legal notice in June, 2000
effective from July lSt2000. The new institution - Kenya Tea Development Agency Ltd. -
was incorporated under the Companies Act as a private entity owned by small-scale tea
farmers, through their respective tea factories. This ended the govemment control over
small farmer tea processing activities and individual tea factories. Kenya Tea
Development Agency now manages all the 45 small-scale tea factories.

            12.   The Judicial Service Commission has approved the Judicial Code
                  of Conduct, as specifiedin paragraph18 of the LDP.

43.     This condition has been met. The preparation, approval and enforcement of a
Judicial Code of Ethics has been linked to wider legislation on public officer ethics.
Parliament rejected an original Code of Conduct and Ethics bill in December 2000 and
the new government presented a revised `Public Officer Ethics' bill to parliament as soon
as it took power. Parliament has approved this Bill which following presidential assent
came into law on May 2, 2003. The Judicial Code of Conduct has been approved by the
Judicial Service Commission and gazetted on May 16,2003.

                                     VI.     CONCLUSION

44.     Ten out of twelve conditions for the second tranche release have been met to the
satisfaction of IDA and the broad objectives of the remaining two have been substantially
achieved. The progress on the reform program outlined in the government's Letter of
Development Policy dated June 2, 2000 has been satisfactory. In several areas (the Anti-
corruption Act, Public Office Ethics Act and the Privatization Bill) the government action
has gone beyond the requirements of the Credit. The new government has signaled its
ability and willingness to continue with and further deepen reform.




                                             13


The World Bank
                                                                  Washington, D.C. 20433
                                                                  1818 H Street N.W.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTIONAND DEVELOPMENT                                             Cable Address: INTBAFRAD
                                                                                                 (202)473-1000
INTERNATIONALDEVELOPMENTASSOCIATION                               U.S.A.                         Cable Address: INDEVAS




                                                                                    November 10,2003

            Honorable David Mwiraria
            Minister of Finance
            Ministry of Finance
            Treasury Building
            Nairobi, Kenya


            Dear

                     Kenya: Economic and Public Sector Reform Credit (Credit No. 3406-KE)
                                 Amendment to the Development Credit Agreement


                     We refer to the Development Credit Agreement between the International
            Development Association (the Association) and the Republic of Kenya (the Borrower)
            dated August 2, 2000, for the Economic and Public Sector Reform Credit (the
            Agreement), as amended in January 2001,June 2002 and June 2003.

                    We also refer to the updated Letter of Development Policy dated May 28, 2003,
            from David Mwiraria, Minister of Finance, reaffirming the Borrower's commitment to
           the execution of the Program. Accordingly, Paragraph (A) of the Preamble to the
           Agreement is modified to read:


                    "  WHEREAS: (A) the Association has received a letter of development
                    policy (hereinafter called the LDP), and an additional letter of
                    development policy dated May 28, 2003 (hereinafter called the updated
                    LDP), from the Borrower describing a program of actions ,objectives and
                    policies designed to achieve structural adjustment of the Borrower's
                    economy (hereafter called the Program), declaring the Borrower's
                    commitment to the execution of the Program, and requesting assistance
                    from the Association in support of the program during the execution
                    thereof;"

           All other provisions of the Agreement shall remain in force. This amendmentwill become
           effective as of the date of this letter.


                                                     Sincerely,


                                                  Makhtar Diop
                                  Country Director for Kenya, Africa Region


                                          RCA 248423. ElWUI 64145 EL! FAX (202) 477-6391

