Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3406-1-KE
(Amendment)
Agreement Amending
Development Credit Agreement
(Economic and Public Sector Reform Credit)
between
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated January 24, 2001
CREDIT NUMBER 3406-1-KE
(Amendment)
AGREEMENT AMENDING
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated January 24, 2001 between REPUBLIC OF KENYA (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower and the Association have entered into a Development 
Credit Agreement (Economic and Public Sector Program Credit), Credit Number 3406-KE, 
dated August 2, 2000 (the Development Credit Agreement), for the purpose of providing 
support during the execution of the Borrower’s program designed to achieve structural 
adjustment of the Borrower’s economy (the Program);
(B)
the Borrower has requested the Association to provide additional 
assistance in support of the Program, by increasing the amount made available under 
the Development Credit Agreement by an amount in various currencies equivalent to two 
million five hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 2,500,000); and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to provide such supplemental assistance to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions 
set forth in this Amending Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Page  2
Amendments of the Development Credit Agreement
Section 1.01. Section 1.02 of the Development Credit Agreement is amended as 
follows:
(a)
the "and" at the end of paragraph (i) is replaced by a semi-colon ";", 
the dot "." at the end of paragraph (j) is replaced by a semi-colon ";" and two new 
paragraphs (k) and (l) are added as follows:
"(k)
‘Amending Agreement’ means the Agreement Amending the Development 
Credit Agreement (Economic and Public Sector Program Credit) between the 
 Borrower and the Association, dated                                                                                                                                                            
January 24, 2001; and
(l)
‘IDA Reflows Tranche’ means the tranche referred to in Category 
(4) in the table in paragraph 1 of the Schedule 1 to the Amending Agreement to 
be released by the Association on or after the Effective Date of this Amending 
Agreement."
Section 1.02. Section 2.01 of the Development Credit Agreement is amended to 
read as follows:
"Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the 
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit 
Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent to one hundred fifteen 
million six hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 115,600,000) (the 
Credit), which includes: (a) an original amount in various currencies 
equivalent to one hundred thirteen million one hundred thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR 113,100,000); and (b) an additional amount in various 
currencies equivalent to two million five hundred thousand Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR 2,500,000) (the Additional Financing)."
Section 1.03. Section 2.02 of the Development Credit Agreement is amended as 
follows:
(a)
Paragraph (b) is amended by substituting the phrase "paragraphs (b) and 
(c)" by "paragraphs (b), (c), (d), (e) and (f)."
(b)
The following paragraph (f) is added at the end of said Section 2.02 reading as 
follows:
"(f)
After a date twelve months from the date of the Amending 
Agreement, no withdrawal shall be made from the Credit Account in respect of 
expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds of the Additional Financing. 
At any time after such date, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower, 
cancel the unwithdrawn amount of the Additional Financing from the Credit 
Amount or any part thereof."
Section 1.04. Paragraph (b) (i) of Section 2.04 of the Development Credit 
Agreement is amended by adding after the term "cancelled" the following proviso, 
reading:
"and that any commitment charge on the Additional Financing shall accrue from 
a date sixty days after the date of the Amending Agreement."
ARTICLE II
Effective Date; Termination
Section 2.01. This Amending Agreement shall not become effective until evidence 
satisfactory to the Association shall have been furnished to the Association that the 
execution and delivery of this Amending Agreement on behalf of the Borrower have been 
duly authorized or ratified by all necessary governmental action.
Section 2.02. As part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to Section 2.01 
of this Amending Agreement, there shall be furnished to the Association an opinion or 
opinions satisfactory to the Association of counsel acceptable to the Association 
showing, on behalf of the Borrower, that this Amending Agreement has been duly 
authorized or ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the Borrower and 
Page  3
is legally binding upon the Borrower in accordance with its terms.
Section 2.03. This Amending Agreement shall come into force and effect on the 
date upon which the Association shall dispatch to the Borrower notice of its 
acceptance of the evidence required by Section 2.01 of this Amending Agreement.
Section 2.04. If this Amending Agreement shall not have come into force and 
effect by a date ninety (90) days after the date of this Amending Agreement, this 
Amending Agreement and all obligations of the parties hereunder shall terminate, 
unless the
Association establishes a later date for the purposes of this Section. If 
this Amending Agreement shall terminate under the provisions of this Section, the 
Development Credit Agreement shall continue in full force and effect, as if this 
Amending Agreement had not been executed.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Amending Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year 
first above written.
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
By /s/ Yusuf A. Nzibo
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Callisto Madavo
Regional Vice President
Africa
Annex
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the 
Credit and Excluded Expenditures
1.
Subject to the provisions set forth or referred to in this Schedule, the table 
below sets forth the amounts in SDR allocated to the specific Tranches to be withdrawn 
from the Credit Account:
 Amount of the
Credit Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
First Tranche 
  37,700,000
100% 
(2)
Second Tranche
  37,700,000
100% 
(3)
Third Tranche
  37,700,000
100%
(4)
IDA Reflows Tranche
   2,500,000
100%
TOTAL
 115,600,000
Page  4
