Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3406-KE
Development Credit Agreement
(Economic and Public Sector Reform Credit)
between
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated  August 2, 2000
CREDIT NUMBER 3406-KE
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated   August 2, 2000, between 
REPUBLIC OF KENYA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL 
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS: (A) the Association has received a 
letter of development policy (hereinafter called the 
LDP) from the Borrower describing a program of 
actions, objectives and policies designed to achieve 
structural adjustment of the Borrower’s economy 
(hereinafter called the Program), declaring the 
Borrower’s commitment to the execution of the Program, 
and requesting assistance from the Association in 
support of the program during the execution thereof; 
and
(B)
on the basis, inter alia, of the 
foregoing, the Association has decided in support of 
the Program to provide such assistance to the Borrower 
by making the Credit in three tranches as hereinafter 
Page  2
provided;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as 
follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable 
to Development Credit Agreements” of the Association, 
dated January 1, 1985, (as amended through October 6, 
1999) with the modifications thereof set forth below 
(the General Conditions) constitute an integral part 
of this Agreement:
(a)
Section 2.01, paragraph 9, shall be 
modified to read:
“Project” means the program, referred to 
in the Preamble to the Development Credit 
Agreement, in support of which the Credit is made;
(b)
A new paragraph (c) is added to Section 
3.04 to read:
“If the Association shall at any time 
receive less than the full amount then due and  payable 
to it under the Development Credit Agreement, the 
Association shall have the right  to allocate and apply 
the amount so received in any manner and for such 
purposes under the 
Development Credit Agreement as 
the Association shall in its sole discretion 
determine.”
(c)
Section 4.01 is modified to read:
“Except as the Association and the 
Borrower shall otherwise agree, withdrawals from 
the Development Credit Account shall be made in the 
currency of the deposit account 
specified in 
Section 2.02 of the Development Credit Agreement.”
(d)
Section 5.01 is modified to read:
“The Borrower shall be entitled to 
withdraw the proceeds of the Credit from the 
Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of 
the Development Credit Agreement and of 
these 
General Conditions. Except as the Association and the 
Borrower shall otherwise agree, 
no withdrawals shall 
be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the 
territories of any 
country which is not a 
member of the Bank or for goods produced in such 
territories; or (b) 
for the purpose of any 
payment to persons or entities, or for any import of 
goods, if such 
payment or import, to the 
knowledge of the Association, is prohibited by a 
decision of the 
United Nations Security Council 
taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United 
Page  3
Nations.”
(e)
The last sentence of Section 5.03 is 
deleted;
(f)
Section 9.06 (c) shall be modified to 
read:
“(c) Not later than six months after the 
Closing Date or such later date as may be 
agreed 
for this purpose between the Borrower and the 
Association, the Borrower shall prepare 
and 
furnish to the Association a report, of such scope and 
in such detail as the Association 
shall 
reasonably request, on the execution of the Program 
referred to in the Preamble to the 
Development 
Credit Agreement, the performance by the Borrower and 
the Association of their 
respective obligations under 
the Development Credit Agreement and the 
accomplishment of the 
purposes of the Credit.”; 
and
(g)
Section 9.04 is deleted and Sections 
9.05, 9.06 (as modified above), 9.07 and 9.08 are 
renumbered, respectively, Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06 
and 9.07.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise 
requires, the several terms defined in the General 
Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have 
the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
“Deposit Account” means the account 
referred to in Section 2.02 (a) of this Agreement; 
(b)
“FY” means the fiscal year of the 
Borrower, which runs from July 1 to June 30;
(c)
“First Tranche” means the tranche 
referred to in Category 1 of paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement to be released by the Association on 
or after the Effective Date;
(d)
“Second Tranche” means the tranche 
referred to in Category 2 of paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement to be released by the Association on 
or after the date on which the conditions referred to 
in Part A of Schedule 2 to this Agreement have been 
met;
(e)
“Third Tranche” means the tranche 
referred to in Category 3 of paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement to be released by the Association on 
or after the date on which the conditions referred to 
in Part B of Schedule 2 to this Agreement have been 
met;
(f)
“KACA” means the Kenya Anti Corruption 
Authority established pursuant to the Prevention of 
Corruption Act (Cap 65) as amended in 1997 of the laws 
Page  4
of the Borrower;
(g)
“Telecom Kenya” means the Kenya 
Telecommunications Company established pursuant to the 
Kenya Communication Act of 1998 of the laws of the 
Borrower;
(h)
“Privatization Strategy Paper” means the 
policy adopted by the Borrower on to guide the 
Borrower’s privatization activities;
(i)
“NACC” means the National Aids 
Coordinating Council established by the Borrower to 
coordinate HIV/AIDS activities; and
(j)
“PRSP” means the Poverty Reduction 
Strategy Paper of the Borrower.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01.  The Association agrees to lend to 
the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an 
amount in various currencies equivalent to one hundred 
thirteen million, one hundred thousand Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR 113,100,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The Borrower shall open, prior 
to furnishing to the Association the first request for 
withdrawal from the Credit Account, and thereafter 
maintain in its central bank, a deposit account in 
dollars on terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Association. All withdrawals from the Credit Account 
shall be deposited by the Association into the Deposit 
Account. 
(b)
Subject to the provisions of paragraphs 
(c), (d) and (e) of this Section, the Borrower shall 
be entitled to use the proceeds of the Credit 
withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited in the 
Deposit Account in support of the Program. 
(c)
The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds 
of the Credit shall not be used to finance 
expenditures excluded pursuant to the provisions of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement. If the Association shall 
have determined at any time that any proceeds of the 
Credit shall have been used to make a payment for an 
expenditure so excluded, the Borrower shall, promptly 
upon notice from the Association: (i) deposit into the 
Deposit Account an amount equal to the amount of said 
payment, or (ii) if the Association shall so request, 
refund such amount to the Association. Amounts 
refunded to the Association upon such request shall be 
credited to the Credit Account for cancellation.
(d)
No withdrawal shall be made from the 
Credit Account after the aggregate of the proceeds of 
the Credit withdrawn from the Credit Account shall 
have reached the equivalent of SDR 37,700,000, unless 
Page  5
the Association shall be satisfied, after an exchange 
of views as described in Section 3.01 of this 
Agreement based on evidence satisfactory to the 
Association: (i) with the progress achieved by the 
Borrower in the carrying out of the Program; (ii) that 
the macro-economic policy framework of the Borrower is 
satisfactory, as measured on the basis of indicators 
agreed between the Borrower and the Association; and 
(iii) that the actions described in Part A of Schedule 
2 to this Agreement have been taken. If, after said 
exchange of views, the Association shall have given 
notice to the Borrower that the progress achieved and 
actions taken are not satisfactory and, within 90 days 
after such notice, the Borrower shall not have 
achieved progress and taken actions satisfactory to 
the Association, then the Association may, by notice 
to the Borrower, cancel the unwithdrawn amount of the 
Credit or any part thereof.
(e)
No withdrawal shall be made from the 
Credit Account after the aggregate of the proceeds of 
the Credit withdrawn from the Credit Account shall 
have reached the equivalent of SDR 75,400,000, unless 
the Association shall be satisfied, after an exchange 
of views as described in Section 3.01 of this 
Agreement based on evidence satisfactory to the 
Association: (i) with the progress achieved by the 
Borrower in the carrying out of the Program; (ii) that 
the macro-economic policy framework of the Borrower is 
satisfactory, as measured on the basis of indicators 
agreed between the Borrower and the Association; and 
(iii) that the actions described in Part B of Schedule 
2 to this Agreement have been taken. If, after said 
exchange of views, the Association shall have given 
notice to the Borrower that the progress achieved and 
actions taken are not satisfactory and, within 90 days 
after such notice, the Borrower shall not have 
achieved progress and taken actions satisfactory to 
the Association, then the Association may, by notice 
to the Borrower, cancel the unwithdrawn amount of the 
Credit or any part thereof.
Section 2.03.  The Closing Date shall be June 
30, 2002 or such later date as the Association shall 
establish. The Association shall promptly notify the 
Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the 
Association a commitment charge on the principal 
amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time 
at a rate to be set by the Association as of June 30 
of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half 
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) 
from the date sixty days after the date of this 
Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates 
on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower 
from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the 
rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the 
accrual date or at such other rates as may be set from 
time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above.  The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall 
be applied from the next payment date in that year 
Page  6
specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) 
at such places as the Association shall reasonably 
request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in 
the currency specified in this Agreement for the 
purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or 
in such other eligible currency or currencies as may 
from time to time be designated or selected pursuant 
to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the 
Association a service charge at the rate of 
three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on 
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment and service charges 
shall be payable semiannually on May 1 and November 1 
in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and 
(c) below, the Borrower shall repay the principal 
amount of the Credit in semi-annual installments 
payable on each May 1
and November 1 commencing 
November 1 2010, and ending May 1, 2040. Each 
installment to and including the installment payable 
on May 1, 2020 shall be one percent (1%) of such 
principal amount, and each installment thereafter 
shall be two percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower’s per capita 
gross national product (GNP), as determined by the 
Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive 
years the level established annually by the 
Association for determining eligibility to access the 
Association’s resources; and (ii) the Bank shall 
consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, 
the Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the 
Association and after due consideration by them of the 
development of the Borrower’s economy, modify the 
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above 
by: 
(A)
requiring the Borrower to repay 
twice the amount of each such installment not 
yet due until the principal amount of the Credit 
shall have been repaid; and 
(B)
requiring the Borrower to commence 
repayment of the principal amount of the 
Credit as of the first semiannual payment date 
referred to in paragraph (a) 
above 
falling six (6) months or more after the date on which 
the Association 
notifies the Borrower 
that the events set out in this paragraph (b) have 
occurred, provided, however, that 
there shall be a grace period of a minimum 
of five (5) years on such repayment of 
principal.
Page  7
(C)
If so requested by the Borrower, 
the Association may revise the modification 
referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, 
in lieu of some or all of the 
increase in the amounts of such installments, the 
payment of interest at an 
annual rate 
agreed with the Association on the principal amount of 
the Credit 
withdrawn and outstanding 
from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of 
the Association, such revision shall not 
change the grant element obtained 
under the above-mentioned repayment 
modification.
(D)
If, at any time after a 
modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) above, 
the Association determines that 
the Borrower’s economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, 
if so requested by the 
Borrower, further modify the terms of repayment to 
conform to the schedule of 
installments as provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States 
of America is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Particular Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower and the 
Association shall from time to time, at the request of 
either party, exchange views on the progress achieved 
in carrying out the Program and the actions specified 
in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
(b)
Prior to each such exchange of views, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the Association for its 
review and comment a report on the progress achieved 
in carrying out the Program, in such detail as the 
Association shall reasonably request.
(c)
Without limitation upon the provisions of 
paragraph (a) of this Section, the Borrower shall 
exchange views with the Association on any proposed 
action to be taken after the disbursement of the 
Credit which would have the effect of materially 
reversing the objectives of the Program, or any action 
taken under the Program, including any action 
specified in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Upon the Association’s request, 
the Borrower shall:
(a)
have the Deposit Account audited in 
accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association;
(b)
furnish to the Association as soon as 
Page  8
available, but in any case not later than four months 
after the date of the Association’s request for such 
audit, a certified copy of the report of such audit by 
said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the 
Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(c)
furnish to the Association such other 
information concerning the Deposit Account and the 
audit thereof as the Association shall have reasonably 
requested.
ARTICLE IV
Additional Event of Suspension
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of 
the General Conditions, the following additional event 
is specified, namely, that a situation has arisen 
which shall make it improbable that the Program, or a 
significant part thereof, will be carried out.
ARTICLE V
Termination
Section 5.01. The date ninety (90) days after 
the date of this Agreement is hereby specified for the 
purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister for Finance of the 
Borrower is designated as representative of the 
Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the 
General Conditions.
Section 6.02.  The following addresses are 
specified for the purposes of Section 11.01 of the 
General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
P.O. Box 30007
Nairobi
Kenya
Cable address:
Telex:
FINANCE
22921
Nairobi
MINFIN-KE
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Page  9
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INDEVAS
248423 
(RCA)
(202) 477-6391
Washington, D.C.
 82987 
(FTCC)
 64145 
(WUI) or
197688 
(TRT)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting 
through their duly authorized representatives, have 
caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in Nairobi, Kenya, as of the day and year first 
above written.
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
By /s/ Chrysanthus Okemo
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Harrold Wackman
Acting Regional Vice President
Africa 
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
and Excluded Expenditures
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
% of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
First Tranche
    37,700,000
100%
(2)
Second Tranche
    37,700,000
100%
(3)
Third Tranche
    37,700,000
100%
TOTAL
   113,100,000
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 
above, for purposes of Section 2.02 (c) of this 
Agreement, the proceeds of the Credit shall not be 
used to finance any of the following expenditures:
Page  10
(a)
expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of the Borrower;
(b)
expenditures for goods or services 
supplied under a contract which any national or 
international financing institution or agency other 
than the Bank or the Association shall have financed 
or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the 
Association shall have financed or agreed to finance 
under another loan or a credit; 
(c)
expenditures for goods included in the 
following groups or sub-groups of the Standard 
International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, 
Rev. 3), published by the United Nations in 
Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the 
SITC), or any successor groups or sub-groups under 
future revisions to the SITC, as designated by the 
Association by notice to the Borrower:
Group
Sub-group
Description of Items
112
   -
Alcoholic beverages
121
   -
Tobacco, unmanufactured, tobacco refuse
122
   -
Tobacco, manufactured (whether not containing 
tobacco 
substitutes)
525
   -
Radioactive and associated materials
667
   -
Pearls, 
precious and semi-precious stones, 
unworked or worked
718
718.7
Nuclear 
reactors, and parts thereof; fuel 
elements (cartridges), non-irradiated, for 
nuclear 
reactors
728.43
   -
Tobacco 
processing machinery 
897
897.3
Jewelry 
of gold, silver or platinum group 
metals 
(except watches and watch cases) and 
goldsmiths’ or 
silversmiths’ wares (including 
set 
gems)
971
   -
Gold, 
non-monetary (excluding gold ores and 
concentrates)
Page  11
(d)
expenditures for goods intended for a 
military or para-military purpose or for luxury 
consumption;
(e)
expenditures for environmentally 
hazardous goods (for purposes of this paragraph, the 
term "environmentally hazardous goods" means goods, 
the manufacture, use or import of which is prohibited 
under the laws of the Borrower or international 
agreements to which the Borrower is a party, and any 
other goods designated as environmentally hazardous by 
agreement between the Borrower and the Association);
(f)
in furtherance of the purposes of Section 
5.01 of the General Conditions, expenditures (a) in 
the territories of any country which is not a member 
of the Bank or for goods procured in, or services 
supplied from, such territories or (b) on account of 
any payment to persons or entities, or any import of 
goods, if such payment or import is prohibited by a 
decision of the United Nations Security Council taken 
under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United 
Nations; and
(g)
expenditures under a contract in respect 
of which the Association determines that corrupt or 
fraudulent practices were engaged in by 
representatives of the Borrower or of a beneficiary of 
the Credit during the procurement or execution of such 
contract, without the Borrower having taken timely and 
appropriate action satisfactory to the Association to 
remedy the situation.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 
above, no withdrawal shall be made from the Credit 
Account in respect of expenditures to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the IDA Reflows after a date twelve 
months (or such later date as the Association shall 
establish and promptly notify the Borrower) from the 
date of this Agreement. At any time after such date, 
the Association may, by notice to the Borrower, cancel 
the unwithdrawn amount of the IDA Reflows.
SCHEDULE  2
Actions Referred to in Section 2.02 (d) and (e)
of this Agreement
Part A:
Conditions for the Release of the Second 
Tranche:
1.
The Borrower has, consistent with paragraph 14 
of the LDP, taken measures, including, if necessary, 
the presentation of legislation to Parliament to merge 
the office of the Auditor General (Corporations) with 
the office of the Controller and Auditor General.
2.
The Borrower has established a task force under 
terms of reference satisfactory to the Association to 
review and prepare revisions to the Exchequer and 
Audit Act and other financial regulations and 
procedures with the view to improving the timely flow 
of budget resources to the districts as outlined in 
paragraph 17 of the LDP. 
Page  12
3.
The Borrower has, in accordance with paragraph 
14 of the LDP, submitted to the Association a progress 
report satisfactory to the Association on the 
implementation of the Borrowers’ plan to (a) enhance 
fiduciary transparency involving public resources, and 
(b) improve the quality and timeliness of audit 
reports.
4.
The Borrower has, as specified in paragraph 17 
of the LDP, submitted to the Association progress 
reports satisfactory to the Association on the 
implementation of the Government’s March 2000 Circular 
regarding the processing of payments of donor-funded 
projects utilizing off-shore special accounts.
5.
The Borrower’s Cabinet has, as specified in 
paragraph 15 of the LDP, approved the new proposed 
procurement law whose objective shall be to (a) 
establish a uniform and transparent procurement system 
for all public procurement (including public 
enterprises), (b) establish a Procurement Appeals 
Board, and (c) establish a Directorate of Public 
Procurement.
6.
The Borrower has submitted to the Association 
reports, satisfactory to the Association, showing 
progress in implementing its civil service 
restructuring plan specified in paragraph 23 of the 
LDP, including a reduction of staff corresponding to 
the reduction in the core functions of the government 
and including the removal of duplication of functions.
7.
The Attorney General of the Borrower has, as 
provided in paragraph 21 of the LDP, issued a legal 
opinion that the updated  “Privatization Strategy 
Paper” as it relates to the public utilities sectors 
(railways, ports, electricity and water) is consistent 
with the current law and that no further new 
legislation is required to implement the privatization 
of these entities. 
8.
The Borrower has submitted to the Association a 
report showing the previous quarter’s public 
expenditures in accordance with paragraph 25 of the 
LDP.
9.
The Borrower has, in accordance with paragraph 
25 of the LDP, submitted to the Association reports 
satisfactory to the Association on the financing and 
expenditures on core poverty programs.  Such reports 
shall demonstrate the release of funds to the said 
programs and that funds released are in accordance 
with the 2000/2001 budget.  For the purpose of this 
paragraph, the term “core poverty programs” shall be 
those which are particularly important to the poor and 
the disadvantaged members of the society.
10.
The Borrower has submitted to the Association a 
report showing that NACC has been  funded and is 
operational, as provided in paragraph 34 of the LDP.
11.
The Borrower has taken all measures necessary, 
including the enactment of new legislation or 
amendment of existing legislation (a) to liberalize 
small farmer tea processing activities, (b) abolishing 
the Kenya Tea Development Authority (KTDA), and (c) to 
Page  13
implement policy measures to allow individual tea 
factories to operate independently, all in accordance 
with paragraph 27 of the LDP.
12.
The Judicial Service Commission has approved the 
Judicial Code of Conduct, as specified in paragraph 18 
of the LDP.
Part B:
Conditions for the Release of the Third 
Tranche
1.
The Borrower has (a) submitted to the 
Association a report showing that public consultation 
process for the full PRSP has been successfully 
undertaken, and (b) developed a mechanism for 
monitoring core poverty programs, all as outlined in 
paragraph 5 of the LDP.
2.
The Borrower has presented the 1998/1999 audited 
accounts of the government to Parliament in accordance 
with paragraph 14 of the LDP.
3.
The Borrower has, as specified in paragraph 15 
of the LDP, presented to its Parliament the new 
comprehensive bill on procurement.
4.
The Borrower has submitted to the Association a 
progress report satisfactory to the Association 
showing progress achieved in the implementation of the 
civil service restructuring plan as specified in 
paragraph 23 of the LDP.
5.
The Borrower has submitted to the Association a 
progress report satisfactory to the Association on the 
implementation of the Borrower’s privatization program 
as contained in the updated “Privatization Strategy 
Paper” with regard to the privatization of Kenya 
Railways Corporation, Kenya Ports, public enterprises 
in the electricity sector, the water sector and the 
public enterprises in the sugar sector as outlined in 
paragraph 21 of the LDP.
6.
The Borrower has taken all measures under its 
control to offer for sale 49% of Telkom Kenya shares 
to pre-qualified bidders through an objective, 
transparent and competitive tender process acceptable 
to the Association as specified in paragraph 21 of the 
LDP.  For the purpose of this condition, the term “to 
offer for sale” shall mean that the Borrower has taken 
the following steps: (a) invited firms to pre-qualify, 
(b) carried out the pre-qualification exercise and 
publicly announced the pre-qualified bidders (if any), 
(c) signed Confidentiality Agreements with 
pre-qualified bidders, (d) invited bidders to the Data 
Room, visits to the field, discussions with management 
and government officials, (e) drafted legal documents 
and information memorandum given to bidders, (f) 
investors have provided comments on draft legal 
documents.  Thereafter, meetings with all bidders to 
discuss their comments and negotiations on the aspects 
of the transaction will have taken place, (g) 
Government has drafted the final bidding documents, 
including legal documents and final timetable, (h) 
final bidding documents have been issued to bidders, 
(i) legal documents signed by bidders are received, 
(j) the Evaluating Commission reviews the documents, 
(k) the government announces the companies that have 
Page  14
completed this step and are allowed to bid, (l) price 
proposals are received in sealed envelops, (m) the 
envelopes are opened in public and the award of the 
bid is announced immediately, and (n) closing of the 
transaction.
7.
The Borrower has rationalized the primary school 
curriculum, including the reduction of taught subjects 
from thirteen subjects to seven subjects and a 
reduction of examinable subjects from seven subjects 
to five subjects as provided in paragraph 30 of the 
LDP.
8.
The Borrower has rationalized the curriculum for 
secondary schools, including: (a) the reduction of 
subjects from 36 to 17, (b) limiting the core 
curriculum to 10 subjects, and (c) limiting the core 
curriculum to a maximum of 9 and a minimum of 7 
examinable subjects, all as provided in paragraph 30 
of the LDP.
9.
The Borrower’s cabinet has approved a Sessional 
Paper separating the regulatory functions of the Kenya 
Coffee Board from its marketing role as outlined in 
paragraph 27 of the LDP. 
10.
The Borrower has, in accordance with paragraph 
25 of the LDP submitted to the Association reports 
satisfactory to the Association on the financing and 
expenditures on core poverty programs.  Such reports 
shall demonstrate the release of funds to the said 
programs and that funds released are in accordance 
with the 2000/2001 budget. The Borrower has submitted 
to the Association a report showing the previous 
quarter’s public expenditures in accordance with 
paragraph 25 of the LDP.
11.
The Borrower has submitted to the Association a 
financing plan, satisfactory to the Association for 
NACC and the ministerial HIV/AIDS programs as provided 
in paragraph 34 of the LDP.
