Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3406-2-KE
(Second Amendment)
Second Agreement Amending
Development Credit Agreement
(Economic and Public Sector Reform Credit)
between
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated June 24, 2002
CREDIT NUMBER 3406-2-KE
(Second Amendment)
SECOND AGREEMENT AMENDING
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 24, 2002 between REPUBLIC OF KENYA (the Borrower) 
and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower and the Association have entered into a Development 
Page  2
Credit Agreement (Economic and Public Sector Program Credit), Credit Number 3406-KE, dated 
August 2, 2000 (the Development Credit Agreement), for the purpose of providing support 
during the execution of the Borrower’s program designed to achieve structural adjustment of the 
Borrower’s economy (the Program);
(B)
Pursuant to an Agreement Amending Development Credit Agreement (Economic and 
Public Sector Program Credit) between the Borrower and the Association, dated January 24, 
2001, the Association has agreed to provide additional assistance in support of the Program;
(C)
The Borrower has requested the Association to provide additional assistance in support 
of the Program, by increasing the amount made available under the Development Credit 
Agreement by an amount in various currencies equivalent to one million one hundred fifty 
thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR  1,150,000 ); and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed on the basis, inter
alia
,
of the foregoing, to 
provide such additional assistance, representing the FY02 allocation under the Association’s 
Fifth Dimension Program established in 1998, to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set 
forth in this Amending Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Amendments of the Development Credit Agreement
Section 1.01. Section 1.02 of the Development Credit Agreement is amended as follows:
(a)
deleting the “and” at the end of paragraph (k) and substituting the period at the 
end of paragraph (l) with a semi-colon and the word “and”; and
(b)
adding a new paragraph (m) to read as follows:
“(m)
‘Second Amending Agreement’ means the Second Agreement Amending 
the Development Credit Agreement (Economic and Public Sector Program 
Credit) between the Borrower and the Association, dated June 24, 2002.”
Section 1.02. Section 2.01 of the Development Credit Agreement is amended to read as 
follows:
“Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an 
amount in various currencies equivalent to one hundred sixteen million seven 
hundred fifty thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 116,750,000) (the Credit), 
which includes: (a) an original amount in various currencies equivalent to one 
hundred thirteen million one hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 
113,100,000) (the Initial Financing); (b) an additional amount in various 
currencies equivalent to two million five hundred thousand Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR 2,500,000) (the First Additional Financing); and (c) an additional 
amount in various currencies equivalent to one million one hundred fifty 
thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 1,150,000) (the Second Additional 
Page  3
Financing)”.
Section 1.03. Paragraph (b) of Section 2.02 of the Development Credit Agreement is 
amended by deleting paragraph “(b)” from the list of paragraphs listed therein.
Section 1.04. Paragraph (b) (i) of Section 2.04 of the Development Credit Agreement is 
amended by adding after the term “cancelled” the following proviso
 reading:
“provided, however that any commitment charge on: (A) the First Additional 
Financing shall accrue from a date sixty days after the date of the Amending 
Agreement; and (b) the Second Additional Financing shall accrue from a date 
sixty days after the date of the Second Amending Agreement;”
Section 1.05. The amount set forth in Category (2) of the table in paragraph 1 of 
Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement is amended from “37,700,000” to 
“38,850,000”.
Section 1.06. Paragraph 3 of Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement is 
amended by adding “: (a)”, immediately following the phrase “in respect of” and deleting the 
period “.” At the end of said paragraph and adding the following:
:; and (b) expenditures to be financed out of the Second IDA Reflows after a date of twelve 
months (or such later date as the Association shall establish and promptly notify the Borrower) 
from the date of this Second Amending Agreement.  At any time after such date, the Association 
may, by notice to the Borrower, cancel the unwithdrawn amount of the Second Additional 
Financing from the Credit or any part thereof.”
ARTICLE II
Effective Date; Termination
Section 2.01. This Second Amending Agreement shall not become effective until 
evidence satisfactory to the Association shall have been furnished to the Association that the 
execution and delivery of this Second Amending Agreement on behalf of the Borrower have 
been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary governmental action.
Section 2.02. As part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to Section 2.01 of this 
Second Amending Agreement, there shall be furnished to the Association an opinion or opinions 
satisfactory to the Association of counsel acceptable to the Association showing, on behalf of the 
Borrower, that this Second Amending Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by, and 
executed and delivered on behalf of, the Borrower and is legally binding upon the Borrower in 
accordance with its terms.
Section 2.03. This Second Amending Agreement shall come into force and effect on the 
Page  4
date upon which the Association shall dispatch to the Borrower notice of its acceptance of the 
evidence required by Section 2.01 of this Second Amending Agreement.
Section 2.04. If this Second Amending Agreement shall not have come into force and 
effect by a date ninety (90) days after the date of this Second Amending Agreement, this Second 
Amending Agreement and all obligations of the parties hereunder shall terminate, unless the
 
Association establishes a later date for the purposes of this Section. If this Second Amending 
Agreement shall terminate under the provisions of this Section, the Development Credit 
Agreement shall continue in full force and effect, as if this Second Amending Agreement had not 
been executed.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Second Amending Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
By
/s/
Yusuf Nzibo
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
/s/
Ted Ahlers
Acting Regional Vice President
Africa
Page  5
Annex
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the 
Credit and Excluded Expenditures
1.
Subject to the provisions set forth or referred to in this Schedule, the table below sets 
forth the amounts in SDR allocated to the specific Tranches to be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account:
Category
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
(Expressed in 
SDR Equivalent
% of
Expenditures 
to be Financed
(
1)
First Tranche 
  37,700,000
100% 
(2)
Second Tranche
38,850,000
100% 
(3)
Third Tranche
    37,700,000
         100%
(4)
IDA Reflows Tranche
     2,500,000
         100%
TOTAL
116,750,000
