Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-6808-GE
MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE CREDIT
IN AN AMOUNT OF SDR 3.3 MILLION
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF GEORGIA
MARCH 20, 1996
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
(as of February 27, 1996)
Currency Unit = Lari
US$1.00 = 1.26 Laris
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CIS - Commonwealth of Independent States
EU - European Union
EU TACIS - EU Technical Assistance to the CIS
FSU - Former Soviet Union
GDP - Gross Domestic Product
GNP - Gross National Product
IBC - Institution Building Credit
IBRD - International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICB - International Competitive Bidding
IDA - International Development Association
IFC - International Finance Corporation
IMF - International Monetary Fund
IS - International Shopping
MIGA - Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency
NBG - National Bank of Georgia
PIU - Project Implementation Unit
SAC - Structural Adjustment Credit
SATAC - Structural Adjustment Technical Assistance Credit
SDR - Special Drawing Rights
SPM - Ministry of State Property Management
STF - Systemic Transformation Facility
UNDP - United Nations Development Program
USAID - United States Agency for International Development
GEORGIA - FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF GEORGIA
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE CREDIT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:                  Republic of Georgia
Implementing Agencv:       Ministry of Trade and Foreign Economic Relations
Beneficiaries:             Ministry of Finance; Ministry of Economy; National Bank of Georgia;
Ministry of State Property Management; United Fund for Social
Security; participating banks and private enterprises; Customs
Department
Poverty Category:          N/A
Amount:                    SDR 3.3 million (US$4.8 million equivalent)
Terms:                     Payable over 35 years, including 10 years of grace, on standard IDA
terms
Commitment Fee:            0.50 percent on undisbursed credit balances, beginning 60 days after
signing, less any waiver
Financing Plan:            See Schedule A
Net Present Value:         N/A
Staff Appraisal Report:    N/A
Objectives and Description:   The primary objective of the proposed credit is to support the
Government's reform program to stabilize the economy and create the
conditions for a resumption of growth and an improvement in living
standards. This will be achieved through financing technical
assistance necessary for the implementation of the Government's
reform program. A Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC) of SDR 41.3
million (US$60 million equivalent) is being prepared in parallel to the
proposed credit and would provide import and budgetary support.
The project includes technical assistance in support of privatization
and post-privatization, strengthening of the financial sector, reforming
social protection, mobilizing resources, disseminating information on
economic reforms, and strengthening the regulatory framework for the
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfornuaice of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



ii
Benefits:                   The technical assistance financed by the project will facilitate the
implementation of the structural reforms supported by the proposed
SAC. The implementation of these reforms should consolidate recent
economic achievements, accelerate the transition to a market economy,
and lead to sustained growth recovery and improvements in living
standards. The program would lead to further downsizing of the state-
controlled sector and induce adjustment of enterprises to new market
signals.
Risks:                      Implementation capacity to undertake technical assistance programs is
strong in Georgia as demonstrated by the good performance of the
Institution Building Credit. Therefore, the main risks associated with
the project are risks to the overall reform program identical to those
of the proposed SAC. The main risk is that adequate and timely
external assistance of the magnitude required will not be forthcoming.
The failure to achieve a fully funded program would force a much
stronger domestic adjustment and a lower growth path, imposing
additional social costs to the population. To address this problem, the
Bank will not only provide continuous financial support, but will also
assist Georgia in mobilizing external resources through the
Consultative Group process and other donor coordination efforts. A
second risk is that the terms at which bilateral creditors agree to
reschedule existing claims may be inconsistent with the country's
capacity to pay, lowering the prospects for the attainment of external
viability over the medium term. This risk is being addressed through a
debt strategy developed in agreement with the IMF, including on-
going negotiations with bilateral creditors. A third risk is delayed
implementation due to weak institutional capacity within the
Government and other executing agencies. To date, technical
assistance has been essential in assisting the Government in the design
and implementation of reforms. The proposed credit addresses
directly this risk by further strengthening the Government's capacity to
implement reforms.
Proiect ID Number:          GE-PA-44388
This report is based on missions which visited Georgia in June and December 1995, comprising
Messrs./Mmes. Michelle Riboud (Sr. Country Economist, Mission Leader), John Nash (Trade), S.
Ramachandran (Financial Sector), Stuart Bell (Privatization), Barbara Evans (Energy), Gary Burtless
(Social Protection), Arup Banerji (Civil Sector Reform), Francois Orivel (Education), Ana Revenga
(Public Expenditure) and Cyril Muller (Technical Assistance, Economic Management). Rosario
Hablero provided secretarial support. Peer reviewers were Martha de Melo and Cheryl Gray. Basil
Kavalsky and Wafik Grais are, respectively, the Director of the Country Department, and Division
Chief of the Country Operations Division, responsible for Georgia in the Europe and Central Asia
region.



MEMORANDU1M AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF IDA TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE CREDIT
TO THE REPUBLIC OF GEORGIA
1.    I submit for your approval the following memorandum and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to the Republic of Georgia for SDR 3.3 million (amount equivalent to US$4.8
million) to finance technical assistance in support of the Government's economic reform program.
The credit would be on standard IDA terms with a maturity of 35 years including a grace period of
10 years. It has been prepared in parallel with a proposed Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC) (SDR
41.3 million) and an Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility (SDR 166.5 million) from the IMF.
2.    Georgia became a member of IBRD in August 1992, of MIGA in December 1992, of IDA in
August 1993, and of IFC in June 1995.
Background
3.    Georgia is a relatively small country with a population of 5.4 million people situated in the
southern part of the Caucasus region. At independence in April 1991, Georgia appeared to be among
the best placed of the former Soviet states to make a successful and rapid transition. It had a highly
educated labor force, a long tradition of entrepreneurship, a successful agricultural sector, substantial
natural resources, and only a few of the large, heavy industrial complexes with doubtful economic
viability. The country's location made it a primary transit corridor in the Caucasus, and its climate
and scenic variety offered great potential for tourism.
4.    Soon after independence, Georgia became embroiled for more than two years in political and
civil strife which had a devastating effect on the economy. In addition, disruption of traditional
payments and trade links, and a large terms of trade shock for energy imports, aggravated economic
contraction. As a result, Georgia suffered from one of the sharpest economic declines in the Former
Soviet Union (FSU): between 1990 and 1994 recorded output is estimated to have fallen by 70
percent. Although the informal economy may have cushioned the impact of this decline on the
population, living standards fell precipitously, and by 1994, GNP per capita (estimated at US$410)
had shrunk to the second lowest among FSU countries.
5.    The civil conflicts severely eroded the Government's authority and ability to conduct sound
economic policy. Tax revenues collapsed, falling to around 2-3 percent of GDP in 1993/1994. The
resulting large budget deficits led to hyperinflation and to a sharp depreciation of the domestic
currency. By end-1993 annual inflation had reached 8,400 percent and the coupon had fallen to less
than 1 percent of its January 1993 value. Substantial currency substitution resulted. In order to
maintain massive subsidies for energy and bread, the Government let its external debt grow to
unsustainable levels and increased its reliance on humanitarian aid. By the end of 1994 total external
debt (including arrears) represented almost 80 percent of GDP and grants amounted to about 45
percent of government revenues.
6.    A marked change in the political and economic situations occurred in 1994 following the
establishment of a cease-fire in Abkhazia. With the benefit of an improved political situation, the
Government designed a programn to stabilize and reform the economy. Implementation of this
program has been sustained since September 1994. In July 1995 the Parliament approved a new
Constitution which establishes a strong executive presidency. Presidential and parliamentary elections
held on November 5, 1995, confirmed the Government's pro-reform platform. Mr. Shevardnadze



was elected president with about 75 percent of the vote.
Recent Economic Developments
7.     Stabilization is taking hold. The stabilization strategy relies on drastic fiscal adjustment and
tight monetary policies. The budget deficit, on a accrual basis, was reduced from 26 percent of GDP
in 1993 to about 6 percent in 1995. Results have been impressive: the average monthly rate of
inflation fell from an average of 64 percent in the first three quarters of 1994 to an average of 3
percent in the first nine months of 1995. The Georgian coupon appreciated from about 5 million
coupons per U.S. dollar in unofficial trading in mid-September 1994 to 1.3 million coupons at the end
of 1994, and then stabilized at that level. This laid the ground for the introduction of a new national
currency, the lari, on September 25, 1995. The population converted about US$50 million of foreign
currency within a month, leading to a fourfold increase of the domestic currency in circulation and
growth in the international reserves of the National Bank of Georgia (NBG). The lari has since
become the sole legal tender and has appreciated slightly against the U.S. dollar (the exchange rate
was 1.26 lari in February 1996, compared with 1.30 in September 1995).
8.     Economic decline is slowing. There are signs that Georgia's economic decline has slowed.
The area of cultivated land in 1995 is about 14 percent higher that the area cultivated the previous
year. Industrial output is reported to have stabilized except in the large Rustavi metallurgical and
chemical plants. Available data suggest output recovery in the service sector, particularly in transport
and retail trade. Preliminary estimates indicate that the output decline in 1995 will not exceed 5
percent. In addition, the sharp reduction of the labor force in state enterprises (over 35 percent since
1991) is indicative that restructuring has begun.
9.     Structural reforms are accelerating.  Implementation of the structural reform measures
supported by the Rehabilitation Credit has been generally strong with major achievements in
privatization of small-scale enterprises', downsizing of the Government sectori, elimination of
subsidies3, improvements in the targeting of social benefits, trade liberalization, and development of a
legal framework to support private sector development.
Structural Reforns - Challenges and the Agenda Ahead
10.    In spite of these initial successes, the economic situation remains fragile, with many key
reforms still at an early stage. The privatization of medium and large enterprises has just begun and
firms have yet to make the critical adjustment to market signals. The development of agriculture
remains constrained by the lack of well-defined property rights and incomplete land reform. With
most banks either insolvent or inactive, the banking sector fails to intermediate savings efficiently.
The shortage of energy remains a critical constraint to output recovery. Energy imports declined
significantly in 1995 as the Government stopped procuring gas. Because of continued problems in
I  As of December 1995, 6,432 small enterprises (90 percent of the universe) had been privatized up from
1,657 in October 1994.
2   The number of positions in the budgetary sector was reduced by 40 percent. The largest reduction of
about 130,000 positions occurred in the health sector as part of a radical reform program.
3   Price increases have been huge, especially for consumers, ranging from 5 times (gas for heating) to
13,000 times (gas for cooking). The price of bread, the main staple in Georgia, rose 1,500 times.



collecting payments from final consumers, producers too were unable to finance energy imports.
Urgent energy sector reforms are needed to foster efficiency and growth of domestic production.
11.   The primary objective of the next phase of structural reform, to be supported by the proposed
Structural Adjustment Credit and Structural Adjustment Technical Assistance Credit, is to ensure the
sustainability of the stabilization measures and to foster a strong and sustained recovery of growth.
The program includes measures aimed at: (i) maintaining a tight monetary policy supported by an
improving fiscal position; (ii) streamlining the government sector and improving the efficiency of
public spending; and (iii) inducing a rapid adjustment of the productive sector to new market signals.
12.   Maintaining tight monetary and fiscal policies. The Government intends to reduce the
inflation rate to 20-25 percent in 1996 and 8-9 percent in 1997, and to strengthen the international
reserves position of the NBG. To enhance its capacity to achieve its monetary objectives, the NBG
will increase the range of its monetary policy instruments, introduce government securities and
develop the interbank credit auction market. The Government is aware that the sustainability of
stabilization depends crucially on mobilizing budgetary resources and gradually reducing reliance on
external grants and loans. The goal is not to rebuild a large state sector, but to ensure that the
Government has the resources it needs to perform critical functions. The Government intends to
increase tax revenues from 3.7 percent of GDP in 1995 to 6.7 percent in 1996. To reach that
objective the Government has recently expanded the tax base by removing most tax exemptions
(VAT, customs, excises and profit taxes). During 1996, it will also strengthen tax and customs
administration.
13.   Streamlining the Government Sector. Even with improved revenue performance, the
Government will have to maintain a tight expenditure program. This implies maintaining only critical
functions - undertaking labor retrenchment and radically reforming the administration and financing of
activities that were financed from the budget, mostly social services and social protection. It also
implies eliminating all subsidies - even implicit ones - which can jeopardize the sustainability of the
adjustment. In terms of reforming social insurance and social protection, measures will be taken to
restrict pension eligibility, to shift responsibility to employers for paying sickness pay, to introduce
private pension plans, to build a three-pillar pension system, and to establish a back-up program of
social assistance.
14.   Fostering Adjustment of the Productive Sector. Adjustment of the productive sector requires
rapid completion of privatization, enforcement of hard budget constraints, restructuring of the
financial sector, and a trade policy conducive to export growth. The Government's privatization
strategy envisages privatizing the vast majority of state-owned enterprises; only a small group of
entities which carry out normal government functions will remain 100 percent state-owned (primarily
statutory bodies, such as research institutes, social services and military units). To foster recovery in
the agriculture sector, the Government intends to expedite the process of land reform. Parliament has
adopted a law on land ownership and will implement during 1996 and 1997 a program for privatizing
part of the remaining cultivated land. The Government strategy to enforce harder budget constraints
on enterprises relies on banking sector reform and enforcement of payment discipline for energy
consumption.
15.   The Government's structural reform program is outlined in the Letter of Development Policy
presented with the proposed SAC. Preparation of the program has involved considerable public
information and consultation, particularly in the areas of social safety net targeting and privatization.



16.   The institutional capacity of the Government has been significantly strengthened through the
support provided under the Institution Building Credit. The Government has received assistance in
economic management, specifically donor coordination, macroeconomic management and public
investment programming from UNDP, USAID, and the EU Technical Assistance to the CIS (EU
TACIS). Assistance with the implementation of the privatization program is being provided by EU
TACIS and the Bank, while support on social safety net and employment issues is being provided by
the Bank. Assistance in strengthening the legal framework has been extended by Germany. Finally,
extensive support for resource mobilization is being provided by the IMF and the Bank.
The Proposed Project
17.   Credit amount and borrower. The proposed Structural Adjustment Technical Assistance
Credit (SATAC) of SDR 3.3 million (equivalent of US$4.8 million) would be made to the Republic
of Georgia represented by the Ministry of Finance. The credit would be on standard IDA terms,
including a 35 year maturity and a 10 year grace period.
18.   Project description.  Successful implementation of the measures supported by the proposed
SAC requires further technical assistance in a number of areas. At the request of the Government,
this will be financed from the proposed SATAC. A detailed description of the activities to be
financed from the SATAC is provided in Annex 1. Terms of Reference and detailed budgets for all
activities have been agreed with the Government at negotiations, and are available in the Project
Files. The technical assistance program would be divided in the following components:
Privatization and post-privatization. [US$950,000] This component will focus on continued
support for the implementation of the privatization program and on support for the
establishment of share registries. In privatization, the assistance will focus on the introduction
of new privatization methods for medium and large scale enterprises, i.e. cash auctions and an
international tender program. Strengthening of institutional capacities, elaboration of standard
procedures, advice on structuring of transactions and bid evaluation, as well as legal
assistance will be key areas of support. The legal framework has been established for the
development and licensing of private share registries. Assistance is required to elaborate
operational guidelines, to train officials in securities market regulations and in the starting-up
of pilot registries.
Financial sector. [US$780,000] Banking supervision has been strengthened over the last 18
months. However, to further improve the effectiveness of the NBG in carrying its
supervisory functions, its Bank Supervision Department will be strengthened to effectively
deal with the certification process and the resolution of problem bank situations. Assistance
would include advisory services on supervisory issues as well as the development of training
programs. In addition, audits of the three former state banks will be financed. The objective
of this sub-component would be to facilitate a realistic assessment of the financial position of
each bank. It is expected that the banks themselves would share some of the costs of these
audits.
Energy sector reform. [US$860,000] The objectives of this component would be to foster
improved payment discipline and financial management in the energy sector, and to strengthen
the regulatory institutions. To improve payment discipline, assistance wou!d be provided in
creating capacity to monitor and manage payment performance, and in reviewing structural
and tariff issues. Assistance in reviewing the scope of the regulatory authority (including the



institutional set-up) and its tariff policy functions would be provided.
Social Protection. [US$560,000] This component would focus on assisting in the design of a
program of social assistance which meets the needs of poor families that do not qualify under
any existing program, and on facilitating the establishment of private pension schemes.
Resource mobilization and public information. [US$1,430,000] Improving revenue
collection and information sharing about economic reforms are crucial to the sustainability of
the reform process in Georgia. The following two components would be envisaged: (i) a
program aimed at improving the revenue collection performance of the Customs Department
through training, revision of procedures and controls, and anti-fraud measures; and (ii) a
public information/education program on economic reforms, including mass media campaigns,
round-tables/seminars on key issues, and the design of an education program focussing on
skills in high demand in market economies.
19.   Project administration. Overall coordination of project activities and general loan
administration will be the responsibility of the Project Implementation Unit (PIU), comprising a
project manager and two specialists - one on procurement and another on disbursements. Supervision
of the PIU will be the responsibility of the Ministry of Trade and Foreign Economic Relations. The
project manager (who is currently managing the implementation of the Institution Building Credit)
will be responsible for undertaking procurement, preparing applications for disbursement, maintaining
project accounts and arranging for their timely audit, and monitoring overall credit implementation.
The operating costs of implementing the project will be funded from the proposed credit. On the
basis of the information from the various agencies involved in the implementation of this credit, the
project manager will prepare the Borrower's contribution to the Project Completion Report within six
months of the closing date.
20.   Procurement. Procurement expertise has been provided under the IBC. The capacity of the
PIU to handle procurement under the proposed SATAC is expected to be good as the same project
team that has been responsible for implementation of the IBC will be handling the SATAC. All
procurement under the proposed SATAC project will be according to Bank guidelines on procurement
and on use of consultants. Schedule B summarizes the procurement arrangements. Consultant
services and training of an estimated value of US$3.9 million would be procured under the project
(about 15 contracts are involved). For consultant contracts, terms of reference for the activities to be
financed under the proposed Credit have already been prepared by the Government and have been
agreed with IDA during negotiations, and are available in the Project Files. The Bank's standard
forms of consultant contract would be utilized. Prior review would be mandatory for consultants'
contracts above US$100,000 for firms and US$50,000 for individuals. Goods to be procured under
the credit include an estimated US$900,000 in office, computer and customs-related equipment.
These will be procured as follows: (i) International Competitive Bidding (ICB) for contracts valued at
more than US$250,000, using Bank standard bidding documents; (ii) International Shopping (IS) for
contracts valued at less than US$250,000 (not exceeding US$500,000 in the aggregate). Prior review
will be mandatory for all ICB procurement as well as for the first contract procured through IS.
Statistics regarding procurement administration would be collected and recorded, and would comprise
prompt reporting of contract status, award information by the Borrower, and quarterly reports to IDA
by the Borrower. The General Procurement Notice has been issued.
21.   Disbursement. Statements of expenditure will be used for disbursements against contracts of
up to US$100,000 with firms and up to US$50,000 with individuals in the case of consulting services



and training; and contracts up to US$250,000 for goods and operating expenditures of the PIU. As
detailed in Schedule B, disbursements would be made against 100 percent of the costs of local and
foreign consultants; 100 percent of training expenses; 100 percent of the CIF cost of imported goods;
and 80 percent of the cost of locally-procured goods. To facilitate project implementation, a Special
Account will be established by the Borrower in one of the major foreign commercial banks on terms
and conditions acceptable to IDA to cover IDA's share of eligible expenditures. The Authorized
Allocation will be US$450'000 representing about four months of average expenditures made through
the Special Account. Applications for replenishment of the Special Account would be submitted
monthly or when one-third of the amount has been withdrawn, whichever occurs earlier.
Documentation requirements for replenishment would follow the standard Bank procedure as
described in the Disbursement Handbook Chapter 6. Monthly bank statements of the Special Account
which have been reconciled by the Borrower will accompany all replenishment requests.
22.    Reporting, Accounting, and Auditing. The project manager will maintain all project
accounts, which will be audited annually by independent auditors acceptable to the World Bank in
accordance with the Bank's guidelines on auditing and financial reporting. Audit reports will be
submitted to the World Bank not later than six months after the close of each year or the date of final
disbursement. The project manager will also prepare monthly progress reports detailing the status of
all disbursement requests. In addition to this financial reporting, a full progress report will be
prepared and submitted to IDA every six months. This report will detail all project and related
activities, report on progress in relation to agreed schedules, and identify any problems which may
have been encountered and which could adversely affect the overall impact of the project.
23.    Closing date. The technical assistance activities are expected to be completed by October
1997. The closing date of the proposed credit will therefore be March 31, 1998.
24.    Environmental category. The proposed credit will have no direct impact on the environment.
For the purposes of OD 4.01, the proposed credit has been placed in Category C which does not
require an environmental assessment.
25.   Poverty Category. N.A.
26.   Lessonsfrom previous Bank experience. The implementation of the Institution Building
Credit has been strong, despite the lack of experience with projects of this nature in the implementing
agencies. The availability of Institution Building Credit funds has proved critical for the
implementation of certain elements of the reform program supported by the Rehabilitation Credit.
The parallel presentation of the proposed SATAC and SAC reflects this experience.
Rationale for Bank involvement
27.    A limited country assistance strategy for Georgia was presented to the Board on March 30,
1995, as part of the President's Report for the Rehabilitation Credit. The objectives of the strategy
are to help reverse the sharp economic decline of the past few years, to accelerate the transition to a
market economy and to alleviate the poverty that has recently emerged in Georgia. Given Georgia's
difficult fiscal situation, much of the Bank's program concentrates on improving the cost-effectiveness
of government programs and on redirecting public sector involvement in the economy, with the aim
of providing a favorable environment for private sector development. The proposed SAC and
SATAC are consistent with that strategy. A full Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) will be prepared
in FY97.



-7 -
Benefits and Risks
28.   Benefits. The technical assistance financed by the project would facilitate the implementation
of the structural reforms supported by the proposed SAC. The implementation of these reforms
would ensure the sustainability of the stabilization process and deepen the structural changes initiated
a year and a half ago after a long period of economic and political turmoil. The deepening of the
reform process would accelerate the transition to a market economy, and lead to sustained growth and
improvements in living standards. The program would lead to further downsizing of the state-
controlled sector and induce adjustment of enterprises to new market signals.
29.   Risks. Implementation capacity to undertake technical assistance programs is strong in
Georgia as demonstrated by the good performance of the Institution Building Credit. Therefore, the
main risks associated with the project are risks to the overall reform program identical to those of the
proposed SAC. The main risk is that adequate and timely external assistance of the magnitude
required will not be forthcoming, threatening public support for reforms and the success of the reform
program. The failure to achieve a fully funded program would force a much stronger domestic
adjustment and a lower growth path, imposing additional social costs to the population. To address
this problem, the Bank will not only provide continuous financial support, but it will also assist
Georgia in mobilizing external resources through the Consultative Group process and other donor
coordination efforts. A second risk is that the terms at which bilateral creditors agree to reschedule
existing claims may be inconsistent with the country's capacity to pay, lowering the prospects for the
attainment of external viability over the medium term. This risk is being addressed through a debt
strategy developed in agreement with the IMF and on-going negotiations with bilateral creditors. A
third risk is delayed implementation due to weak institutional capacity within the Government and
other executing agencies. To date, technical assistance has been essential in assisting the Government
in the design and implementation of reforms. The proposed credit addresses directly this risk by
further strengthening the Government's capacity to implement reforms.
Recommendation
30.   I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the Articles of Agreement of the
Association and recommend that the Executive Directors approve it.
Gautam S. Kaji
Acting President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
March 20, 1996






-9-
Schedule A
Republic of Georgia
Structural Adjustment Technical Assistance Credit
Estimated Costs and Financing Plan
Estimated Costs                             Local       Foreign         Total
Privatization and Post-Privatization
Implementation Support for 1996/97 Program  $100,000   $600,000      $700,000
Establishment of Share Registries         $25,000      $225,000      $250,000
Financial Sector
Commercial Bank Auditing                  $20,000      $320,000      $340,000
Bank Supervision                          $50,000      $390,000      $440,000
Energy Sector Reform
Payment Discipline                        $60,000      $500,000      $560,000
Institutional and Regulatory Reform       $35,000      $265,000      $300,000
Social Protection
Targeting of Family Benefits              $15,000      $210,000      $225,000
Pension Reform                            $35,000      $300,000      $335,000
Public Information & Resource Mobilization
TA to the Customs Department             $200,000      $770,000      $970,000
Public Information                       $100,000      $360,000      $460,000
Operating Costs of PIU                    $35,000       $95,000      $130,000
(including Procurement Support)
Total Base Costs                         $675,000    $4,035,000    $4,710,000
Price & Physical Contingencies                         $500,000      $500,000
TOTAL PROJECT COST                       $675,000    $4.535.000    $5.210.000
FINANCING PLAN
Government                               $410,000                    $410,000
IDA                                      $265,000    $4,535,000    $4,800,000






- 11 -
Schedule B
Page 1 of 2
Republic of Georgia
Structural Adjustment
Technical Assistance Credit
Procurement Method
Category                                      ICB         Other         NBF        Total
-----------  -----------------------------------------------------(US$ million)----------------------
Technical Assistance (Consultants,                      3.30*                      3.30
Advisors, Studies)
Equipment (incl. logistical support           0.40    0.50**                       0.90
and operating costs)
Training                                                0.60*                      0.60
Operational Expenditures                                                 0.41      0.41
Total                                         0.40       4.40            0.41      5.21
* Short-listing of consultants, firms/training institutions
** International Shopping



- 12 -
Schedule B
Page 2 of 2
Republic of Georgia
Structural Adjustment
Technical Assistance Credit
IDA Disbursements
Category                            Amount   % of Expenditures to be Financed
(US$,000)
Consultants' services and training  3,900      100% of expenditures
Equipment and operating costs        900       100% of foreign expenditures
100% of local expenditures (ex-factory costs)
80% of other local costs
Total                               4,800
Estimated IDA Disbursements
-     (US$ 000)-
FY96         FY97         FY98
Annual                          100        2,700        2,000
Cumulative                      100        2,800        4,800



- 13 -
Schedule C
REPUBLIC OF GEORGIA
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE CREDIT
Timetable of Key Processing Events
(a)   Time taken to prepare:                       6 months
(b)   Prepared by:                                 Government of Georgia with the
assistance of IBRD staff
(c)   Preparation Missions:                        September 6-23, 1995
December 3-20, 1995
(d)   Negotiations:                                February 19-23, 1996
(e)   Planned Board Presentation:                  April 18, 1996
(f)   Planned date of effectiveness:               May 3, 1996
(g)   Expected Program Completion:                 March 31, 1998
(h)   Appraisal Report                             Not applicable






Schedule D
Status of Bank Group Operations in Georgia
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits in the Operations Portfolio
Difference
Original amount in tlSS millions                   between expected
Projcct                Loan or  Fiscal                                                                                                                               and actual
ID                 Credit No. Year               Borrower                        Purpose                      IBRD           IDA   Cancellations t'ndisbursed   disbursements'
Number of Closed Loans/Credits:        I
Active Loans
CE-PA-39892               C28090    1996 GOVERNMENT OF GEORGIA  'I'RANSPOR'T                                                      12.00                       11.95
GE-PA-8413                C26410    1995 GOVERNMEN'I OF GEORGIA  INSTITUTION BtiLDING                                            10.10                         4.94
GE-PA-8417                C26580    1995 GOVERNMENTOF GEORGIA   MUINICIPAL.INFRASTRUICTURE                                       18.00                        12.49              2.75
TOTAI.                                                                                                            0.00         40.10           0.00        29.38               0.38
Active Loans                 Closed Loans                          lotal
Total disbursed (IBRD anid IDA)                                                  12.03                         77.44                         89.47
Of which repaid                                                                 0.00                          0.)0                         0.00
Total now held hy IBRD and IDA                                                   40.10                         75.()                        115t10
Amount sold                                                                       0.00                          0.0(1                         0.00
Of which repaid                                                                 0.00                          0.00                         0.0(
Total undisbursed                                                                29.38                          0.00                         29.38
a. Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements tso date as protected at appraisal.
Nole L)isbLirsernemt data is updated at the end if the first veek of the nonth.
Data as ot I'-, / 






- 17 -
Annex 1
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROGRAM
The institutional capacity of the Government has been significantly strengthened through the
support provided by the Bank and by other donors, especially USAID, UNDP, the German
Government, and the European Union (TACIS). A program of technical assistance is proposed to
facilitate the implementation of the measures included in the proposed Structural Adjustment Credit.
The following are the technical assistance priorities and activities supportive of the measures included
in the SAC and identified with the assistance of the ministries and institutions responsible for their
implementation. These activities complement technical assistance programs from other donors. The
proposed technical assistance program amounts to US$4.8 million. Terms of Reference and detailed
budgets for all activities have been agreed with the Government, and are available in the Project
Files. Project administration will be handled by the Project Implementation Unit of the Institution
Building Credit. The Government of Georgia will contribute directly to the program through the
provision of a small amount of in-kind and local financing to cover operational expenditures. The
following activities will be financed:
I. Privatization and Post-Privatization
Implementation Support for the 1996/97 Program
Obiectives: The Government's strategy for the 1996/97 privatization program will include the
introduction of several new transaction methods for medium and large enterprises: (i) cash auctions;
and (ii) commercial and investment tenders. The cash auction program will follow the completion of
the voucher-based program. For any given enterprise in the cash auction program, a failure to sell
will lead the concerned enterprise to be reorganized or subject to bankruptcy proceedings. The
Ministry of State Property Management (SPM) lacks the experience in this segmentation process and
assistance is required to develop operational procedures. The Government has also initiated an
international tender program for a select group of enterprises with potential to attract foreign
investors. This program will require the establishment of new institutional arrangements within SPM
to organize and implement the transactions, in addition to the preparation of a new legal basis for the
program.
Scope of work: Implementation support for the 1996-97 program comprises three
components. First, legal assistance will be provided to prepare the legal framework necessary to
implement the new program and advise SPM on legal issues related to tender sales. Second,
consultants will assist SPM in establishing a new institutional structure to provide direct support in
organizing and implementing auctions, tenders, reorganizations and bankruptcies, and assist SPM in
producing an English language book which brings together all laws, regulations and other relevant
privatization material of interest to potential investors. Third, consultants will organize and
implement a program of targeted overseas marketing to attract potential investors to Georgian auctions
and tenders.
Amount: US$700,000



- 18 -
Establishment of Share Registries
Objectives: The Ministry of Finance (Securities Department) and SPM have jointly developed
a strategy for the establishment of privately-operated share registries and prepared guidelines for
licensing these registries. Assistance is required to develop the regulatory framework for private
registries, build supervisory capacities, and initiate a pilot program through which the Ministry of
Finance and the registry operators would receive advice on how to establish and operate 2-3 pilot
registries.
Scope of work: Support for this component will include: (i) legal advice to develop the
regulations for operation of share registries and the requirements for share issuers to register; (ii)
overseas training in securities market regulation; (iii) assistance in establishing the operations of the
pilot registrars; and (iv) establishment of a registrar support center.
Amount: US$250,000
II. Financial Sector
Commercial Bank Auditing
Objective: An effective enforcement of the new prudential regulations requires that banks be
audited. The objective of this technical assistance component is to ensure that the audits of the major
banks, in particular the three forwer state banks, meet internationally recognized standards and could
therefore provide the basis for a realistic assessment of the financial position of each bank. The
National Bank of Georgia would provide oversight of the scope of the audits and review the quality of
the audit reports.
Scope of work: The work would require the use of a reputable accounting firm to undertake
full audits of the selected banks, most probably the three former state banks. It is expected that the
banks themselves would share some of the costs of these audits. Assistance would also be provided
to the National Bank of Georgia to strengthen its capacity to initiate the audit program and to review
actual audits.
Amount: US$340,000
Banking Supervision
Objective: A new unit within the Supervision Department of the National Bank of Georgia
has been proposed to deal effectively with the certification process and resolution of problem bank
situations. This bank resolution unit would resolve problems through the issuance of corrective
remedial supervision action, including informal memoranda of understanding, cease and desist orders,
penalties, mergers, management and license removal, and liquidation proceedings.
Scope of work: The assistance would involve the financing of one full-time foreign advisor,
training courses for the Banking Supervision Department, and the hiring, on a ad hoc basis, of
additional specialists in banking resolution techniques.
Amount: US$440,000



- 19 -
III. Energy Sector
Payment Discipline and Financial Management
Objective: This assistance would have two objectives. The first would be to create an
institutional capacity to monitor and manage payment arrears through the introduction of sound
administrative practices, technical systems, and financial management policies. The second objective
would be to address structural and tariff problems to improve the commercial viability of Georgia's
electric power distributors.
Scope of work: The program will include three sub-components: (i) assistance in evaluating
the needs to upgrade the utilities' internal procedures and systems to record deliveries, issuing bills
and monitoring payment performance; (ii) the development of sound payment rules and collection
guidelines; (iii) support a program aimed at promoting the consolidation/merger of non-viable
distributors.
Amount: US$560,000
Institutional and Regulatory Reform
Obiective: Assist in the establishment of the regulatory agency that will be needed to license
energy operators, to regulate wholesale tariffs, and to promote inter-fuel competition and prevent
monopoly abuses.
Scope of work: Legal and regulatory expertise will be needed to assist the Government in
defining the scope of regulatory authority that is needed under the reform program of the gas and
power industries. Assistance in drafting the appropriate decrees and legal acts, in overseeing the
reform of tariffs and tariff administration will be provided. A training program for the personnel of
the regulatory authority will also be supported.
Amount: US$300,000
IV. Social Protection
Improved Targeting of Family Benefits
Objective: The economic crisis and the curtailing of many kinds of social protection have
placed many Georgian families in distress. The objective of this component would be to assist in the
design of a back-up program of social assistance which meets the needs of poor families that do not
qualify under any existing program. Eligibility will be determined by the presence in a family of at
least one person in vulnerable circumstances, as well as by incomes and assets.
Scope of work: The assistance will focus on: (i) the design of the proposed family benefit,
including eligibility criteria; (ii) benefit administration, including tests for continued eligibility and
control mechanisms; and (iii) undertaking the necessary family surveys that would complement
available information.
Amount: US$225,000



- 20 -
Pension Reform and Establishment of Private Pensions
Objective: The present pension system no longer offers adequate pensions and the
Government is preparing a regulatory framework to encourage workers, enterprises, and financial
institutions to establish voluntary, privately funded pension schemes. The objective is to facilitate the
emergence of private pension schemes which will eventually provide retirement incomes closely
linked to individual workers' contributions and average earnings. Assistance is required to define the
proper regulatory framework and review the respective roles of the public social security and private
pension schemes.
Scope of work: The assistance would cover: (i) a review of the role of the public social
security system and its financing, including developing administration guidelines and design of a
revenue enhancement program; (ii) a study of the integration of public social security and private
pensions; (iii) the development of the legal framework for private pension schemes; and (iv) a review
of the supervisory functions and financial oversight of private pension schemes.
Amount: US$335,000
V. Public Information & Resource Mobilization
Assistance to the Customs Department
Objective: Increasing revenue collection is crucial to the success of the reform program in
Georgia. This component will focus on improving the revenue collection performance of the Customs
Department. The Customs Department is responsible not only for collecting customs duties but also,
since the beginning of 1996, for collecting the value added tax on imports and exports. The purpose
of this assistance is to accelerate the development of core competencies within the Customs
Department and to strengthen its capacities to fight customs fraud.
Scope of work: The proposed assistance program to the Customs Department will include
three components and will complement the ongoing customs automatization program financed under
the IBC. The first component will support the establishment of a training center within the Customs
Department to meet training needs at the vocational, management, and continuing education levels.
The assistance will focus on curriculum development, training of trainers, program management, and
operational support to launch the first set of training courses. The second component will strengthen
the capacity of the Customs Department to fight customs fraud. The Customs Department has
adopted a three-pronged strategy to fighting customs fraud: (i) mobile customs investigation units will
be created to spot-check customs processing at the border points, within the country (for instance on
major highways), and at the customs clearance points; (ii) a risk management system will be
developed identifying high risk transactions and enterprises suspected of customs fraud; and (iii)
closed (fenced) customs clearance areas are being created in major cities to simplify the customs
clearance process and to improve control of individual transactions. This strategy will be supported
through extensive technical assistance in designing and implementing these three revenue enhancement
programs. The third technical assistance component would focus on reviewing customs procedures
and functions to accelerate the process of integration of the Customs Department in the overall
resource mobilization effort of the Government, including cooperation with the State Tax Inspectorate.
Amount: US$970,000



- 21 -
Public Informnation on Economic Reforms
Objective: Public information campaigns targeted at decision makers and at the population at
large are critical to raise awareness about issues related to the transition to a market economy. The
Government of Georgia has been active in building popular support for economic reforms through
public information and education initiative. The sustainability of economic reforms will depend to a
large extent on continued public support and deepening of the understanding of the key challenges that
Georgia is facing and will face over the medium-term. The first objective of the proposed assistance
is to expand existing programs to cover issues critical to the 1996 economic reform program, such as
energy adjustment, financial sector restructuring, and social protection. The second objective is to
initiate broad-based public education programs targeted at key audiences, such as policy-makers,
media, universities, members of parliament, and regional authorities and representatives.
Scope of work: Assistance would be provided to organize media campaigns, including the
production of documentaries reviewing experiences in other transition economies, to disseminate
widely information on the economic reform program, and to organize round-tables and seminars on
key reform issues. In addition, the Government intends to put in place a special training program for
young professionals to strengthen their skills in sectors important in a market economy and for which
existing programs is Georgia are deficient. Assistance will be provided to the Government in
designing this program and in mobilizing resources for its implementation.
Amount: US$460,000









I MAl  I N G
Eeport No: P--   IB;S0  GE
Type: MOP



