Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 19272
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
GEORGIA
INSTITUTION BUILDING CREDIT
Credit No. 26410-GE
and
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE CREDIT
Credit No. 28480-GE
June 8,1999
Poverty Reduction and Economic Management Unit
ECA Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of May 25, 1999)
Currency Unit        =               Lari
US$1             -               L2.39
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
EU      European Union
GOG       Government of Georgia
IBC      Institution Building Credit
ICR      Implementation Completion Report
MOE       Ministry of the Economy
MOF       Ministry of Finance
NBG       National Bank of Georgia
PFP      Policy Framework Paper
SAC       Structural Adjustment Credit
SATAC       Structural Adjustment Technical Assistance Credit
SBA       Stand-By Arrangement
STF      Systemic Transformation Facility
TA      Technical Assistance
GEORGIA'S FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31
Vice President:    Johannes Linn, ECA
Country Director:  Judy O'Connor, ECCO3
Sector Leader:    Hafez Ghanem, ECSPE
Team Leader:      Cyril Muller, Country Officer, ECCO3



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
GEORGIA
INSTITUTION BUILDING CREDIT
Credit No. 26410-GE
and
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE CREDIT
Credit No. 28480-GE
CONTENTS
PREFACE
EVALUATION SUMMARY ...................................................i
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A.        Objectives, Background and Description                                            I
B.  Achievement of Objectives                                   .4
C.        Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project           .6
D.  Project Sustainability                                   .7
E.  Bank Performance                                       .8
F.  Borrower Performance                                     .9
G.  Assessment of Outcome                                    .0
H.  Future Operations .10
I.  Key Lessons Learned .10
STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1:  Summary of Assessments ...............................................          13
Table 2: Related Bank Loans ...............................................               14
Table 3: Project Timetable ...............................................                15
Table 4: Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual ........................................ 16
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation ...............................................  17
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation ................................................18
Table 7:  Studies Included in Project ...............................................     18
Table 8A: Project Costs ...............................................                   19
Table 8B: Project Financing ...............................................               20
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits ................................................ 20
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants ................................................      21
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements ............................................... 21
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs ................................................   21
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions ................................................       22
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in te
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authonization.



ANNEX
A. Borrower contribution to the ICR



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
GEORGIA
INSTITUTION BUILDING CREDIT
Credit No. 26410-GE
and
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE CREDIT
Credit No. 28480-GE
Preface
This ICR covers two credits to Georgia: The Institution Building Credit (IBC) for SDR
7.3 million ($10.1 million equivalent), approved by the Board on July 5, 1994, signed on July 11,
1994, and made effective on August 24, 1994; and the Structural Adjustment Technical
Assistance Credit (SATAC) for SDR3.3 million ($4.8 million equivalent), approved on April 18,
1996, signed on April 26, 1996, and made effective on June 12, 1996. The IBC closed on June
30, 1998, six months after the original closing date, and the SATAC closed on December 31,
1998, nine months after the original closing date.
This Implementation Completion Report (ICR) was prepared as a desk task by Richard
Carroll, based on interviews with staff and materials from the project file. Mr. Wafik Grais was the
Division Chief responsible at the time of the IBC, and Mr. Basil Kavalsky was Country Director for
Georgia from approval through June 1997 and Ms. Judy O'Connor was the Country Director
thereafter and had overall responsibility for monitoring progress of the two operations until close.
Messrs. Cyril Muller (ECCO3, Country Officer, second Task Manager for IBC and Task Manager
for SATAC), Chris Hall (SACPK, first Task Manager for IBC after effectiveness), Pervaiz Rashid
(Lead Specialist-ECSPE), Prabhat Garg (Y2K Coordinator-ECA, Task Manager up to
effectiveness), and Ms. Judy O'Connor provided comments. Mmes. Cheryl Martin (ECCO3) and
Frances Rosenthal (ECCO3) provided support and comments for the ICR. Mr. Cyril Muller
oversaw production of the ICR.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
GEORGIA
INSTITUTION BUILDING CREDIT
Credit No. 26410-GE
and
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE CREDIT
Credit No. 28480-GE
Evaluation Summary1
Project Origin and Objectives
1.    The Institution Building Credit (IBC) for SDR 7.3 million ($10.1 million equivalent) was
the first Bank operation in Georgia and was approved by the Board on July 5, 1994, signed on
July 11, 1994, and made effective on August 24, 1994. The Structural Adjustment Technical
Assistance Credit (SATAC) for SDR3.3 million ($4.8 million equivalent) was paired with the
first Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC I) and was approved on April 18, 1996, signed on April
26, 1996, and made effective on June 12, 1996.
Objectives
2.    The objective of the IBC was to assist the Government of Georgia (GOG) to move to a
private market economy by strengthening public institutions in three functional areas: financial
sector, economic management, and privatization and enterprise reform. SATAC reinforced IBC
capacity building.  SATAC's objective was to strengthen the Government's capacity to
implement its structural reform program, supported in parallel by the Structural Adjustment
Credit (SAC I), by providing technical assistance in privatization, post-privatization,
strengthening of the financial sector, reforming social protection, disseminating information, and
strengthening the regulatory framework for energy.
Implementation Experience and Results
Overview
3.    Georgia declared independence on April 9, 1991 and joined the IBRD in August 1992.
At the time, Georgia was in the midst of a devastating civil conflict. The war in Abkhazia
continued during 1992-93 with refugees migrating to other parts of the country. The GOG was
also challenged by forces of the deposed President Gamsakhurdia (resolved by end-1993) and by
The Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Institution Building Credit and the Structural Adjustment Technical Assistance Credit
SATAC) describes actions and events in Georgia relating to these two operations until SATAC close.



- ii-
turmoil in South Ossetia. The unrest ruined the economy with GNP per capita falling in 1992
from $1,640 to $800, and another 40 percent by 1993. By 1994, GNP per capita was estimated
to be $410, second lowest among the Former Soviet Union (FSU) countries. Inflation increased
fromr 80 percent per year to 60 percent per month. With the break-up of the Soviet Union,
Georgia lost its heavily subsidized energy, representing a substantial percentage loss of GDP.
Beginning in 1994, with the cease fire in Abkhazia, the GOG made progress in consolidating its
control over the country and the gradual restoration of law and order. It was against this
background that the IBC was launched. Subsequently, stabilization measures, supported by the
Rehabilitation Credit (effective April 1995), showed strong results, most notably, bringing
inflation under control and achieving positive growth. Political developments were also
favorable to reform with the ratification of a new constitution and the election of a pro-reform
president, Shevardnadze, in November 1995.
4.    The IBC was designed to build capacity in three major areas: (a) Financial Sector
Reform; (b) Economic Management; and (c) Privatization and Enterprise Reform. SATAC
covered five areas: (a) Privatization and Post-Privatization; (b) Financial Sector; (c) Energy
Sector Reform; (d) Social Protection; and (e) Public Information and Resource Mobilization.
These areas were selected to respond to the priorities of the transition to a private sector
economy. SATAC reinforced and broadened the capacity building program begun under IBC.
Summary of Accomplishments
5.    As the summary of accomplishments indicates, the two projects achieved their basic
objectives of capacity building and policy support. On development objectives, the IBC and
SATAC were consistently rated as satisfactory throughout the projects' lives. The Public
Information component and the project management of the IBC sometimes achieved highly
satisfactory ratings. In reviewing both achievement of objectives and implementation record
(section C.), it is important to keep in mind that the IBC was the first operation in Georgia which
was newly independent and had been recently plagued by civil war and economic crisis.
Therefore, the initiatives under the IBC were launched in a very new and challenging
environment. Moreover, the Bank was attempting to facilitate a major transition from a centrally
planned, to an open, free market system
6.    Public information program. The public information program was originally conceived
as a modest sub-component of Privatization and Enterprise Reform, but, in the end, may have
had the greatest positive impact of any of the IBC activities, not just in informing the public
about privatization, but about the entire economic program..
7.    Computerization of the Customs and Tax Administration.  For a period, this
component did not perform well because of an overly ambitious design, unreliable electric
supply, weak beneficiary ownership and a disjointed contractor presence. With effective
troubleshooting from high in the Government, and a six-month extension, this component
improved the government's revenue mobilization, doubling revenue in two successive years
(1995 and 1996). Under SATAC, the Customs Department component continued its momentum
begun near the end of IBC. It operationalized ASYCUDA at the airport and the Tbilisi customs
terminal, and hired a long-term advisor to help develop anti-smuggling measures.



- 111 -
8.    Debt Management Unit of the Ministry of Finance (MOF). IBC supported this unit
through infusions of technical personnel and equipment. This Unit ensured prompt debt
payments and avoided suspensions of credit disbursements.
9.    Technical support to stabilization and privatization. IBC contributed substantially to
the design and implementation of economic stabilization and reform that was supported by the
Bank's Rehabilitation Credit and the IMF's Systemic Transforrnation Facility (STF). IBC was
also key in the government's mass privatization program. Experts and equipment were essential
to the first voucher auctions. IBC was also important in helping the government coordinate
donor assistance in enterprise reform. The mass privatization campaign continued successfully
under SATAC.
10.   Skill transfer.  The general skill transfer in developing the PIU  was another
accomplishment. For example, a procurement advisor consultancy early in the IBC was very
effective in jump starting the project. The PIU learned extremely well from this engagement and
effectively conducted procurement thereafter.
11.   The Pilot share registry. SATAC supported this essential step, in establishing a stock
exchange for Georgia. The Public Relations activities continued under SATAC and were
effective in gaining support for the overall economic program of the Government.
1' 2.   Payment system for electricity. Developing the payment system for electricity was
successful and contributed to the progress in collections. The scholarship fund ($150,000) that
was added after effectiveness was cancelled before it disbursed because an effective, transparent
selection process could not be instituted. In addition, other donor scholarship programs were
mostly meeting the identified needs.
13.  In summary, the objectives of IBC and the SATAC were largely accomplished by the
respective, extended closing dates of June 30, 1998 and December 31, 1998. The performance of
the IBC and SATAC should be viewed together as a part of a continuous effort to develop
institutional capacity and to support the Rehabilitation Credit and the first and second Structural
Adjustment Credits effective in April 1995, April 1996 and November 1997, respectively.
Bank Performance
14.  In general, the Bank, in its early operations in Georgia, responded with TA that was
relevant to Georgia's needs and built up management capacity and enabled key reforms for
transition to a private sector based economy. The major findings were that the Bank:
(a) identified institutional capacity constraints to reform implementation; (b) demonstrated
flexibility toward evolving priorities and initiatives in Georgia; (c) committed to an overly
ambitious timetable for implementation; (d) was patient with the progress of the computerization
and customs activities, which ultimately paid off; (e) intensively supervised both projects (at
reasonable cost), which increased the projects' responsiveness to local conditions; and (f) could
have monitored the two projects with a stronger set of performance/impact indicators.



- iv -
Borrower Performance
15.   GOG effectively utilized the resources under IBC and SATAC to develop the capacity to
carry out structural reforms and performed satisfactorily. Performance was especially good in
the Public Information and Privatization components. The weak points in implementation were
the payment systems, computerization planning, and the delivery of computers for
operationalizing ASYCUDA at the Customs Department, all of which contributed to the need for
a project extension. The PIU's specific performance was highly satisfactory, overcoming many
logistical problems, including power shortages, lack of work space and communications, as well
as a shortage of trained personnel. This performance required dedication and drive and
constituted the beginning of an effective project management capability.
Future Operations
16.   The sequence of the IBC and SATAC (the latter combined with the first SAC) was
followed by SATAC II, which was approved with SAC II, and remains active. SAC II closed on
March 31, 1999. SAC III is planned for FY2000 to assist the Government program to sustain
private-sector led growth over the medium term.
Lessons Learned
17.   The main lessons learned are:
- Patience with slow developing components can pay off. Some areas of capacity building
require more sustained efforts than others. In the case of customs and collections, capacity
gains materialized slowly. In a newly independent country undergoing a radical economic
transformation, operationalizing a computer system may require additional time and resources
than envisioned at project appraisal. The importance of such a system to badly needed resource
mobilization dictates a flexible approach.
* Counterpart quality. A high level ally backed by a solid team of dedicated counterparts can
overcome serious obstacles. A high level advocate in the government can solve potentially
crippling implementation problems. The Bank should be vigilant to enlist the support of
such advocates in its operations.
* Consultants transfer of skills. It is important to make skills transfer an important part of the
consultant' s terms of reference so that the consultant knows she is being judged on this goal.
The transfer of skills was especially successful during the early procurement consultancy under
IBC.
* Adequate supervision. Intensive supervision is a key success factor for projects in new
member countries. Because of lack of familiarity with Bank operations, Georgia greatly
benefited from close and frequent Bank consultations as were provided by the supervision
teams.



- v -
Implementation flexibility to maximize effectiveness of loan/credit proceeds. Flexibility
during implementation is important to maximize the project's positive impact, particularly in an
environment of changing circumstances. The Bank agreed to reallocating project funds to other
uses when component objectives could be achieved without project funds. For example, when
it was evident that the Georgians could take on additional responsibilities faster than
expected, funds were freed for computer equipment. This flexibility is important because
unpredictable priorities are common in countries new to the Bank, and which are undergoing
radical changes.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
GEORGIA
INSTITUTION BUILDING CREDIT
Credit No. 26410-GE
and
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE CREDIT
Credit No. 28480-GE
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. Objectives, Background and Project Description
1.    This ICR covers two credits to Georgia: The Institution Building Credit (IBC) for SDR
7.3 million ($10.1 million equivalent), approved by the Board on July 5, 1994, signed on July 11,
1994, and made effective on August 24, 1994; and the Structural Adjustment Technical
Assistance Credit (SATAC) for SDR3.3 million ($4.8 million equivalent), approved on April 18,
1996, signed on April 26, 1996, and made effective on June 12, 1996.
Objectives
2.    The IBC was the first operation by the World Bank in Georgia. The objective of the IBC
was to assist the Government of Georgia (GOG) to move to a private market economy by
strengthening public institutions in three functional areas:  financial sector, economic
management, and privatization and enterprise reform. Indicators of development impact to be
accomplished by the end of the project were added during the January 1996 supervision: (a)
economic reform program implemented; (b) strengthened public institutions delivering effective
services.
3.    The objective of the SATAC was to strengthen the Government's capacity to implement
its structural reform program, supported in parallel by the Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC I),
by providing technical assistance in privatization, post-privatization, strengthening of the
financial sector, reforming social protection, disseminating information, and strengthening the
regulatory framework for energy. Indicators of development outcome included: (i) privatization
program for medium and large enterprises implemented on a timely basis as per SAC targets; (ii)
improved collection performance in the power sector; (iii) increase customs revenues by 100
percent in 1996 over 1995; (iv) strengthen banking supervision capacity of the National Bank;
and (v) adopt legislation to enable private pension schemes.



-2 -
Background
IBC (up to IBC approval, July 1994)
4.    Georgia declared independence on April 9, 1991 and joined the IBRD in August 1992 at
a time of devastating civil conflict. The war in Abkhazia continued during 1992-93 with
refugees migrating to other parts of the country. The GOG was also challenged by forces of the
deposed President Gamsakhurdia (resolved by end-1993) and by turmoil in South Ossetia. This
unrest along with strikes were ruinous to the economy. In 1992, GNP per capita declined from
$1,640 to $800, and declined another 40 percent by 1993. By 1994 the GNP per capita was
estimated to be $410, second lowest among the Former Soviet Union (FSU) countries. The fiscal
deficit reached 35 percent of GDP and inflation accelerated from 80 percent per year to 60
percent per month. Georgia was (is) also vulnerable because of its trade dependence related to its
low population (5.4 million). The unrest severely hurt tea and citrus, the main exports, and
tourism, mainly to the Black Sea. Georgia is also dependent on imports of energy for 95 percent
of its supply. With the break-up of the Soviet Union, Georgia lost its heavily subsidized energy,
representing a substantial percentage loss of GDP.
5.    Beginning in 1994, with the cease fire in Abkhazia, the GOG made progress in
consolidating its control over the country and the gradual restoration of law and order. GOG
then was able to implement economic reforms, including privatization of housing, progress in
privatizing agricultural land, initiating the privatization of small scale enterprises through
auctions and leasing, price liberalization (except for food and energy), and a relatively open
import regime. Additional measures, including those for monetary and fiscal stability, and
deeper structural changes in the enterprise and banking sectors were to be carried out with
external assistance. The GOG asked for IDA's assistance with the design and development of
reforms and strengthening economic management capacity in 1992.
SATAC (IBC approval, July 1994 to SATAC approval April 1996)
6.    Stabilization measures leading up to SATAC showed strong positive results. The Budget
deficit was reduced to 6 percent in 1995, average monthly inflation was reduced from 64 percent
in 1994 to 3 percent in 1995, and the Georgian coupon appreciated from 5 million to 1.3 million
per US$. This stabilization, supported by the Rehabilitation Credit (effective April 1995),
created conditions sufficient to introduce a new national currency, the Lari, on September 25,
1995, which remained stable against the dollar at Ll.26/US$ for the period leading up to SATAC
(February 1996)
7.    Political developments also supported the reforms. In July 1995, the Parliament ratified a
new constitution that provided for a strong president. Georgians elected a new, pro-reform
president, Shevardnadze, in November 1995 with 75 percent of the vote.



-3 -
Description
IBC
8.    The GOG recognized that it lacked the necessary experience and institutional capacity to
design and implement structural reforms and manage a private sector economy. The IBC was
designed to help build these capacities.
9.    The IBC was designed to build capacity in three major areas and ten sub-areas. These
areas with original allocations were (in millions):
I.    Financial Sector Reform (Subtotal $2.33)
Financial Sector Infrastructure
II.   Economic Management (Subtotal $5.66)
Economic Policy Formulation
Statistical Services
Tax Administration
Treasury
Debt Management and Economic Analysis
Strengthening of Customs Administration/Trade Facilitation
Aid Coordination
Project Implementation
III.   Privatization and Enterprise Reform (Subtotal $2.27)
Support for Privatization
10.   Estimated project costs were $10.9 million of which IDA financed $10.1 million, the
Government of the Netherlands, $0.6 million, and the GOG, $0.2 million. Two thirds of the
credit were allocated for consultancies, training and fellowships, and one third for equipment and
materials. In April 1995, the credit agreement was amended to separate the costs of the PIU from
expenditure categories 1 and 2, consultants and equipment. The credit was fully disbursed by
project close.
11.   The original closing date was December 31, 1997, which was extended to June 30, 1998.
Project accounts were maintained by the project manager of project Implementation Unit under
the State Committee for Foreign Economic Relations (SCFER).   After government
reorganization in late 1995, the PIU reported to the Ministry of Trade and Foreign Economic
Relations.
SATAC
12.   The SATAC provided TA in five areas covering ten sub-areas, which deepened and
broadened capacity building efforts begun under IBC:
I.    Privatization and Post-Privatization ($0.95)
Implementation support for 1996/97 program ($0.70)
Establishment of share registries ($0.25)



-4 -
II.   Financial Sector ($0.78)
Commercial bank auditing ($0.34)
Banking supervision ($0.44)
III.   Energy Sector Reform ($0.86)
Payment discipline and financial management ($.56)
Institutional and regulatory reform ($0.3)
IV.   Social Protection ($.56)
Improved targeting of family benefits ($0.225)
Pension reforn and establishment of private pensions ($0.335)
V.   Public Information and Resource Mobilization ($1.56)
Assistance to the customs department ($0.97)
Public information on economic reforms ($0.46)
Operating costs of the PIU ($0.13)
13.  IDA financing was $4.8 million. GOG financing was $0.41 million for total project costs
of $5.21 million. The expected closing date was March 31, 1998, but was extended to December
31, 1998. Project accounts were maintained by the project manager of the PIU (continuing from
the IBC) under the Ministry of Trade and Foreign Economic Relations.
B. Achievement of Objectives
14.   Based on the accomplishments of the two TA projects, the objectives and scope of the
projects proved appropriate. On development objectives, the IBC and SATAC were consistently
rated as satisfactory throughout the projects' lives. The Public Information component and the
project management of the IBC sometimes achieved highly satisfactory ratings. In reviewing
both achievement of objectives and implementation record (section C.), it is important to keep in
mind that the IBC was the first operation in Georgia which was newly independent and had been
recently plagued by civil war and economic crisis. Therefore, the initiatives under the IBC were
launched in a very new and challenging environment. Moreover, the Bank was attempting to
facilitate a major transition from a centrally planned, to an open, free market system
15.   The IBC and the SATAC achieved their major objectives and provided effective support
to the Rehabilitation Credit and the first Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC I). A summary of
major accomplishments of the two TA projects follows.
16.   An unusually high performing component was the public information program, not just to
inform the public about privatization, but about the entire economic program. It was considered
instrumental in developing public understanding and acceptance of the reform program. The
public information program was originally conceived as a modest sub-component of
Privatization and Enterprise Reform, and, in the end, may have had the greatest positive impact
of any of the IBC activities.
17.   Computerization of the Customs and Tax Administration supported improvements in
revenue collection. For a period, this component did not perform well because of an overly
ambitious design, unreliable electric supply, weak beneficiary ownership and a disjointed



- 5 -
contractor presence. With effective troubleshooting from high in the Government, and a six-
month extension, this component began to show positive results in dealing with the
govermment's low revenue mobilization.
18.   The support of a Debt Management Unit of the Ministry of Finance (MOF) through
infusions of technical personnel and equipment, was another major accomplishment of IBC.
This Unit ensured prompt debt payments and avoided suspensions of credit disbursements.
19.  IBC contributed substantially to the design and implementation of economic stabilization
and reform that was supported by the Bank's Rehabilitation Credit and the IMF's Systemic
Transformation Facility (STF). IBC was also key in the government's mass privatization
program. Experts and equipment were essential to the first voucher auctions. IBC was also
important in helping the government coordinate donor assistance in enterprise reform. The mass
privatization campaign continued successfully under SATAC.
20.   The general skill transfer in developing the PIU was another accomplishment. For
example, a procurement advisor consultancy early in the IBC was very effective in jump starting
the project. The PIU learned extremely well from this engagement and effectively conducted
procurement thereafter.
21.   Under SATAC, the Customs Department component continued its momentum begun near
the end of IBC. It operationalized ASYCUDA at the airport and the Tbilisi customs terminal,
and hired a long-term advisor to help develop anti-smuggling measures.
22.   The Pilot share registry was an essential step, which SATAC supported, in establishing a
stock exchange for Georgia. The Public Relations activities continued under SATAC and were
effective in gaining support for the overall economic program of the Government.
23.   Developing the payment system for electricity was successful and contributed to the
progress in collections. The scholarship fund ($150,000) that was added after effectiveness was
cancelled before it disbursed because an effective, transparent selection process could not be
instituted. In addition, other donor scholarship programs were mostly meeting the identified
needs.
24.  In summary, the capacity building and program support objectives of IBC and the
SATAC were largely accomplished by the respective, extended closing dates of June 30, 1998
and December 31, 1998. The performance of the IBC and SATAC should be viewed together as
a part of a continuous effort to develop institutional capacity and to support the Rehabilitation
Credit and the first and second Structural Adjustment Credits effective in April 1996 and
November 1997, respectively.



-6 -
C. Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project
Overview
IBC
25.   The IBC was consistently rated as satisfactory on implementation progress objectives,
and the Project management aspect of the IBC usually achieved highly satisfactory ratings.
However the project start-up was delayed. Preparation took unusually long, 20 months, because
of the flare up of the civil war. In September 1992, the civil conflict had abated and preparation
began. With the return of hostilities, there was a 10-month gap between original negotiations
and re-negotiations (June 1, 1993-April 15, 1994). Once effective, there was a nine-month
period during which the PIU had no adequate facilities.
26.   Nevertheless, early during implementation, actual IBC disbursements met or exceeded
forecasts. Eighteen months into effectiveness the MOP forecasted 30 percent or $3.0 million
disbursement, whereas actual disbursement was 51 percent or $5.1 million. For the rest of the
project life, implementation remained ahead of plan. The good start can be attributed in part to
pre-preparation of three major procurement packages during appraisal, and an effective
procurement consultancy from which the Georgians learned rapidly.
27.   Disbursement went so well that there was discussion of the IBC closing six months early.
In the end, because of delayed progress of the customs computerization and the development of
the inter-bank payment system, the IBC was actually extended by six months to June 30, 1998.
28.   There was a mid-term review, the project was not restructured, and the development
objectives remained the same. The mid-term review (June 1996) evaluated overall project
progress as satisfactory with 70 percent of the credit disbursed, which was seven months ahead
of schedule. Two components were unsatisfactory: the ASYCUDA (customs documentation
processing software) and Public Sector Information Systems. Little tangible results had been
achieved from either. ASYCUDA was placed on a kind of probation with its continuation based
on real progress. It was decided that the Public Information Systems activity simply not be
extended beyond the current contract because of insufficient government ownership, a project
design that was too ambitious, and irregular presence of the external contractor. This activity
was revived under SATAC, Government ownership improved, and it was successful.
SATAC
29.   SATAC was consistently rated satisfactory throughout implementation, both on
implementation progress and development objectives. As in the case of IBC, the SATAC PIU
performance was rated as highly satisfactory. The SATAC benefited from the experience gained
under the IBC, as well as other foreign funded projects, and developed institutional capacity.
30.   Disbursements for the first year of effectiveness lagged behind forecast, only 23 percent
against 98 percent. By March 1998, disbursements had reached 50 percent ($2.3 million)
against a forecast 100 percent. Because implementation was going well, even if disbursements



- 7-
were lagging, the GOG requested and was granted an extension until December 31, 1998. By
January 1999, SATAC had been fully disbursed.
31.   Factors not generally subject to Government's control. After independence, Georgia
had very little institutional capacity. The government structure from the Soviet system was in
place, but these institutions were branches of ministries and usually only carried out directives
from Moscow headquarters. Second, the old guard was mostly replaced after independence (with
the notable exception of the Minister of Finance) and the new officials were very young and had
little experience. However, they were committed to reform.
32.   Prior to implementation, the resurfacing of civil hostilities slowed IBC effectiveness. On
the positive side, shortly after IBC became effective, the Shevardnaze government took power
and held power through both operations, thus, providing continuity of leadership for economic
reforms and development.
33.   Factors generally subject to Government control. A very important factor supporting
the success of the two TAs was that the GOG had a very high level official (the Deputy Prime
Minister, later an Assistant to the President) backing implementation progress. He was very
engaged, developed his own initiatives, and because of his authority, was very effective as a
trouble shooter. Assigning a person at this level of the government showed a strong commitment
to the program.
34.   Factors generally subject to implementing agency control. In general, the PIU
performed very well and learned rapidly the necessary procedures in dealing with the Bank and
in project management. The procurement consultant for IBC did note a few problems in his final
report. Early on, regular briefings should have been held with the borrower and key members of
beneficiary agencies. These briefings could have averted problems that surfaced near the
completion of the IBC. The first accounting and disbursement specialists were not dedicated to
their work and could not benefit from the foreign consultant. Fortunately, they were replaced
during the consultant's extension and new, dedicated disbursement and accounting staff leamed
from the consultant. The consultant noted in his report that beneficiary agencies could have also
communicated better with the PIU to discuss issues and problems.
D. Project Sustainability
35.   The Bank and the GOG worked together on a process of capacity building that supported
a successful structural reform program. The skills transfer went well and the sustainability of the
IBC/SATAC initiatives was demonstrated by Georgian institutions growing degree of
independence in managing projects. Public Information and Awareness and local management
of privatization activities were especially promising. The upgrade and replacement of equipment
(computers and peripherals) is not yet sustainable, because Georgia is still reliant on external
assistance for hardware. Overall continued progress in implementing the objectives of IBC and
SATAC has been satisfactory. Economic and sector work and future planned operations (see
section H.) support a continued process of reform that will promote improved resource
mobilization and a private sector driven economy. Recent Bank sectoral operations related to the



-8 -
areas of IBC and SATAC include: the Enterprise^Rehabilitation Project ($15 million-FY99), the
Social Investment Fund ($20 million-FY98), and Power Rehabilitation ($52.3 million-FY97).
E. Bank Performance
36.   This section reviews the major issues of Bank perfonnance on the basis of what was a
reasonable standard at the time and what would have been the best course in retrospect. In
general, it can be said that the Bank, in its earlv operations in Georgia, responded with TA that
was relevant to Georgia's needs and built up management capacity and enabled key reforms for
transition to a private sector based economy.
* The Bank identified institutional capacity constraints to reform implementation
Georgia had very little institutional capacity, as evidenced by tax revenue that was less
than 4 percent of GDP. The Bank had to work with GOG to design a program that was
both feasible and supported the priority areas. The components of resource mobilization
and enterprise reform and privatization were ultimately successful, as were public
information and debt management.
* The Bank demonstrated flexibility with respect to developments and initiatives in Georgia
Because the Bank did not know much about Georgia and wanted to ensure that proceeds
went to the highest return activities, it sometimes deferred to Georgian initiatives such as
the large Public Information Campaign not originally envisioned at appraisal. The Bank
was flexible also in the area of local expertise replacing more expensive foreign expertise,
thus, freeing up resources for other more pressing needs such as computer equipment.
* The Bank committed to an overly ambitious timetable for implementation
As evidenced by the extensions of both projects and with knowledge of working in a new
member country that was in economic and political turmoil, the timetable may have been
too compressed. Even though some components implemented exceptionally quickly, a
few lagged. The Bank's rationale for a tight timetable was to keep the Georgian
authorities focused on the capacity building activities necessary for the transition to a
private economy and, more importantly, to move rapidly before the window of
opportunity, created by harsh economic circumstances, closed.
* The Bank was very patient with the progress of the computerization and customs activities,
which ultimately paid off
Given the protracted delays and lack of commitment by the beneficiary agency and the
indifference of project component staff, the Bank could have easily terminated the
component. But the Bank judged it too central to the institutional framework and
ultimately revived it to become a good performer during SATAC I.



-9-
* The Bank intensively supervised both projects which increased the projects' responsiveness
to local conditions
Because it was the first project in the new member country, Bank staff foresaw the
necessity of intensive supervision of IBC. This close and frequent contact with the
project allowed for efficient modifications of the project concept. For example, as Bank
staff learned more about local capacity, they realized that local staff could carry out a
greater share of the consulting needed for preparing enterprises for privatization, freeing
funds for other needs.
* The cost of implementing the IBC and SATAC was modest given the amount of supervision
Supervision costs were kept low because Bank staff combined supervision visits to
Georgia with those to Armenia. The Bank was able to supervise the two TAs very
closely with short, but frequent missions. By combining supervisions of the Georgia TAs
with those of Armenia, and with those of the Rehabilitation Credit and Structural
Adjustment Credits, the same budget could support more supervision
* Project monitoring would have benefited from more comprehensive performance indicators
Additional quantitative indicators tracked during implementation would have allowed a better
assessment of impact of some of the project components. For example, the project's impact on
capacity building in the financial and social sectors could be better understood by linking specific
inputs (computers, training and consultancies) to specific expected outputs.
37.   In summary, the Bank coped well with the challenges of a new country in difficult
circumstances undergoing a radical transformation. The Bank worked well the Georgian
authorities to adapt the TA according to changing conditions and the Bank became more
knowledgeable of Georgia and its capacities.
F. Borrower Performance
38.   As measured by its commitment to effectively utilize the resources under IBC and
SATAC to develop the capacity to carry out structural reforms, GOG performance is considered
satisfactory. The Government committed to a detailed program of interventions and
accomplished most of its objectives specified under the credits. Performance was especially
good in the Public Information and Privatization components. The vast majority of small and
medium  scale enterprises were transferred to the private sector.  The weak points in
implementation were the payment systems, computerization planning, and the delivery of
computers for operationalizing ASYCUDA at the Customs Department, all of which contributed
to the need for a project extension.
39.   The PIU's specific performance was highly satisfactory which supervision missions
regularly recognized in their reports. It overcame many logistical problems, including power
shortages, lack of work space and communications, as well as a shortage of trained personnel and



-10-
was able to implement very effectively. This performance required dedication and drive and
constituted the beginning of an effective project management capability.
40.   The PIU, on behalf of the Government, maintained the accounts for IBC/SATAC in
accordance with sound accounting practices. It was agreed that the projects would be audited
within four months of Bank request. Government compliance with legal covenants under
IBC/SATAC was considered satisfactory.
G. Assessment of Outcome
41.   The overall performance and outcome of both the IBC and SATAC was satisfactory, as
the vast majority of contracts and specific measures were carried out, and the major objectives of
the projects achieved and assessed to be sustainable. This rating is consistent with the rating by
EC4C2 for IBC and by ECSPE for SATAC of meeting development objectives (Form 590) for
both projects at close (also Satisfactory). Because they were not investment operations,
calculation of benefits in terms of net present value and economic rates of return for either
project is not applicable.
H. Future Operations
42.   The sequence of the IBC and SATAC (the latter combined with the first SAC) was
followed by SATAC II, which was approved with SAC II. SAC II closed on March 31, 1999.
SAC III is planned for FY2000 to assist the Government program to sustain private-sector led
growth over the medium term.
1. Key Lessons Learned
43.   The main lessons learned are:
*  Patience with slow developing components can pay off. Some areas of capacity building
require more sustained efforts than others. In the case of customs and collections, capacity
gains materialized slowly. In a newly independent country undergoing a radical economic
transformation, operationalizing a computer system may require additional time and resources
than envisioned at project appraisal. The importance of such a system to badly needed resource
mobilization dictates a flexible approach.
*  Counterpart quality. A high level ally backed by a solid team of dedicated counterparts can
overcome serious obstacles. A high level advocate in the government can solve potentially
crippling implementation problems. The Bank should be vigilant to enlist the support of
such advocates in its operations.
* Consultants transfer of skills. It is important to make skills transfer an important part of the
consultant' s terms of reference so that the consultant knows she is being judged on this goal.



- 11 -
The transfer of skills was especially successful during the early procurement consultancy under
IBC.
Adequate supervision. Intensive supervision is a key success factor for projects in new
member countries. Because of lack of familiarity with Bank operations, Georgia greatly
benefited from close and frequent Bank consultations as were provided by the supervision
teams.
Implementation flexibility to maximize effectiveness of loan/credit proceeds. Flexibility
during implementation is important to maximize the project's positive impact, particularly in an
environment of changing circumstances. The Bank agreed to reallocate project funds to other
uses when component objectives could be achieved without project funds. For example, when
it was evident that the Georgians could take on additional responsibilities faster than
expected, funds were freed for computer equipment. This flexibility is important because
unpredictable priorities are common in countries new to the Bank, and which are undergoing
radical changes.



- 12 -
Part II. Statistical Tables
Table 1:   Summary of Assessment
Table 2:   Related Bank Loans/Credits
Table 3:   Project Timetable
Table 4:   Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
Table 5:   Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Table 6:   Key Indicators for Project Operation
Table 7:   Studies Included in Project
Table 8A:  Project Costs
Table 8B:  Project Financing
Table 9:   Economic Costs and Benefits
Table 10:  Status of Legal Covenants
Table 11:  Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Table 12:  Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 13:  Bank Resources: Missions



- 13 -
Table 1: Summary of Assessments (for IBC and SATAC)
A. Achievement of Objectives         Substantial       Partial        Negligible       Not applicable
(/)T      r     F)                                  (-1)
Macro Policies                                          
Sector Policies                     E                E                El
Financial Objectives                E                El aE
Institutional Development            x               El               E                  a
Physical Objectives                 El                                E                 El
Poverty Reduction                                                                       [E l ] 
Gender Issues                                                         E [  Cl           Ix
Other Social Objectives             E                                 El 0E0
Environmental Objectives            El               El               El                Ix
Public Sector Management            E]                                 0                 0
Private Sector Development                           El               E                 El
Other (specify)                     ElE                               El                El
B. Project Sustainability             Likely                    Unlikely                  Uncertain
(V)                       (~/)                       (/)
Higl
C. Bank Performance                  Satisfactorv              Satisfactory               Deficient
(1)                      (1)                        (1)
Identification                       E                       I                           E
Preparation Assistance               El                                                  E
Appraisal                            El                                                  E
Supervision                         El                        X                          E



- 14-
(Continued)
Highly
D. Borrower Performance          Satisfactory           Satisfactory             Deficient
(1)                   (1)                     (1)
Preparation                                               I                    L I
Implementation                                           ] a                   E
Covenant Compliance              o                                             El
Operation (if applicable)       1                       a:D
Highly                                        Highly
E. Assessment of Outcome         satisfactory  Satisfactory   Unsatisfactory    unsatisfactory
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/credit title         Purpose             Year of approval            Status
Preceding operations
1. NONE
Following operations
1. Rehabilitation Credit  Economic stabilization,     FY 95           Closed
growth and improved
living standards
2. Structural Adj. Credit Further economic             FY 96          Closed
I                      stabilization, sustained
and poverty reduction
3. Struct. Adj. Credit II   Consolidate macro          FY 98          Closed March 1999
stability and strengthen
the economic recovery
4. Structural Adj. TA   Technical support for          FY 98          Under Implementation
Credit II              SAC II



- 15 -
Table 3.A: IBC Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle             Date Planned          Date Actual/
Latest Estimate
Preparation                                                                       9/92
Appraisal                                                                         2/93
Negotiations                                                                      6/93
Re-Negotiations                                                                   4/94
Board Presentation                                        6/94                    7/94
Signing                                                                           7/94
Effectiveness                                             7/94                    8/94
First Tranche Release (if applicable)                                              NA
Midterm review (if applicable)                                                    6/96
Project Completion                                     9/30/97                  3/31/98
Loan Closing                                           12/31/97                 6/30/98
Table 3.B: SATAC Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle             Date Planned          Date ActualV
Latest Estimate
Preparation                                                                       9/95
Appraisal                                                                         12/95
Negotiations                                                                      2/96
Letter of Development/Sector Policy (if applicable)                                NA
Board Presentation                                        4/96                    4/96
Signing                                                                           4/96
Effectiveness                                             5/96                    6/96
First Tranche Release (if applicable)                                              NA
Midterm review (if applicable)                                                     NA
Project Completion                                     12/31/97                 9/30/98
Loan Closing                                            3/31/98                12/3 1/98



- 16 -
Table 4.A: IBC Disbursements: Cumulative, Estimated and Actual
(US$ millions)
FY95   FY96    FY97    FY98    FY99
Appraisal estimate          2.50    5.90      8.50    10.12    10.12
Actual                      5.34    8.90      9.91    10.65
Actual as % of estimate   213.60   150.85   116.59   105.24
Date of final disbursement                          Jan 21
Table 4.B: SATAC Disbursements: Cumulative, Estimated and Actual
(US$ millions)
FY96    FY97   FY98   FY99
Appraisal estimate           0.10     2.80    4.80    4.80
Actual                       0.59     2.02    4.46    4.50
Actual as % of estimate     590.0    72.14   92.92   93.75
Date of final disbursement                           Mar 11



- 17 -
Table 5A: Key Indicators for LBC Project Implementation
Estimated                   Actual
. Key implementation indicators in PAD
1. NA
1. Modified indicators (if applicable)
1. NA
Il. Other indicators (if applicable)
1. Economic reform implemented                             Done
2. Strengthened public institutions                        Achieved
delivering effective services
Table 5B: Key Indicators for SATAC Project Implementation
Estimated                   Actual
L Key implementation indicators in PAD
1. NA
IH. Modified indicators (if applicable)
1. NA
III. Other indicators (if applicable)
1. Privatization program for                               Partially done. Largest
medium and large enterprises                               enterprises remain.
implemented on a timely basis as
per SAC targets
2. Improved Collection                                     Mostly achieved. Collections
performance in the power sector                            rising steadily.
3. Strengthened banking                                    Achieved. NBG supervising
supervision capacity of National                           prudential timetables.
Bank
4. Legislation enabling private                            Done
pension schemes
5. Increase customs revenues by                            Achieved
100 percent in 1996 over 1995.
Same increase for 1997



- 18-
Table 6: Key Indicators for IBC/SATAC Project Operation
Estimated                    Actual
I Key operating indicators in PAD
1. NA
II Modified indicators (if applicable)
1. NA
III. Other indicators for future operation (if applicable)
1. NA
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Study                                Purpose as defined at    Status   Impact of study
appraisal/redefined
1. NO STUDIES



- 19-
Table 8.A:1. IBC Project Costs
Appraisal estimate          Actual/latest estimates
(US$ 000)                   (US$ 000) /a
Item                               Local Foreign     Total       Local Foreign     Total
costs  costs                 costs   costs
1.Economic Management               140   5,520     5,660                3,602    3,602
2.Privatization & Enterprise Reform  40   2,230     2,270                2,013    2,013
3.Financial Sector Reform            20   2,305     2,325                1,618    1,618
4. Customs Administration                                                1,245    1,245
5. New Activities                                                 836    1,336    2,172
6.Unallocated and Contingencies             662       662
Total                               200  10,717    10,917         836   9,814   10,650
Table 8.A:2. SATAC Project Costs
Appraisal estimate          Actual/latest estimates
(US$ 000)                   (US$ 000)/a
Item                               Local Foreign     Total       Local Foreign     Total
costs  costs                 costs   costs
I.Privatization & Post Privatization  125    825      950          56     667       723
2.Financial Sector                   70    710        780                  488      488
3.Energy Sector Reform               95    765        860          31      645      676
4.Social Protection                   50    510       560          30      278      308
5.Public Information &  Resource    335   1,225      1,560        204    1,438    1,642
Mobilization
6. Judicial Sector                                                 39       55       94
7.PIU Expenses                                                    147      100      247
8. New Activities                                                   8      318      326
9.Unallocated and Contingencies             500       500
Total                               675   4,535      5,210        515   3,989    4,504
/a As provided by the Project Implementation Unit



-20 -
Table 8B: 1. IBC Project Financing
Appraisal estimate          Actual/latest estimates
(US$ )                      (US$ 000)/a
Item                                Local Foreign     Total       Local Foreign      Total
costs   costs                 costs   costs
IDA                                        10,117    10,117         836    9,814    10,650
Government                           200               200
Gov't of the Netherlands                     600       600                  600       600
Total                                200  10,717    10,917          836   10,414   11,250
Table 8B:2. SATAC Project Financing
Appraisal estimate          Actual/latest estimates
(US$ 000)                    (US$ 000)/a
Item                                Local Foreign     Total       Local Foreign      Total
costs   costs                 costs   costs
IDA                                  265   4,535      4,800         515    3,989    4,504
Government                           410               410
Total                                675   4,535      4,800         515    3,989    4,504
/a As provided by the Project Implementation Unit
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
NOT APPLICABLE



- 21 -
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Covenant Present Original      Revised    Description of Covenant         Comments
Agreement   Section   Type      Status   Fulfillment  Fulfillment
Date        Date
Credit-IBC   4.01     1         C       6/30/95                 Conduct of annual audits        All received by the Bank
Credit-     4.01      1                 6/30/97                 Conduct of annual audits        All received by the Bank
SATAC
Covenant types:                                                                          Present Status:
1. = Accounts/audits                             8. = Indigenous people                  C = covenant complied with
2. = Financial performance/revenue generation from   9. = Monitoring, review, and reporting  CD = complied with after delay
beneficiaries                                 10. = Project implementation not covered  CP =complied with partially
3. = Flow and utilization of project funds          by categories 1-9                    NC = not complied with
4. = Counterpart funding                         11. = Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary
5. = Management aspects of the project or executing  or other resource allocation
agency                                        12. = Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/
6. = Environmental covenants                        regulatory/institutional action
7. = Involuntary resettlement                    13. = Other
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Statement number and title            Describe and comment on lack of compliance
1.                                    FULL COMPLIANCE
Table 12A: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs for IBC
Planned                     Revised                        Actual
Stage of project cycle       Weeks       US$          Weeks          US$              Weeks        US$
Prep. To Appraisal                                                                        29.0          59.1
Appraisal                                                                                 10.4          23.6
Negotiations through Board                                                                35.3           77.8
approval
Supervision                       33.5      72.4          19.5             50.0          53.0           113.2
Completion                         2.0       5.5           2.0              5.3            1.5            2.8
Total                     35.5     77.9          21.5              55.3         129.2          276.5



- 22 -
Table 12B: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs for SATAC
Planned                  Revised                     Actual
Stage of project cycle    Weeks    US$          Weeks        US$             Weeks       US$
Preparation to Appraisal-a
Appraisal-a
Negotiations through Board                           1.4            3.7           1 4          3.7
approval
Supervision                    18.5    48.9        15.7            34.7         27.0         44.3
Completion                      2.0     2.5         2.0             2.5           1.5          2.8
Total                  20.5    51.4         19.1            40.9         29.9         50.8
a-Merged with SAC I
Table 13.A: Bank Resources: Missions-IBC
Performance Rating
Stage of project cycle  Month/   No. of Days in Specialization'    Implem.    Developm. Probl m
Year    Persons Field                      status      objectives    ems
Supervision             3/95     2       6       E,OP            S          S
6/95     2      7       E,OP            S           S
1/96     2      7       E,F             S           S
6/96     2      7       E,PROC          S           S
11/96    2      2       E, PROC         S           S
3/97     2      2       E,PROC          S           S
12/97    2      1       E,PROC          S           S
Completion              3/98     2       7       E,PROC          S          S
Total                            92
E-Economist, LEG-Legal, F-Finance, OP-Operations, PROC-Procurement



- 23 -
Table 13.B: Bank Resources: Missions-SATAC
Performance Rating       Types of
Stage of project cycle   Month/   No. of Days in Specialization'     Implem.    Developm. Problems3
Year     Persons Field                       status      objectives
Supervision              6/96      2      7        E,HR            S           S
11/96    2       3       E,PROC           S           S
3/97     2       2       E,PROC           S           S
6/97     2       3       E, PROC          S           S
12/97    2       3       E,PA             S           S
6/98     2       4       E,PROC           S           S
Completion               12/98    2       3        E,PROC
Total                              48
I - Key to Specialized staff skills:  2 - Key to Performance Ratings:  3 - Key to Types of Problems:
etc.                              etc.                             etc.
E-Economist, HR-Human Resources, PROC-Procurement Specialist, PA-Program Assistant



APPENDIX A
BORROWER'S CONTRIBUTION



bld.S6)38P%9b                             MINISTRY OF FINANCE
O5Sn6WJIS blsaOffob6o e)                               OF GEORGIA
d.a.opolio, 380062, n.3ado ld.N 70          70, I.Abashidze str,380062, Tbilisi, Georgia
612: 226805 ;226806                        Tel:(7-995-32) 226805; 226806
,jb~3lo: 292368; t  jj6ao 212348 MOFIN       Fax: (7-995-32)292368;Telex:212348 MOFIN
N                                                                           19..
June 4, 1999                                                     Annex A Page l of 3
GEORGIA
GOVERNMENT'S EVALUATION REPORT ON
INSTITUTION BUILDING CREDIT
Credit No. 2641-GE
and
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE CREDIT
Credit No. 2848-GE
Submitted as a Contribution to the
Implementation Completion Report
The institutional aspects of the Economic Reform Program of the Government of
Georgia were supported by the 1994 Institution Building Credit (IBC) and the 1996
Structural Adjustment Technical Assistance Credit (SATAC).
Institution Building Credit 2641-GE
The Institution Building Credit was the first investment project in Georgia, and the
first Project Implementation Unit (PIU) was set up to implement this project. The
objectives of the Institution Building Credit were to assist the Government of
Georgia to move to a private market economy by strengthening public institutions
in three areas:
(i) financial sector,
(ii) economic management
(iii) privatization and enterprise reform.



Annex A Page 2 of 3
The credit was satisfactorily implemented, even taking into account the difficult
working conditions, i.e., lack of electricity, designated office space, and PIU
inexperience with both Bank and international procurement and disbursement
procedures.
Although the project was designed as multi-faceted and quite complex, the
Government was able to manage processing quite efficiently, and even were ahead
of schedule in some of the project components.
The Government had a lot of problems with the Customs component of this project.
This sphere of activity has been quite difficult to manage, and we can say that at
that time it was difficult to find the proper working atmosphere within the Customs
department. We must say that this problem was internal because the Customs
Department was reorganized quite a few times and the leadership of the Department
changed quite often as well. Once we had rectified this problem, the component
benefited from more serious supervision.
We would like to agree with the Bank's report which indicates that the Bank was
flexible in allowing us to request financing under the IBC for activities which
became the Government's priority and which had been unforeseen. For instance,
we found it very urgent to start informing the public about the scope of the
Government's economic reforms and we requested the Bank to assist us in
enlarging the original scope of this component to include voucher auctions, radio
and television ads and assistance for printing and publishing of brochures and other
informational bulletins. This type of component was really crucial and we think the
reform program benefited overall from an adequate information campaign.
We believe the main lesson to be taken from this project is the flexibility required
during implementation, both on the part of the Bank and the Government. We must
be ready to identify new priority activities if other previewed components are not
able to be satisfactorily implemented for reasons beyond our control. And the
Bank must be able to adapt the project, or restructure it, in consultation with us, in
order to achieve these objectives.
Structural Adjustment Technical Assistance Credit (SATAC) 2848-GE
The Structural Adjustment Technical Assistance Credit was a parallel credit with
Structural Adjustment Credit.  It was an idea to assist the Government in
implementing its structural reform program, and provided technical assistance in
privatization, post-privatization, strengthening of the financial sector, and reforming
social protection.
We understand that this type of credit was new for the Bank, but we would like to
say that we think it was an excellent idea, because the Government was in need of
financial assistance to help implement the reforms needed under the Structural
Adjustment Credit. Without this kind of credit, we would have been in a more
difficult position and with limited resources to implement the mandate of the SAC.



Annex A Page 3 of 3
Again, we believe the major success of this credit was the flexibility of it as an
instrument. Also, some of the activities that were supported under the Institution
Building Credit were continued in the SATAC, for instance the public information
component was significantly expanded to include all economic reforms, and we
agree with the Bank that it was vital to develop public understanding and
acceptance of the entire reform program.
Also, the Customs component that was included under the Institution Building
Credit was again included as a Government priority under SATAC. This time the
component was more successful, and another activity for financing of anti-
smuggling measures was added.
Also, on the implementation side, we believe the SATAC benefited from having the
same unit implement the project. They had gotten lots of experience from the IBC
project and were able to start all projects with no delays.
We think one of the major advantages from the SATAC was the use of local
consultants. The institutional capacity of the Public Relations Information Center,
and the Debt Management Unit within the Ministry of Finance, have both been
dramatically improved through training, and international experts coming to
Georgia for short missions.
Another benefit to the country has been the usage and training on computers.
Before Georgia became a member of the World Bank, there were no computers in
the country. Now, mostly because of the large number of computers procured under
the Institution Building Credit and the Structural Adjustment Technical Assistance
Credit, (as well as other donors of course) many government and ministry staff are
well trained in the latest computer programs, computers are used widely for normal
office functions and they have become a part of the office culture in Georgia,
thereby enhancing effectiveness and improving efficiency.
We thank the World Bank for their assistance to the Government of Georgia
through these credits. And for their continued assistance in other projects of



