Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 10937-VE
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
VENEZUELA
ENDEMIC DISEASE CONTROL PROJECT
OCTOBER 2, 1992
2,    t~~i
Uuman Resources Division
Country Department I
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authornzation.



Currency Equivalents
(as of June 15, 1992)
USS1.OO = Be 67.2
US$l million = Bs '7.2 million
US$14,880 =s 1 million
Fiscal Year
January 1 - December 31
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
CORDIPLAN         Ministry of Coordination and Planning
DGSS              General Sectoral Directorate for Health
DGSSSA            General Sectoral Directorate for Environmental Sanitation
EMSA              Arnaldo Gabaldon School of Malariology
GOV               Government of Venezuela
IB                Biomedicine Institute
MINFAM            Ministry of Family
M.I.VI.CA.        Rural Housing Improvement Program
MSAS              Ministry of Health and Social Assistance
PAHO              Pan American Health Organization
SDDs              State Dermatology Departments
TDR               WHO/UNDP/World Bank Special Programme for Research and
Training in Tropical Diseases
UCV               Central University of Venezuela
UNDP              United Nations Development Program
UNICEF            United Nations Childrens' Fund
WHO               World Health Organization



FOR OMCAL USE
VENEZULA
ENDEMIC DISEASE CONTROL PROJECT
Table of Contents
Paae No.
BASIC DATA SHEET ........................................ iii
DEFINITIONS ......................               ..o .................... iv
LOAN AND PROJECT SUNMARY..... ............ ........v
I.          lN   1UCTION ..................    .....................I
II.         COUNTRY HEALTH DEVELOPMENT. ....... ....... . ........ .. ... .2
A.  Population, Health and Nutrition Status ................ 2
B. Health Sector Institutions......  ..... .o ...... ....3
C.  Public Health Expenditures ............ .............  7
D. Major Issues in the Health Sector      .      .........8
E. Government Strategy.  .....         ..........    . ......8
F. Bank Role and Strategy ...... . .... .... . ... ......... 9
G.  Rationale for Bank Involvement         .     .      .. 10
HoX Lessons Learned. ..  o        ..       .       .. .... . 10
III.        ENDEMIC DISEASE CONTROL IN VENEZUELA    ..........      .. 13
A.  Epidemiological Situation and Control Strategies ...... 13
B.  Financing of Endemic Disease Control        .... 17
C. Major Issues in Endemic Disease Control ....... o...... 18
Iv.         THE PROJECT ...    .......                    ........        19
A.  Project Concept and Objectives- ..............        19
B. Main Features ....   .......      ....... . ... .  .. .   ............. 19
C. Detailed Description... ... .. ...# ..... o.. ......o... . 20
D.  Project Management and Implementation o .......... o.... 29
This report is based on the findings of pre-appraisal and appraisal missions
which visited Venezuela in February and June 1992, respectively. The missions
were comprised of Messrs. Bruce Carlson (Mission Leader), Sergio Dompieri
(architect), Agostinho Cruz Marques (epidemiologist), and John Wilson
(anthropologist).
Task Manager:     Bruce Carlson
Division Chief:   K.Y. Amoako
Director:         Armeane Chokei
Peer Reviewers:   Bernhard Liese
Oscar Echeverri
Stanley Scheyer
Paramjit Sachdeva
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Balk authorization.



li
Paae No.
V.         PROJECT COSTS. FINANCING, PROCUREMENT AND
DpISURsEMENTS ............................................ 32
A. Project Costs ........................      ......   32
B.    Financing ............................ ........ 33
C.   Procurement ......................  oo.... o.. o .934
Ov. Disbursements ....           .............. *..... ..39
B. Accounts and Audits....*........... *.* ....... ...    40
VI.        PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS .....    ................ . .42
A. Environmental Impact.** ......  ............. *.** .... 42
B. Project Benefits ...........,..o.............42
C.    Risks.. ...e...  ..   ,.   ........  o        o,  43
VII.       AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION.                   44
LIST OF TABLES IN MAIN REPORT
Table 5.1  summary of Project Costs by Component
Table 5.2  Summary of Project Costs by Category of Expenditures
Table 5.3  Financing Plan
Table 5.4  Summary of Proposed Procurement Arrangements
Table 5.5  Disbursement Forecast
LIST OF ANNEXES
1.  Summary Cost Tables
2.  Financing Plan by Year
3.  Disbursement Categories and Percentages
4.  Procurement Methods and Prior Review Thresholds
5.  Project Implementation Schedule
6.  Key Project Indicators
7.  Endemic Diseases in Venezuela
8.  DGSSSA and IB Expenditures on Endemic Disease Control
9.  Selected Background Documents Available in Project File
10. Annual Supervision Plan
Chart 1. Organization Chart of the DGSSSA
Chart 2. Organization Chart of the Biomedicine Institute
Chart 3.  DGSSSA Project Implementation Unit
Chart 4.  lB Project Implementation Unit
Chart 5.  Project Committees
MDP  IBRD 24017



LLL
BASIC DAA BSHET
general Country Data
1. Populatlon Estimate (millions)                     19.7       1988-90
2. Area ('000 km2)                                     912          1990
3. GNP per capIta (US$)                              2,560          1990
4. GNP per caplta Average Annual Growth Rate (%)    -1.0         1965-89
5. Income Share of Poorest 20% (%)                     5.0       1988-90
6. Population Living in gxtreme Poverty               22.S          1989
7. Population LLving in Critical Poverty              31.4          1989
Population Data
1. Crude Birth Rate (per 1000)                        28.7       1988-90
2. Crude Death Rate (per 1000)                         5.2       1988-90
3. Annual Rate of Population Growth (S)                2.5       1988-90
4. Total Fertility Rate                                3.56      1988-90
5. Maternal Mortality Rate (per 100000)                 65          1980
6. Infant Mortality Rate (per 1^00)                     34       1988-90
7. Life Expectancy at Birth (years)                   70.1       1988-90
Health Data
1. Population per Physician                            701       1988-90
2. Population per Nurse                              1,900          1984
3. Public Health Expenditures
As percent of total central government budget   9.3            1985
As percent of GDP                                 2.6          1985
In per capita USS                                 83           1987
Nutrition Data
1. Daily Calorie Supply                             2,547           1988
2. Babies with Low Birth Weight (S)                      9          1985
3. Calorie Intake as % of Requirements                 114          1986
4. Per Capita Protein Intake (grams/day)                68          1990
5. Index of Food Production per Capita                77.6   1979-81-100
Zducation Data
1. Adult Illiteracy Rate (%)                          11.9       1988-90
2. Female Illiteracy Rate (')                         10.4       1988-90
3. Gross Enrollment Ratiost
Primary   (' of school-age group)                 105       1988-90
secondary (I of school-age group)                  56       1988-90
Tertiary  (% of tertiary students)              22.1        1988-90
4. Public Education Expenditures
As % of Total Central Government Budget          21.1          1985
As ' of GDP                                       5.9          1985
In per Capita US$                                139           1987
Sourcess Social Indicators of Development, World Bank International Economics
Department, April 1992; World Development Report, 1991; Human Resources in
LACs Basic Indicators, July 1989, World Bank.



DEFINITIONS
nideno2 rates The number of persons contracting a disease as a proportion
of the population at risk, per unit of time. The rate is
usually expressed per 1,000 or 100,000 persons per year.
Prevalence rate: The total number of all individual. who have a disease at e
particular time, or during a particular period, as a
proportion of the population at risk. The rate in usually
expressed per 1000 or per 100,000 persons per year.
Active caee
detections        The surveillance activities by which the health services
search for new disease cases through screening exams.
Active came detection is usually carried out in house by
house visits conducted by trained "house visitors".
Passive case
deteation:        The surveillance activities by which the hea^.th services
detect new disease cases among the population presenting
with symptomatic complaints.



V
VENEZUELA
ENDEMIC DISEASE CONTROL PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:         Republic of Venezuela
Boneftgiary:      Ministry of Health and Social Assistance (General Sectoral
Directorate for Environmental Sanitation and Biomedicine
Institute)
Amount:           US$94.0 million equivalent
Turmat            Payable in 15 years, including a five-year grace period, at
the Bank's standard vaviable interest rate.
Proiect Obiective. and Descri$tion:
The proposed project will: (i) reduce the incidence and
impact of endemic diseasee in Venezuela; and (ii) strengthen
the institutions responsible for endemic disease control.
The project will include: (a) an Endemic Disease Control
Comonent (71% of total costs) to support new and ongoing
epidemiological surveillance activities; treatment of cases
and preventive treatment; entomological surveillance and
vector control; rural housing improvements to eliminate the
habitat of the Chagas vector; health education activities;
education and water treatment activities for cholera
prevention; and innovative measures identified through
operational research; and (b) an Institutional Strenathenino
-moonent (29% of total costs) to support training at all
levels; development of information systems; operational
research on wontrol measures, strategies and t%chnologies;
and construction of operational bases, training facilities,
and central and regional headquarters. The project will
finance the contracting of civil works, provision of
equipment, vehicles, construction materials, drugs and
pesticides, and payment of training, technical assistance,
special studies, maintenance and supervision.
Benef$tss         The principal beneficiaries of this project will be low-
income populations in rural and per$-urban areas throughout
Venezuela, where endemic diseases are still an important
cause of morbidity. They will benefit directly through
decreased risk of disease and improved health status, and
indirectly through improved productivity. The project will
also improve the management and technical capacity of the
institutions responsible for endemic disease control,
particularly in the design and evaluation of control
strategies and the cost-effectiveness of disease control
interventions.



vi
Rlikos            The major risk to successful project implementa.-.on is fron
labor strikes which in recent years have resulted from long
delays in payment of DGSSSA field workers, who are paid out
of a large, centrally-managed "Laborers' Collective
Contract".  The M8A8 and the DGSSSA agree that the flow of
funds would likely improve if the DGSSSA were to manage the
fund. directly. The Government provided assurances at
negotiations that it would maintain a mechanism,
satisfactory to the Bank, providing for the management by
DGSSSA of all funds for payment of its field workers. Ther
is also a risk of delays in project implementation due to
the Government'" lack of experience with Bank-financed
projects. To help addres this problem the Bank would: (i)
conduct a project launch seminar; and (ii) allocate greater
resources to project supervision.
Estimated Costs a/:
Local       Poreian      Total
-       USS millions…------
Endemic Disease Control                           54.8        54.4         109.2
Institutional Strengthening                       IL          20 3         45.7
Total Base 'outs                           80.2         74.7        154.9
Physical Contingencies                            2.4          2.7           5.1
Price Contingencies                              21i5          6.S         28 Q
Total Project Costs                       104.1         83.9        188.0
A/excluding taxes and duties, which are negligible
Financina Plans
Local       Foreian      Total
---- US$ millions-------
Government                                        94.0         0.0          94.0
Proposed IBRD Loan                                10A1        83 9          94.0
Total                                      104.1        83.9        188.0



v&L
Estiaited IBRD Disbursement:
Bank Fiscal Year
1993 1994 1995 1996 a997 ;
-------------------------- $US mi1lion  -------------------
Annual            6.0          18.0        20.0         19.0        17.0
i   umolative     6.0          24.0        44.0         63.0        80.0
Rate of Returns Not applicable
M:               WIBRD 24017



-                                 ~~~~~~~~VENEZUEL
ENDEMIC DISEASE CONTROL PROJECT
|                               I~~~~~~~~~. INTRODUCTION
1.1         Venezuela is a largely urbanized cour.ry whose rapid economic
growth has depended primarily on abundant oil resources. GNP per capita was
estimated at about US$2,450 in 1990, making it one of the higheot in Latin
America. The Venezuelan economy, and government revenues, have been highly
vulnerable to swings in petroleum markets. The government has intervened
heavily in oil and other productive sectors such as mining, power and steel.
This course has proven highly inefficient and led Venezuela into a critical
macro-economic imbalance in the late 1980s. In response, Venezuela began a
major structural reform program in 1989 that has involved pi:ivatimation of
major government holdings, overhaul of the trade regime, and financial sector
reforms.
1.2         Poverty is a significant and persistent problem in Venezuela,
despite relatively high per capita income. Three-quarters of the poor live in
urban areab. Living conditions deteriorated during the past decade and income
distribution worsened. Real household income declined for all income groups,
but the poorest were disproportionately affecteds the highest income decile
experienced a 17% decline over the 1982 - 1989 period in contrast to a 44%
decline for the lowest decilel. In 1989, the government adopted the "Plan de
Enfrentamiento de la Pobreza (PEP)" to eonfront poverty and protect the most
vulnerable groups from the potentially adverse effects of structural
adjustment reforms. The strategy supports decentralized design and management
of social programs, increased private sector participation in service
delivery, and a shift from generalized subsidies, such as food subsidies which
were available to all, to subsidies targeting the poor.  The PEP programs,
which focus mainly on improving the nutrition and health status of young
children and pregnant and lactating women, grew rapidly and by 1991 were
budgeted for US$595 million.
1.3         Although these new programs represent an important effort to
protect especially vulnerable groups, they do not fully address fundamental
problems of poor targeting, poor quality and inefficiency that characterize
social sector programs. In 1991, the government announced the launching of a
wider, consolidated effort called the "Megaproyecto Social" which aims to
improve the performance of existing programs as well as to introduce new ones.
In the health sector, a "Proyecto Salud" will seek to combine ongoing and new
initiatives to improve the performance of health sector institutions and
programs. Specifically, it will support the strengthening of endemic disease
control (through the proposed project), basic health services at health
centers (through the ongoing Social Development Project, effective in
September 1991), and the quality and efficiency of hospital services (through
the Hospital Modernization Project). The proposed Endemic Disease Control
Project complements the GOV's efforts to shield the poor from the adverse
I OCEI Household Survey, i982-1989, and Garcia H. and Newman, J.L. "Poverty
in Venezuela," mimeo, nivision of Welfare and Human Resources, World Bank,
Washington, D.C., 1988.



2
effects of reform and to improve targeting, coverage and administration of
social services. Xndemic disease control is automatically targeted to the
poor since transmission of theme diseases is closely linkad to the social,
economic, and environmental conditions associated with poverty. Investment in
endemic dLieame control is also part of an important overall shift in health
sector spendlng away from curative, hospital-based care and towards more cost-
effective preventive health actions.
1.4         Xndemic diseases, both vector and water-borne, are still an
important cause of morbidity among the poor in most developing countries. The
most prevalent is malaria. Although mortality from endemic diseases like
malarla is low, the economic impact of theme debilitating maladies is
significant. Economic studies of malaria have estimated that between five to
fifteen days of labor are lost for each bout of illness and in farming areas
this lmpact li aggravated by the coincidence of peak malaria transmission with
the peak labor demand of harvests. Economic calculations must also consider
the long-term impact of parasitic diseases on school-age children and their
capacity to learn. Other important costs include the maintenance of control
programs to halt and roverse epidemics, as well as the costs of treatment at
the household level. Despite the continuing epidemiological significance of
tropical diseases and despite technological advances that have improved the
possibilities for more effective disease control, most developing countries
and international agencies have not afforded adequate attention to these
problems. There are a few noteworthy exceptions such as the Onchocerciasis
Control Programm- in West Africa (OCP), the WHO/UNDP/World Bank Research and
Training Programme in Tropical Diseases (TDR), and a handful of disease
control projects in Brazil, China, the Philippines, Laos, Madagascar and
others, all of which have been supported by the Bank. During the last two
decades, health sector development has focused largely on other, equally
important goals: expanding primary health care coverage and modernizing the
hospital sector. However, the simultaneous neglect and consequent decline of
disease control programs has contributed, most notably, to a major resurgence
of malaria in many developing countries, including Venezuela.
1I1 COUNTRY HEALTH DEVELOPMENT
A. Population, Health and Nutrition Status
2.1         &MguStlon.    Venezuela's total population has risen rapidly
since the Second World War from 4.2 million in 1945 to almost 20 million in
1990. The average annual rate of growth in the 1980's was 2.6% and is
expected to fall to 2.2% in the 1990s. The crude birth rate declined from
29.9/1000 in 1985 to 27.9/1000 ln 1989. Total fertility has also doclined
gradually from 4.0 in 1982 to 3.4 ln 1987. The population is relatively young
with 38% under age 15. While urban areas contained 35% of the population in
1945, nearly 90% live in cities today. Caracas contains nearly one-fifth of
the total population, which is largely concentrated in the coastal states of
Miranda, Aragua, Carabobo, Zulia and the Federal District (which has 39%).
Population density ranges from over l,000/km2 in the Federal District to under
10/km2 in the Federal Territory of Amazonas.



3
2.2         Health Statug.  The natLon'e health Lndicators have generally
lmproved over the years. The ratios of physiioans and nurses to inhabltants
havo increased and growth ln hospitals and hospLtal bads ham kept pao¢ wlth
population. However, a lack of complementary inputs has had a negative lmpac
on some lmportant input-dopendent activLties such as immunLzation. Although
infant mortal_ty has dropped sharply mince 1975, the 1990 rate of 34/1000 La
still high for a country of Venezuela's Lncome level. Moreover, infant
mortallty varLes greatly from state to states from 21/1000 in the Federal
District to 67/1000 ln Amazonas terrltory, LLke many other developing
countries, Venezuela is also undergoLng an epidemiologLcal tranaLtion.
Tradltlonal childhood dLseases such as diarrhea, measles, pneumonia and
malnutrition continue to be significant causes of death. At the same time,
malignant cancers, heart disease, and LnjurLes have become the leadlng causes
of death in recent years. Another signLficant trend is the lncreaslng
transmission of certaln endemic diseases associated wlth poverty such as
malaria, dengue, and cholera. The health system is therefore increasingly
stressed as it attempts to cope with a growing range of problems both old and
new.
2.3         NutrltLon   OffLcLal surveys indicate that the proportion of
malnourished children rose from 14.0% to 15.3% between 1982 and 1989 and that
the proportion of the populatlon with caloric deficiency rose from 7% to 23%
over the same period. In 1989, 22% of all hWuseholds could not meet minimum
food needs. Infants, small children, and pregnant and nursing mothers ln the
poorest areas of the country have been the most affected groups. Nutrition
subsidies have been poorly targeted; at the time about 60% of subsidized goodi
were consumed by middle and high-income families.
B. Health Sector Instltutions
2.4         The most important public health institutLons in Venezuela in
terms of coverage are the Ministry of Health and Social Assistance (MSAS) and
the Venezuelan social Security Institute (IVSS). KSA8 is flnanced from the
central government budget and theoretically serves the entire population.
IVSS, which covers about 24% of the population, is partly financed through a
universal payroll tax, partly through the Ministry of Labor budget and serves
salaried employees and their families. Other social security organizations
also provide health servlces such as the Institute for the Provision of Healtk
Care and Social Assistance for the Employees of the Ministry of Education
(IPASME) and the Health Servlces of the Armed Forces.  M8AS anl IVSS together
admlnlster about 73% of total public health expendltures; 52% and 21%,
respectively.  Despite the overlapping populatlons served, however, IVSS and
MSAS have little coordination or joint planning.
2.5         The Ministry of Urban Development (MINDUR) is responsible for
buildlng new hospitals and general health infrastructure. Since thetre is no
formal coordination between MINDUR and MSAS, the construction of
infrastructure does not necessarily follow MSAS plans for maintaining or
improving health services delivery. MINDUR adminiLters about 4% of public
health expendltures. The remainder is administered by various autonomous



4
institutions includings (i) the Naticral Institute for Geriatrics and
Gerontology (INAGER), which provides social protection, health services, and
medical attention to the elderly; (ii) the National Institute of Hygiene
(INH), which provides general laboratory services to the public health system
(iii) the National Institute of Nutrltion (INN) which is responsible for
monitoring nutritional status, defining norms for requirements and neceosary
supplements, and buying and distributing these food supplementsl (lv) the
Central Office for the National Health System (OCPSS), an administrative
office in charge of studies needed to implement the National Health System;
(v) the Foundation for the Maintenance of Public Health Infrastructure (FIMA)
which equips and maintains the existing hospital infrastructure; and (vi) the
Caracas University Hcopital Institute (IAHUC), a hospital and research
institution.
2.6         The multiplicity of public institutions providing health services
has led to many problems such as unbalanced regional distribution of
infrastructure, duplication of services in some areas and lack of services in
others. Management problems are aggravated by the lack of adequate
information systems and, even where access to services is good, facilities
often operate below capacity for lack of personnel and complementary inputs.
In 1987, legislation was enacted authorizing NSAS to coordinate and regulate
the quality of public health services under a "National Health System".
Implementation of this legislation has met resistance from special interest
groups and thus far, the proposed system has only been implemented, as a pilot
project, in the state of Anzoategui.
2.7         The relatively small private sector accounts for about 23% of all
hospital beds and probably provides medical care to less than 20% of the
population. MSAS and IVSS make little use of contracting out medical serviceE
through the private sector. The health insurance sector has been growing
rapidly, however, from about US$97 million in 1984 to US$164 million in 1989.
The Ministry of Health and Social Assistance LMSAS)
2.8         MSAS has three major institutional components: (i) the General
Sectoral Directorate for Health (DGSS) which coordinates general health
services, including the primary health care system; (ii) the four zones
(Central, Center-West, West, and East) which are comprised of the 23 Regional
Health Directorates (corresponding to the states) and which are further
divided into 127 health districts; and (iii) the General Sectoral Directorate
for Environmental Sanitation (DGSSSA) which is responsible for the control of
endemic diseases including malaria, dengue and dengue hemorraghic fever,
Chagas disease, schistosomiasis and other intestinal parasites, yellow fever,
cholera, and others (see Annex 7).
2.9         The General Sectoral Directorate for Health IDGSS).  DGSS is
comprised of five departments: maternal and child health, oncology, medical
care, epidemiology and health promotion. Each of these departments is
represented on the Permanent PHC Commission (CPAPS), which meets weekly to
coordinate PHC activities. DGSS operates a network of about 3,500 urban and
rural health facilities throughout the country. Approximately 955 of these



5
facilities are located in poor urban and rural areas.2 One of most important
program undor the responsibility of DGSS is the Maternal and Child Health
Program. This program encompasses: (i) infant and child health, including
monitoring of growth ar.d development, immunizations, diarrheal disease
control, control of acute respiratory infections, nutritional supplements,
student health, and breast-feeding; and (ii) maternal health and family
planning, which provides obstetrical and gynecological care with special
emphasis on pre-natal care, detection of gynecological and breast cancer,
prevention of sexually transmitted diseases, and contraceptive information and
services. For pregnant women and infants, attention at health centers is
combined with distribution of nutritional supplements, the composition and
delivery of which are the r-sponsibility of the National Institute of
Nutrition (INN).
2.10        For all categories of health care providers, the hospital forms
the apex of a service pyramid comprised of a network of rural ambulatories
Types I and II, which provide basic preventive, curative and emergency care,
and urban ambulatories Types I, II, and III, which are generally equipped to
provide a broader range of health services. While MSAS has administrative
control over its own ambulatories, it }.as limited say regarding non-Ministry
ambulatories. Moreover, it exercises only nominal authority over the
ambulatories that it operates in conjunction with other institutions.
2.11        The General Sectoral Directorate for Environmental sanitation
W SISSA). The DGSSSA was created in 1936 and has since been responsible for
endemic disease control in Venezuela. It is headquartered in Maracay, Aragua.
The Director, appointed by the Minister, also maintains an office in the
health ministry in Caraca3.   DGSSSA has four sub-directorates: (i) Rural
Endemic Diseases, (ii) The Arnaldo Gabaldon School for Malariology and
Environmental Sanitation (EMSA), (iii) Sanitary Engineering, and (iv) Rural
Housing, Sewers and Aqueducts (see Chart 1). The Rural Endemic Diseases sub-
directorate is responsible for control of malaria, Chagas disease,
schistosomiasis, intestinal parasites, dengue, and other vector-borne diseases
including yellow fever and Venezuelan equine encephalitis. It has three
divisions: Epidemiology, Vector Pid Reservoir Control, and Intestinal
Parasites. The Rural Housing, Sewers and Aqueducts sub-directorate executes
housing and housing improvement programs. These programs are an important
part of the Chagas and intestinal parasite control programs. This sub-
directorate also executes rural water supply and sewer projects. The Sanitary
Engineering sub-directorate is responsible for the control of air, water and
ground contamination and has programs for control of solid wastes, rodents,
pesticides, construction, occupational health, waste water treatment, air
pollution control and others. The EMSA has trained most of the professionals,
inspectors and laboratory technicians that have worked in endemic disease
2 These facilities include 68 regional and district hospitals; 480 urban
health centers, and 2,954 rural health centers. Health centers are operated by
physicians and nurses, except in the case of Type I rural health centers, which
are run by auxiliary nurses.



6
control in Venezuela. The school also conducts research projects relevant to
disease control.
2.12        The management of DGSSSA control programs is centralized in
Maracay and the institution has a strong "vertical" command structure.
Management and technical staff at the central level establish policy, norms,
and control strategies, provide training and in-service training, manage
acquisition and supply, supervise control activities, and undertake
operational research. At the same time, tactical decisions about what
measures to apply, when, and where, are generally delegated, in each state and
federal territory, to the zone chief (jefe de zona) and his three service
chiefs (jefes de servicio) for Rural Endemic Disease., Sanitary Engineering,
and Rural Housing, Sewers, and Aqueducts. Thus, in each state and territory
the control programs are determined by the local disease situation.   Disease
control activities are executed through strategically located operational
bases or "demarcations" which are staffed by inspectors, spraymen, house
visitors, and laboratory personnel.
2.13        The DGSSSA has a staff of about 5,600 including 725 managers,
professionals and technicians, 1,500 administrative support, and 3,400 field
workers (spraymen, house visitors, and laborers). Over 130 volunteers (local
community leaders, shopowners, and religious leaders) also assist the malaria
control program in Bolivar state by collecting blood slides and distributing
anti-malarial drugs.
2.14        The Biomedicine Institute.  Several endemic disease control
programs are the responsibility of the Biomedicine Institute (IB), which is
formally subordinate to both DGSS (General Sectoral Directorate for Health)
and the Central University of Caracas (see Chart 2). The IB executes disease
control programs for leishmaniasis and leprosy and is currently developing a
strategy and program for onchocerciasis. it is recognized internationally for
its important work in vaccine development and treatment for leprosy and
leishmaniasis. It operates from a central headquarters in Caracas (at the
Bosvital Vargas) but its staff are very often in the field supervising ongoing
peograms.   TB control program activities, primarily disease surveillance and
treatment, are %.;arried out by the personnel of the DGSS's 28 state-level
Dermatology Departments (SDDs). Nurses in primary health care facilities at
the local level also collaborate in the leprosy and leishmaniasis programs.
The IB's primary role in these disease control programs is to determine
control strategy, carry out relevant operational research, and supervise
control activities in the field. The combination of operational research and
disease control under a single inst,.tution has been a productive and unique
characteristic of the IS which has, in particular, facilitated the development
and implementation of new vaccines and vaccine therapies for leprosy and
leishmaniasis. The IS receives research support from and collaborates closely
with the World Health Organization (WHO) and the Pan American Health
organization (PAHO). The IB has a staff of 150 at the central level and is
supported in the field by 318 personnel of the state-level dermatology
services.



7
C. Public Health Exnenditures
2.15        Public spending on health declined sharply in real terms over the
1980.. Per capita public spending on health fell from about US$113 in 1983 to
US$55 in 1988, and remained at this level through 1990. The MSAS budget for
health services, for example, declined by over 40% over the decade. In
addition, M8AS annual financing has been highly unstable due to the federal
budget's dependence on oil revenues. Some MSAS hospitals recover a small
fraction of costs from patients and have organized foundations to receive
donations. IVSS depends largely on its Medical Assistance Fund which is
financed by federal and employer contributions and payroll taxes. Although
IY88 financing has been more stable in recent years (partly because the
Medical Assistance Fund ham run a large deficit), it decllned 13% in real
terms during the 1980a.
2.16        Most public financing for health is from the federal level; only
2.5% was from state and municipal governments in 1990. The states presently
provide limited support in terms of personnel and equipment. They have
recently received tax authority, however, and are thus expected to play a
greater role in the future.
2.17        Spending in the health sector is strongly biased towards the least
cost-effective ways of reducing mortality. Hospital., for example, absorb
over 80% of the public health budget. In the 1980e, MSAS spending on overhead
(support, planning and administration) has grown while spending on service
delivery (medical attention, disease control and prevention, and environmental
sanitation) has declined. Between 1980 and 1988, spending on personnel rose
from 52% to 73% of total M8AS expenditures while spending.for operations and
maintenance fell from 43% to 22% of total MSAS spending.
2.18        The present allocation of resourcee reduces the availability of
complementary inputs and is reflected in serious shortages of pharmaceutical
and other supplies in the public health system. Persons seeking medical
attention at a public hospital, for example, must provide their own medicines,
cotton, and bandages. This constitutes a form of direct user paymen. which
bears no relationship to ability to pay, or to any criteria of what sh tld be
publicly financed. Such direct payments effectively obstruct access to the
system for the poor. In addition, underfunding of maintenance has taken its
toll: a 1989 MSAS survey found that 46% of existing physical infrastructure
and euipment were severely run down and another 46% in need of minor repairs.
Only 8% of the existing physical plant and equipment were judged to be
satisfactory.
2.19        Budgeting in the public health sector is largely a process of
political bargaining. This occurs at the level of the Council of Ministers
which determines the total budgetary allocation for the health sector. The
process is complicated by the fact that the two principal providers of health
services, MSAS and IVSS, have different institutional affiliatLons and operate
on the basis of distinct and independently established priorities and
polLcies. First priority is given to funding personnel expenditures, and then
to highly visible new programs. The remaining funds are allocated to the
operation and maintenance of ongoing programs   Lack of coordination in



8
planning and budgeting among the large number of agencies involved in the
sector hae often undermined the efficiency of investments in health
infrastructure and equipment. Expansion in capacity, for example, has not
been accompanied by commensurate allocations to operations and maintenance.
The resulting shortages of complementary inputs (vaccines, drugs and other
medical supplies) is perhaps the single most serious constraint facing
Venezuela's public health system today.
D. Ma1or Isues in the Health Sector
2.20        The major problems in the health sector can be divided into five
broad categoriess (i) resource allocation: inefficient and inequitable
resource allocation, reflected in a bias towards curative medicine and
hospital care at the expense of preventive and primary health care, an
expanding share of personnel expenditures at the expense of operations and
maintenance, and increasing overhead costs at the expense of medical
attention, environmental control, disease control and prevention; (ii)
institutional weaknesses including, poor planning, over-centralization, lack
of coordination and an inadequate information system; (iii) inequitable
geographic distribution of both physical and human resources, combined with a
weak referral system and an incapacity to provide the proper mix of high
technology and low technology care; (iv) inappropriately skilled manpower; and
(v) mismanagement of hospitals and lack of complementary inputs in both
hospitals and health posts.
E. Government Strateav
2.21        The GOV strategy for the social sectors, in general, focuses on
strengthening the supply of health, nutrition, education and housing services,
targeting the most vulnerable groups, and promoting private sector and
community involvement.3 In the health sector, in particular, the GOV
recognizes the need to redirect health spending towards preventive health care
and to better target underserved populations and areas. This includes
strengthening of endemic disease control. In 1992, the government launched a
new program, the "Megaproyecto Social", which includes a number of health
projects. The latter comprise a "Proyacto Salud" which includes the proposed
Endemic Disease Control Project, the proposed Hospital Modernization Project,
and the health component of the Social Development Project.
3 The GOV' s Poverty Alleviati ° Plan focuses on (i) improving living
conditions in poor urban areas through construction and repair of schools and
health centers, and through credit for housing improvements in the poorest areas;
(ii) expanding coverage of maternal and child health care by increasing the
number of consultations and distribution of food supplements through health
centers; (iii) expanding the community-based child day-care by opening additional
centers and training of personnel; (iv) increasing pre-school enrollments and
introducing school-feeding at that level; and (v) setting up a new program of
nutritional grants (Beca Alimentaria) which benefits children in the first six
grades in poor urban and rural areas.



9
2.22        Several steps have been suggested to make the public health
delivery system function more officientlys (i) integration cf the existing
health subsystems under a single National Health System as provided by law
(see para. 2.6 above); (ii) remedying the current regional disparities in the
coverage and quality of health services by strengthening the sectoral policy
formulation and services standardization functlons of the Ministry; (iii)
improving the budgetary allocations to operations and maintenance and away
from personnel; and (iv) shifting resources gradually from the hospital-based
tertiary care to the ambulatory-based primary care and preventive public
health programs.
F. Bank Role and Strategy
2.23        In 1989, the Bank'. lending program to Venezuela was resumed,
after a 15 year hiatus, and agreements were reached between the Bank and the
GOV on macro-economic management, financial sector reforms, and social
programs. Much of the essential restructuring and deregulation of the
Venezuelan economy was completed in 1991. The Bank's efforts are now directed
towards encouraging the GOV to follow prudent fiscal and monetary policies and
to continue privatization, restructuring and deregulation efforts. In the
social sectors, the Bank strategy has been to assist the GOV to cushion the
poor from the effects of adjustment, and to improve the efficiency and equity
of programs. The Bank's sector work has shown that the incidence and severity
of poverty increased significantly in the last decade and that social spending
has suffered from inefficiency and mistargeting. Several crucial areas have
been neglected: preventive health care, pre-school and primary education, and
nutritional needs of lower income groups. At the same time, a large
proportion of public social spending has ultimately benefitted middle and
high-income groups. Considerable room for improvement exists without
excessive financial strain, but this implies reversing past trends, improving
implementation capacity and strictly monitoring the impact of social programs.
2.24        In an effort to reduce the adverse impact on the poor of
stabilization and adjustment programs, the GOV prepared a Social Sectors
Action Program which constitutes the basic policy framework of the Bank-
financed Social Development Project (Loan 3270-VE) effective in September
1991. In addition, the Technical Assistance for Preinvestment Loan (Loan
3225-VE), effective in June 1991, was designed to strengthen the GOV's
capacity to select, prepare and implement sound investment projects and to
build up a pipeline of projects, including health and education projects,
suitable for financing by the Bank.4 Technical Assistance Loan resources
were used to hire two consultants to prepare the draft Public Credit Law for
the proposed project and to contract a management study of DGSSSA. A Public
Sector Investment Review, covering capital and recurrent expenditures in the
social sectors, as well as a Public Administration Study and a Poverty Study
were recently completed. A Health Sector Study is also underway and will be
completed within two months. The results of these studies will assist in the
identification of issues, policies and investment needs in the social sectors,
4 Also approved in FY90 were a Financial Sector Loan and a Public Enterprise
Reform Loan.



10
and strengthen dialogue on major issues. The Health 8ector Study, in
particular, will provide a framework and strategy for a lending pipeline in
the sector and to help the GOV design a coherent investment program. Thus
far, two projects have been identified in the course of the Health Sector
Studys the proposed Endemic Disease Control Project and a Hospital
Modernization Project, now in preparation.
0. Rationale for Bank Involvement
2.25        The Dank's assistance strategy in Venezuela is to support policies
and investments that will encourage economic growth and social development in
a context of macroeconomic stability. The emphasis is on efficient resource
allocation, increased efficiency in the public sector, support for private
sector development, and the appropriate targeting and delivery of support
systems to the poor. The proposed project would directly support this
strategy by improving the planning and management capacity of public health
institutions to control endemic diseases, improving the health status of low-
income populations, and reducing economic losses due to lowered productivity.
It should also be noted that disease control projects, such as this one, have
high externalities; the reduction of malaria incidence in one region, for
example, brings benefits of reduced risk of disease to populations in other
regions as well.
H. Lessons Learned
2.26        The Bank has no completed health projects in Venezuela from which
relovant lessons can be drawn, since the first Bank-financed human resources
project for Venezuela, the Social Development Project, became effective in
September 1991. There are, nonetheless, important lessons from the latter
project, from the Dank's experience with endemic disease control, and from
completed Bank projects in the health sector in general.
Human Resource Proiects in Venezuela.
2.27        Goverment Exp mrienc. Bank experience with the ongoing Social
Development Project has shown that the government has limited experience in
project implementation, particularly in the social sectors. This should be
taken into account in project design and in the early stages of project
implementation. Supervision needs will be above average and training seminars
on Bank policioe and guidelines will be especially important. Senior staff
turnover in Venezuela has also been high; the Bank should therefore seek
assurances of staff continuity in the Project Implementation Unit and in other
key managerial and technical positions at the central and state levels.
2.28        The Public Credit Law. Implementation of the Social Development
Project initially met some obstacles because the text of the Public Credit Law
was not fully consistent with the loan agreement. The detailed project
description and implementation arrangements, as described in the text of the
draft law, should receive careful consideration. In particular, appropriate
flexibility should be built into the text of the law, thereby allowing for
possible adjustments in project design or strategy which may become necessary
in the course of project implementation. Project costs must be expressed in



ll
US dollar equivalents with a referential exchange rate. The Law should be
drafted as early as possible in project preparation, with appropriate
modifications being made as necessary.
Bank Exoerience in Endemic Disease Control
2.29        Flexiblltv.  Bank experience in malaria control in Brazil and
onchocerciasis control in West Africa has demonstrated the importance of
operational flexibility in successful disease control. Disease situations
tend to change, sometime. rapidly. People migrate and modify the environment,
disease vectors and parasites develop resistance to pesticides and drugs, new
control technologies are found. Endemic diseases are moving targets. This
has important implications for project design and for the organization and
management of disease control: program managers must have the technical
_apacity to recognize and respond to important epidemiological and
technological changes, as well as the administrative capability to implement
strategic changes as needed.
2.30        Research.  Accordingly, support for operational research is of
paramount importance. It has been a key component of successful disease
control programs supported by the Bank in the past, providing an institutional
mechanism for the systematic adjustment of control strategy. For malaria
control in Brazil it has led to improved treatment schemes, new methods of
vector control, and better otratification of areas at risk. For
riverblindness in West Africa it has led to better treatment schemes and more
effective vector control.
2.31        Human Resources.  The Rondonia Health Project (Ln. 2061-BR),
executed in a remote region of Brazil, facrd many difficulties in staffing,
training, management and supervision. The completion report for this project
notes that frequent and flexible programming of Bank supervision helped deal
with these problems. Programs in remote areas of Venezuela face similar
constraints. The executing agencies for the proposed project and Bank
supervision missions should give special attention to the preparation,
supervision and maintenance of staff who work in remote areas. Assuring the
adeqyate compensation of trained workers in such areas can help reduce worker
turnover in remote places which are often key targets for disease control.
NSAS must also take whatever steps are necessary to remedy the delays in
payment of workers that have resulted in recent labor strikes, before the
project is underway.
General Health Proiects
2.32        Less Comolexitv.  In several completed health projects5, Bank
experience has demonstrated that a few separate and simple projects are better
than a very large and complex project that tries to solve many problems at
once. This and Government inexperience in project implementation reinforce
the need for simple project design appropriate to management capacity. The
5 For example, the Tunisia Health and Population Project, the Bangladesh
Population and Family Health II Project.



12
Bank will follow this strategy in Venezuela. The proposed project wlll focus
narrowly on strengthening disease control programs and inotitutions. It will
complement other efforts, however, ouch am the primary health care component
of the ongoing SocLal Development Project (which supports maternal and child
health care, immunization programs, and prevention of diarrheal dLease,
*exually transmitted diseases, and acute respiratory infections) and the
Hospital Modernization Project, now Ln preparation.
2.33        CLJil Works.  Adequate planning and budgetLng for civil works (Ln
the case of the proposed project, the construction of new operatLonal bases at
the fiold level) Ls critical to timely implementation. Project implementation
is often slowed by delays in civil works. This has particularly serious
consequences when other project components hinge on their completlon. For the
proposed project, it was therefore agreed that detailed plans for new
construction during the first year of the project would be prepared, and legal
title to bullding sites acquired, prior to LmplementatLon.
2.34        MaLntenance.  Adequate maintenance is a key factor for sustaLning
project impact and project desLgn should include measures to encourage the
continuatLon of maintenance beyond the project period. The Brazil Northwest
Integrated Development Project, for example, noted that the failure of the
project design to provide for adequate maintenance of facilities and equipment
led to their deterioratLon and a loss of Lnvestment.



13
III. EM3D1IC DISEASE CONTROL IN YNBZUELA
A. Eoidemiolggical Situation and Control Stratoaies
overview
3.1         Malaia.  Malaria is a major public health problem in Venezuela
and the problem has worsened considerably in recent years6. In the 1980s,
the number of malaria casee reported in Venezuela rose dramatically from about
4,200 in 1982 to nearly 47,000 in 1990. Resurgent malaria in Venezuela is
primarily associated with gold mining and rainforest settlement where human
modification of the environment causes proliferation of the malaria vector and
where there in a high degree of human-vector contact. The high mobility of
the mining population, in particular, has been the primary cause of malaria's
dispersion to other parts of the country. Malaria tranumission is highest in
the mining camps of Bolivar state in the east, in parts of Tachira, Zulia,
Merida, and Apure states in the west, and in the coastal state of Sucre in the
northeast.
3.2   Despite the present resurgence of malaria transmission and the
reinfection of areas where the disease had once been eliminated, the DGSSSA
maintains the long-term objective of eradicating malaria in Venezuela.
Current objectives, however, take into account important constraints which are
largely defined by the characteristics of the principal vectors, the behavior
and susceptibility of affected human populations and the limitations of
existing malaria control technologies. These objectives are to: (i) reduce
the level of malaria transmission in the federal territory of Amazonas and
Bolivar state; (ii) interrupt transmission definitively in Sucre state (i.e.
eradication); and (iii) to reduce transmission in the western states of
Tachira, Merida, Zulia, and Apure to residual levels (i.e. to control or limit
the problem to rare and isolated outbreaks). Once these goals are achieved,
DGSSSA would maintain epidemiological and entomological surveillance and
intervene as necessary to eliminate new foci of transmission.
3.3   Malaria control strategy in Venezuela has relied primarily on diagnosis
and treatment of cases, intradomiciliary spraying, aerial fogging in selected
areas (where the vector is particularly exophilicT, such as A. aouasalis in
coastal Sucre state, or where few sprayable surfaces exist), elimination of
breeding sites (through larviciding and drainage works) and health education
geared to promoting vector avoidance behavior and community participation in
breeding site control. Control efforts have proven especially difficult in
6 The malaria parasite (primarily Plasmodium falciparum and Plasmodium
vivax) is transmitted by the Anopheles mosquito and causes debilitating flu-like
symptoms (fever, chills, sweats) that often come in cycles. The parasite attacks
and destroys red blood cells and, if untreated, can be fatal (especially P.
falciparum).
7 An "exophilic" vector prefers to rest out doors after feeding.
"Exophagic" vectors prefer to feed out doors.  "Endophilic" and "endophagic"
vectors prefer to rest and feed indoors, respectively.



14
minlng camps and new ralnforeet settlement areas characterlzed by mobile
populatLons and prscarious dwelllngs. IntradomLcLliary spraying has been loes
effective in such areas and paraelte resistance and behavioral adaptation. of
the vector to insecticide use also pose important new ch&llenges. In
addition, financial constraints and labor dloputes have hampered the
cor.eitent applicatlon of control measures. The malaria control program now
requires a major lnvestment to Lmprove and adapt control technologles to new
situations in the flild, to strengthen the DGSSSA's human resources, and to
generally strengthen the organizatLon and management of dLeease control.
3.4         Chacas Dlsease.  Chagas dLsase is also a publlc health problem in
Venezuela. It is borne by triatomLne bugs (Rh2diaus prolxusa and Triatgma
maculata) which transmit the paraslte Trypanoeoma cruzi. The Chagas paraelte
causes irreversible damage to the heart, resultLng in debllitation and death.
Symptoms may not appear for many years after infectlon and there is no known
cure. The vector's principal habitat ls the palm thatch and mud walls of
traditional houaes among the rural poor. TranamLssLon li known to occur ln
the states of Barinas, Merida, Trujlllo, Portuguesa, Lara, Zulia, Yaracuy,
Cojedes, Carabobo, Miranda, Guarico, Aragua, Falcon, Anzoategui and Sucre.
About 1,500 new cases have been reported in each of the last five years.
Underreporting is high, however, due to a decline in surveillance activities
in recent years.  The Chagas control strategy focusem on treatment of infected
individuals, spraying of infested houses and assoclated structures, promotion
of housing improvements to reduce vector density in human dwellings and health
education focused on community participation ln the timely reporting of
reinfestation. "Unfortunately, the Chagas control program has suffered serious
cutbacks in recent years because of the priority allocation of DGSSSA funds to
malaria and dengue control. Greater support for Chagas control will be
necessary to eliminate the vector and dlsease transmlislon. This will only be
achieved through a more complete coverage of areas at risk, intensified
education efforts and expanded housing improvement activities.
3.5         Intestinal Parasites.  Ascaris and other intestinal parasites are
also common among low-income populations and especially affect chlldren.
Control efforts have focused on mass dlstribution of antL-helminthLc drugs to
school children and on latrine construction programs among the rural and peri-
urban poor. Latrine constructlon has fallen precipitously ln last decade:
from over 10,000 latrines per year in the late 1970. to less than 800 in 1990.
At present, the DGSSSA li solely responsLble for intestinal parasite control
in Venezuela. Coverage could be expanded and further improved through the
involvement of the local primary health care network of the general health
services in the dietributlon of anti-helmlnthic drugs.
3.6         SchistosomLasie.  Intestinal schLitosomLasie (SchLstosomiasis
manognL) is transmitted to human populations when they are exposed (through
work or leisure) to waters infested by an (infected) intermediate host snail,
BiouhlsaiLa olabrata.  The parasite undergoes part of its lifecyc.'e in the
snail and is eventually released into the water. At another stage in the
cycle, the snails are infected when paraeites return to the water ln human
waste. The area most affected in Venezuela is the densely populated *enter-
north region, including the Federal District and parts of the states of
Aragua, Carabobo, Guarico, and Miranda, as well as isolated focl in Portuguesa



15
and Monagas. This debilitating disease, over a period of years, gradually
causes damage to the liver, spleen, and intestlnes. In soms poor rural
communLties, as much as 40% of the population may be lnfected.
Epldemlologlcal surveys have traditlonally been carrled out by t-etlng fecal
samples. More recently, *erologlcal methods have been developed which suggest
that prevalence is much higher than was evldent from feces exams. Support for
now and wlder epidemLologLcal studies is therefore needed and would help to
better target lnterventlons. Although the long-term goal li to eradlcate
schistosomialis in Venezuela, the present objective is to control the
transmissLon of dl-ease in the endemic area and to eliminate any new actlve
focl as they appear. The control stratogy involvess (i) determining the
frequency and distribution of Lnfection using more senoltlve (serological)
diagnostL tools; (ii) treatment of cases (using Praziquantel)l (iii) snail
control (molluncLcidLng) using chemleal and biological agents; (iv) mlnor
drainage works to eliminate lnfected snail populations and to reduce human
contact wlth Lnfested waters; and (v) health educatlon focused on improved
hygLone, proper dLiponal of human waste and avoidance of snall-lnfested
waters. Olven the great diffleulty of keeping people and infested waters
apart and of impeding the infectlon of snail populations through the improper
dLeposal of human waste, especially in poor areas, education becomes a
partlcularly crucial component ln the schLstosomiasiL control strategy. It is
also important that snaLl control, based on appropriate epLdemiologieal
surveys, be limited to areas of epidemiolog'cal significance.
3.7         Denaue and Donous Hemorrhaaic Fever.  Dengue fever is caused by an
arbovirus transmitted by the A9dfi aegovti mosquito. In its most severe form,
dengue hemorrhagic fevor, the disease is often fatal. Since the late 1970s,
when the last epidemic occured, the Aoeg aegy=t  eradication program was
gradually cutback until coverage was limited to three states. A decade later,
between October 1989 and March 1990, Venezuela suffered an epidemic outbreak
of dengue with over 12,220 reported cases. For the first time in Venezuela,
these included 2,780 cases of dengue hemorrhagic fever, which caused 73
deaths. Over 70% of the national territory was affected during thie opidemic.
A second epidemic occured in late 1991, despite entomological surveillance
efforts, and spread into new areas including Bolivar and Amazonas states. In
light of these events, DaSS8A has recognized and advocated the need to
establish a Nat..onal Dengue and Adeg aeggJi Control Program. Such a program
would involve a number of public health institutions including the National
Hygiene Institute (INH), the Venezuelan Scientific Investigation Institute
(IVIC), and DGSS, all of which would have an important role in virological,
serological, cilnical and epidemiologieal surveillance. Within this program,
DWGSSA would undertake Aedec aeusati surveillance (to monitor the vector
population, its seasonal variation and sensitivity to posticides in use) and
vector control activities including intradomiciliary spraying and aerial
fogging. In addition, the dengue control strategy places special emphasie on
the creation of a permanent program to involve local communities in reducing
vector density through better solid waste disposal and elimination of breeding
sites. The eventual program goal is to reduce Aede aeovnti to a level
incompatible with dengue transmission and thereafter to maintain
*pidemiological and entomologlcal surveillance and vector control as needed.



16
3.8         Cholga.  The recent cholera epidemLc in South Amorica spread to
Venezuela in 1991, when 14 casee were reported. In 1992 (January to June), a
total of 869 cases and 18 death. were reported. The states most affected have
been ZulLa (667 caese), Aragua (103 cases) and the Federal Dletrict (59
cases). Cholera cases have also been reported ln Miranda, Carabobo, Tachira
and Apure statoo. The DGS8SA strategy for cholera control wlll includes (i)
promotLon of better hyglene among populatlons at risk through education
activitLe involving both publLc and prLvate LnstitutLons; (i) clorLnation of
drinking water supplies to guarantee the qualLty of drLnking water (LLi)
sanitary surveillance of recreatlonal waters; and (lv) maLntenance of adequate
solid waste collectLon and dLposal Lncluding surveLllance of sewage and
sewage treatment.
3.9         Yellow Fery .  Like dengue, the yellow fever arbovirus li
transmLtted by the Aedos 6g.ytL mosquLto. Although not presently a publlc
health problem in Venezuela, yellow fever can still be found Ln non-human
primate populatlons. No human cases of yellow fever have been reported in
decades. The control program aime to maintain eradicatLn of the dieease
through: (i) public vaccination programs, especlally of populatlons near
enzootic fociL (iL) entomologlcal surveillance of Aedeg aegyL; and (iii)
health education focused on promotion of voluntary vaccinatlon.
3.10        Le2ro&y. Leprosy li  also a public health problem in Venezuela.
It is transmitted through prolonged human contact and is caused by
Mygobacteri   19M&2   Over a poriod of years, leprosy causes severe skin
lesions, loos of skin sensLtLvity, nerve lesions leading to muscle weakness
and atrophy, especially in the hands and feet, and often has a seriouc
psychological and social impact on the families affected. In January 1991,
there were 13,616 registered cases and the states most affected were Merida,
Tachira, Trujillo, Barinas, and Apure. Although leprosy is treatable with a
new multi-drug therapy (MDT), and promising work on immunotherapy and
Lmmunoprophylaxie is underway, coverage needs to be improved in Venezuela's
more remote areas such as T.F. Amazonas and Bolivar, where the state-level
health services are weak. The leprosy control program is carried out by the
state-level Dermatology Departments of DGSS/MSAS and managed by the IB. The
control strategy focuses ons (i) the timely treatment of cases; (ii)
monitoring and protection, through experimental vgccination, of
intradomiciliary and extradomiciliary consanguineal contacts of confirmed
casee; and (iii) targeted health education. The IB also has runs a
rehabilitation program for leprosy patients.
3.11        Leishmaniasis.  Leiahmaniasie, a parasitic disease transmitted by
sandflies, has two major forms, L. teaumentar amoricana or LTA (also known as
cutaneous and mucocutaneous leishmaniasis) and L. visoeral (Kala-azar18.  LTA
is more common in Venezuela. Its symptoms range from simple skin ulcers to
major tissue destruction, especially of the nose and mouth. Some forms can
8 L. visceral is rare in Venezuela. About 50 new cases are reported each
year.   It is usually fatal if untreated and is more difficult to treat than
other forms of the disease; lts symptoms include fever, malaise, weight lose,
anemia, and owelling of the spleen, liver and lymph nodes.



17
heal by themselves, but often leishmaniasis requires difficult, expensive, and
lengthy chemotherapy. In 1989, there were about 1,900 reported cases of LTA
in Venezuela. However, according to the Ir, underreporting of LTA may be as
high as ten to one. The IB's control strategy for ITA, carried out by the
SDDa, involvess (1' active case detection utilizing trained community leaders
and local health services personnel; (Li) development of new diagnostic
techniquesj (iii) register, t eatment and follow-up of casesl (iv)
epidemiological studies and studies of the veoctor and parasite reservoirs in
areas of known transmission; and (v) health education. The IS is also
undertaking studies of a leishmaniasis vaccine, as well as studies on the
potential use of the same vaccine for treatment. Both studies are supported
by the TDR program. Vector control is not presently part of the control
strategy but this option is under study. The design and implementation of
vector control first requires greater knowledge of the vector, its habits, and
non-human reservoirs of infection. In order to lmprove the LTA control
strategy, the IB plans to conduct studies of the frequency and distribution of
LTA and its relationship to ecological, economic and cultural factors, as well
as studies of the relationship between parasite and host.
3.12        onchocerciasis.  Onchocerciasis, which is caused by a filarial
parasite transmitted by blackflies (jiwJ1iJ), is also found in Venezuela.
The adult parasites (macrofilariae) form nodules under the skin and produce
millions of offspring (microfilariae) which migrate through the tissues
causing severe itching and debilitation. Eventually these microfilariae may
reach the eyes, causing ocular damage and blindness. The impact of the
disease is worse in areas where repeated reinfection occurs. The states known
to have onchocerciasis are the eastern states of Anzoategui, Monagas, and
Sucre, the central states of Aragua, Miranda, Carabobo, Guarico, Cojedes, and
Yaracuy, and the southern states of Bolivar and Amazonas. The IB estimates
that there were approximately 70,000 cases of onchocerciasis in Venezuela in
1990, but a comprehensive and systematic mapping of the disease, and of the
incidence of onchocercal blindness, has yet to be carried out. The IB plans
to begin a treatment and surveillance program under the proposed project,
using the microfilaricide, ivermectin (also known as Mectizan). Studios of
the feasibility of vector control, jointly with DGSSSA, are also planned. The
goal of the proposed onchocerciasis control program would be to eliminate the
transmission of onchocerciasis in Venezuela by the year 2011.
S. Flnancina of Endemic Disease Control
3.13        DGSSSA Financina.  The DGSSSA endemic disease control programs are
funded from several sources (see Annex 8)s (i) MSA8 (Li) the Guayana
Regional Development Corporation (CVG - a parastatal company operating in
Bolivar and Amazonas); and (iii) the state governments. The state governments
contribute primarily to the rural housing, aqueducts and sewers programs. The
central government, through MSAS, finances most of the specific disease
control campaigns, EMSA, and administration. In addition, the CVG provides a
significant contribution to malaria control in Bolivar and Amazonas. Total
DGSSSA expenditures for endemic disease control declined over 30%, in real
terms, between 1985 and 1990, from about US$32 million to about US$16 million
(1990 US dollars). In 1991, financing of these programs increased to about
US$25 million but still remained considerably below the 1985 level. The



18
budget situation wor.ersed again, however, between 1991 and 1992. Although t
1992 budget included a 20% inflation adjustment for personnel expenditures,
the remalnder did not. In real terms, this represents an addLtional 20%
decline in the DGSSSA budget for operations. As a percentage of total M8A8
expenditures, funding for endemic disease control (both DWSSSA and IB
expenditures) declined from over 12% in 1972 to lees than 3% in 1992.
3.14        IB FinancLnc   The IS is financed primarily by two lnetitutions,
MSAS and the Central University of Venezuela (UCV). The World Health
Organization (WHO) funds part of the leprosy and leishmaniasis programs. In
addition, the U.S. Agency for International Development (USAID) has supportet
onchocerciasis treatment among indigenous populations and NIH and Rotary Cluk
have each supported IB research projects. IB expenditures have declined 7.5w
between 1985 and 190), primarily due to declining MSAS contributions. Total
IB expenditures in 1990 fox managing the leprosy, leishmaniasis and
onchocerciasis programs were about US$800,000 (excluding the SDDs expenditure
and other DGSS expenditures for treatment of these dLeases through the
general health services).
C. Maior Iasues in Endemic Disease Control
3.15        At present, the major issues and principal constraints for endemi
dLsease control programs in Venezuela are: (i) insufficient financing for all
essential operations and programs (acute problems such as malaria and dengue
quickly consume most of the available resources); (ii) insufficient higher
level personnel, especially epidemiologists, entomologists, social scientists
and management specialists; (iii) insufficient capacity to t:rain mid-level ani
field personnel; (iv) insufficient resources for essential operational
research on control technologies and strategies; (v) an outdated information
system; and (vi) labor strikes due to delays in payment of field workers.



19
IV. THE PROJECT-
A. Proiect Conceot and Obiectives
4.1         Public health institutiors in Venezuela today face many
challenges, among them are the vied to restore an appropriate balance betweeu
curative and preventive care, to strengthun the human reoources and
institutions necessary to execute effective public health programs, and to
better target health programs to the poor. The project will therefore suppor
specific public health prograass for endemic disease control that have lost
ground in recent years due to fiscal constraints and worsening epidemiologica
condition.. The objectives of the project are: (i) to reduce the incideu.ce
and impact (health and economic) of endemic diseases including malaria, Chaga
disease, intestinal parasites, schistosomiasis, dengue, cholera, yellow fever
Venezuelan equine encephalitie, onchocerciaeis, leishmaniasis, and leprosy;
and (ii) to strengthen the two principal institutions rusponsible for endemic
disease control in Venezuela, the DGSSSA and the IB.
4.2         The main beneficiaries of the project will be rural and peri-urba
populations throughout Venezuela, especially those in areas with high levels
of endemic disease transmiesion. The poor will derive particular benefit
since they are the population most exposed to risk of these diseases. The
project will also lead to improved management and technical capacity of the
institutions responaible for endemic disease control. In particular, it will
help the IB and DGSSSA to improve the design and evaluation of control
strategies and the cost-effectiveness of dieease control interventions.
B. Main Features
4.3         To meet these objectives the project has two components: (i) an
Endemic Disease Control Component (71 percent of total project costs); and an
Institutional Strengthening Component for DGSSSA and IB (29 percent of total
project costs).
Endemic Disease Control ComDonent (US$133.2 million including contingencies)
4.4         The Endemic Disease Control Component will support: (i) new and
ongoing epidemiological surveillance activities for all of the endemic diseass
control programs (including cholera); (ii) treatment of cases and preventive
treatment; (iii) entomological surveillance and vector control to interrupt
the transmission of malaria, dengue, and other vector-borne diseases; (iv)
rural housing improvements to eliminate the habitat of the Chagas vector and
thereby reduce transmission of Chagas disease; (v) health education activities
to enliat individual and community participation in the control of endemic
diseases; (vi) education and water treatment activitles for cholera
prevention; and (vii) innovative measures identified through operational
research.



20
Institutional Strengthenina Component      (US$54.8  million including
contingencies)
4.5         The institutional Strenathening Cgmoonent will support: (i)
training activities to improve humcn resources at all levels, from central
maniagement to house visitors and spraymen in the field; (i) development of
information systems to strengthen epidemiological analysis (including
computerized epidemiological mapping capabilities) and logistics management;
(iii) an operational research fund for special studies to develop and test new
control measures or to improve on existing strategies and technologies; and
(iv) construction of new operational bases, training facilities, and central
and regional headquarters (for DGSSSA) to support expanded program coverage.
4.6         The project will support both components through provision of
vehicles, equipment, construction materials, supplies and fuel; development
and purchase of educational materials; and payment of costs for vehicle
operation, maintenance, technical assistance, salaries, per diems, travel and
project supervislon. The Endemic Disease Control Component will also support
the purchase of drugs and pesticides. In addition, the Institutional
Strengthening Component will support: contracting of civil works; provision of
computer equipment and software; and payment of costs for training and in-
service training courses, domestic and foreign fellowships and operational
research.
C. Detailed Descrintion
Component A: Endemic Disease Control
4.7         The project will include a disease control component to strengthen
field operations including epidemiological and entomological surveillance,
treatment of cases, vector control, and IEC activities. The project will
support traditional operations such as intradomiciliary spraying for malaria
and Chagas control, as well as innovative measures such as impregnated bednets
for malaria control, serological studies for surveillance of schistosomiasis,
and immunoprophylaxis and immunotherapy for treatment and prevention of
leishmaniasis and leprosy.
Subcomponents to be Imolemented by DGSSSA
4.8         Malaria Control.  In recent years, malaria control efforts in
Venezuela have been hampered by a number of problems. These include: (i)
environmental modifications which create more favorable breeding conditions
for the mosquito vector; (ii) increased human-vector contact because of the
expansion of certain economic activities, especially gold mining and
rainforest colonization, and the precarious types of housing associated with
these activities; (iii) frequent migration of infected individuals; (iv)
parasite resistance to anti-malarial drugs and changes in vector behavior; and
(v) a decline in resources available to maintain adequate coverage. Resources
are needed to reinforce traditional control strategies, as well as to develop
and implement new ones. Therefore, the malaria control subcomponent will
support: (i) epidemiological surveillance (active and passive case detection),
treatment and education activities including promotion of personal protection



21
measures such as the use of bed note; and (ii) entomological surveillance and
vector control actLvities Lncluding intradomiciliary pesticide application,
selective ultra-low-volume (ULV) fogging (e.g. in mining camps), larviciding
and biologi,:al control measures (the pesticides are DDT wettable powder 60%,
Tomephos, Phenitrothion C.3. 50%, Phenitrothion wettable powder 40%, and
Malathion C.N. 94%). These activities will be strengthened throughs the
purchase of vehicles (pickup trucks, jeeps, small boats, outboard motors,
motorcycles), equipment (including spraying equipment and microscopes), drugs,
pesticides, fuel, and supplies; the payment of coots for vehicle operation,
vehicle and equipment maintenance (at 4% of cost of new goods), rental,
salaries and per dLems for field personnel (inspectors, visitors, spraymen,
and laborers), travel and project supervision.
4.9         Dencue Control. Dengue fever reappeared in Venezuela in 1989
after a decline in Aedes auy.ti control efforts. The latest epidemics also
brought Venezuela's first experience with dengue hemorraghic fever, a very
serious and often fatal manifestation of the disease. Field operations have
not had sufficient personnel or resources to maintain adequate coverage.
After two serious dengue epidemics since 1989, DGSSSA now recognizes the need
for a National Dengue and Aedes aeqvti Control Program. The dengue control
subcomponent of the project will therefore support epidemiological and
entomological surveillance and vector control activities including pesticide
application against larval and adult forms of the mosquito (Malathion C.E.
94%), small source reduction projects, solid waste disposal (undertaken by
local governments) and IEC activities9. The project will support these
activities through the purchase of vehicles, equipment, pesticides, fuel, and
supplies; development and purchase of instructional materials; the payment of
costs for vehicle operation, vehicle and equipment maintenance (at 4% of cost
of new goods), salaries, per dieme, travel and project supervision.
4.10        Chacas Disease Control.  Despite general improvements in rural
housing and many years of indoor spraying for vector control, Chagas disease
is still an important public health problem in Venezuela. An estimated 3
million persons are still exposed and at risk because of poor housing
condition. (mud and thatch) which provide the principal habitat of the
triatomine bug, the Chagas vector. The principal control measures undertaken
by DGSSSA and which will be supported by the project include epidemiological
and entomological surveillance (treatment of Chagas patients is carried out by
DGSS through the health care system, using the drugs Nifurtimox and
Benznidazol), vector (triatomine) control using H. C H. (Hexachlorociclohexano)
and Dieldrin (to date, effective biological vector control methods have not
been found). The project will support these activities through: the purchase
of vehicles, equipment, fuel, pesticides (Phenitrothion wettable powder 40%
and Phenitrothion C.S. 50%) and supplies; payment of costs for vehicle
9 DGSSSA is only responsible for the prevention of dengue, i.e. for reducing
transmission through vector control and for maintaining epidemiological and
entomological surveillance. Clinical care for dengue is carried out by other
institutions, public and private, in the health care system. Support for dengue
control under this project will be limited to support for actions carried out by
DGSSSA.



22
operatior, vehicle and equipment maintenance, per diems, travel and project
supervision. The project will also support the M.I.VT.CA. program (Programa
para el Hejoramiento Integral de la Vivienda Campesina). This program begins
with education activities in poor rural areas focusing on the need to
eliminate the Chagas vector (Rhodnius prglixua or "el chipo") which lives in
cracks in mud walls and in palm thatch. N.I.VI.CA. therefore supports minor
housing improvements such as covering cracked mud walls with wire mesh and
cement and replacing thatch roofing with sheet metal. Voluntary participants
sign a loan agreement to repay the costs of construction materials provided by
the program, which also provides the necessary technical guidance to ensure
proper construction. At the same time, the program promotes latrine
construction which has many other health benefits. The project will support
the M.I.VI.CA. program through the purchase of construction materials
(including sand and cement for floor pavings and wall coatings, steel sheets
for roofs, precast concrete sludge pits, latrines, lavatories and WCs, wooden
doors and windows)10, vehicles, fuel, mobile power generators for audio-
visual presentations in target communities; and payment of costs for vehicle
operatlon, vehicle and equipment maintenance, per diems, and project
supervision.
4.11        Schistosomiasis Control.  Schistosomiasis control efforts have
been negatively affected by budgetary cutbacks and reallocation of resources
to more acute problems such as malaria and dengue. Schistosomiasis is still a
problem is some areas which could be eliminated through a concerted effort of
case treatment, snail control and health education. The control measures to
be supported by the project therefore include epidemiological surveillance and
treatment, malacological (snail) surveillance and molluscicide application and
23C actlvities. These activities will be supported through: the purchase of
vehicles, equipment, fuel, supplies, pesticides (Baylucid), and drugs
(Praziquantel); and payment of costs for vehicle operation, vehicle and
equipment maintenance, per diems, travel and project supervision.
4.12        Intestinal Parasite Control.  The prevalence of intestinal
parasites in Venezuela is high, despite a gradual and significant decline over
the past few decades. Latrine construction programs contributed to this
decline but have been cut back severely in recent years. The existing program
to distribute antihelminthic drugs to schools and communities has also had
difficulty in maintaining adequate coverage. Latrine construction, drug
dlitribution, and rEC activities must be expanded to meet present and future
needs. The project will help to achieve this through: the purchase of
vehicles, quipment, supplies, construction materials for 50,000 latrines, and
drugs; and payment of costs for rent, vehicle operation, vehicle and equipment
maintenance, per diems, travel and project supervision.
4.13        Yellow Fever Control. Yellow fever is not presently a public
health problem in Venezuela and no cases have been reported in many years.
Maintenance of eradication requires continued vaccination and surveillance of
*nzootic forms of the virus. The project will therefore support ongoing
10 Construction materials for the M.I.VI.CA. program will be purchased with
government counterpart funds.



23
preventlon efforts which lnclude immunization campaigns (the goal La 100%
coverage of the populatlon at rlsk), entomological survilllance of selvatLc
vectors and reservoirs, A2d-s a evltL control, and IEC activities. The
pro!sct wll support these activities through: the purchase of vehicles,
equipment, fuel, vacecnes, and supplies; and payment of costa for vehicle
operatLon, vehLl- and equipment malntenance, salaries, per dieme, travel and
project supervLsion.
4.14        Chol ra Control   The present cholera pandemic ln Latin America
has already affected Venezuela. In 1992 (January to June) a total of 869
case were reported with 18 deaths. The states most affected were Zulia (667
casesp. Aragua (103 cases) and the Federal District (59 cases). Cholera cases
have also been reported Ln Miranda, Carabobo, Tachira and Apure states.
The project wlll therefore support ongoing sanitation and education efforts
which aim at the proventlon of cholera, through: the purchase of vehicles,
fuel, water pumps, and chlorinatlon and other supplies; and payment of costs
for vehLile operation, vehicle and equipment malntenance, salarles, per diems,
travel and project supervision. Thle subcomponent focuses exclusively on
DGSSSA's responsibilities in cholera prevention; the treatment of cholera
(oral rehydration therapy) is carried out by other health sector institutLons
which are not among the executing agencles of this project.
4.15        Other DaSSSA Disease Control Proarams.  The project wlll also
support entomologlcal surveillance and vector control activitles for
Venezuelan equine encephalitls, Venezuelan hemorraghic fever, onchocercLasis,
and leishmaniasis through: the purchase of vehicles, equlpment, fuel,
supplies, and pesticides (Phenitrothion C.E. 40%); and payment of coats for
vehicle operation, vehicle and equLpment maintenance, per diems, travel and
project supervision.
4.16        DGSSSA - Information. Edugation and Communicatlons (IEC).  Thli
subcomponent will support DGSSSA efforts to strengthen and expand programs to
educate the public about endemic dliease control and to promote community
partlcipatlon. Specifically, the subcomponent will support a health oducation
unit (whLch has already been constituted and staffed) at the central level,
the formation of health education teams at the regional level and educational
programs to increase community awareness of actlons that communltles and
indivlduals can take to reduce the spread and impact of endemic diseases. The
now IZC unit will provlde guidance and technical assistance to all of the
DOSWSA die-ase control programs, helplng control program staff to integrate,
strengthen and execute INC actLvitLes in the ongoLng control program
strategLes. Of partlcular importance is the contracting of INC experts to
provide technical assistance and carry out special studies and surveys. The
activities of this subcomponent will be supported through the purchase of
vehicles, equlpment, fuel, and supplies; development and purchase of
instructional materials; and payment of costs for vehicle operation, vehicle
and gquipment maintenance, technical asesetance, salaries, per diems, travel
and project supervision.



24
Suboom=onents to be Imolemented by the IB
4.17       Leishmaniasis Control.  Underreporting of leishmaniasis in
Venezuela is high. Its frequency and distribution and the ecological,
economic and social factors in its transmission are still poorly understood.
The leishmaniasLs control s.bcomponent will therefore supportt (i)
strengthening of epidemiological surveillance including active case detectior
(involving house visitors, rural physicians, nurse auxiliaries, and local
communities); (ii) registration, treatment, and control of cases; (iii)
epidemiological studies of foci and cases, especially in areas affected by
epidemic outbreaks where special measures may be needed; (iv) analysis,
interpretation and dissemination of epidemiological information including
publication of trimestral bulletins and annual reports; and (v) entomological
and parasitological studies. These activities will be supported throughs the
purchase of vehicles, equipment, fuel, drugs, and supplies; and through
payment of costs for vehicle operation, equipment and vehicle maintenance,
rental of space for field bases, salaries, per diems, travel and project
supervision.
4.18        Leorosv Control.  The existing leprosy control program needs to b
expanded especially in areas where the primary health care system is less
developed. The leprosy control subcomponent will aim to reduce prevalence an
incidence of the disease through the adequate and opportune treatment of case
and the protection of contacts at high risk of developing the disease.
Subcomponent activities will includes (i) treatment of casea and vaccination
of high risk contacts; (ii) investigation and control of contacts; (iii)
epidemiological surveillance, including socio-epidemiological studies in area
of high incidence . The project will support these activities through: the
purchase of vehicles, equipment, fuel, drugs and supplies; and payment of
costs for vehicle operation, vehicle and equipment maintenance, rental of
space for field bases, salaries, per diems, travel, and project supervision.
4.19        Onchocerciasis Control.  The frequency and distribution of
onchocerciaeis in Venezuela is also poorly understood and there is no specifi4
plan currently in place to treat its victims or to reduce transmission of the
disease. The onchocerciasis control subcomponent will initiate control
activities in Venezuela and undertake the necessary studies to develop an
appropriate disease control strategy. Specifically the subcomponent will
supports ($) mass distribution of ivermectin for treatment of cases (this may
also have some impact on transmission); (ii) epidemiological surveillance
including active case detection, registration (and treatment) and follow up ol
cases, and epidemiological studies of transmission foci in order to better
understand transmission situations and devise appropriate control strategies;
(iii) entomological surveillance and studies (vector behavior, distribution,
transmission potential); (iv) studies of possible vector control activities ir
areas of high transmission. The project will support the above through: the
purchase of vehicles, equipment, fuel, drugs and supplies; and through payment
of costs for vehicle operation, vehicle and equipment maintenance, rental of
space for field bases, salaries, per diems, travel and project supervision.
The project will contract 18 new public health inspectors (10 for the
northeast, 8 for the center-north), an entomologist to undertake vector
research (for both onchocerciasis and leishmaniasis) and two sociologists.



25
4.20        IB - Information. Education, and Communications.  A subcomponent
for information, education and communication (IZC) activities for all the IB
programs will aim to strengthen health education and community participation
in disease control. In addition, the project will support appropriate
training of local health service personnel and applied social research. The
IB is planning to hire two health education specialists to prepare educational
materials and develop INC methodologies, in collaboration with the ID's
epidemiologists and public health administrators. The health education
specialists will work closely with rural physicians, inspectors, auxiliary
nurses, and health promoters. The 1 is also expecting to hire and train 60
health promoters, four sociologists and three public health nurses. The above
will be supported through: the purchase oL vehicles, equipment, fuel, and
supplies; and payment of costs for vehicle operation, vehileo and equipment
maintenance, salaries, per diems, travel, and project supervision.
Component B: Institutional Strenathening
4.21        The project includes an lnetitutional strengthening component to
help DGSSSA and IB to improve their understanding of disease situations and
their determinants, to develop and improve the human resources needed to carry
out control programs, to improve, through operational research, the tools
needed to combat endemic diseases, and to improve infrastructure.
Subcomoonents to be Implemented by the DG8SSA
4.22        DGSSSA - Trainina and In-Service Training.  The project will
support the following training activities to be carried out primarily by the
Arnaldo Gabaldon School of Malariology and Environmental Sanitation: (i)
training courses for managers, administrative personnel, and field personnel
in management, administration and field operations, as well as a new
entomology course; (ii) preparation and production of Instructional materials;
(iii) fellowships in epidemiology, parasitology, entomology and other
specialized areas (domestic and foreign); and (iv) creation of three field
research and training stations in Amazonas, Barinas and Sucre states (see
DGSSSA - Infrastructure subcomponent below). These activities will be
supported through: the purchase of vehicles, equipment and fuel; payment of
costs for vehicle operation, vehicle and equipment maintenance, fellowships
(foreign and domestic), salaries, per diems, technical assistance, and
training courses; and development and purchase of instructional materials.
4.23        DGSSSA - Strenathenina Administration and Manaaement.  This
subcomponent will provide for technical assistance to strengthen DGSSSA
management through hiring of consultants and contracting of special studies.
It will also finance contracting of auditing firms. Assurances were obtained
at negotiations that DGSSSA wouldt (i) carry out a management study, not later
than March 31, 1993, to review the organization and management structure of
DGSSSA and make recommendations to improve such structure; (li) not later
than June 30, 1993, based on the above-mentioned management study and the
Bank's comments thereon, present an action plan, satisfactory to the Bank; and
(iii) thereafter implement such action plan in a manner and under a timetable
satisfactory to the Bank (para 7.1g). Assurances were also obtained at
negotiations that the executing agencies would carry out studies, not later



26
than March 1, 1993, to develop appropriate Lndicators of the impact of
institutional development activities supported under the project (para 7 1h).
4.24        DOGSSA - InformatLon Systems DLveloment. Conventional manual
method. of information management are no longer adequate to the needs of
DGSWSA, given the large volume of epidemiological and administrative
Lnformation generated by its disease control programs. Development of
DGSSSA's information systems capacity is urgently needed to help the
institution develop and impl eme nt better disease control strategies and
programs. In particular, a computerized epidemiological mapping system would
greatly enhance disease control efforts. Applied research carried out by
DaSS8A would also benefit. Furthermore, up-to-date information systems
technology and training would also provide DGSSSA wlth improved access to
national and international health sector information networks that would be
useful in combating endemlc diseases. This subcomponent will enhance DGSSSA
information systems through: the purchase of computer equipment, software, and
supplies; and payment of costs for maintenance, salaries, per dieme, technical
assistance, travel and project supervision.
4.25        3OSSSA - Onerational Research.  The project will support
operational research for the DWSSSA. Proposed studies will be submitted to a
Research Steering Committee comprised of experts in endemic disease control
research (para. 4.36). This subcomponent will include support for payment of
salaries and per diems, as well as for purchase of supplies, vehicles,
equipment and other goods or services essential to the research activities.
It will also support renovation of facilities up to a maximum of US$5000 per
proposal. DGSSSA has already identified a number of possible research
projects and priorities:
(a) Malariat (i) studies of risk factors (socLal, entomological,
parasitological, and therapeutic), in order to achieve a m'ore accurate
understanding of the malaria problem in Venezuela and, consequently, to better
stratify affected areas; (Li) evaluation of new diagnostic techniques
(parasitological, Immunological, molecular) for population studies; (iii)
studies of new biological and chemical alternatives for vector control.
(b) Chagas Diseases (i) studies of housing types by region; (ii)
longitudinal studies of life expectancy in Chagas patients; (iii) evaluative
studies of K.I.VI.CA. rural housing improvement program's impact on Chagas
transmission; (iv) studies of alternative materials to reduce housing
improvement costs; (v) studies on improving the local "bahareque" (mud and
thatch) construction technology.
(c) Schistosomiasid: (i) studles of factors in schistosomiasis
transmission in the human and intermediate snail host; and (ii) studies of
biological control alternatives (e.g. introduction of plants lethal to
giom.halaria alabrata such as Rhyt2lacca octandra, or introduction of other
snail species such as Thiara tubargulata and Tlhara granifera, which compete
with the intermediate snail host).
(d) Deng-s: ($) studies of combined dengue/yellow fever control
efforts in rural and urban areas; (ii) follow up studies concerning densities



27
and vector potential of A2d2m agavgti and other eventual vectors (i.e. Aedes
Albopictu); (ill) studies of horizontal and vertical transmision potential
of local vectors; (Lv) suaceptLbility of A2do aeggoti to commonly used
pesticLdes; and (v) appllcation of molecular biology in diagnoois of dengue
and yellow fever.
(a) Istestinal Paragites (L) studles of the efficacy of new
antihelminthlc drugs; (LL) evaluation of tho impact of control efforts on
prevalence and parasite loads; (LLL) studies of impact of sanitation efforts
and education programs on pre-and primary school students.
4.26        DGSBSA - Infrastructure.  The DGSSSA infrastructure subcomponent
wlll include completlon of construction of a new central headquarters in
Maracay, a project which has been underway for eight years under the aegis of
MINDUR. The new headquarters would serve the important purpose of physically
consolidating all DGSSSA departments, which must work in close coordination,
but which are presently spread out across the clty of Maracay. The long delay
Ln completlng the new headquarters has been due to the fact that it must
compete annually with other MINDUR priorities (not DGSSSA priorities).
Although the headquarters may be a DGSSSA priority, the institution has been
unable to sustain sufficient fundlng from MINDUR to complete the project in a
reasonable period. Support for the new headquarters under the Endemic Disease
Control Project is therefore essential. The project will also support the
construction of nine regional headquarters, 25 operational bases, and three
field-training bases. In addition, the project will support the expansion of
the ENSA research center (ENSA Research Divislon) and the civil works services
required to install the DGSSSA Information System. The project will support
these activities through the contracting of construction firms, purchase of
equipment, and payment of equipment and building malntenance costs.
Subcomonents to be Imolemented by the IB
4.37        IB - Trainina and In-Service Trainina.  The project will support
training and in-service training for the leprosy, leishmaniasis and
onchocerciasis programs including training for physicians, public health
auxillarLes, health promoters, and forelgn fellowships.
4.28        The project will support the above actlvlties through:  the
development and purchase of instructlonal materials; purchase of equipment;
and payment of costs for equipment maintenance, foreign fellowships, salaries,
per dLems, travel, technical assistance, and project supervision.
4.29        lB - Information Systems.  The IS currently employs 15 information
systems personnel including one oyscem englneer, two system analysts, one
computer programmer, and eleven data entry technicians, and has three computer
networks, three servers, and 15 stations. The IB has developed and uses
specialized software systems for the management of the Leprosy
Immunoprophylaxle Program, the National Leprosy Register, the Leprosy
Chemotherapy Program, the LeLshmanlasis Immunoprophylaxis Program, the
LelshmanlasLe Register, and the Lelshmaniaeis Immunotherapy Program. At the
state and local level, however, only the Dermatology Service of Apure state
has a computerLzed lnformation system. Expansion of dieease control



28
activities will increase the ID's information systeme needs. Therefore, the
project will support comprehensive development of IB information systems
includings (i) development and implementation of a computerized
epidemiological mapping system; (Li) establishment of an information system
for the onchocerciasle control program; and (iii) development of the
information systems capacity of the Dermatology Services at the state level.
These activities will be supported through: the purchase of new computer
equipment, software, and supplies; construction of the necessary civil works
for computer installation; and payment of costs for equipment maintenance,
technical assistance, salaries, per diems, travel, and project superviion.
4.30        IB - Strengthgnino Administration and Manaagmnt.  The project
will provide management and administration training to physicians and
administrative support staff of the control programs executed by the
Dermatology Services in all states. Training will include three-day modular
courses on specific activlties for personnel at the state and local levels and
appropriate courses for administrative personnel at the central level (in
areas such as inventory and personnel administration). In addition, the
project will provide for three-month higher level management training courses
for each of the directors of the national leprosy, leishmanLasie and
onchocerciasis programs. The project will support these activities through
the purchase of equipment and supplies; development and purchase of
instructional materials; and payment of costs for salaries, per diems, travel,
rental of training sites, and project supervision. Assurances were obtained
at negotiations that the executing agencies would carry out studies, not later
than March 1, 1993, to develop appropriate indicators of the impact of
institutional development activities supported under the project (para 7 1h).
4.31        IB - Operational Research.  The project will support operational
research for the IB. This subcomponent will include support for the same
items, and utilize the same review process, as described in para. 4.25 above
and 4.36 below. The IS has identified a number of priority areas for study:
(a) Leishmaniasis: (i) clinical, immunological, and etiological
studies in high risk areas; (ii) studies of reservoirs; and (iii)
studies in immunoprophylaxis, immunotherapy, and other alternative
therapies.
(b) Loproevs (i) risk factor studies; (ii) socio-epidemiological
studies (especially in Apure, Tachira, and Nerida states); and (iii)
studies of immnuns deficiency in leprosy patients and its relationship to
different forms of the disease.
(c) Onchocgrciasis: (i) studies in epidemiology, ophthalmology,
immunology, drug toxicity, and parasitology; and (ii) studies of vector
(Simulium) distribution and transmission potential.
(d) Socio-Epidemioloaical Researchs Studies aimed at the
improvement of health education and community participation.



29
4.32        In - Infrastructure.  The project will support the construction o
six training centers and 41 rural houses which will provide fundamental
support to the work of the Dermatology Services in areas of high transmission
of leprosy, leishmaniasis, arnd onchocerciasis. This will facilitate field
operations and reduce transport and personnel costs, eLnce all programs are
presently planned and executed out of state capitals. The training centers
will provide training for public health auxiliaries in dermatology and in
prevention and rehabilitation of disabled leprosy patients. A rural house
will also be constructed adjacent to each of th- five training centers. The
remaining rural houses will serve an operational bases and provide housing fo
the public health auxiliaries of the control programs.   Construction will be
executed by the DGSSSA/Rural Housing Directorate. Sites will be solicited, a
donations, from local municLpalities, or will be purchased. The schools and
half of the houses will be built in 1993, and the remainder in 1994. The
project will support the above through the contracting of construction firms
through the DGSSSA and will include building maintenance costs on a basis of
two percent per year of the cost of new construction. The project will also
support purchase and maintenance of equipment on the basis of xour percent pe
year of the cost of new equipment.
D. Proisct Manaoement and Implementation
4.33        Proiect ManAaement.  The project will have two executing agencies
the IB and the DGSSSA, which will be responsible for implementation of the
project. Each agency will have a separate Project Implementation Unit (see
Chart 3 and Chart 4). The heads of these two agencies will serve as co-
directors of the project and will delegate authority for project
implementation to project managers in their respective Project Implementation
Units. Bach project manager will be supported by a small staff of five or siL
persons and will rely largely or existing personnel and administrative
mechanisms. Under the project, the DGSSSA will hire a project manager, three
assistant managers, and three supervisors, and the IB will hire a project
manager and one assistant manager, to complement existing staff. The project
managers and staff dedicated to project implementation will: (i) ensure
effective and timely implementation of )roject activities; (ii) monitor and
coordinate overall progress and disbursement of the Bank loan; (iii) submit tc
the Bank annual physical and financial reports on the status of the project;
(iv) coordinate with public and private institutions; (v) manage the
procurement of works, goods and services, including ICB, ln accordance with
Bank guidelines; (vi) arrange for timely audits of project accounts; and (vii)
prepare Part II of the Project Completion Report.
4.34        In addition, the MSAS will establish and maintain a Project
Steerlng Coammittee (see Chart 5) for purposes of the overall coordination of
the project. It will be comprised of the directors of the executing agencies,
the managers of the project implementation units, and a representative of the
Proyecto Salud/MSAS. The MSAS wlll also establish and maintain a Project
Procurement Committee (see Chart 5) for purposes of assisting the executing
agencies in all procurement activities under the project. It will be
comprised of representatives from both executing agencies and other officials
of the MSAS. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that the executing
agencies would maintain the Project Implementation Units, Project Steering



30
Committee, Procurement Committee and Research Steering Committee throughout
the executlon of the project (para. 71-e).
4.35     Assurances were obtained at negotiations that the executing agencies
will participate in annual reviews (by March 30 of each year), jointly with
the Bank, focusing ons (i) evaluation of progres in project execution and
achievement of project objectives, based on the implementation schedule and
agreed monitoring indicators (see Annexes 5 and 6)p (ii) review of proposed
annual budgets for the project and for endemic disease control programs for
the subsequent year; (iii) any changes in project design and implementation
that may be necessary (including the possible effects of decentralization in
the health sector); and (iv) the mechanism providing for the management by
DGSSSA of all funds for payment of DGSSSA's field workers. Upon the Bank's
recommendation, any required adjustments would be made in project
implementation in order to attain the agreed objectives (para. 7.1b).
4.36        Ocerational Research steorina ComMittee.  The operational research
subcomponents will be managed by a Research Steering Committee. The Steering
Committee will be comprised of experts on research in endemic disease control
who will be selected by the executing agencies. The executing agencies will
use a model research proposal based on the TDR format (WHO/UNDP/World Bank
Special Program for Research and Training in Tropical Diseases). The Research
Steering Committee will approve or not approve proposals based on their
scientific merit and compatibility with operational research priorities as
defined by the IB and DGSSSA. Prior to their submission to the Steering
Committee, the research proposals will be sent to the Dank for comment. The
executing agencies brought to negotiations Operational Research Regulations
which set forth the criteria and procedures for regulating the operation of
this subcomponent. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that the
executing agencies will implement the operational research subcomponent in
accordance with the Operational Research Regulations (para. 7. 1d).
4.37        Imglementation Schedule.  The proposed project will be implemented
over a period of approximately five and a half years and is expected to be
completed by December 31, 1997. The closing date will be June 30, 1998. The
cost schedules prepared for the various components (see Annex 1) and the
implementation schedule (Annex 5) will serve as a basis for planning of
project implementation and will be updated regularly during the course of the
project. Throughout project implementation and during regular project reviews
with Government, the Bank will give particular attention to the effectiveness
and efficiency of implementation of project components and agreed actions, and
changes will be agreed and implemented as needed. Assurances were obtained at
negotiations that the executing agencies will, by March 1 of each years (i)
submit a report to the Bank, for its review and comments, on progress in
implementation of all project components and any proposals for adjustments in
project implementation; and (Ui) submit to the Bank, for its review and
approval, a proposed annual investment program providing for the activities,
implementation schedule and targets, and proposed project budget for the then
upcoming year, based on the implementation schedule in Annex 5 (para. 7. 1a).
4.38        Assurances were obtained at negotiationi that the Government will,
in respect of endemic disease control programs? (i) during the last quarter of



31
each fLocal year, exchange vlewr wlth the Bank on budgetary needs, through the
executlng agenciesl (ii) ln each fiscal year, furnish evldence satLsfactory to
the Bank showlng that the final proposed N8AS budget lncludes adequate
allocatlons ln the oplnlon of the Bank, not later than 15 days after the
Mlnlitry of Flnance has received the respective fLnal proposed budget of MSAS8
(iiL) not later than May 31 ln each fiscal year, furnLsh evidence satlsfactory
to the Bank of the flnal proposed budget for the then followlng flscal year,
submitted by the Borrower's xecutlve Branch to the Borrower's Congress; and
(Lv) not later than March 1 in each fiscal year, furnLsh c-idence satisfactory
to the Bank showlng the amount of expendltures Lncurred ln the then prevlous
flical year (para. 7.1l).
4.39        Monitoring and Evaluation.  A llit of key input and outcome
LndLcators of =roject lmplementatlon to be used in regular implementatlon
reviews is provlded ln Annex 6. Implementation of project actLvLtLes will be
regularly monitored, coverlng all dLsease control programs and all
subcomponents of the instltutLonal strengthenLng component. Both executing
agencies wlll carry out studies, during the fLrst year of the project, to
develop approprlate lndlcators to monltor the impact of LnstLtutional
development actlvltles.



32
V.  PROJECT COSTS, FINANCING. PROCEMtENT AND DISBURSEMENTS
A. Proiect Costs
5.1         The total project costs including contingencies and an estimated
US$83.9 million (44.6%) in foreign exchange costs, is estimated to be US$188.0
million equivalent. Tables 5.1 and 5.2 summarize the estimated costs by
project component and cat-gory of expenditure. Detailed costs are presented
in Annex 1.
5.2         Base Costs and Continaoncies.  Base costs are expressed in June
1992 prices, and exclude taxes and duties, which are negligible. Civil works
costs were based on estimated unit costs for the type of buildings proposed.
The costs of construction materials were based on the experience of MSAS.
Equipment and furniture costs were based on prices for similar imported or
locally available items. The costs of drugs and pesticides were based on the
procurement experience of MSAS. Overseas and domestic training and costs of
foreign and local consultants were based on current standards. operating
costs were based on current estimates of salaries and operating requirements.
Total contingencies of US$33.1 million represent 21.4% of base costs.
Physical contingencies (US$5.1 million) represent 3.3% of base costs; price
contingencies (US$28.0 million), about 18.1% of base costs, were estimated on
the basis of the implementation schedule and expected annual price increases
as follows: (a) localt 25% for 1993, and 20% for 1994, and 15% for subsequent
years; and (b) foreign: 3.9% for 1993 and 1994 and 3.8% for subsequent years.
The exchange rate estimates for the midpoint of each calendar year are as
follows: Bo 67.2 for 1992; Be 74.5 for 1993; Be 78.9 for 1994; Be 83.8 for
1995; Bs 88.9 for 1996; and Be 94.2 for 1997.
Able 5 1s SUMMARY OF PROJECT COSTS BY COMPONENT a/
(US$ million)
Foreign       Total
Component               Local   Foreign    Total        Exchange     Base Cost
A. Endemic Disease
Control              54.8       54.4     109.2         49.8          70.5
B. Institutional
Strengthening        25 4       203       45.7         44.4          29.5
TOTAL BASE COSTS   80.2       74.7     154.9        48.2          100.0
Physical Contingencies   2.4        2.7       5.1         52.8           3.3
Price Contingencies     2135 6.5             2810 21                    18 1
TOTAL             104.1       83.9     188.0         44.6         121.4
a/ net of taxes and duties which are negligible.
Notet Exchange rate of Be. 67.2 - US$1.00.



33
TabU1k5.2. SUMMARY OF PROJECT COSTS BY CATEGORY OF EXPBNDITURE
(US$ million)
Foreign      Total
Category                       Local  Foreign  Total   Exchange   Base Cost
Civil Works                     8.9     6.5    15.4       42.0      10.0
Constructlon Materials         15.9     4.1    23.0       31.0      14.9
Equipment                       0.5     4.6     5.1       90.0       3.3
Instructional Materials         0.7     0.3     1.0       27.0       0.6
Vehicles                        1.1     9.5    10.6       90.0       6.8
Drugs                           0.0     7.8     7.8      100.0       5.1
Pesticides                      0.0    22.1    22.1      100.0      14.3
Technical Assistance            1.5     1.5     3.0       50.0       1.9
Operational Research a/         4.4     4.5     8.9       50.0       5.7
Training                        1.4     1.5     2.9       52.6       1.9
Project Management              1.7     0.2     1.9       10.0       1.2
Supervision                     8.3     0.9     9.2       10.0       5.9
Maintenance Materials           2.0     2.2     4.2       53.0       2.7
Operating Costs                33.8    I6      39.8       15.0      2S.7
TOTAL BASE COSTS         80.2    74.7   154.9       48.2      100.0
Physical contingencies          2.4     2.7     5.1       52.8       3.3
Price contingencies            21.      6.5    280       23.1       1
TOTAL                    104.1    83.9   188.0      44.6      121.4
a/ includes support for renovation of laboratories, laboratory equipment and
vehicles (see para. 5.9 and Table 5.4)
5.3         Foreion Exchanae Costs.  Direct and indirect foreign exchange
costs are estimated at about US$83.9 million equivalent, including
contingencies. Based on Bank experience with similar projects in the region,
the foreign exchange component for the major categories was estimated as
follows: (a) civil works, 42%; (b) construction materials, 31%; (c)
equipment, 90%; (d) tochnical assistance and operational research, 50%; (a)
maintenance, 53%; (f) domestic training, 50% and overseas training, 100%; (g)
instructional materials, 27%1 (h) operating costs, 15%; (i) pesticides and
drugs, 100%; (j) vehicles, 90%; and (k) supervLison and project management,
10%.
B. Financina
S.4         The proposed loan of US$94.0 million will finance the equivalent
of 100% of the foreign exchange component of the project and about 9% of the
local cost. The Bank loan will be made to the Republic of Venezuela which
will provide counterpart funds as necessary to complete the project. The loan
will be for 15 years including a five-year grace period. Eligible
expenditures made after March 9, 1992 and ln accordance with Bank procurement



34
guidelines, up to an amount of US$9.4 million, would be flnanced
retroactively. The fLnancing plan anti loan allocations by category of
expendlture are pr e-nted in Table 5.3.
Z5-l-5S 3 t FINANCING PLAN
(US$ million equivalent)
Proposed
Categorv of Expenditure      Governanot     I         ZTotal    JRLD (JI
Civil works                     9.1          9.0        18.1        50
Construction materials         24.9          4.8        29.7        16
Equipment and
instructional materials       0.7          5.9        6.6         90
Vehicles                        0.0         10.9        10.9       100
Drugs                           0.0          9.1         9.1       100
Pesticides                      0.0         25.6        25.6       100
Technlcal assistance
and operational research a/  0.0          14.1        14.1       100
Tralning and
project management            0.0          5.7         5.7       100
Supervision and maintenance    8.1           8.9        17.0        52
Operating costs                51± 2                      a 0
TOTAL                   94.0          94.0      188.0         50
a/ Operational research includes support for renovation of laboratories,
laboratory  quipment and vehicles (see para. 5.9 and Table 5.4).
5.5         Recurrent Costs.  Incremental recurrent costs, including
contingencies, are estimated at about US$68.2 million. This total includes
some US$17.0 million for supervislon and maintenance (for buildings, equlpment
and vehicles) and about US$51.2 mllion in operating costs, which consist
mainly of salaries, per dieme, fuel and supplies. About US$8.9 million of the
supervislon and maintenance costs would be financed from the Bank loan on a
declining basis. The operating costs would be financed entirely from the MBAS
budget throughout the life of the project.
C. Procurement,
5.6         Civ~LJjWoks. The cost of civil works under the project (about
US$18.1 mllion , including contingencLes) would lnvolve construction of: a
central headquarters Ln Maracay (two buildings totalling some US$7.0 million),
nine (9) regional offLces (at about US$1.1 million per building), expansion of
DGSSSA's research center (at about US$0.2 million) and a number of smaller
works (totalling US$1.0 million). Contracts for works exceedlng US$3.0
million would be procured through international competitlve bidding (ICB)
procedures. otherwise, most other works, would be awarded accordlng to local
lThis figure does not include the estimated US$0.3 million for facility
renovation under operational research (para. 5.9)



35
competitive bidding (LCB) procedures, acceptable to the Bank, whlch would
allow foreign bidders to particlpate, up to an aggregate mount of US$10.1
million.  To the extent practicable, the constructlon of regional offlces wl
be grouped in packages of US$3.0 million or more. The smaller works (most of
which are below US$25,000 and none of which exceed US$100,000), lncludlng
three field training bases, 25 operational bases, 6 trainlng centers and 41
rural houses, would be procured by the DaSS8A through force account procedure
based on predetermined labor unit costs and competitlve procurement of
constructLon materials from a liat of approved suppllers, up to an aggregate
amount of US$1.0 million.   The MSAS would be responsible for procurlng the
civil works and for contracting engineerLng flrms to supervise the
constructLon of major civll works. The DGSSSA would use lts own experienced
and qualifled engineers, of its Rural HousLng Dlrectorate, to supervLie the
smaller works.
5.7         Gogo   The total cost of goods (lncludlng construction materials,
equipment, instructional materials, and vehicles and excluding chemicals) is
estimated at about US$47.2 milllon12, including contingencies. Of thls
total, about USS20.1 milllon (construction materials for the rural housing
program) would be financed entlrely by the Gov. Of the remaLning goods (aboul
US$27.1 million), more than one-half (US$14.4 mllion) would be procured
through internatLonal competitive bidding (ICB) procedures in accordance with
Dank guidelines and the remainder (US$12.7 millilon) through ICB or local
shoppLng procedures satisfactory to the Bank. Contracts in excess of
US$200,000, and vehicles, would be awarded on the basis of ICB. Groups of
items estimated to cost less than the equivalent of US$200,000 would be
procured in accordance with LCB procedures, up to an aggregate amount
equivalent to US$1.0 milllon. Items estimated at less than US$25,000,
including equipment, instructional materlals and constructlon materials for
some 50,000 latrines, would be procured on the basLi of quotations from at
least three suppliers. These items would not exceed an aggregate total of
US$11.7 million equivalent.
5.8         Chemicals.  The total cost of drugs is estimated at about US$9.1
million. Drugs, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to US$8.0 mllion, would
be procured through an agent following limited lnternational bldding
procedures on the basis of evaluation and comparLson of blds Lnvlted from a
list of at least three qualified suppliers. The signing of a services
agreement between the MSAS and a procurement agent will be a condition of
dlsbursement. Drugs would also be procured from the United Natlons Chlldrens'
Fund (UNICEF) ln accordance wlth procedures acceptable to the Bank, up to an
aggregate amount equlvalent to US$1.1 mllion. Most of the pestLcLdes (total
cost estimated at US$25.6 milLon) would be procured through international
competltive bidding (ICB) wlth prequallflcatlon, acceptable to the Bank. The
DGSSSA would malntaln a lLst of prequallfled suppliers whlch would be updated
yearly, and the time allowed for submLssLon of blds would not exceed 15 days.
12ThLe figure does not Lnclude the estimated US$3.0 mllion for equipment
nor the estLmated US$0.5 mllion for vehLcles under operatLonal research
(para.5.9).



36
The Bank would only finance the procurement of pesticides Lncluded in an
agreed pesticide list.
5.9         Technical Assistance and Onerational Research.  The total cost of
consultants, inpluding auditors, and studies (operational research) is
estimated at US$14.1 million. The selection and appointment of consultants
for studios and technical assistance will be in accordance with the August
1981 "Bank Guidelines for the Use of Consultants." Foreign consultants would
not be subject to prior registration as a condition of their participation in
the selection process. Reglstration would be a pro-condition, not of
selectLon, but of contracting of consultants' services. The operational
research component would include funding for equipment (principally laboratory
equipment), the renovation of laboratories (maximum of US$5,000 per research
proposal) and vehicles for field activities. The equipment for operational
research projects (estimated at US$3.0 million) would be packaged, as far as
possible, in groups of items valued at US$200,000 or more and procured through
ICB. Groups of items costing less than the equivalent of US$200,000 (given
the specialized and diversified nature of the equipment) would be procured
through international shopping (at least three price quotations from at least
two countries), not to exceed an aggregate total of US$0.9 million. Basic
euipment items in bid packages estimated at less than US$25,000 would be
procured on the basis of quotations from at least three suppliers, not to
exceed an aggregate total of US$100,000. The contracts for the renovation of
facilities (estimated at US$0.3 million) would be awarded on the basis of
comparison of price quotations obtained from at least three eligible
contractors. The vehicles (estimated at US$0.5 million) would be procured in
accordance with LCB procedures acceptable to the Bank.
5.10        Trainino and Pgoiect Management.  The costs of traLning and
project management are estimated at US$5.7 million. The major expenditures
are as follows: (i) training would include fellowships (domestic and
international), courses, workshops and seminars, etc *and related travel and
per diems; and (Li) project management would Lnclude the costs of managers and
technicians on fixed-term contracts for the life of the project.
5.11        Miscellansous Costs.  The costs of supervision and maintenance
(estimated at US$17.0 million) would cover the travel and per diems of
personnel of the Executing Agencies in connection with project supervision,
and the maintenance of buildings, equipment and vehicles financed under the
project. These costs would be financed by the Bank on a declining basis.
The total cost of operating costs (salaries, per diems, fuel and supplies) is
estimated at US$51.2 million and would be financed by the GOV.
5.12        Maroin of Preference.  For the purpose of compar4ng foreign and
local blds under ICB, domestic manufacturers will be allowed a margin of
preference equal to the existing rate of customs duty applicable to competing
imports or 15% of C.I.F. price at port of entry, whichever is lower.
5.13        Procurement Law.  A Country Procurement Assoement Report was
completed in June 1990. Subsequently, in August 1990, the GOV issued a
Procurement Law which expressly states that all contracts for goods, works,
and services which will be totally or partially financed by international



37
organisations wlth thelr own procurement guldelines will be undertaken ln
accordance wlth such guldellnes.
5.14        Bank Rvigw Rauiremnts.  The Dank would review and approve
before contract award all procurement documentatlon for works, goods and
pestlildes to be procured through ICB, for goods estLmated to cost more than
US$200,000 equlvalent, for drug. estimated to cost more than US$100,000
qulvalent and for the flrst two contracts each project year for procurement
of goods under LCD whlch exceed US$100,000 equivalent. Prlor Dank review of
procurement documentatlon for contracts for works above US$500,000 equlvalent
would also be requlred. Prior Dank revlew of procurement documentatlon would
cover about 80% of the total amount of works, goods and chemicals financed by
the Dank. For consultants' contracts below US$25,000 equLvalent (except for
research projects), the Bank's prlor revLiw would cover only terms of
reference. Other contracts and bld evaluatlons would be subject to selectlve
post-award revlew by Bank staff. Agreement was reached at negotLatLons that
all procurement for goods, works and servlces will be made on the basie of
standard blddlng documents, satisfactory to the Bank.
5.15        RelortLno   Procurement information wlll be collected and recorded
as followes
(a)   prompt reportlng of contract award informatlon by the lmplementing
agencLesu
(b)   comprehensive semi-annual reports by the borrower, indicating any
revision ln cost estimates for indivldual contracts and the total
projecti any rev$isons in the timing of procurement actions; and
compliance wlth aggregate limlts on specified methods of
procurement; and
(c)   a completion report by the borrower within three months of the
closlng date.
S.16        The aforementloned procurement arrangements are summarLsed in
Table 5.4 belows



38
Table 5.4s Summary of Proposed Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method                   Total
Project Element                       ICB      LCD     Other      N.B.F.      Cost
1. Works
1.1 Buildixgs                     7.0    10.1      1.0 a/      ---       18.1
(3.5)   (5.0)   (0.5)                  (9.0)
1.2 Laboratory Renovation                          0.3 b/      ---        0.3
(0.3)                 (0.3)
2. Goods
2.1 Construction Materials                 --      9.6 b/    20.1       29.7
(4.8)      (0.0)      (4.8)
2.2 Equipment                     3.5     1.0      0.9 b/      ---        5.4
(3.2)   (0.9)   (0.8)                  (4.9)
2.3 Instructional Materials       ---     ---      1.2 b/      ---        1.2
(1.0)                 (1.0)
2.4 Vehicles                     10.9     ---      ---         ---       10.9
(10.9)                                 (10.9)
2.5 Equipment for Op.Rsrch.       2.0     ---      1.0 c/      ---        3.0
(2.0)            (1.C'                 (3.0)
2.6 Vehicles for Op.Rsrch.        ---     0.5      ---         ---        0.5
(0.5)                          (0.5)
3. Chemicals
3.1 Drugs                                 ---      9.1 d/      ---        9.1
(9.1)                 (9.1)
3.2 Pesticides                   25.6 e/  ---      ---         ---      25.6
(25.6)             ---                 (25.6)
4. Consultancies
4.1 Technical Assistance          ---     ---      3.5 f/      ---        3.5
(3.5)                 (3.5)
4.2 Operational Research          ---     ---      6.8 f/      ---        6.8
(6.8)                 (6.8)
4.3 Training                      ---     ---      3.4 g/      ---        3.4
(3.4)                 (3.4)
4.4 Project Management                    ---      2.3 h/      ---        2.3
(2.3)        ---      (2.3)
S. Miscellaneous
5.1 Supervision                                    l.S i/      ---       11.5
(6.0)        ---      (6.0)
5.2 Maintenance                   ---     ---      5.5 i/      ---        5.5
(2.9)                 (2.9)
5.3 OperatLng Costs               ---     ---      ---        51.2       51.2
(0.0)     (0.0)
TOTAL                        39.0    11.6    66.1         71.3     188.0
(35.2)   (6.4)  (52.41        (0.0)    (94.0)
See footnotes on next page.



39
D.  Disbsrsements
5.17        The proposed Bank loan of US$94.0 million would be disbursed over
a period of about six yeare (Table 5.5), based on the implementation schedule
and a combination of relevant standard IBRD disburement profiles for PHN
projects Ln the LAC regLon. The dLsbursmwnt proflle reflects the fact that
works, equlpment and vehicles would be procured in the early stages of project
implementation and that constructLon materials, drugs and pestLcLdes would be
procured throughout project implementation. The Project Completlon Date will
be December 31, 1997 and the Project Closing Date will be June 30, 1998.
Tablo  5 t DISBURSEWENT FORECAST
IBRD Fiscal                      Disburements
Year and Semester            Cumula$ve    .    sema.tkr
1993
2nd (Jan 93-Jun 93)          6.0        6.0         7.0      2
1994
lt (Jul 93-Dec 93)          7.5      13.5        14.0       3
2nd (Jan 94-Jun 94)         10.5       24.0       26.0       4
1995
lt (Jul 94-Doc 94)         10.0      34.0        36.0       5
2nd (Jan 95-Jun 95)         10.0       44.0       47.0       6
1996
1ot (Jul 95-Dec 95)         10.0       54.0       57.0       7
2nd (Jan 96-Jun 96)          9.0       63.0       67.0       8
1997
lt (Jul 96-Doc 96)          9.0      72.0        77.0       9
2nd (Jan 97-Jun 97)          8.0      80.0        85.0      10
1998
1ot (Jul 97-Dec 97)          7.5      87.5        93.0      11
2nd (Jan 98-Jun 98)          6.5       94.0      100.0      12
Clocing Date: June 30, 1998
Notes to Table 5.4: Totats represent total estimted costs per category including prfec ad physical
contingencies. Nuers between brackets reflect Bank financing. N.1.F.: Not lank-Financed. Op. Rsrch.:
Operat1onal Rearch
a/ force account;
b/ Local shopping on the bests of quotations from at least three suppLfers or contractors;
c/ International shopping on the basis of quotations frm at least three suppiters frm at Leat two
couttrfes, up to USS0.9 millon; locat shopping per bl, up to USS0.1 ftilion.;
dV tlmited International bidding, up to USS8.0 mlion; direct purchase, up to U11.1 miLlion;
.s ICc with prAlfficatfon, accptble to the lank;
fi contractin of consultants, studies and auditors In accordeance ith  nk guidelines (Augst 1981);
gf reafmursement of expnditures for training including travel and per diems;
hi refabursmnt of project managers nd technician urder fixed-term contracts;
f/ retaburent of expnditures on a declining basis.



40
5.18        The proceeds of the IDRD loan will be disbursed as followst
-     Civil workes bulldlngs, 50% of total expendltures, renovatlon of
laboratorles, 100% of total expenditures;
-     Goods (excludLng constructLon materials, vehiLles and chemLcals),
100% of C.I.F. cost of forelgn expendLtures; 100% of ex-factory
costs of locally manufactured goods; and 90% of local expendlture
for other items procured locally;
-     Construction materials (excluding constructLon materials for rura
housing improvements), 50% of total expenditures;
-     Vehicles, 100% of C.I.F. cost of forelgn expendLtures; 100% of ex
factory costs of locally manufactured goods; and 90% of local
expendltures;
-     Chemlcals (Drugs and PesticLdes), 100% of C.I.F  cost of forelgn
expenditures; 100% of ex-factory costs of locally manufactured
goodsl and 90% of local expendltures;
-     Consultants  servlces (operatLonal research, technlcal assistance
tralnlng and project management), 100% of total expenditures; and
-     Supervision and maintenance, 60% untll the amount diebureed under
thLs category shall have reached the aggregate of US$6.0 mllion
and 40% thereafter.
5.19        Documentation of 3xwendLtures. Wlthdrawal applicatlons for the
following would be supported by full documentation: (a) works with a contraci
value of US$500,000 or more; (b) goods wlth a contract value of US$200,000 or
more; (c) the fLrst two contracts each project year for goods procured under
LCB with a contract value of US$100,000 or more; (d) vehlcles and pestlcides-
regardless of value; (e) drugs with a contract value of US$100,000 or more;
(f) consultants services wlth a contract value of US$25,000 or more; and (g)
all research projects. Contracts valued at below the aforementloned limits
and other disbursements againet actlvltLes not undertaken by contract would be
made on the basLi of Statements of Expendlture (SOB), for which supportlng
documents would be malntalned by DGSSSA and IB and would be made avallable for
Bank staff review. Selectlve revlew of SOB documentation, coverLng at leart
20% of contracts dLsbursed under these procedures, would be undertaken by
visLtLng Bank mssLons.
5.20        As condltlons of dLsbursement: (l) no wlthdrawals shall be made
for expendLtures under the project unless the expenditures are included in an
annual action plan approved by the Bank; (ii) no withdrawals shall be made for
expendltures for pestLcLdes unless they are lncluded ln an agreed pesticide
llet; and (lll) no wlthdrawals shall be made for expenditures for drugs unless
a procurement servlc-e agreement, acceptable to the Bank, has been elgned with
a procurement agent (para. 7.2).
Z. Accounts and Audits
5.21        A Special Account ln US dollars would be opened at the Central
Bank, with an Lnltial deposit of US$6.0 million equivalent. In addition, the
executLng agencies of NSAS (DGSSSA and ID) will keep separate project accounts



41
for project expendLtures in accordance with internationally accepted
accountLng procedures. The accounts would show exp nditures for each project
component, subdlvlded by expenditures flnanced by the Bank and the GOV.
5.22        All project accounts, the Speclal Account and all dLsbursements
agaLnst 80S3 would be audlted annually by an lndopendent auditor acceptable to
the Bank ln accordance wLth the Bank's audltLng guldelines. The executlng
agencies would submlt to the Bank the audlt roports of expendltures within olx
months of the closure of each fLsocal year. The audlt reports would certify
that funds were used for the purposes for which they were provided.
Assurances were obtalned at negotiations that the executing agencles will
follow Bank rules in auditlng of project accounts and procurement and submLt
audits wlthln six months of the end of each fiscal year (para. 7.2c).



42
VI. PROJECT BEEFITS AND RISKS
A. Environmental Imgact
6.1         Although the project will use DDT and other peuticides for vector
control operations, no negative environmental impact is foreseen. The Bank
supports the banning of DDT for agricultural use. However, DDT remains the
pesticide of choice recommunded by the World Health Organization for malaria
control. In public health campaigns, DDT is sprayed only on interior walls of
houses and only where the mosquito vector has shown no resistance to it. Used
in this way, no serious impact on surrounding flora and fauna has been
observed. Under the project, DDT will not be used for fogging or aerial
spraying. other pesticides such as pyrethroids, which are commonly used in
agriculture, will be used when chemical measures are applied out of doors.
Malaria transmission in Venezuela, and thus the use of DDT for its control, is
largely concentrated in a few Eocal areas, specifically, gold and diamond
mining camps, new agricultural settlements, and some urban peripheries.
Venezuela, and other countries, are nonetheless exploring alternative
pesticides for use in these indispensable public health campaigns.
6.2   Procedures to assure the safe management of pesticides, including
regular testing of spraymen, have long been in place as an integral part of
DGSSSA disease control programs. The project will further strengthen DGSSSA
efforts to provide adequate environmental and worker safeguards through the
support of continuous training of spraymen in the appropriate and safe use of
pesticides. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that the Government will
follow standards and procedures for the selection and use of pesticides under
the project which are consistent with WHO standards and procedures and, taking
into account the results of comprehensive studies,. discuss and agree with the
Dank on any changes in such standards and procedures (para. 7.1f).
B. Proiect Benefitg
6.3         The principal beneficiaries of this project will be low income
populations in rural and peri-urban areas throughout Venezuela where endemic
diseases are an important cause of morbidity and the threat of their further
spread is high. These populations will benefit directly through decreased
risk of disease and improved health status, and indirectly through improved
productivity. Reducing malaria, in particular, has a positive economic impact
in agricultural areas where peak malaria transmission tends to coincide with
peak labor demand. In addition, school-age children will benefit from reduced
incidence of intestinal parasites which can have an important impact on
learning. The benefits of controlling diseases which have the potential for
rapid dispersion, especially malaria, dengue and cholera, are especially great
(the externalities are high). Early intervention to halt major epidemics is
much less costly than attempting to reduce disease transmission that is
already widespread. The impact of the project will be gender neutral. In
addition, the institutions responsible for endemic disease control will
benefit from improved management and technical capacity. In particular, the
project will help the ID and DGSSSA to improve the design and evaluation of
control strategies and the cost-effectiveness of disease control
interventions. Finally, the project will begin to reverse the decline in



43
*ndemlc dLiease control financing am part of a wider commitment by the
Government to support a shift ln spendlng away from curatlve, hospLtal-based
care and towards preventlve health actLon..
C. Risks
6.4         Labor strLkes due to delays in payment of M8AS flild workors pose
a *lgnlficant rlsk to project Lmplmentatlon. In 1990 and 1991, DGSSSA
operatlons were sorLously lpaired by such strlkes. successful and
sustalnablo dLsease control depends on the timely and conasitent application
of approprlate control measuresp work stoppages reduce the impact of control
programs and have partLcularly affacted malaria control. MOAB official. view
the problem as a consequene of LnouffLiLent control over existing funds for
payment of workers (under the "Laborers' Collectlve Contract"). The situatlor
would likely Lmprove lf the executing agencies had greater control of the
resources budgeted for the Laborers" Collectlve Contract. Assurances were
obtained at negotlatlons that the Government will maintaLn a mechanism,
satLsfactory to the Bank, provLding for the management by DGWSSA of all funds
for payment of DOSSWA's field workers (para. 7.1j).
6.5         There are also rlsks of delays ln project implementatlon due to
the Dorrowers lack of experience wlth Bank-financed projects. The project
launch seminar la therefore of special lmportance to adequately prepare all of
the LnstitutLons Lnvolved with regard to Bank procedures.
6.6         The sustainabilLty of adequate flnancing for endemle dieease
control programs beyond the llfe of the project Ls also a concern, given the
fact that theme important programs have suffered a serious doeline in
fLnaneLng over the last decade. However, the Government clearly recognizes
that thli project helps to bring severely underfinanced programs back to an
adequate level of funding and that adequate levels of fundlng must be
maintaLned in order to maLntaLn gains achioved.  The Government also
recognizes that maLntainLng adequate spending on endemic disease control is
part of an important and necessary shift in resource allocation in the health
sector away from ouratlve care and towards wore cost-effective preventive
health actlons. In addltlon, project sustainabllity is strengthened by the
f .-t that more than 85% of incremental recurrent costs will be financed by the
Government. Also, the number of new personnel supported by the project is
small and, with the exceptlon of project management, salaries will be financed
entirely out of counterpart funds (furthermore, hiring of new personnel is
thlnly spread among the 28 states, oach of which will create three or four new
pouLtLons to support expanded IB programs). Lastly, the future costs of
disease control will declne to the extent thatt (i) the project investments
successfully reduce dliease transmission; and (Li) the project helps develop
more cost-effectlve interventions through improved understanding of disease
situations and strategli optlons.



44
VIZ. wARzMzzENTaEDHzAN MECOMMEBDAT.IQA
AgCoem2nts Reacihad
7.1         At negotiation., assurances were obtained that the Borrower will:
(a)   by March 1 of each year (i) submit a report to the Bank, for its
review and comments, on progress in implementation of all project
components and any proposals for adjustments in project
implementation; and (Li) submit to the Bank, for its review and
approval, a proposed annual investment program providing for the
activities, implementation schedule and targets, and proposed project
budget for the then upcoming year, based on the implementation
schedule in Annex 5 (para. 4.37);
(b)   participate in annual reviews (by March 30 of each year), jointly
with the Bank, focusing ons (i) evaluation of progress in project
execution and achievement of projnct objectives, based on the
implementation schedule and agreed monitoring indicators (see Annexes
5 and 6)t (ii) review of proposed annual budgets for the project and
for endemic disease control programs for the subsequent year; (iii)
any changes in project design and implementation that may be
necessary (including the possible effects of decentralization in the
health sector); and (iv) the mechanism providing for the management
by DGSSSA of all funds for payment of DG8SSA's field workers. Upon
the Bank's recommendation, any required adjustments would be made in
project implementation in order to attain the agreed objectives
(para. 4.35);
(c)   follow Bank rules in auditing of project accounts and procurement and
submit audits within six months of the end of each fiscal year (para.
5.22)t
(d)   implement the operational research subcomponent in accordance with
the Operational Research Regulations (para. 4.36);
(e)   maintain the Project Implementation Units, Project Steering
Committee, Procurement Committee and Research Steering Committee
throughout the execution of the project (para. 4.34);
(f)   follow standards and procedures for the selection and use of
pesticides under the project which are consistent with WHO standards
and procedures and, taking into account the results of comprehensive
studies, discuss and agree with the Bank on any changes in such
standards and procedures (para. 6.2);
(g)   through the DGSSSAt (i) carry out a management study, not later than
March 31, 1993, to review the organization and management structure
of DGSSSA and make recommendations to improve such structure; (ii)
not later than June 30, 1993, based on the management study and the
Bank's comments thereon, present an action plan, satisfactory to the



45
Bank; and (iii) thereafter implement such action plan in a manner
under a timetable satisfactory to the Bank (para 4.23),
(h)   carry out studies, not later than March 1, 1993, to develop
appropriate indLcators of the lmpact of institutLonal development
actf.vLtLes supported under the project (paras. 4.23 and 4.30);
(i)   ln respect of endemlc dLsease control programs: (i) durlng the lasi
quarter of each flcal year, exchange vlews wlth the Bank, through
the executlng agencLes, on budgetary needs; (LL) ln each fiscal yea
furnLih evldence oatisfactory to the Bank showing that the final
proposed NBAS budget Lncludes adequate allocatlons ln the opLnion c
the Bank, not later than 15 days after the MLnLitry of Flnance has
received the respectlve flnal proposed budget of MSAS8 (ii1) not
later than May 31 ln each fiscal year, furnieh evldence satLsfactox
to the Bank of the flnal proposed budget for endemlc dieease contrc
programs for the then following fiscal year, submltted by the
Borrower's Executlve Branch to the Borrower's Congress; and (Lv) nc
later than March I ln each fLical year, furnlsh evidence satlsfactc
to the Bank showlng the amount of expenditures incurred for endemlc
dLsease control programs ln the then prevLous flscal year (para.
4.38); and
(j)   malntaln a mechanism, satLsfactory to the Bank, provLding for the
management by DGSSSA of all funds for payment of DGSSSA's fleld
workers (para 6.4).
7.2         As conditions of disbursements (L) no withdrawals shall be made
for expenditures under the project unless the expenditures are lncluded in an
annual actlon plan approved by the Bank; (ii) no withdrawals shall be made for
expenditures for pestlcldes unless they are lncluded ln an agreed postlcide
list; and (LLL) no wlthdrawals shall be made for expendltures for drugs unless
a procurement servlces agreement, acceptable to the Bank, has been signed with
a procurement agent (para. 5.20).
Recommendatlon
7.3         Subject to the above condLtLons, the proposed project would
constltute a sultable basis for a Bank loan of US$94.0 million equivalent to
the Government of Venezuela, repayable in 15 years, lncluding a five-year
grace period, at the Bank's standard variable lnterest rate.



~~-            -'         '       ~    ~~~~~~~~ Venezuela'>                                            '
Endmic Disease control Project
Project Coapanents by Tear
lass Costs                                    total
,.................................. .............................................-.---...
1993       19N1994      99         1996       199T      IS         Us
A. Disease Control
1.  serlena Centrol              642853.2   410253.2   410253.2   410253.2   410253.2  22836".0    33986.1
2. Dengue Control                369565.2   190845.2   190455.2   190455.2   190455.2  1151776.0    17139.5
3. Chagas Control                 8936.2    41734.2    41344.2    41344.2    41344.2   255303.G          3799.2
4. NIVICA Rural House Iwprov     2S3004.0   249012.0   249012.0   249012.0   249012.0  124902.0    18587.1
5. Schistosomiass control        64273.7    44713.7    44115.7    43516.7    42990.3   239610.1         3S65.6
6. Intestinal Par'ptes           100908.0    65440.0    65440.0    65440.0    6S440.0   36246.0          5396.6
7. Yellow fever                   38993.2    28977.2    28977.2    28917.2    28977.2   1S4902.0         2305.1
8. Cholera                       22S370.8   108161.2   108161.2   108161.2   108161.2   65501S.7         9791.9
9. Other Netaxenic Diseases       24533.6      9861.6     9861.6      9861.6     9861.6    63980.0        952.1
10. Lelshm_niasis Control          41855.6    2811S.6    28175.6    4S307.2    31627.2   175141.2        2606.3
11. Leprosy Centrol                78S47.0    22894.2    22894.2    30946.2    1601.2    171299.9        2549.1
12. Onchocerclasis Centrol         40559.9    23373.2    23373.2    42662.0    26022.0   1519.3          2351.0
13. Leish/locho Entemlogy           S345.0     2744.7      2744.7      5604.7     3108.7    19S48.0       290.9
14. 8S-Info, Edhc* Comm.           46627.6    37797.9    3U97.9    43432.7    38480.7   204345.2         3040.9
15. DCSSSA - Info.Eehc,tCe.        71936.4    30168.4    30168.4    30168.4    30168.4   192610.0        2566.2
................ ......................................................................
Sub-total                         2114109.6  1294152.4  1292774.4  1345142.6  1293926.3  7340107.3   109227.8
B. Institutional Development
1. OGSSSA - Trafning              91277.0    53223.0    53223.0    53223.0    53223.0   304169.0        4526.3
2. DGSSSA- Str.fgmt.              14700.0    14700.0    14700.0    14700.0    14700.0    73500.0         1093.7
3. DGSSSA Information System     120284.2     11512.0    11512.0    11S12.0    11512.0   166332.2        2475.2
4. DGSSSA Operation Research      73330.1    73330.1    73330.1    73330.1    73330.1   366650.5         5456.1
5. DCSSSA Infrastructure         445630.6   477172.2 . 489850.6   11M0.o    119050.0  1650753.4    24564.8
6. IS-TraIning                    15070.0    11870.0      6938.0      1098.0      1098.0    36074.0       536.8
7. le- Strengthening Nmt.          7996.0      7996.0     7996.0      7996.0      7996.0    39980.0       594.9
8. 18-Operational  Research       46000.1    46000.1    46000.1    46000.1    46000.1   230000.4         3422 6
9. 1-Infrastrutnure               26472.0      4403.2      S96.8       596.8       596.8    34665.6       515.9
10. ls6informtlon System           4227S.0    36810.3    29310.3    29310.3    29310.3   167016.0        2485.4
Sub-total                          68034.9   737016.8   733456.8   356816.2   356816.2  3069141.1    45671.7
Total DASEIlNE COSTS              2999144.5  2031169.3  2026231.3  1701956.9  16so744.6  10409248.5   is4899.5
Physical contingencies           87447.1    72555.0    72863.2    555s5.5    55630.8   344047.6        5119.8
Price Contingencies             395276.7   666913.7  1065500.1  1226741.5  1578047.6  4932484.7    27986.9
Total PROJECT COSTS              3481868.3  270642.9  3164594.5  2984251.9  3284423.0  15685780.7   18006.1                          eo
Taxes                               0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0                       -
foreign Exchag                2035323.6  1155256.0  1264628.2  1207436.2  1250122.1  6912966.1    839.1 t
Values Scaled by 1000.0 6/17T1/      15:17



Venezuela
Endbmic Dise a Control Project
Projects CaWponents bV ear
Totals Including Contingencles
I                             ~~~~~~~~~~.........................................................................
1993        1994        1995        1996        1997      lotal
A. Olsease Control
1.  alosriaControl                10065.2      6981.1      7367.0      7 .0        8195.2    40407U.
2. Dengug  Control                  S989.2      3293.0      3S69.1      3831.3      4114.3    20796.9
3. Chgas Control                    1385.0       709.1       745.2       786.)       829.6      4454.9
4. NIVICA Rural _owse 4prov         3984.7      4402.4      4781.8      5133.7.    S513.4    23616.0
S. Schisto soiulos Control          1004.2       767.3       807.2       843.9       884.4      4307.1
6. Intestinra  Parasitos            1576.3      1129.4      1207.7      1211.9      1361.3      6SS6.6
7. Yellow fevr                       607.8       493.7       S25.3       SSS.       S58.?      2769.8
B. holerx                      .    3493.7      1916.2      2095.9      2261.5      2440.7    12206.0
9. Other netaxenle  Is as            383.3       16S.2       in.2        181.1       139.S      1092.3
10. Iels  isam.is Control             643.8       48S.6       524.7       878.3       618.9      3203.3
11. Ieprsy Control                   1226.2       404.4       442.4       S87.9       35S.9      3016.7
12. (Mdeeerlais Ccntrol               619.S       405.8       443.8       829.7       622.2      291.0
13.  idshandwho Entooologr             82.7        49.4        S4.1       109.2        71.4       366.9
14. 1lU*nfo. Edu.  Com                716.3       6S4.0       714.8       67.6        646.9      3302.6
1S. OCSSS*- Info*EidactCom.          1106.6       S26.3      s5.8         617.7       465.1      3489.4
..........:...........i....................................... ........w....
Su-rTotal                             32814.4     23.0    24046.0    26539.5    2735 I.2   133209.1
*. InstitutloFt l Ovel k n
1. In SSSi  - tra  ning             1394.7       902.4       97S.6      1044.2      1117.8     5434.9
2. DGSSSA  Str."gSt.                 222.4       246.?       266.4       284.7       304.4      1324.6
3. DGSSSA Informatlon System        1909.7       195.6       210.3       224.0       238.0      2778.3
4. DGSSSA  operation Research       1109.9      1216.9      1304.9      1357.8      1476b       6496.2
S. OCSSSA Infrastructure            7056.3      8366.9      9270.1      2440.6      2614.5    29748.0
6. 1I-Tralhing                       228.7       195.1       119.9        20.9        22.1       586.8
3. IB- Strkigthening Ngt.            121.2       137.9       150.9       162.9       175.        748.8
8. lB-Operational Research           696.3       763.4       816.5       870.6       926.3      4075.1
9. 1I-infrastructure                 449.9        7.2         11.1        11.8        12.5       562.6
10. I0-InformatIon Systems            663.1       630.7       544.8       581.8       621.S     3041.8
Sub-Total                             13852.1     12732.9     13672.6      7029.2      7510.2    S4797.1
............ .................................................. ...............................  ,, IV> 
Totsi PROJECTS COSTS                  46736.5    35115.9    3718.6    33568.6    34866.s    188006.1o
........................................................................ ;...............................................................................w
Values Scaled by 1000.0 6/17/19P  15t.                                  
0



48
ANNX 1
Page 3 of 3
*             t~~~~Vnzuela
Endmic Disese Control Project
Susry Accomts by rear
Totals Including Contingencies
I                        ~~~~~~~~........................................................................
1993        1994        1995        1996        1997        Total
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
....................
A. Civil Norks                         5414.1      6056.0      6660.3         0.0         0.0      10132.4
B. Construct.Hater.Outhsumes           1587.9      1m.?        1925.3      2064.3      2214.2       9567.4
C. NIVICA Construc.ejteriats           3334.5      3726.9      4043.1      4335.1      4649.9      20091.5
D. 7quf punt                           5210.?       205.1         0.0         0.0          0.0      5415.8
0  Vehicles                            9996.2 2J                  0.0       917.6         0.0      10913.7
F OrIns                                1682.5      1751.4      181S.3      1873.6      1935.0       9057.7
0  Pesticide                           4737.5      4922.3     511.7       5306.0      5507.6      25585.0
I. Technical Assistane                  650.8       830.4       869.6       451.7       480.7       348U.3
I Operatfonal Re eorch                 1806.2      1980.3      2123.4      2258.4      2403.0      10571.3
J  Training                             751.9       715.1       677.7       614.3       653.7       3412.7
K. Instruct1a:nl Natw-fls               199.7       224.3       243.7       261.7T.     281.2       1210.6
L. Project Management                   375.0       428.4       470.0       508.1       549.5       2330.9
.................................................................
Total IMNESTMENT COSTS                35946.8     22619.8    23940.0    18590.7    18674.8    1197M7.2
It. RECURRENT COSTS
...................
A. Supervision                         1859.3      2124.2      2330.2       2519.5      2724.5     11557.7
B. Maintenance                          124.9      1054.6      1235.5       145S.1      1590.6      5480.7
C. Operating Costs                     8805.5      9317.2     10193.0      11003.3    11876.6      51195.5
........................................................................
Total RECURRENT COSTS                 10789.7     12496.0     13778.7    14977.9    16191.7        68234.0
TotaL PROJECT COSTS                   46736.5    3511S .9    37718.6    33566.6    34866.5    18006.1
........................................................................................................
.  ausSae   y10.   /7I                    51



49
Page 1 of 1
VENEZUELA
ENDEMIC DISEASE CONTROL PROJECT
FINANCING PLAN BY YEAR
Total Including Contingencies
US$ millions
I1993          1994       1995       1996          ?   ITOTAL
INVESTMENT COSTS
IBD           -28.6  1      14.9     15.6           3.2      12.9  6 8.1
GOVERNMENT       7.4         7.7 ?      8.4        6.4        6.8        34.7
___ITAL          35.9       22.6        24.0       lq16 j     18.7
_________    _1A 
RECURRENT  COSTS       _ _ _ _ _    _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _
IBRD              1.2        1.9        2.2         1.9   1    1.?    C    .9
GOVERNMENT       9.6  1     10.6       11.6        13.0      14.6        69.3
'TOTAL           10.8       12.5        13.6       14.9       1.2         .2
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS
IBRD            29.7        16.8       17.8        16.1       14.0       94.0
GOVERNMENT       17.0       18.3       20.0        16.4       20.3       94.0
TOTAL           40.7        35.1       37.8        33.6       34.9      166-i
Note:  The Inflation rates used in the calculation of projoct costs
were:  1992 - 67.2; 1993 - 74.5; 1994 - 78.9; 1995 - 83.9; 1996 - 88.9; 1997 -
94.2; 1998 - 99.8.
The Financing Plan for 1993 - 1998 which was Included in the text of the
Public Credit Law was as followst
1993   1994   1995   1996   1997  1998  Total
World Bank          28      16      16     14      13      7      94
GovernMent          16      17      18     18      18      7      94
Total               44      33     34      32      31    14    166



so
ANNls 
Page 1 of 2
ENDEMIC DISEASE CONTROL PROJECT
DXS3URSMNM CATEGo-RIES AND PERCENTAOES
(Us$ millions)
Disbursement
Cateaorr                      Amount                 Percentage
1. Civil Works                      8.3
(a) Laboratory Renovation       0.3            100% of total expenditures
for operational research
(b) Other civil works           8.0            50% of total expenditures
2. goods                            8.5            100% of C.I.F. cost of foreig
expenditures; 100% of ex-fact
(a) goods for operational       2.8            costs of locally manufactured
research                                   goods; and 90% of local
expenditures for other
(b) Other goods                 5.7            items procured locally
3.  Construction Materials          4.5            50% of total expendltures
4. Vehicles                        11.0            100% of C.!.1. cost of foreig
expenditures; 100% of
(a) Vehicles for operational   0.4             ex-factory costs of
research                                   locally manufacturod goods;
and 90% of local expenditures
(b) Other vehicles             10.6
5. Drugs and Pesticides            32.0             100% of C.!.?. cost of foreigp
expenditures; 100% of ex-factA
costs of locally manufactured
goods; and 90% of local
expenditures
6. Consultants' Services           14.5             100% of total expenditures
(a) Operational research        6.5
(b) Other technical             8.0
assistance including
training and services
under the Procurement
Services Agreement



51
Page 2 of 2
Disbursement
C^tS9W=y  Amount       Percentage
7.  Supervision and Maintenance    8.2            60% until the amount of the loan
proceeds disbursed under this
category shall have reached
the aggregate of US$6.0 million
and 40% thereafter.
S. Unallocated                     7 0
Total                         94.0



52
Page 1 o
ENDEMIC DISEASE CONTROL PROJECT
PROCUREMENT METHODS AND PRIOR REVIEW THRESHOLDS
(Us$ '000)
TYPE OF       PRIOR REVIEW      CONTRACT      AGGRCG2
CATEGORY          PBOCVReMN        THRESHOLD         VALU            Linzl
Civil Works            ICa             >500             >3000           V.A.
LCB             >500            <3000          10100
Force Account        N.A.            (100           1000
Local Shopping       N.A,            < 25            300 a/
Goods                  ICa             >200              >200           V.A.
LCB             >100             <200           1500 b/
Local Shopping       N.A*            < 25          11800 c/
International Shopping  N.A.            <200           900 d/
Drugs                  LID             >100              >200          8000
Direct Purchase     >100              N.A.          1100
Pesticides             ICB e/          >200              >200           V.A.
Consultants' Services  ---             > 25              > 25          NVA.
V.A.: Not applicable.
a/Renovation of facilities under operational research component.
b/Includes US$500,000 for vehicles under operational research component.
c/Includes US5100,000 for basic equipment under operational research component.
d/Laboratory equipment under operational research component.
*/ICB with prequalification.



53
ANNZX5
Page 1 of 8
ENDEMIC DISEASE CONTROL PROJECT
1XP-LEMGNATSON SCHtDULE
DOSSA Disease Control C@gmonent tPart A.1 - A.41
Annual Targets (0O0s)
Activity                    1993      1994       1995      1996       1997        Total
UALARIA (Part A.1A
Rouses to visit            2900.0   2755.0    2617.2    2486.3        2362.0     13120.7
Houses to spray             650.0    618.0      587.0      558.0       530.0      2943.0
Houses to fog              3600.0   2850.0    2710.0    2575.0        2450.0     13585.0
Malaria treatments
to positive cases           30.0      24.0      19.0       15.0        12.0       100.0
Preventive malaria
treatments                 120.0      96.0      77.0       61.0        49.0       403.0
Blood slides examined       270.0    300.0      285.0      270.0       257.0      1382.0
DENGUE (Part A.21
Rouses to visit            160.0      130.0      125.0     120.0      120.0        655.0
Houses to spray            800.0      750.0     720.0      715.0      715.0       3700.0
Rouses to fog             1500.0    1250.0    1200.0    1150.0    1100.0          6200.0
CAGAS (Part A.31
House to visit              132.0      130.0    125.0      120.0       115.0       622.0
Houses to spray              35.4       33.6     31.9       30.3        28.8        160.1
CIBSTOSOMIASIX  (Part A.41
Schistosomiasis
treatments                  1.0        1.5       2.0        2.5        3.0          10.0
Inspections of water
courses (meters)        10000.0   12000.0   13000.0   14000.0   15000.0         64000.0
Nollusciciding
(meters)                 1000.0      900.0     800.0      750.0    -700.0        4150.0
Charlas Sanitarias           2.5        2.8       3.1        3.5        4.0          15.9



54
ANNS 5
Page 2 of 8
ENpENIC DISEASE CONTROL PROJECT
IMPLWRMI=TTION SCHEDULE
DOS_SA Disease Control Comnonent (Part A.S - A.8 and A.12bi
Annual Taraots (000O'*
Activity                    1993      1994       1995      1996      1997         Total
INTESTINAL PARASITS iyMart P.51
Rouses to visit             120.0     120.0    120.0      120.0      120.0        600.0
Latrine, to build            10.0      10.0      10.0      10.0       10.0         50.0
Latrine inspectLons          36.1      36.1      36.1      36.1       36.1        180.5
Cbarlas Sanltarias           11.2      11.2     11.2       11.2       11.2         56.0
Antibelminthic
treatments                5000.0    5000.0   5000.0    5000.0      5000.0      25000.0
YELLW FEE  MM OTR DIBEASES (Part A.6 and A.81
Houses to spray             35.0      40.0      32.0       30.0      25.0         162.0
Houses to fog              900.0     910.0     900.0      900.0     950.0        4610.0
Yellow Fever
VaccLnes to administer    800.0      800.0     800.0      800.0     800.0        4000.0
CHOLERA (Part A.71
Aqueduct inspections        29.0      29.0       29.0      29.0      29.0         145.0
Residual water treatment
inspections                 1.9       1.9       1.9        1.9       1.9           9.5
Solid waste inspections
and disposal                1.4       1.4        1.4       1.4       1.4           7.0
Recreational water
inspections                 2.5       2.5       2.5        2.5       2.5          12.5
ChemLcal-Bacteriological
examinations                4.5       4.5       4.5        4.5       4.5          22.5
Chlorine treatments (kgs) 135.0      135.0      135.0     135.0     135.0         675.0
WOSSSA Information. Education. Communication (Part A.12a)
Household visits made        50.0     60.0      72.0        86.4    103.0         372.0
Comunlty meetings held        1.0      1.2        1.4        1.7      2.0           7.4
County aeetings held          1.0       .9         .8         .7        .6          4.0
speeches given                1.3      1.5        1.9        2.2      2.7           9.8
Wovies shown                  1.4      1.6        2.0        2.4      2.9          10.4



55
ANNEX S
Page 3 a
VENEZ,UELA
ENDEMIC DISEASE CONTROL PROJECT
INPLEMENTATION SCHEDUIE
IB Disease Control Comionent IParts A.9. A.10. and A.12b1
Annual Taroets
Activity                       1993      1994       1995        1996       1997         Tota
LEPROSY (Part A.91
Multidrug Treatments a/          704      1196         912        812        827          44!
Supervision Visits
central to regional             46        46         46          46         46           2
regional to local               64        82         70          84         66           31
IMISMHANIASIS (Part A.101
Glucantime Treatments            520       480        420         400        400          22S
Asfotericin B Treatments          50        50          40         40          35          2]
Immunotherapy Treatments    4500          4500       4500        4500       4500         225C
Supervision Visits
central to regional             46        46         46          46         46           23
regional to local               64        82         70          84         66           35
gNCHOCERCIASIS (Part A.1l)
Visits to villages b/            752      1652       1652        1652       1652           73
Diagnostic Tests               16000    16000        1600        1600       1600          368
Iversectin Treatments         20300    31200        31200      31200       31200         1450
IS INFORMATION, EDUCATION.
-OMMUNICAT_ONS (IEC!  (Part A.12b)
Specialists to Hirs:c/
sociologists                     4
Social Promoters                60                                                         6
Educators                        2
Supervision Visits:
central to regional              40        40         40          40         40           201
regional to local               100       100        100         100        100           501
aY    Multidrug treatment MNIDT) is a two-year drug therapy course; the expected number of new patients to begi MDT in eah pwqeet
year is: 704 In 1993,492 in 1994,420 in 1995,392 in 1996, and 435 i 1997.
b     A tol of 1,652 vilages wil be visited and surveyed. Village visits, diagnostc testing through sikda-ips, and ivemei treat-ent
wil begi In 93 in the states of Sucre, Amnoategui and Monagen. 'Me sane activities wvi begin in 1994 In the sates of Arag,
Cojedes, Guarko, Carabobo, Falcon and Yaracuy. Ivenuectin treatments must be adminisered yearly for a perod of about 12 to
14 yeas.
c/    These are expected to be hired an a pernanent basis during the first year of the project and will be paid out of counterpart projed
funds.



56
Page 4 of 8
VENEZUELA
ENDEMIC DISEASE CONTROL PROJECT
XMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
Institutional Develooment Comoonent
DOSSSA and la Training Suboomoonents (Part B.la and 8.2al
Annual Targets
Activity                    1993      1994     1995      1996      1997     Total
DOSSOA Trainina (Part B.1a)
Management Training
(number of students)         3         3        3         3        0        12
Foreign Fellowships
(number of students)         2         2        2         2        0         8
Domestic Fellowships
(number of students)         4         4        4         4        4        20
Entomology Course
(number of courses)          1         1        1         1        1         5
Consultants to hire
(months)                     2         2        2         2        2        10
DGSSSA In-Service Training (Part B.1a)
Continuing Education
(number of courses)         35        35       35        35       35       175
Professional Specialization
(number of courses)          2         2        2         2        2        10
Masters Level
(number of courses)          2         2        2         2        2        10
Technical Specialization
(number of courses)          3         3        3         3        3        15
Actualization Courses
(number of courses)         20        20       20        20       20       100
ID Trainina (Part B.2a)
Physicians' Course
(student months)            33        33                                    66
Health Auxiliary Course
(student months)           600       400      200                         1200
Health Promoter Course
(student months)           100       100                                   200
Foreign Fellowships
(number of students)         1         1        1                            3



57
Page 5 of 8
VENEZUELA
ENDEMIC DISEASE CONTROL PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
Institutional DeveloRment Comoonent
DaSS8A and IS Information Systemg subcomponents (Part B.lc and 8.2b%
Annual Taraets
Activity                1993      1994       1995      1996      1997     Total
DOSSSgA
Information Systems
(Part B.1c)
DGSSSA Information
Systems Training
(number of courses)     20        20        20        20         20        100
DGSSSA Info Systems
Consultants to hire
(consultant months)*     8         8         8         8          8         40
DGSSA Purchase and
installation of
equipment
(% completed)          100%                                               100%
1B Information
Systems (Part a.2b)-
ID Information
Systems Training
(number of students)    30        30        30        30         30        150
IS Info Systems
Consultants to hire
(consultant months)*     4         4         4         4          4         20
IB Purchase and
installation of
equipment
(% completed)           50%       100%                                    100%
…___________________________
*based on approximate cost of US$10,000 per consultant month.



58
Page 6 of a
ENDEMIC D18EASE CONTROL PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
Institutional Develooment Component
DWSSSA and lB Administration and Magagement Subcomponents (Part B.lb and B.20
Annual Targets
Activity                1993      1994      1995       1996      1997    Total
DWSSSA Admilnstration
and Magaaement
(Part a.1b)
DGSSSA Management
study (% completed)   100%                                               100%
DGSSSA Plan to
Implement Management
Study Recommendations
(% completed)         100%                                               100%
DGSSSA Management
Consultants to hire
(consultant months)    14         14        14         14        14       70
XI Administration
and Manaaement
(Varft B 29L
IS Management Course*
for Central Level
Managers
(number of students)    2          2         2         2          2       10
IB Management Course
for Regional Level
Managers
(number of students)    5          5         5          5         5       25



59
ANNEX 5
Page 7 of 8
VENEZUELA
ENDEMIC DISEASE CONTROL PROJECT
1MPLEMENTATION SCEEDULE
Institutional Development Comgonent
W S8SA and IB Infrastructure subcomponents -Part B.le and B.2e)
Annual Targets
Activity                        1993     1994      1995     1996      1997   Total
DOSSSA Infrastructure (Part B.Ie)
DWSSSA Central Headquarters
in Maracay (% completed)       33%        66%    100%                       100%
EZSA Research Center
Expansion (% completed)       100l                                          100%
DGSSSA Information Systems
Installations (% completed)  100%                                           100%
Latrines for Intestinal
Parasite Control Program
(see Part A.5)
(number of latrines)         10000    10000    10000    10000   10000   50000
DGSSSA Regional Headquarters
(number of headquarters)         3         3        3                          9
DGSSSA Operational Bases
(number of bases)                7         8         10                       25
DGSSSA Field Training Bases
(number of bases)                3                                             3
In Infrastructure (Part B2.e)
IB Operational Bases
(number of bases)               26        15                                  41
IS Training Centers
(number of centers)              5                                             5



60
Page 8 of 8
VENEZUELA
ENDEMIC DISEASE CONTROL PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
YEARLY TARGETS BY CATEGORY OF EXPENDITURE
(percent of costs in category)
PROJECT YEAR AND TARGET
CATEGORY                  1993    1994    1995    1996    1997
Civil Works                33      33      34       0        0
Latrine Construction       20      20      20       20      20
Housing Improvements       20      20      20       20      20
Vehicles                   92       0       0        8       0
Equipment                  96       4       0       0        0
Drugs                      20      20      20       20      20
Pesticides                 20      20      20       20      20
Operational Research       20      20      20       20      20
Technical Assistance       27      25      24       12      12
Training                   25      22      19       17      17
Instructional Materials   20       20      20      20       20
Project Management         20      20      20       20      20



61
ANNEX 6
Page 1 of 2
VENEZUELA
ENDEMIC DISEASE CONTROL PROJECT
KEY PROJECT INDICATORS
1.    Two sets of indicators will be used to monitor project implementation
and assess project impact: monitoring or "intermediate outnut" indicators and
final outcome indicators.
2.    Monitorina (Intermediate Outputi Indicators.  The first set of
indicators mneasure the physical execution of project activities.
Specifically, they compare action taken against actions programmed or pre-
determined targets. These monitoring indicators can be used for both the
disease coatrol component and the institutional strengthening component.
Since they are inherent in the project implementation schedule, which
specifies the targets for all project activities, they are not listed here in
their entirety. Looking at any activity in the implementation schedule, the
intermediate output indicator can be readily conceptualized as the ratio of
what was actually undertaken in a given year over what target was set for the
same year. A few examples are listed below:
Comoonent A. Disease Control
D     number of houses sprayed for malaria control over the target number of
houses to be sprayed
*     number of houses treated with pesticides for Aedes aeag jti control over
the number of houses programmed for treatment
*     number of meteos of water courses treated with molluscicide for
schistosomiasis control over the number of meters of water courses
programmed for treatment
-     number of house visits for inspection (for the Chagas bug) and health
education for Chagas control undertaken over the number of house visits
programmed
*     number of latrines constructed for intestinal parasite control over the
number of latrine constructions programmed
*     number of aqueduct inspections undertaken (for cholera control) over the
number of aqueduct inspections programmed
*     number of villages visited to undertake epidemiological surveillance and
treatment/immunoprophylaxis activities for leprosy control over the
number of villages programmed to be visited
*     number of villages visited to undertake epidemiological surveillance and
treatment/immunoprophylaxis activities for leishmaniasis control over
the number of villages programmed to be visited
*     number of villages visited to undertake epidemiological surveillance and
treatment activities for onchocerciasis over number of villages
programmed to be visited



62
ANNEX 6
Page 2 of 2
-Component S. Institutional-Strengthening                                    ag    o 
*     number of field bases completed over number of field bases programmed for
construction
*     number of regional headquarters completed over number of regional headquarters
programed for construction
*     snumber of computer training courses completed over number of courses
programmed
*     number of fellowships granted (and in progress) over number of fellowships
programed
*     number of in-service training courses completed over number of such courses
programmed
*     percentage of operational research funds utilized over percentage of funds
programmed to be utilized
*     percentage of technical assistance fundz utilized over percentage of funds
programmed to be utilized
3.    Final Outcome Indicators.  The second set of indicators measure the "final
outcome" of the project in terms of impact on health and disease transmission. A
few of these indicators are listed below. The disease situation described in Annex
7 will serve as a baseline for assessing improvement of the endemic disease
situation over time.
Component A. Disease Control
*     Malaria: number of new cases by municipality and state (incidence) and number
of new cases per year per 1000 population (annual parasitic incidence)
*     Dengue and Dengue Hemorraghic Fevert number of new cases per year per thousand
population (annual parasitic incidence) and number of new foci of transmission
-     Chagass total number of cases per thousand population (prevalence) and number
of new cases diagnosed per year per thousand population (annual parasitic
incidence)
*     Schistosomiasis:  number of new cases per year per thousand population (annual
parasitic incidence) and number of new transmission foci discovered
a     Intestinal Parasites:  number of cases per thousand population (prevalence)
*     Leishmaniasis (LTA)s number of new cases of LTA per year per thousand
population (annual parasitic incidence) and number of new transmission foci
discovered
*     Leprosy: number of cases of leprosy per 1000 population (prevalence) and
number of new cases identified in a given year (incidence)
*     Onchocerciasiss  community microfilarial load (CMFL) which is a combined
measure of the percentage of a community infected and the overall intensity of
that infection)
Component B. Institutional Strengthening
4.    The executing agencies will complete studies during the first year of the
project to develop appropriate indicators to monitor the impact of institutional
strengthening activities. These indicators will assess, inter alia the impact of
training, information systems development, research recommendations, and new or
upgraded infrastructure on the coverage, quality and costs of disease control
operations.



63
ANX 7
Page 1 of 17
ENDEMIC DISEASES IN VENEZUEL1
Malaria
1.    Disease Situation.  Malaria incidence has
rLsen explosively in recent years from 4,269
reported cases in 1982 to nearly 47,000 reported
cases in 1990 (see Table 1), the highest number of
cases ever recorded in Venezuela.  Malaria is caused =         E#47,
by a parasite transmitted by the bite of infected                      1,754
nosquitou.  In Venezuela, both the Plasmodium
falcioarum and Pjasmodum vivax species of the        :      :     e      84
malaria parasite are found.  The principal vectors   E 
of malaria in Venezuela are the mosquito species        ET
Anopheles           A. nuneztovari,A.albimanu, and
A. aauagalis.    Malaria is an acute, debilitating
illness that begins with flu-like symptoms including
fever, chills, and drenching sweats that can often        197t
come in cycles.  The malaria parasite attacks and            m6
destroys the red blood cells.  Untreated, malaria          is
can be fatal, particularly infections caused by P.        i9
fariclarum.  Persona with no previous exposure to         197 ii304
the disease are especially vulnerable.  Death may                      4      -
occur, in particular, when infected red blood cellos 
block blood vessels in the brain (this is known as i   .. 
cerebral malaria).  Malaria mortality, however, is                     8,4
low in Venezuela -- about 52 malaria deaths were
reported in 1990.                                       X
2.    Since the 1960e malaria incidence has
fluctuated in response to changes in the level of
control efforts undertaken and to the appearance of        x
colonization or mining activities in highly        ,sM*            a
oreceptiv e areas where the conditions are favorable
to malaria transmission.  During the 19605,
colonization in rainforest areas of Tachira, Barin-
as, and Sulia states, where the vector was already
present, was accompanied by a significant increase in malaria transmission.
Later, between 1970 and 1973, there was a sharp increase in malaria in the
tThe following report was prepared for the Venezuela Health Sector Study in
April/May 1991 by John Wilson (consultant).
2Dlfferent anopheline ve:tors in different areas have been shown to have
speciflc behavioral characteristics.  Some, for example, including A. aCuaPaisj,
A. darLAnaL and A. nuneatovari have been known to feed and rest out of doors,
thus evadlng the effects of intradomiciliary spraying.



64
ANlNEX 7
Page 2 of 17
state of Bolivar following the discovery of a major diamond depasit and the
rapid inmigration of miners and others. The vector, h.. darli-ngi, was already
present and the arrival of infected migrants from other areas quickly led to
an epidemic. A similar situation occurred in Bolivar in early 1983 with the
discovery of new gold deposits in the municipality of E1 Dorado. Again there
was a massive inmigration of miners from other parts of the country, as well
as from other countries such as Brazil, Guyana, and the Dominican Republic.
By the late 1980., there were an estimated 80,000 persons in the gold mining
areas of Bolivar.   Table 2 illustrates the associated rise in malaria.
3.    These gold miners are a highly mobile, almost nomadic, group and tend to
stay in the mining camps for brief periods of 3 to 6 weeks, after which they
return to their home communities. Malaria is thereby exported to other parts
of the country including areas which may be highly susceptible to renewed
transmission, given the presence of the vector and non-immune populations.
The mining camps of Bolivar state have thus had a tremendous impact on the
malaria situation in the coastal state of Sucre. The frequent migration of
miners to Sucre led rather quickly to the emergence of renewed malaria
transmission in an area which had been free of malaria for 15 years (see Table
2). Controlling the vector and eliminating malaria transmission in Sucre was
achieved earlier, but with great difficulty, due to the fact that L.
giaualis, the vector in this coastal zone, is highly exophilic and exophagic
(prefering to rest and feed outdoors).  A.    a      has thus been little
affected by tradtional intradomiciliary spraying. Control efforts were
largely based on aerial fogging.   The mining camps of Bolivar have thus been
responsible for the reinfection of over 100,000 km2 in the states of Bolivar,
Sucre, and Monagas. More recently, gold and diamond mining activity has been
growing in the Federal Territory of Amazonas, where malaria cases doubled from
1,305 in 1988 to 2,896 in 1989.
4.    Malaria transmission in the mining areas has specific characteristicst
(i) it is highly focalized (ii) it is difficult to control with traditional
measures such as house spraying due to the
lack of sprayable surfaces, or with mass          . -*..     .i.
chemotherapy because of the nomadic habits of
the miners; (iii) it is difficult to control
by use of aerial fogging because the mines are
often located in the middle of dense forest
where the vector can easily seek shelter; (iv)  ga              ga
the chloroquine resistant P. falcioarumf
strains of the parasite are common; and (v) it
tends to spread quickly to other areas, where   .
the ecological conditions for renewed             195      SOS            S
transmission are favorable, through the            1A6      5   E      n
migration of miners.               >6    3a-
5.   Malaria transmission has also risen in
recent years, though loe  dramatically, in the
western part of the country in the states of   'fB & " *M
Apure, Tachira, and Barinae. TransmiseLon in          ;.
this area is primnarily associated with new



65
AMX 7
Page 3 of 17
colonization activities in Apure state and is also affected by the importation
of cases from Bolivar. Malaria transmiusion in Apure state is focalized in
the new settlement areas. Living conditions there are precarious and
difficult physical access and guerilla activity (by Colombian rebels) have
also complicated control efforts. Fortunately, local transmission appears to
be limited to P vivax, which (unlike P. falcioarum) has not presented
problems of resistance to anti-malarial drugs.
6.    The DGSSSA in Tachira state reported 1,280 cases of malaria in 1990 and
has identified several problems: (i) the malaria situation is strongly
affected by imported malaria, especially from Apure state; (ii) malaria is
easily diffused throughout the state because of its good roads; (iii) climatic
conditLons are hlghly favorable to mosquito breeding; and (iv) there is a high
density of the vector A. nuneztovari which is less souseptible to
intradomiciliary spraying because of its outdoor feeding and resting habits.
Although malaria in Tachira averaged around 1,000 to 1,500 cases per year
since 1985, local officials are concerned that the number of known local
(autocthonous) transmission sites increased from 21 in 1989 to 54 in 1990. If
the number of local transmission sites continues to grow in this way, malaria
incidence is also likely to grow. At the same time, control program
activities have fallen far short of objectives: house spraying and fogging
activities reached only 60% and 40%, respectively, of planned coverage in
1990, largely due to labor strikes and to lack of vehicles, fuel, and
supplies.
7.    Roinforcement of malaria control is urgently needed to reduce
transmission, especially in the mining camps, and to halt the further
reinfection of receptive areas where malaria was brought under control in the
past. The problem and the costs of controlling it have grown without a
concomitant increase in the DGSSSA budget. Consequently, funds have been
sLphoned off from other important disease control efforts. Even so, the
malaria control program has still suffered serious shortages of basic inputs
such as microlancets, microscopes, microscope lLghtbulbs, spraying equipment
and replacement parts, vehicles and vehicle maintenance. Furthermore, the
DGSSSA programs have been seriously compromised by labor problems. In 1990
and 1991 there were frequent work stoppages as DGSSSA field workers, and other
MSAS workers hired under "Collective Contract" protested long delays in
payment of field allowances. In January and February 1991, for example,
DGSSSA workers in Bolivar went on strike and malaria control activities were
essentially halted. Fortunately, some activities were continued since part of
the labor force was contracted under an agreement with the Corporacion
Venezolana de Guayana (CVG), a parastatal regional development corporation,
and payments to these workers were not interrupted. The DGSSSA is presently
seeking dlrect control over the Collective Contract funds, now managed
centrally by MSAS, in an effort to avoid the delays in payment of workers.
8.    Control Activltles.  Early malaria control efforts in Venezuela sought
to control morbidity and transmission by eliminating breeding sites (source
reduction) and through mass chemoprophylaxis, using quinine. Objectives
shlfted to eradication in the early 1950. with the introduction of DDT for
intradomLcLILary spraying. This method of interrupting the transmiosion cycle



66
ANNEX 7
Page 4 of 17
involvex spraying interior walls of houses and associated structures with DDT
a residual action pesticide lasting for several months, in order to kill
mosquitoe that land on the walls after feeding. Between 1945 and 1960,
malaria transmission was eliminated from three-fourths of the originally
malaria-infested area of the country. After this initial period of success,
the country was stratified into "attack" phase and "maintenance" phase areas.
The maintenance area is presently comprised of 536 municipalities (460,000
km2) with a population of 15 million or 76% of the total population of
Venezuela (approximately 20 million in 1990). The attack area is comprised o
34 municipalities 1140,000 km2) with a population of 670,000 or 3% of the
total population.    However, as illustrated above, the disease situation has
changed dramatically since the original stratification was made in the 1960X.
In 1990, malaria incidence in the maintenance area was four times higher than
in the attack area, reflecting the significant reinfection of areas where
malaria was once brought under control.
9.      The basic executing unit of DGSSSA programs in the field are the
"demarcations" which are headed by Inspectors.  The demarcations in each stat4
report to the Zone Service Chief for Endemic Diseases. Malaria control
activities are carried out in the field by teams of spraymen (rociadores) and
house visitors (visitadores). There are two types of spraymen teams: one
which undertakes the intradomiciliary spraying and another which operates the
aerial fogging machines (either truck-mounted or portable). The house
visitors provide malaria treatment and collect blood samples from volunteer
notification posts, which are taken to DGSSSA field laboratories (usually at
the demarcation) for analysis. Visitors and spraymen are supervised by team
leaders who are supervised by inspectors.
10.   The principal control measures in use are: (i) intradomiciliary sprayinS
with DDT and phenitrothion ({ii) aerial spraying (fogging) with malathion;
(iii) treatment of confirmed casesl (iv) mass chemoprophylaxis, or suppressive
treatment, in some high risk areas; (v) epidemiological surveillance through
passive case detection (taking blood samples from febrile patients who seek
assistance at DGSSSA laboratories, health centers, hospitals, volunteer
notification posts, etc.) and in some limited areas of especially high
transmission, active case detection (visiting houses to take blood samples);
(vi) entomological surveillance to etudy vector distribution, density,
behavior, and susceptibility to pesticides in use; and (vii) education
activities to promote personal protection measures (including use of
impregnated bednets) as well as to enlist community participation in the
detection and elimination of vector breeding sites.
11. Ideally, the control program would select a combination of measures
which are appropriate for a specific tr  ismission situation.  Different areas
and situations pose different problems. For example, mining camps may have no
3About one third of the country is classified as "originally without
malaria" and has an estimated population of 4 million or 20% of the total
population. Although imported cases are found in this area (955 in 1989), known
local transmission has been minimal -- only eight cases in 1989.



67
ANNEX 7
Page 5 of 17
permanent dwellings and a nomadic population, new settlements have precarious
housing, coastal areas have a particularly exophilic vector (A. aqua0alis) and
peri-urban malaria transmission may be most effectively reduced through
drainage works to eliminate breeding sites. The measures selected must take
into account the characteristics of specific vector, human and parasite
populations, as well as ecological, economic and cultural factors.   In
practice, however, resource constraints have limited activities in most areas
to intradomiciliary spraying, fogging, and passive case detection and
treatment.
12. Adiugtina Malaria Control Goals and Strateoy. The DGSSSA maintains the
long-term objective of eradicating malaria, although this has proven an
elusive goal given current technological and economic constraints.
Alternatively, the DGSSSA intends to control malaria transmission, prevent
malarLa mortality, and reduce morbidity. To achieve this the DGSSSA plans to
carry out a new malaria control strategy utilizing the stratification system
and control measures detailed below.
(a) Strata 1: Areas with Permanent Malaria Transmission (3 subareas).
(i) Areas with Stable Populations. These areas have more settled
populations of farmers, ranchers and merchants who live in
relatively complete dwellings with sprayable interior walls. In
addition to treatment of cases, the control measures to be applied
in these areas are intradomiciliary spraying, aerial fogging, and
elimination of breeding sites (through drainage, landfill,
larvicide application, or biologlcal control of larvae). The
impact of these measures on the vector population will be closely
monitored. Evaluation of the parasite will be undertaken through
active case detection carried out by Rural House Visitors and
through passive case detection carried out by the DGSSSA,
volunteer colaborators and the local general health services.
(il) Areas with Indigenous (tribal) Populations. This includes a
number of different ethnic groups living in the forest in
dwellings of various types usually not suitable for
intradomiciliary spraying. Spraying would be limited to
structures with suitable surfaces. Aerial fogging will also be
applied. In emergency situations, health teams will carry out
mass blood surveys, on site diagnosis and treatment of cases and
individuals living with them, and vector control where possible.
Routine epidemiological surveys will be conducted with the
particlpation of religious missions and other institutions located
in the indigenous areas and trained indigenous leaders.
(iii) Mining and Logging Areas. These highly mobile populations
live in precarious dwellings in remote forest areas. Where
possible intradomiciliary spraying will be applied. Aerial
fogging will be carried out to reduce vector density. The DWSSSA
will organize networks of voluntee;: anti-malarial distributors who



68
ANNX 7
Page 6 of 17
will provide radical treatment of cases, as well as prophylactic
treatment of especially vulnerable groups, in order to reduce
malaria mortality and morbidity.
(b)  Strata 2: Reinfected Areas (where malaria war earlier under control).
These areas, where malaria tranomiosion has been re-established,
require a comprehensive attack in order to eliminate transmission
once again. They will therefore be subject to the same control
strategy as (a) above.
(c) Strata 3: Areas of Eradicated Malaria.
In these areas the focus will be on maintaining and reinforcing
epidemiological surveillance through passive case detection. Any
new cases found will be given radical treatment according to
established norms for specific parasite species. Any new active
foci would be treated by the following measures: mass serological
survey, entomological survey, intradomiciliary spraying and aerlal
fogging, treatment of cases and mas anti-malarial treatment.
These measures will continue until the foci is completely
eliminated. Parasitological and entomological evaluations would
continue for a period of at least one year beyond that time.
In addition, the DGSSSA will maintain vector control and epidemiological
surveillance activities in receptive and vulnerable areas contigous to areas
of high malaria transmission. In all of the above Strata, health education
activities and promotion of community participation will be carried out by
personnel at the regional level.
13.   The DGBSSA needs innovative strategies for problem areas like the mining
camps of Bollvar state. These will only be found by investing in operational
research and by investing in the training and deployment of qualified
epidemiologists in the field. The institution has already begun to study new
options for control and is rethlnking its stratification. In addition, the
DGSS8A began a study in 1989 on the risk factors for malaria transmission in
Bolivar state (supported by the WHO/UNDP/World Bank Special Programme for
Research and Training in Tropical Diseases). It is also conducting field
experiments with pesticide impregnated bednets. Regaining control of the
malaria situation in Venezuela will be largely a matter of understanding new
situations in the field and developing the appropriate tools and strategies to
deal with them.
14.  Disease Situation.  Dengue is caused by an arbovirus which is
transmitted to humans by the mosquito vector edes aevoyti. This vector is
amply distributed in Venezuela breeding almost exclusively in man-made
containers such as flower pots, water barrels, and diocarded tires within or
around the household. Since 1950, there have been several epidemic outbreaks



69
ANNX 7
Page 7 of 17
of dengue in Venezuela, the most
significant occuring in 1964 (about
18,000 cases), 1966 (8,000 cases),
and 1978 (1,200 cases).  The most              s ;
recent outbreak occured between
October 1989 and March 1990 and                      4 V zU  19S -9-
affected 70% of the area of the
country. More than 12,200 cases were ;
reported, and over 2,700 of these
were dengue hemorrhagic fever (the
first time this more violent form of
the disease has been seen in                         l            1. 0
Venezuela).  There were 73
fatalities. Table 3 shows the
distribution of cases by state.
15.  Contr*1 Activities.  The Aedes
jgey=j control program began in 19474
as an eradication program and is                       .7        
carried out by the Vector and
Reservoir Control Division of the    ~ ass              31
Rural Endemic Disease Control
Directorate of DGSSSA.  Since the
late 1970., however, the program has
been in decline. In 1976, 500,000.
house inspections were made and over
120,000 houses were treated.  By           r0
1980, only 59,000 houses were
inspected and 9,700 treated.  By
1989, only 11,700 houses were
inspected and only 5,500 treated.
Outbreaks of dengue since 1989 havea
been the result of this decline in      ......
epidemiological and virological
surveillance which in turn is due to the allocation of scarce DGSSSA resources
primarily to malaria control.
16.   The DGSSSA has recognized and advocated the need to establish a National
Dengue and ARdes aeayptl Control Program. Such a program would involve a
number of public health institutions including the National Hygiene Institute
(INH), the Venezuelan Scientific Investigation Institute (IVIC), and DGSS, all
of which would have an important role in virological, serological, clinical
and epidemiological surveillance. Within this program, DGSSSA would undertake
A2des aeog =i control (spraying and health education). Also, to help monitor
the conditions for viral transmission, the DGSSSA would be responsible for
entomological surveillance and would assist other institutions in
epLdemiological surveillance.



70
AME  7
Page 8 of 17
Chaaas Disease
17.   Dissaue Situation   Chagas disease is
caused by      ,      ajru   which is            -ab*g
transmitted by two trlatomine insect vectors:
Bbagniu 21ua and Triatoma miaculia           f     i      g_a_ _ __
Rabbits, small rodents and other small mammals  4       '
can servo as reservoirs of Zcruzi.ui.  L.
prDliQ uo is found in 79% of the country (590       mi'   u
of 746 municipalities, covering 714,572 km2)
and ,.X maculat  in found in 7% of the national  R955  8,536
territory (55 municipalities covering 63,783    5         B,.2   -       i
km2).  The population of this area is an   >          87 e
estimated 14.2 million, however, the actual       ;       4,Q8
population at risk is limited to low-income       *        6,.:9
household'., since the vectors shelter in palm
thatch used in walls and roofs, and in the    b        to i      only)
cracks of mud walls (a more precise estimate       uo>--u    s8 
of population at risk is not available).  At
nlght, the triatomine bugs defecate on the       ._.:_.---:.i-.__. __.__.__.E. E
skin while feeding on human blood and
subsequent scratching of the irritated bite introduces the insect's feces,
which carries the Chagas parasite, into the human bloodstream.  The early
stage of infection may look like malaria, with fever and swollen lymph nodes.
This acute phase is on rare occaslons fatal, but usually the patient survives
and goes through a symptomless phase lasting many months or years. During
this period, the parasites invade and severely damage internal organs,
especially the heart. There is no cure for Chagas disease, which is usually
detected only after major damage has been done. The patient becomes
progressively weaker and may eventually die of heart failure.
18.   In Venezuela, Chagas is found in a belt which runs across the states of
Aragua, Guarico, Barinas, Falcon, Merida, Trujillo, Portuguesa, Lara, Zulia,
Yaracuy, Cojedes, Carabobo, Miranda, Anzoategui and Sucre. The states known
to be most affected are Lara, Portuguesa, Trujillo and Carabobo. In most of
the area, the population at risk lives in small and dispersed rural
settlements.   Table 4 shows reported cases of Chagas disease in recent years.
The apparent drop in new cases detected between 1987 and 1988 reflects the
deteriorabion of Chagas surveillance, not an improvement in Chagas control.
With the decline in surveillance activities in recent years, it is probable
that underreporting of Chagas disease is high.
19.   Control Activities.  The objectives of the Chagas control program are to
interrupt transmission of the disease through vector control (intradomiciliary
spraying), construction and improvement of rural dwellings (to eliminate the
habitat of the vector in the home), and health education. In the past, Chagas
control has benefited indirectly from intradomiciliary spraying of DDT for
malaria control. The first epidemiological surveys specifically for Chagas
control were begun in 1961. At present the program covers 14 states. As
Table 4 shows, coverage in terms of blood samples taken for epidemiological
surveillance has fluctuated considerably in recent years.   In a number of



71
amu 
Page 9 of 17
states (e.g. Monagas, Anzoategui, Guarico, Sucre, and Portuguesa), however,
Chagas control is paralyzed since all resources have been allocated to malari
and dengue control. Plans for control activities in six additional states
exist but have not been realized due to lack of resources.
20.   Chagas control activities begin with house visita to inspect for the
precence of the vector. This is carried out by an inspector. If a house is
found to be infested with the vector a team of spraymen treat the dwelling an
associated structures on a 4 by 4 month cycle using dieldrin and other
pesticides. In addition, house visitors (visitadores) will visit to take
blood samples. If positive cases are found they are followed up with an EKG
exam (portable EKG equipment is taken to the field) to determine if the victi
has heart damage. Inspectors also are responsible for community education.
They explain the disease and its transmission and the importance of
eliminating thatch construction material and of sealing crevices in walls by
covering mud walls with plaster.
21.     Poverty plays a central role in the continued transmission of Chagas
disease and for this reason the DGSSSA has sought to integrate Chagas control
wLth the National Program for Housing Improvements (NIVICA), run by the
Directorate for Rural Housing of DGSSSA. Housing improvement is a logical
complement to vector control through residual spraying. However, the NIVICA
program is very limited in scope with programs in only three states, Falcon,
Portuguesa, and Lara. Although the Chagas control program does provide HIVICJ
with the epidemiological information to target its activities, NIVICA tends
to operate more in areas where the building materials can be readily
transported. Thus, the housing needs of areas which are more remote, and
usually more affected by Chagas disease, are generally unattended.
22. Resurgent malaria and the recent epidemic of dengue and dengue
hemorraghic fever have had a serious impact on Chagas control activities in
1990. In the state of Portuguesa, for example, almost no vector control was
carried out in 1990, since the Chagas program depends on the same spraymen and
equipment that are used for malaria and dengue control. In recent years the
level of activity in Chagas control has fluctuated considerably, depending on
the availability of resources. On the whole, the Chagas control program is
underfinanced and requires a major infusion of human and financial resources
in order to achieve a reasonable level of coverage. As noted above, there are
six states which are known to be areas of Chagas transmission where, for lack
of sufficient funds, no control activities are being carried out.
Intestinal Schistosomiasis (Bilharzia 
23. Disease Situation. Intestinal schistosomiasis is caused by the parasite
Bghistosoma mangoni.4 In water, the larval form of the schistosomes
(cercaria) are shed from infected snails and penetrate the skin of people who
enter the water to swim, wash, or fish. The snails are infected by another
4Another major form of schistosomiasis found in South America, but not in
Venezuela, is urinary schistosomiasis caused by S. haematobium.



72
_ESX 7
Page 10 of 17
stage of the schLitosome (miracLdia) whlch hatch from eggs passed ln the
stools of infected persons.  In the human host, the adult male and female
forms of the paraslte llve in the blood vessels of dLfferent organs and
release eggs that are paosed out ln stools or that become lodged in the
tlesues. Schietosomal dLsease progresses slowly, as a reactlon to these eggi
ln the tlssues. It L characterized by progresesve enlargement of the liver
and spleen and damage to the LntestLne resultLng from leslons around the eggi
and hypertension of the abdomlnal blood vessels. Repeated bleedlng from thei
vessels can be fatal. The data from coprologlcal exams in Venezuela show tha
person. over 10 years of age are slLghtly more affected than persons under lC
but recent serologLcal studies suggest that not enough is known about
schistosomiasis in Venezuela to say whlch, if any, populatlon group li most
affected.
24.   Based on the coprological data, and on knowledge of the distrLbutLon of
infected snail populations, S. mansonL is known to be endemic in Venezuela's
most densely populated region, the center-north. The endemic area covers an
eatimated 15,000 km2 or 1.6% of the country, and lncludes the Federal Distrlc
and parts of the states of Aragua, Carabobo, Guarlco and Miranda. The
population of thie area is approximately 7 milllon, of whlch an estimated 2
million people are actually at rlsk. The presently known dlitribution of the
disease corresponds to the dlitribution of the snail intermedlate host,
BLomDhalara alabrata. S The socLo-economLc conditions and habits of the
population in the endemic area are generally amenable to the perelstence of
this dieease. In some areas (e.g. Aragua and Carabobo) the problem ls
aggravated by brick manufacturers who are extractlng clay and leaving behind
huge water-filled pits that are soon infested by B glabrata. These flooded
clay pLts are often adjacent to poor, crowded barrLos and are inevitably used
by the population. Other problem areas include new low-income neighborhoods
that have appeared ln low-lying peri-urban areas of the cltles of Maracay and
Valencla.
25.   Surveillance of schistosomLasis in Venezuela has varied greatly since
1943 when surveillance activities began. Between 1943 and 1960, DGSSSA made
87,639 feces exams of which 12,851 or 14% were positive for S. mansonlE .
Between 1986 and 1989, DGSSSA made 125,062 feces exams of which 719 or 0.6%
were positive. These data suggest that schistosomiasis control activities,
mainly mt.,.. *aciciding, have been very effectlve over the years in reducing
prevalence of the disease. However, the introduction of new serological
diagnostic methods have raised some important questions. In 1989, DGSSSA
collected 2,062 serological samples in Carabobo state, and found 789 or 38.7%
to be positive for S...anoni. Another 1,350 blood samples were examined in
1990 of which 358 or 26.5% were positive. Thus, it seems that actual
prevalence of schistosomiasis may be much higher than previously estimated.
It may be that lighter infections do not show up in the coprological exams but
do show up in the serological tests. The implication for control is that,
58.  manPnoL has  sometimes been  found  in two other potential  anail
intermediate hosts, a stramLa2a and B. havanensis, which are distributed over
most of Venezuela.



73
ANNEX 7
Page 11 of 17
with the more sensitive serological diagnostic tool, the schistosomiasis
control program could identify and treat a much larger percentage of infected
individuals and significantly strengthen efforts to eliminate the dLsease.
26.   Control Activities.  Since 1943, schlstosomiasis control has used a
polyvalent strategy attacking the major points in the transmisslon cycles the
Lntermediate host through mollusciciding, the parasite through chemotherapy
(using Oxamniquine or Praziquantel), and the human reservoir through
education.   Control activLties have included epidemiological surveys,
hydrographic studies, malacologlcal (snail) surveillance, mollusciciding in
infested waters, drainage works, construction of sidewalks, washing places
(lavaderos), public baths and latrines, treatment of cases, and health
education.
27.   As in malarla control, each state where the schistosomiasis control
program operates is divided into demarcations. The principal control
activities for schistosomiasis in Venezuela underway today are snail control,
epidemiological surveillance and treatment, and community education. Snail
control activities are carried out by specialized teams of workers: some
workers clear the underbrush along water courses so that others, following
behind, can use small nets to capture snails. When infested bodies of water
are found, captured snails are taken to Maracay for testing. The infested
waters are treated by the same teams with molluscicide (prLmarily Baylucid,
but also sodium pentachlorophenate, copper sulfate, Frescon, and sodium
citrate). The worker teams are supervised by an inspector. In 1989, 10.4
million linear meters of water courses were inspected. The program planned to
treat 881,000 linear meters but due to increasing costs and insufficient
transport and personnel, covered only 50% of this goal (441,000 linear
maters).
28.   Spidemiological surveillance ia carried out by inspectors in areas where
infected snails are found by collecting feces samples for diagnostic testing
(mainly at the DGSSSA laboratory in Maracay). This is followed up by
treatment of positive cases. There is a new plan, however, which has yet to
be financed, which would train inspectors and workers to take blood samples
for a new schistosomiasis surveillance system based on serological surveys.
Community education is carried out by the inspectors with assistance from
specialists from DGSSSA headquarters. Efforts to change the high risk
behaviors of populations at risk need considerable strengthening, however.
29.   Operational research on biological control is being carried out in
collaboration with the School for Advanced Studies of the University of
Perp$gnan (France) and the Guadaloupe Island Hospital Center. The objective
of the project is to exa;mine the impact on B. alabrata of the introduction of
a competitor snail, Thiara tuberculata. A Schistosomiasis Research Group was
formed in 1984, to help orient the activities of the schistosomiasis control
program, which is comprised of the head schistosomiasis control program and
representatives from the Bilharzia Laboratory of the Tropical Medicine
Institute of the Central University of Venezuela, the Department of
Parasitology of the University of Carabobo and the SchostosomiasiL Laboratory
of the Center for Microbiology and Cellular Biology of the Institute for



74
ANNLX 7
Page 12 of 17
Scientific Investigation (IVIC). The objective of the group is to work
together towards improving diagnosis, treatment and control of schistosomiasis
in Venezuela.
30.   The schistosomiasis control program needs to reassess the
epidemiological situation, based on serological surveys, and to develop a
control or erradication strategy, accordingly. To do so, greater investment
in schistosomiasis control will be needed since, for several years, resources
for schistosomiasis control have been used to help combat resurgent malaria.
In addition, schistosomiasis control suffered a major setback in 1990 due to
the tranefer of its manpower to the dengue control effort. Field activities
have slowed due to labor strikes and lack of funds to pay field allowances.
The schistosomiasis program requires basic transport of its own to achieve
adequate coverage and resources are needed to undertake small drainage works,
especially in new peri-urban areas where the risk of intensified transmission
is high. Coordination with etate and municipal authorities to encourage such
w-orke and to maintain existing drainage canals is also needed. Laboratory
space and equipment, new supplies, and re-training of personnel are urgently
needed and the program would also benefit greatly from computerization of the
its information system to manage the epidemiological and snail surveillance
eystems.
Other Intestinal Parasites
31.   Disease Situation.  The
prevalence of helminthic                                  ....... ...... .
infections is a consequence of
poor living standards and,
specifically, of the inadequate
disposal of human wastes.  The 
most recent epidemiological survey 
of intestinal parasites in
Venezuela began in 1989 after a                          83    B  0
lapse of 13 years since the                                5 A;z
previous   survey   of   1976.   The   new  > _*______m_-_:___._______:_::_._::_-_.._-_
survey, which should be completed
by late 1991, adds information on parasite load and covers the same localities
studied in 1976 in order to allow an analysis of the impact of control
measures applied. Thus far, 33,457 samples from 15 states have been processed
with the results shown In Table 5. These preliminary data appear to indicate
that the anti-helminth campaign of the last 13 years has resulted in a
significant decline in prevalence.
32.   Control Activities.   The objective of the control program for
intestina' helminths is to reduce infection to a level that no longer
constitutes a public health problem. The program is carried out throughout
most of the country and targets the principal geo-holminths: Ascaris
lumbr$coidA, Tricluris trichiura, Ancylostomida. ( K2lator americanue and
Ancvlost2m& duadenalk), and Enterobius -ermLcularli. The principal activities
of the control program, which are executed by the Zone Service personnel based
at the state level, includes



75
ANNiX 7
Page 13 of 17
(a)   Epidemiological surveillance to determine parasite indices and
health/sanitation surveys of households and communities.
(b)   Education campaigns in the schools and in the community.
(a)   Latrine construction with participation of beneficiaries in construction
and provision of materials.
(d)   Mass anti-helminth treatment through schools and communities (local
health centers) with Mebendazole (single dose 500mg preceded by one day
with single dose of piperazine). The program has operated best through
the schools, where treatment is administered twice a year.
33.    The program's budget has not kept pace with rising costs and population
growth. Coverage has therefore been lower than projected: 34% for latrine
construction and 74% for antihelminthic treatment (1989). The figures on
latrine construction over the last two decades show a very strong declining
trend: only 786 latrines were constructed in 1990 as compared to an average
of 1,496 per year in the period 1985-89, 1,597 in the period 1984-88, 4,220 in
the period 1979-83, and 10,376 in the period 1974-78. Until 1990, the
Ministry of Health was providing funds to DGSSSA to purchase building
materials for latrines for needy beneficiaries. This support has been
terminated and now beneficiaries must be able to furnish all the materials.
34.   At present, DGSSSA has sole responsibility for intestinal parasite
control. Coverage could be easily expanded and improved through the
involvement of the general health services in the control program.
eprosv
35.   Leprosy (also known as Hansen's dieease) is caused by a slow growlng
bacterium, Mvcobacterium lecrae, which grows mainly in nerve cells and
macrophage cello in the skin. The clinical cc rse of leprosy varies from
asymptomatic infections to severe disfiguring Jisease. Skin lesions may
appear and heal spontaneously. As the disease progreeses, usually over many
years, the skin lesions may become more frequent. These lesions range from
depigmented patches, usually with loss of skin sensitivity, to multiple
nodules with extensive skin thickening and folding. Lose of sensitivity in
the skin often results in unnoticed burns or ulcers. Lesions of the nerves
can lead to muscle weakness and atrophy resulting in deformities, especially
of the hands and feet. The disease leads to disfigurement an" disability due
to injuries resulting from loss of nerve sensation. The mode of transmission
is not clearly known but it i6 generally accepted that prolonged and intimate
contact with the source of infection is necessary. The bacterium is believed
to be transmitted mainly from the nasal discharge of infected people, but may
also be tranomitted by skin contact.
36.   In 1991, Vene&uela had 13,616 registered cases of leprosy.  The number
of new cases reported in the last decade is summarized in Table 6. The rise in
new cases detected each year does not indicate a worsoening sltuation, but



76
ANNEX 7
Page 14 of 17
reflects improvements in surveillance .     ..
The IB estimates that over the last 40   ..... i  ;
years, the incidence of leprosy has         - -              o
actually declined from 16/100,000 in         ;             * ;  i
1951 to 1/100,000 in 1990.  In 1981, the
IB stratified the country into three
areas:  (i) the high prevalence area,
with greater than 2 cases per 1,000
population, comprised of the states of  'f..
Merida, Tachira, Trujillo, Barinas, and -
Apure; (ii) the medium prevalence area                          35f
with between 1/1,000 and 2/1,000,
comprised of the states of Nueva             U.j
Esparta, the Federal District,             .                    4' '
Portuguesa, and Guarico; and (iii) the.19 7                     438
low prevalence area with le  than                               49'
1/1,000, comprised of the rest of            198                41.
Venezuela.
37.   The principal activity in control                          ...
of leprosy is epidemiological
surveillance of patients and their
contacts and supervised treatment in order to interrupt transmission by
reducing incidence. This is carried out at the state level by the SDDe. The
latter are, ideally, but not always, staffed with a doctor, nurse, field
inspector, and social worker (all of them do have a doctor, however). In
addition, the leprosy program carries out health education geared to changing
attitutes about the disea-s, focusing on lts curability, low infectivity, and
the benefits of immunoprophylaxLs. Rehabilitation activites are also
undertaken ln some areas to reduce incapacLtatLon ln patients who lose
sensitLvLty, especlally ln the hands and feet (such patlents tend to injure
themselves ln routlne actLvLtLes).
38.   For many years the only treatment for leprosy was dapsone, a drug whlch
halts the multiplication of the bacterlum. Treatment was lengthy, sometimes
life-long, there was risk of relapse, and resistance to dapsone was appearing
in many areas. However, a newly developed multi-drug therapy (MDT) has been
in use in Venozuela slnce 1985. MDT combLnes dapsone, rLfampLcLn and
clofazimine. A total of 5,445 patLents hvee recelved MDT (a coverage of 87%)
of which 1,980 cases (32%) have successfully completed treatment.    MDT is
implemented ln all states except Tachlra, Apure, and Merlda (where
immunoprophylaxLs is being tested) and Bollvar, due to dlfflculty of access
and other problems associated with such frontler reglons.   The IB is also
worklng on immunotherapy, using the same compound which is being tested as a
vacclne, described below. So far, the IB is encouraged by the results of
immunotherapy, claimLng that 90% of patients treated have responded
positively.
39.  Venezuela is one of several countries now working on prevention of
leprosy through vacclnatlon. The objective is to reduce prevalence and
incldence by protectLng high risk contacts. As areas of hlgh prevalence,



77
ANA2X 7
Page 15 of 17
Apure, Tachira, and part of Merida were selected for an immunoprophyl&xis
study which is testing a vaccine made of dead M. leJrae and a compound called
B.C.G. At the beginning of the study, an epidemiological survey was
conducted: 2,294 cases were registered and their 64,572 contacts (people at
highest risk of contracting the disease) were identified. Of these contacts,
29,116 received the vaccine. The contacts are examined annually. 6 So far,
the IB is encouraged by the results and hopes to expand the program to all
endemic areas in the country.
40.   The Institute for Biomedicine needs to undertake a comprehensive
evaluation of the leprosy control program in all states and territories.
Based on such a review, surveillance and treatment activities should be
strengthened in areas which are presently underserved (especially more remote
areas with v'eaker health infrastructure such ts Amazonas and Bolivar). In
addition, the results of the immunoprophylaxis and immunotherapy studies now
underway should be evaluated as soon as possible with a view to determining
whether these studies should be expanded, in order to make these alternative
therapies available to leprosy patients and contacts throughout the country.
Leishmaniasis
41.   Leishmaniasis is caused by a           -                7-
parasite transmitted by infected              sutX eaus and  eocuta -u
sandflies (genus Lutzomyia in Venezuela)
which breed in moist soils, for example,
in forest areas, caves or burrow of       X         e              --98;
small rodents.  Several species and
subspecies infect man, leading to
symptoms ranging from simple self-                                 ,
healing skin ulcers to life-threatening
disease.  Small mammals including            )Bl         .               1, i0
rodents and dogs, serve as reservoir                 :     -i01
hosts of infection and may play an                                        1,640
important part in the epidemiology of                X                     1$
the disease.  In Venezuela, two forms of                                 257
leishmaniasis are found: s. teamentar        1964       A.677^
americana (also called cutaneous and         1987                        2,406
mucocutaneous leishmaniasis) and  _          198.
!iceral or Kala-Azar.  The former is        ...                             ;
more common and its symptoms may range
from simple skin ulcers to major tissue                    ... ... .. ....
destruction, especially of the nose and
mouth. Visceral leishmaniasis is a more serious form of the disease and
usually fatal if untreated - its symptoms include fever, malaise, weight loss
and then anemia and uwelling of spleen, liver and lymph nodes. Simple
cutaneouo leishmaniasis can heal by itself without medical intervention,
leaving the person immune to further infection from that particular form of
the disease. However, some cases of mucocutaneous leishmaniasis (as well as
6The study is eupported by TDR, CONICIT, MSAS, and PAHO.



78
ANNEX 7
Page 16 of 17
visceral leishmaniasis) are extremely difficult to treat and may require a
long course of pentavalent antimony drugs (Glucantime or Pentostam) and
sometimes the antibiotic amphotericin B.
42.   Cutaneous and mucocutaneous leishmaniauis have been reported in nearly
all states in Venezuela with the exception of Nueva Esparta and T.F. Delta
Amacuro (see Table 7). Underreporting is high and there may be as many as 10
cause unreported for every reported case. Table 7 summarizes the reported
cases of cutaneous and mucocutaneous leishmaniasis in Venezuela since 19S5.
The IB has classified the different states where transmission occurs into
active focis Lara, Tachira, Merida, Trujillo, Barinas, Miranda, Anzoategui,
Sucre, T.F. Amazonas, Zulia; and slightly active foci: Bolivar, Cojedes,
Falcon, Monagas, and the Federal District. A few small foci of L.  isceral
have been found in five states: Lara, Guarico, Sucre, Anzoategui and the
Federal District. Incidence of visceral leishmaniasis has been about 50 new
cases per year.
43.   The control strategy for leishmaniasis (LTA) in Venezuela involves: (i)
active case detection utilizing trained community leaders and local health
services (as well as development of new diagnistic techniques); (ii) register,
treatment and follow up of cases (as well as study of new therapies and
mmiunotherapieu)j (iii) studies of the vector, Y:eservoirs, epidemiology and
imuunology of known fociij (iv) health education in high risk areas focusing
on vector avoidance (use of bednets and insect repellents); and (v) training
programs for local health service personnel.
44.   The IS is carrying cut important studies on a vaccine for leishmaniasis
which may be useful in both prevention and treatment of the disease. The
Rafael Rangel National Institute of Hygiene has an agreement with the IS to
assist in vaccine production.
OnchocerciaeLe
45.   Onchocerciasis is causee by a thread-like worm, Onchocerca volvulus,
which is spread by the bite of the female blackfly (Simulium metalicum,
iJulD-um ex$auum, SimuliJum Pintoi, and sijulai  Guasinanguineum in Venzuela).
Victims of onchocerciasis suffer severe debilitation and itching due to the
proliferation of mill^one of infant worms (microfilariae) produced by adult
worms (macrofilariae) located in nodules under the s.sn.  Years of repeated
reittection and eventual mtcrofilarial migration to the eyes will lead to
severe ocular damage and blindness (hence, onchocerciasis is known as
Riverblindness in Africa). In Venezuela, onclhocerciasis is found in the
eastern states of Anzoategui, Monagas, and Sucre, the central states of
PAragua, Miranda, Carabobo, Guarico, Cojedes, and Yaracuy, and se southern
states of Bolivar and Amazonas. The IB estimates that there are approximately
80,000 cases of onchocerciasie in Venezuela. However, a complete and
systematic mapping of onchocerciasis in Venezuela is still needed, including
an assessment of the extent of blindness due to onchocerciasis.
46. Onchocerciasis control activities Are limited to passive surveillance
and treatment of cases with ivermectin (Mectizan), an effective



79
ANNEX 7
Page 17 of 17
microfilaricide recently in use since 1987. Ivermectin treatments must be
administered yearly for the lifespan of the adult parasite (11 to 14 years)
sLnce ivermectLn does not klll the adult worm. In Venezuela, vector control
was attempted for a short period between 1959 and 1965. The effort was
halted, however, because of lts high cost and because it dld not have a
slgni£fcant impact on vector density. Effectlve control of onchocerclasis L
Venezuela would require an active epidemiologlcal survelllance system, as we
as a program for mass Lvermectin treatment in important foci across the
country.



80
Pago 1 of 1
VENEZUS
ENDEMIC DISEASE CONTROL PROJECT
DWSSSA Expenditures for
Endemic Disease Control
1985 - 1990
(1990 US$ millions)
ear           MSAS/a      states/b        cva       Ta
1985          32.1         38.0            0       70.1
1986          33.4         36.8            0       70.2
1987          27.2         28.3            0       55.5
1988          24.5         27.0            0       51.5
1989          18.8          15.4         2.9       37.1
1990          16.1         29.5          2.2       47.8
1991          25.4         39.8          3.1       68.3
CVGt  Venezuelan Corporation of Guayana
MSAS: Ministry of Health and Social Assistance
a/ MSAS figure does not include MSAS contributions to Rural
Housing, Aqueduct, and Sewers Programs of the Rural Housing
Autonomous Service
b/ this amount is largely in support of the Rural Housing, Sewers
and Aqueducts Programs.
IS Expenditures for
Endemic Disease Control
1986 - 1990
(1990 us$ '000)
Year   MSAS /a   VCV Lb    Subtotal       /c        Rotal
1986     493      194          687       178      100        865
1987     443      199          642       121      100        864
1988     445      196          642        87      100        829
1989     369      189          558       132      100        790
1990     352      197          549       130      120        799
TDR:  WHO/UNDP/World Bank Special Programme for Research and Training in
Tropical Diseases; supports leishmaniasis immunoprophylaxis
program (vaccine production and field expenses)
a/    Personnel expenditures, all I8 disease control programs.
b/    Personnel expenditures, all IB research and training programs.
C/    AMERICARES: supports Leprosy Multidrug Therapy (MDT) program
(drugs and field expenses).



81
Page I of I
VENEZUELA
ENDEMIC DISEASE CON1ROL PROJECT
SELECTED BACKGROUND DOCUMENT aAILABLE IN PROECT 1
A.    Reqorts and Documents Related to the Project
A.1   "Proyecto Control de Enfermidades Endemicass Nalariologia y
Saneamiento Ambiental".  Volumes I and I. Direcion General
Sectorial de Saneamiento Sanitario Ambiontal (DWSSA), Caracaa,
February 1992.
A.2   "Proyecto Control de Enfermedades Endemicas en Venesuela, Banco
Munditi, Programas de Lepra, Leishmaniasis I Oncocercosia,
Desarrollo de Infraestructura Fisica". Dio@mdiL@ne Institute,
Caracas, November 1991.
A.3   Action Plans for 1993 and Review of Disease COutrol Strategies.
Institute of Biomedicine. June 1992.
A.4   Action Plans for 1993 and Review of Disease Control Strategies.
General Sectoral Directorate for Environmental Sanitation. June
1992.
A.5   Venezuela Health Sector Study (yellow cover), June 1992, The World
Bank, Washington, D.C.
A.6   "Selection and Use of Pesticides in Bank Financed Projects's
Norman Gratz and Bernhard H. Liese. The World Bank PPR Working
Paper Series, Number 11, Washington, D.C., 1986.
A.7   "Guidelines for tb& Selection and Use of Pestieldes in Public
Health Proqrams in Bank-financed Projects". The World fank, OPF
11.04
B.     Roggrts and Working Pa2ers Related to the Sub-Sector
B.1   St.ff Appraisal Report - Brazil - Amazon Basin Malaria Control
Project. The World Bank, Report Number 7535-BR, Washington D.C.,
April 21, 1989.
8.2   oryanixing and Managing Tropical Disease Control P2arms: Lesson
of Success.  Bernhard H. Liese, Paramjit S. Sachdeva an D. all"
Cochrane. World Bank Technical Paper Number 159, 1991.
5.3  "The Onchocerciasis Control Program in West Africa# A L;ay-tern
Commitment to Success". Bernhard H. Liese, John Wilson, Bruce
Benton, and Douglas Karr.  The World Bank,  P33 Working Paper
Series, Number 740, August 1991, Washington, D.C.
5.4   "Development Policies and Realths  Farmers, Ooldlners and Slums
in the Brazilian Amazon". John F. Wilson and A. AlLcbu9an--c1nab*
The World Bank, Environment Department, DLvisional Working Paper,
Number 1991-18, January 1991.



82
VENEZUELA
ENDEMIC DISEASE CONTROL PROJECT
Page J
ANNUAL SUPERVISION PLAN
SunervisLon Skllls:     Task Manager (Coordinating with Procurement, Disbursen-
and Legal)
Epidemiologist/Endemic Disease Control Specialist
Architect
Information Systems Specialist
Project Implementation Monitoring Specialist
Anthropologist/Sociologist
Year Round Actionst     Review and follow up on bidding documents, contracts, a
operational research proposals.
January - Fobruary:     Project Launch Seminar (1993 only).  Bank Participants:
Manager, Procurement Officer, Disbursement Officer, Law
Endemic Disease Control Specialist. Follow up.
March:                  Review at headquarters of: Annual Project Implementatic
report on previous year s activities;
Proposed annual action plan and investment program for
then subsequent year and the report on expenditures dur
the previous fiscal year; and
DGSSSA plan to implement recommendations of management
(1993 only).
Undertake supervision mission for, Lnter alLa Joint a
review with Borrower of: (i) progress in project execut
and achievement of project objectives using input and
outcome indicators in Annex 6 of Staff Appraisal Report
(ii) proposed annual action plan and investment program
the then subsequent year; ';ii) any changes in project
design and implementation that may be necessary; and (1
mechanism for DGSSSA management of all resources for pa:
of DGSSSA field workers. Supervision report writing am
follow up.
Follow up.
May    a June:          Review final proposed budget of the Executive Branch SSi
the Congress (for the then following fiscal year) to coi
that it includes adequate allocation for endemic diseass
control programs and activities. Follow up.
July - Auoustt          Review annual audit.  Follow up.
8imp- bar               Supervision Mission.  Review implementatlon of action p]
and field operations. Supervision report writing. Fol3
up.
October - Decmbert     Follow up.



83
CHART I
VENEZUELA
ENDEMIC DISEASE CONTROL PiKOJECT
Organization Chart of the General Sectoral Directorate
for Environmental Santtation
Ministry of Health a   cialAssinc
|2 DGSSSA
General Sectoral Director
Tgchnl  Coordinain
NWd  8o        Orr                    Pbfs, Budge   &
-L"m                                  wout  sys m
- Norms                         -    Office
- Support and Technical                P     gand Bg
AslIstuice                           - Informadon Systani=
Admk b7 W                            nPersonel  o.i
eWVIM Ombe              X. -Admlaton
- Makftbwm                          - AdmnstaWon
b_Wmo  R11         E1dm  Dles              San8y Eng   kin   AnSdo  6_ 1o
HDko_la        Dhocof                  ofeowf             |            _ 
- Fbwmk            . Mam, Chaga and         Ground Saniton        Grdue TratM.
- Rat Aq_ du t*   Ocer Meutaxu             - Wat Santation      Resw|
- Rwnl Hqj          owa                    - Ai -Sadftfo*       Tew .r r*
DGSSSA State-Level
Regional Services



CHART2
84
VENEZUELA
ENDEMIC DISEASE CONTROL PROJECT
Organization Chart of the Biomedicine Institute
IMinistry of Health and Social Assistance' L-Central_University of Venezuela
DWM"M b                   iomedicine Institute
.,                              -Ub_I -
81*104.efel Dermato"y'                         Pn    g8
6opkm    o       UwU*  Cm&hgl 
............................................ .................................   ........
- WHO    bornating Ceneer        Clieni                      - Graduab Couin
for Ru ow.h and Tr*et           knmunology                    in Da_Mi oy
Leoroy amo TMrpr              - nmulogy I                  - Gorat Cour" Th
D_WA"                           HbWdm-   H
-WHOlPAHO Fiow*lp                FldopadobBy                 - UndeVadtf
mi                             - Miaroiolnd Togy
WHO Cod_             ,           Expn                       - GrbduaW  Go
INIIe and PASO                 PhbyIn M _ooogy
caw br tor  LM;                - Mlow"y                     1- Graduft Th$4
- statis.i md
Compton
- HybomW
- Genetic EngbQ
- Molecuiw Boogy
I mntmoclamisty
- Edeolgy
E ectron Microscopy
-h_mmh        umtly
-V.eblnaryiblotrlu



85
CHART 3
VENEZUELA
ENDEMIC DISEASE CONTROL PROJECT
DGSSSA PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION UNIT
DGSSSA Director
Project Steering Committee     _-
IR _ h-         iProjec  Manager
Technical Sections W
Endemic Diseases Section                        Health Education an
~~~~~~~~~~~~~Community Participation 
- |Malariai
|Dengue                |
Dengue Hemorraghic Fever |
Diseases



86
CHART 4
VENEZUELA
ENDLMIC DISEASE CONTROL PROJECT
IB PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION UNIT
EB Director'
.;.. .......
1Prot Stng Ci       - 
_. _............ ........ .......   .................. ........_
Project Manager'
I~~~~~
Lu_gon Syptwm Secdion                                             rAdm'nastretion        Section
Tcnical Section
. ~~Health Education and
Cmmunity Participatlon
oil  1    Swdonnchoce rclssis Section                                      Y   efn
-   .   ,   .  ...  ..   |   ..   ...............................  _1 .............   ....... ........  .....



87
CHART5
VENEZUELA
ENDEMIC DISEASE CONTROL PROJECT
PROJECT COMMITTEES
|Ministry of Health and Social Assistance l
I
§ IB | . | ~~DGSSSA 
Prmocure  n'W| Research Stering
FCic Itonnte                 P     t etCommitPee
Prje Pcinprmpnt_on UnK                          Project Impaleominalson nO



lu jARUE    NETreRntA.  ANTILLES    C a r i b b e a n
iNETH)
-1 2D '                                      
-120
o   //t                                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~G UA R   0 
100
0                                                                                             Go   d 
V E N E Z U E L A                                                                   J
ENDEMIC DISEASE CONTROL PROJECT
o 6}>  Construction of Central Headquarters
*     Construction of Regional Headquarters
8 *O   Oi'fields
Elevations:
Over 500 meters
200-500                                                                   A   AZON
-   0-200                                                
Major Roods
c-~     Rivers                                                                     _°
o    Selected Cities and Towns
@     State or Federal Territory Capitals                                0
20                    *      National Capitals
-        State or Federal Territory Boundaries                 *    /      \
International Boundaries                                                b
100              200          300
KILOMETERS
72 D                         706                         666



