Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ReportNo: 21523
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(CPL-35380; SCL-3538A; SCPD-3538S)
ONA
LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 94.0 MILLION
TO THE
BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF VENEZUELA
FOR AN
ENDEMIC DISEASE CONTROL PROJECT
12/20/2000
Country Managing Unit for Colombia, Mexico, and Venezuela
Human Development Sector Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perforrnance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective as of December 18, 2000)
Currency Unit = Bolivar (Bs)
Bs 697.9 = US$ 1.00
US$ 0.0014 = Bs 1.00
FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
PCEE         Endemic Disease Control Project (Proyecto de Control de Enfermedades Endemicas)
SAR          Staff Appraisal Report (Reporte de Evaluaci6n del Proyecto)
M.I.VI.CA    Rural Housing Improvement Program
PAHO         Panamerican Health Organization (Organizaci6n Pananericana de la Salud)
DALY         Disability Adjusted Life Years
DGSSSA       General Directorate for Enviromental Sanitation (Direcci6n General Sectorial de
Saneamiento Sanitario Ambiental)
IB           Biomedicine Institute (Instituto de Biomedicina)
CENSAI       Sociedad Civil para el Control de las Enfermedades Endemicas y Asistencia Sanitaria al
Indigena
MOH          Ministry of Health
Vice President:    David De Ferranti
Country Director:    Olivier Lafourcade
Sector Director:    Xavier Coll
Country Sector Leader:    Eduardo Velez
Task Team Leader    Ruth Levine



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Implementation Completion Report
VENEZUELA ENDEMIC DISEASE CONTROL PROJECT
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                          I
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                         1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry               2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                  5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                   11
6. Sustainability                                                                       12
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                        13
8. Lessons Learned                                                                      14
9. Partner Comments                                                                     14
10. Additional Information                                                              15
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                    16
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                    20
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                    24
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                    25
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                    28
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                       29
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                   30
Annex 8. Field Work Report                                                              31
Annex 9. Operation Research Malariology (Years 1996-1998)                               36
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Pro ect ID: P008227                                       Pro ect Name: VE- ENDEMIC DISEASE CONT
Team Leader: Patricio V. Marquez                          TL Unit: LCSHH
ICR Type: Core ICR                                        Report Date: December 20, 2000
1. Project Data
Name: VE- ENDEMIC DISEASE CONT                       L/C/TFNumber: CPL-35380;
SCL-3538A;
SCPD-3538S
Country/Department: VENEZUELA                                            Region: Latin America and
Caribbean Region
Sector/subsector: HS - Specific Diseases, including Malaria, TB,
Others
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD:  07/24/91                                 Effective: 03/23/94           03/23/94
Appraisal:  06/12/92                                  MTR:
Approval:  12/08/92                                Closing: 06/30/98             06/30/2000
Borrower/ImplementingAgency. MINISTRY OF HEALTH/MINISTRY OF HEALTH
Other Partners:
STAFF                Current                                    At Appraisal
Vice President:      David De Ferranti                          Shahid Husain
Country Manager:     Olivier Lafourcade
Sector Manager:      Xavier Coll                                K.Y. Atnoako
Team Leader at ICR:   Patricio M6rquez                          Bruce Carlson
ICR Primary Author:   Ruth Levine; Isabella Danel;
Michele Gragnolati
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M--Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: SU
BankPerformance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry: S                      S
Project at Risk at Any Time: No



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The Endemic Disease Control Project was designed to (i) reduce the incidence and impact of
endemic diseases in Venezuela; and (ii) strengthen the institutions that historically have been responsible
for endemic disease control-the General Sectoral Directorate of Malariology and Environmental
Sanitation (referred to in this report as the Malaria Directorate), an arm of the Ministry of Health and
Social Assistance that focused largely on malaria control; and the Biomedicine Institute, a specialized,
quasi-autonomous technical institute that traditionally had specialized principally in the problem of leprosy.
At the time of identification and appraisal, Venezuela had re-engaged with multilateral financial
institutions after a period of more than 15 years. Along with taking on the task of macroeconomic
adjustment, with support from the International Monetary Fund, the country sought to increase investment
in the social sectors as a way to buffer the hardships of adjustment. As a focus for that effort, Venezuelan
President Carlos Andres Perez developed the concept of the "Megaproyecto Social," intended to be a
constellation of strategic social investments. For several reasons, the Endemic Disease Control Project was
one of the earliest projects prepared under this initiative: First, the endemic disease control programs were
suffering from declining and increasingly insecure funding, and technical personnel in the Ministry of
Health were concerned about possible erosions in earlier gains in vector control as line workers went
unpaid and lacked basic supplies. Second, and related to the first, there was evidence that endemic diseases
were poorly controlled. In particular, malaria prevalence was rising. Third, the leadership of the
centrally-planned and -managed endemic disease control programs were able to put together plans for a
project quickly in response to a funding opportunity.
The US$188 million operation, known by its Spanish acronym, PCEE, was designed to provide
support to two distinct institutions, and the project took on a different form in each. In the Malaria
Directorate, which ultimately used approximately 90 percent of the resources, the project was designed to
provide urgently needed financing to 7 existing vertical endemic disease control programs; the largest of
these was the malaria control program. Most of the resources across the disease-specific programs were
allocated to vector control (primarily applying pesticides to kill vectors, and improving housing quality to
prevent vectors from breeding); construction of regional headquarters for the Ministry's endemic disease
control programs and field posts for vector control; and a large number of training and other
capacity-building activities. In the words of several observers, the program primarily funded "more of the
same" activities that were done prior to the project. In contrast, a significant portion of the 10 percent of
project funds that were utilized by the Biomedicine Institute went to initiate a new vertical disease control
program, and to develop approaches to endemic disease control that focused more on behavioral changes,
and less on chemical and technological approaches, than in the past.
3.2 Revised Objective:
N/A
3.3 Original Components:
The project consisted of two components, each of which was implemented by both the Malaria
Directorate and the Biomedicine Institute: The Endemic Disease Control Component (expected to be 71
percent of total costs) supported: (i) new and ongoing epidemiological surveillance activities for all of the
endemic diseases control programs (including cholera); (ii) treatment of cases and preventive treatment; (iii)
- 2 -



epidemiological surveillance and vector control to interrupt the transmission of malaria, dengue, and other
vector-borne diseases; (iv) rural housing improvements to eliminate the habitat of the Chagas vector and
thereby reduce transmission of Chagas disease; (v) health education activities to enlist individual and
community participation in the control of endemic diseases; (vi) education and water treatment activities for
cholera prevention; and (vii) innovative measures identified through operational research. Consistent with
pre-existing interagency division of responsibilities, the Malaria Directorate executed much of this
component, including control of malaria, dengue, Chagas disease, schistosomiasis, intestinal parasites,
yellow fever, cholera and all health education activities related to these disease control programs. The
Biomedicine Institute was given responsibility for project activities related to leishmnaniasis, leprosy,
onchocerciasis, and health education programs related to those diseases.
The Institutional Strengthening Component was designed to support: (i) training activities to
improve capacity at all levels, from central management to field workers (house visitors and spraymen); (ii)
development of information systems to strengthen epidemiological analysis (including computerized
epidemiological mapping) and logistics management; (iii) special studies to develop and test new control
measures or to improve on existing strategies and technologies; and (iv) construction of new operational
bases, training facilities, and central and regional headquarters. This component, too, was implemented by
and benefited both the Malaria Directorate and the Biomedicine Institute.
With respect to inputs, the project was to support both components by providing vehicles,
equipment, construction materials, supplies and fuel; development and purchase of educational materials;
and payment of costs for vehicle operation, maintenance, technical assistance, salaries, per diems, travel
and project supervision. The Endemic Disease Control component also supported purchase of drugs and
pesticides (together accounting for 36 percent of the original loan financing). In addition, the Institutional
Strengthening Component supported contracting of civil works for regional headquarters, field posts
("demarcaciones"); improvement of the School of Malariology, and housing improvements; provision of
computer equipment and software; and payment of costs for training and in-service training courses,
domestic and foreign fellowships, and operational research.
3.4 Revised Components:
Three significant changes in project design merit attention. First, in 1997, the World Bank
cancelled US$20 million of the loan (and consequently the national counterpart was reduced by the
equivalent of another US$20 million). This reduction was made for two reasons: (a) Disbursement rates
had been negligible during the first two years of execution, largely due to counterpart funds and the
implementing agencies' lack of knowledge of Bank procedures; the PCEE, like other projects in Venezuela
at the time, was a poor performer in the Bank's portfolio. (b) The original size of the loan was based, in
part, on historical data on the cost of pesticides and medicines; with the introduction of the Bank's
international competitive bidding process, the actual costs of these inputs were one-half to one-third of the
original estimate. In short, the capacity of the country to absorb the full loan was in doubt, and both
Borrower and Bank ultimately agreed to reduce the total funding level.
Second, at several times during its six years of operation, project resources were used to ameliorate
the effects of natural disasters, including the Sucre earthquake in 1997, and the Vargas flash floods in
1999. While part of the assistance provided by the project was directly related to preventing disease
outbreaks that often follow natural disasters, most of the resources were intended for rehabilitation.
Third, political and administrative decentralization, which was "in the air" at the time of project
appraisal, came to reality in 1998. In the case of Venezuela, decentralization has meant both that state
- 3 -



governors are now elected rather than appointed by the President, and that states are responsible for a set of
government services, including health, that in the past were under the auspices of the central ministries.
The central ministries, in turn, are expected to transform themselves into agencies that set national norms
and oversee state implementation. The decentralization process has had a large impact on
centrally-operated programs such as endemic disease control, and the PCEE has had to adapt to the new
structural realities, sometimes in an ad hoc manner.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
Marginally satisfactory. The PCEE had four features that merit positive comment. First, it
devoted approximately US$9 million to operational research; such investments had been shown in previous
endemic disease control operations to yield important results. Second, it supported a number of important
innovations in disease control, including the development of special health and housing improvement
programs in indigenous areas, and training and placement of "social promoters," who work at the
community level to promote essential behavioral changes. Third, it built on two strong existing institutions
with considerable experience and prior success in endemic disease control and, in contrast to many
externally-financed projects, did all technical strengthening within the existing structures of these
institutions. The executing units served the role of financial intermediary, rather than having a role of
technical leadership. Finally, by focusing on endemic diseases, the program disproportionately benefited
low-income and vulnerable populations, thereby contributing to the amelioration of social hardships.
While the design responded well to the needs evident in the sector at the time, it did a somewhat
less satisfactory job of anticipating what would be required at the conclusion of the program. Several
weaknesses merit mention to improve the Bank's future work:
:      Overdimensioning. The project is seen by virtually all participants and observers as having been
too large. As noted above, much of this can be attributed to overestimates of the costs of pesticides and
medicines. But, as shown below, training programs were also probably over-dimensioned, as they were
ultimately able to produce the expected outputs for less than half of the original estimate.
-     No evaluation or guestioning of the strategv, and insufficient incentives to economize. The
overwhelming majority of project funds went to support centrally-planned, vertical endemic disease control
programs, which were expected to operate throughout the life of the project much as they had earlier--but
with more, and more accessible, funding. No rigorous evaluation was built in to the project, despite the
fact that questions have emerged in the global community regarding the effectiveness and wisdom of
depending so heavily on pesticides for vector control. Most implementers had neither earmarked funds nor
motivation to develop more cost-effective strategies to control disease, or to incorporate the findings of
operational research into the daily work of the institutions.
*      Lack of impact indicators for institutional strengtheninl. Approximately half the project resources
were directed at institutional strengthening--training, infrastructure and technical assistance--yet during the
design period no impact indicators for these investments were defined. The executing teams were mandated
to study and propose appropriate impact indicators during the first year of the program; they did not, and
thus no clear, quantifiable objectives for institutional strengthening emerged.
*      Lack of mechanisms to promote financial sustainabilitv. At the start, the project was designed to
be a transfusion of funds into a cash-starved set of high-priority programs. The original expectation was
that the program would be a first of at least two investment programs in this area. For the past four years,
-4 -



the PCEE has provided the vast majority of funding for the control of 11 vector-borne diseases that,
without proper control, threaten the health of many of Venezuela's most vulnerable people--and a good
share of better-off communities, as well. In the case of the malaria control program, for example, the
PCEE has financed virtually all the necessary insecticide, equipment, gasoline, training and per diems for
field workers. For the control of leprosy, leishmaniasis, onchocerciasis and tuberculosis, managed by the
Biomedicine Institute, the PCEE has been the sole source of support. Within the project, there have been
no mechanisms to promote the gradual movement toward greater sustainability.
*      Exclusion of mechanisms to permit adaptation to decentralization. At the time of project appraisal,
there were strong hints that Venezuela would soon adopt a decentralized approach to the organization of
government services. Although this was not yet formalized, it would have been desirable for the project
design to incorporate a mechanism to adapt, in the event of large-scale decentralization. Without this
mechanism, the project leadership (and task managers) had to make a number of ad hoc changes to make
sure that the project--with its heavy emphasis on "command and control" endemic disease operations--did
not conflict with the concurrent trends in the health sector.
*      Separation of PCEE from health sector reform. PCEE was designed essentially in isolation from
health sector restructuring and reform activities that were simultaneously being discussed with government.
The lack of connection between endemic disease control and structural changes in the health sector
persisted throughout the life of the operation.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The project achieved many of the most important objectives identified at the start: There is strong
evidence that the project contributed in essential ways to the relatively good control over malaria that
Venezuela has achieved, and to similar gains in several other endemic diseases (Chagas, dengue, yellow
fever, leprosy, leishmnaniasis, and others). Through expanded training programs at both basic and
advanced levels, and creation of a large number of research, diagnostic and field support facilities, the
country is much better prepared than in the past to apply modem technology to control and treat important
causes of ill health. While there are some "lost opportunities," described below under each of the
components, on balance the project achieved its primary objectives.
4.2 Outputs by components:
Component A: Endemic Disease Control. Satisfactory. This component supported investments and
recurrent expenditures to operate the Malaria Directorate's vertically-organized control of malaria, dengue,
Chagas disease, schistosomiasis, intestinal parasites, yellow fever and cholera, as well as a variety of
community health education programs. Despite some disappointing results in two of the smaller disease
control programs, the Malaria Directorate achieved or exceeded most of the expectations for the PCEE.
Within the Biomedicine Institute, the operation provided financial support to the existing leishmaniasis and
leprosy control programs, and allowed the creation of an onchocerciasis control program (and later a small
effort on tuberculosis control) using the Institute's central and state-level facilities and personnel. Health
education programs organized by the Institute were also supported. In general, the results of the
investments in the Biomedicine Institute have been positive.
- 5-



Importantly, observers note that the contribution of the PCEE to disease-specific programs was
two-fold: First, the operation provided badly needed external financing to compensate for decreases in
national investment. Second, the operation channeled the existing national resources toward disease control
activities in a manner that was more streamlined than was possible under the country's budgeting system.
Greater local decision-making was evident in some of the projects and this allowed for more flexible use of
resources. As a result of these two factors, a greater volume of funds were available in a more timely and
reliable manner than would otherwise have been the case. This meant that existing programs were able to
function relatively smoothly and, moreover, the Ministry of Health was able to respond to outbreaks
quickly.
Because of the range in performance across the disease-specific programs, the main outputs and
results are listed below by institution and program. While there is only a blurry distinction between the
disease-specific programs financed under this component, and the institutional strengthening activities
(training, infrastructure, etc.) financed under the second component, an attempt has been made to separate
them for the purposes of this report. Annex 1 presents supporting data.
Malaria Directorate
Malaria. Approximately US$28 million were devoted to a program which, at the time of appraisal, was in
decline and under pressure to respond to dramatic increases in malaria prevalence. The project's main
contribution to achieving this output was the provision of loan financing for pesticides and equipment, and
channeling national counterpart funds in a timely manner to the payment of malaria worker and supervisor
salaries and travel expenses. The results of these inputs can be seen in both the program outputs and
epidemiologic results. The program exceeded the targets established in the Staff Appraisal Report,
including the number of houses to fog with pesticides, as well as the preventive and curative treatments
provided, and blood smears examined. At the same time, the program fell well short of the targets for the
number of houses to visit and spray. However, even in the areas where the targets were not met, the level
of activity under the malaria program between 1995-2000 far exceeded the activities during 1990-1994,
which can be taken as solid evidence of the PCEE's contribution to stimulating and bolstering the malaria
control program.
Under the PCEE, the Malaria Directorate was able to control malaria in approximately 408 square
kilometers where the disease is endemic, primarily in the states of Bolivar, Amazonas, Tachira, Sucre,
Delta Amacuro, Barinas and Apure. (This represents close to 70 percent of the country's land mass.)
Looking at the epidemiologic results of the program, it is clear that the incidence of malaria has decreased
slightly during the past six years, while the number of deaths decreased from 25-27 annually to 1-0. In
Bolivar, the time from onset of malaria symptoms to treatment also decreased by 33 percent, thus
contributing to a decrease in prevalence and in the possibility of disease transmission. This must be viewed
as a significant achievement given the country's precarious fiscal situation and the increase in poverty
during the same period.
Dengue. PCEE activities designed to control Aedes aegypti, financed at a level of US$7.6 million, far
exceeded the targets established in the SAR; the dengue program visited 442 percent more houses than
anticipated and fogged 714 percent more houses. It is interesting to note that this overachievement
occurred despite the fact that, in the end, the program used $10 million less than originally budgeted. The
program achieved a significant decline in mortality over the period 1995-2000 from 62 deaths in 1995 to
15 in 1999, and 2 in the first three quarters of 2000. Mortality declined despite new epidemics of
hemorrhagic dengue in the region. (Hemorrhagic dengue is relatively new to the region and Venezuela, and
has much higher mortality rates than classic dengue.)
-6 -



Chagas Disease. In contrast to the dengue program, the Chagas control program activities (financed at a
level of about US$3.1 million) fell far below the level expected the SAR, yet the epidemiologic changes
between the pre-project and project periods were positive. For example, while the project was supposed to
finance the rehabilitation or construction of 3,229 houses under a public program called MIVICA,
ultimately only 1,561 houses were constructed. Originally, approximately 160,000 houses were to be
sprayed; under the PCEE, less than one-tenth of that figure were treated with pesticide. Despite the
apparently low performance, however, the epidemiologic indicators show that the rate of infection with
Chagas disease continued to decline; seroprevalence improved from 8.2 percent in 1995 to 7.9 percent in
1999. Given the improvements that were taking place in diagnostic ability during that same period, it is
reasonable to assume that the change is a genuine one.
Control of Intestinal Parasites. About US$2.1 million were dedicated to a variety of activities to control
intestinal parasites. While this was less than half of the original budget, and the program activities did not
reach the level anticipated in the SAR, there was a substantial increase in the number of houses visited,
health talks conducted, and anti-parasite treatments given between 1995-2000, compared with the earlier
five-year period. With respect to the construction and inspection of latrines, the program did significantly
less than was done earlier. On balance, the epidemiologic results were mildly positive in relative terms--the
prevalence of the most common intestinal parasites declined slightly during the program period--but large
in absolute terms, with about 830,000 fewer people being affected by intestinal parasites.
Schistosomiasis. The results of the schistosomiasis control under the PCEE are disappointing. In the end
(after the US$20 million cut in project financing), less than US$500,000 were devoted to the program,
instead of the US$3.6 million anticipated in the design. As a result of this decrease in financing, combined
with a variety of administrative difficulties associated, in part, with the decentralization process, the
Malaria Directorate was able to accomplish only a very small portion of the treatments, water inspections
and applications of pesticides anticipated. The PCEE cannot claim any achievements in control of this
disease.
Biomedicine Institute.
Leishmaniasis. The PCEE supported programs to control cutaneous and visceral forms of the disease,
using approximately US$1.6 million. The support maintained the work of an existing (and already
relatively strong) program of diagnosis, treatment and prevention. In addition, as described below in the
section on. Institutional Strengthening, the PCEE provided funds for ground-breaking research and
development of a promising new vaccine technology.
Leprosy. Using the US$1.3 million dedicated to leprosy under the PCEE, the Biomedicine Institute
strengthened its existing control activities, and largely achieved both the coverage and the epidemiologic
results sought. Among the achievements in the past five years has been the movement into the "elimnination
phase" for the disease, according to the standards of the Pan American Health Organization (PAHO); a
decrease in the number of affected children; a large decrease in the number of people incapacitated by the
ailment; improvements in the detection and treatment ability of the Dermatology Services (Servicios de
Dennatologia Sanitaria Regionales), which are the health service provision arm of the Biomedicine
Istitute; and improved reporting systems.
Onchocerciasis. About US$1 million was devoted to building a program aimed at the elimination of river
blindness, or onchocerciasis, in Venezuela. The most important achievement of the program was the
collection of information about disease prevalence through a large-scale set of rapid epidemiologic
-7 -



assessments. This permitted an understanding the epidemiologic stratification of the disease, and
development of a plan for control. Working with the regional Dermatology Services, the program
maintained epidemiologic surveillance and treatment activities.
Component B: Institutional Stren'thening  Marginally satisfactory. The PCEE institutional
strengthening activities included training, management of disease-specific programs (central, state and
local), information systems, infrastructure and operational research within the two participating
institutions. Consultant and other managerial labor costs used a large portion (27 percent) of institutional
strengthening support. Infrastructure accounted for 35 percent.
With respect to the impact of institutional strengthening activities, results were mixed: The project
appears to have exceeded notional expectations in the area of training, making a large contribution. In the
area of strengthening administration and management, and introducing information systems, the experience
in the Malaria Directorate has been disappointing, although the smaller investments in the Biomedicine
Institute have yielded positive returns.
Training. Impressive results were achieved in the quantity and quality of training programs for disease
control managers, supervisors and line workers conducted by the School of Malariology Dr. Arnoldo
Gabaldon, and in the development of a cadre of technical personnel who are prepared to teach and conduct
research in the area of endemic disease control. In almost all regards, training results exceeded the original
expectations expressed in the SAR, although the Directorate used only US$1.7 million of the US$4.5
million originally allocated to these activities.
Under the program, more than half of the central Ministry of Health officials received training in
program management; 13 scholarships were used for overseas graduate-level training in endemic diseases
(of those, 10 individuals will receive advanced degrees); another 13 scholarships were used for in-country
graduate-level training; hundreds of long and short courses were conducted to update the knowledge and
skills of endemic disease control professionals at a variety of levels; and dozens of professionals
participated in regional and international meetings on related topics.
This subcomponent financed support from PAHO, which was seen as a useful input into achieving
a high level of technical quality and institutional sustainability. Under a $4.8 rmillion agreement between
the Government of Venezuela and PAHO, a resident advisor assisted with the development of training
programs and organization of conferences and workshops; in addition, PAHO assisted with contracting
international consultants. The agreement was seen as successful by both parties, and the success is
attributed in large part to (a) the clarity of the language of the agreement regarding the roles and
responsibilities of the parties, which protected the spirit of the agreement during times of political
uncertainty; and (b) the existence of a specific technical counterpart at the Malaria Directorate with whom
the resident advisor was paired.
Other achievements under this subcomponent included the editing and printing of manuals for each
of the disease control programs; organizational restructuring of the School of Malariology; physical and
organizational improvements in the school's library; financing of four scientific journals published by the
school; and introduction of information technology. The school now has the institutional status of an
"autonomous service" of the Ministry of Health, which allows for more streamlined and independent
administration. This new status, combined with the improvements financed by the PCEE, have greatly
increased the prospects for the school's institutional sustainability and potential contributions to endemic
disease control in Venezuela and the larger region of the Americas.
- 8-



Despite the accomplishments under the program, opportunities for even greater impact were missed
because of the absence of an adequate human resource development policy within the Ministry of Health.
As a result of this shortcoming, for example, individuals who have been trained at the doctoral level in
overseas institutions have returned to find that they are placed in the same positions they left, with little
opportunity to apply new skills.
Within the Biomedicine Institute, the PCEE supported a series of training activities for "Social
Promoters," sanitary agents who worked on community health education.
Infrastructure. Under the PCEE, the Malaria Directorate constructed and equipped five regional
headquarters, 17 operational bases, 3 state-level Research and Endemic Disease Control units; and
expanded the Research Center and School of Malariology. In addition, several facilities were renovated
and equipped. The PCEE to replace an aging fleet was replaced with about 470 pickup trucks, 145
outboard motors, 124 motorcycles, 22 trucks and various other vehicles.
In the Biomedicine Institute, PCEE resources were used to improve laboratory facilities for
diagnosis and research. Dermatology Services in the regions were provided with vehicles for field work,
microscopes, medical equipment, and computers.
Administrative and Management Strenathening. Activities to improvement management of the disease
control programs absorbed a large share of resources, primarily because of the heavy dependence on
consultants. The SAR predicted the need for 10 consultants; in the end, 92 were hired under the PCEE.
Despite these investments, within the activities managed by the Malaria Directorate it is difficult to
quantify the results of a number of consultancies, management studies, updates of organizational manuals,
or the creation of an administrative system. Most observers indicate that the absence of clear outputs--and
the apparent absence of a genuine impact of the investments in this area-are disappointing.
In contrast, smaller investments within the Biomedicine Institute appear to have yielded positive
results. For example, the PCEE led to a change in the Institute's status to "autonomous service" of the
Ministry of Health; and extemal consultants assisted with the modernization and systematization of
Institute administration. Throughout the project implementation, the United Nations Development Program
assisted with administrative and procurement processes--a system which seems to have worked relatively
well, although it increased overhead expenses.
Information Systems. About US$2.8 million were used to improve information systems within the Malaria
Directorate. Several steps toward this goal were taken: national plans were created for epidemiologic
surveillance, environmental sanitation and recuperation of loans for rural housing (associated with Chagas
disease control); a large number of computers and related hardware and software were purchased for
central offices and several states; several computer networks were established; and considerable training in
information technology was conducted. However, three factors have prevented the information systems
from being made viable. First, there were long delays in the procurement of hardware and software, and
the creation of the technical team; these delays meant that new information needs and ideas were emerging
as the equipment and personnel for earlier ones were being obtained. Second, the Malaria Directorate has
found the ongoing process of decentralization distracts from and limits the effectiveness of
centrally-planned and managed information systems. In this domain, the lack of clarity over roles and
responsibilities between national and state authorities has played out in a tangible way. Third, in 1999,
following the Presidential elections and with the installation of new leadership in the Ministry of Health, a
profound transfonnation in the organization of health services was initiated, with priority placed on
-9-



integrated services, rather than parallel programs. As part of this new direction, large-scale efforts are
being made to develop an integrated information system that is not fully consistent with the earlier plans for
the surveillance and other systems. At the close of the PCEE, the creation of this integrated system remains
in progress; thus, the project itself cannot count the development of information systems as a success.
Operational Research. Observers indicate that the financing of operational research under both the Malaria
Directorate and the Biomedicine Institute contributed to the success of the PCEE, in terms of both process
and potential substantive impact. In the Malaria Directorate, the program financed 11 operational research
studies, 26 thesis research projects, publication of 7 scientific articles, and 26 professionals' participation
in scientific meetings. The ultimate impact of these investments has not yet been seen. In the Biomedicine
Institute, 46 operational research projects were financed, most of which resulted in publications in
peer-reviewed scientific joumals and innovations in the ways in which endemic diseases are prevented and
treated in Venezuela and intemationally. Among the greatest contributions has been the development of a
new vaccine for prevention of leishmaniasis, which the Institute hopes to produce on a large scale in the
future.
The process of selecting the research projects to be financed through a competitive and transparent
process appears to have worked well, and can be used as a model for the future. Moreover, observers note
that the availability of funds for research-seen as a precious resource by the Venezuelan professionals in
the field of endemic disease control--helped to elevate the status and perceived importance of the PCEE
among decisionmakers.
Other Special Activities. In the Malaria Directorate and, even more, in the Biomedicine Institute, PCEE
resources were used to support special projects in a timely manner. Within the Malaria Directorate, for
example, funds from the PCEE were used--with the Bank's prior "no objection"--for the rehabilitation of
housing following natural disasters. Funds were also used to support a local non-governmental organization
providing health services to indigenous communities. This included a project initiated by an indigenous
Amazon community to improve its housing--a project which has received high marks from the community
and can serve as a model for other future projects with indigenous people (see Annex 8, field notes from the
ICR mrission). Within the Biomedicine Institute, the PCEE financed the development of community-based
programs for control of leprosy and leishmaniasis, which incorporated the expertise of social scientists as
well as medical professionals.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Between 1996 and 2000, the Endemic Disease Control Project is estimated to have saved a total of
about 11,500 lives in Venezuela. In addition it prevented about 500,000 and treated about 3,500,000
non-lethal infections. Effectiveness is measured in terms of burden of disease prevented through disability
adjusted life years (DALYs). The total number of DALYs saved by the project is estimated to be more than
580,000. Cost-effectiveness for the overall project is about US$331 per DALY saved, which makes the
PCEE a highly cost-effective health intervention.
There has been a large variation in cost-effectiveness among interventions on specific diseases.
Accordingly, we can categorize interventions into three groups: (1) interventions of dengue, cholera, chagas
disease and leprosy were very cost-effective; (2) the cost of each DALY saved was two-three times higher
for interventions on yellow fever and malaria; (3) interventions on intestinal parasites, schistosomiasis,
onchocerciasis and leishmaniasis were the least cost-effective because of either small lethality and disabling
effects or low initial prevalence.
- 10-



For some diseases it is possible to compare the cost per DALY saved with other World Bank
financed interventions on endemic diseases in the Brazil Amazon where the same methodology was applied
to estimate cost-effectiveness. Overall cost-effectiveness for the PCEE is higher than for the Brazil
Northeast Endemic Disease Project where on average each DALY saved cost about US$558. The Brazil
project only had interventions on Chagas disease, leishmaniasis, and schistosomiasis whose
cost-effectiveness was estimated to be US$315, US$980 and US$139 per DALY saved respectively. (It is
important to note that the project in Brazil only focused on leishmaniasis visceral while the PCEE also
intervened on leishmaniasis cutanea.) Malaria interventions were substantially more cost-effective in the
Amazon Basin Malaria Control Project (US$69 per DALY saved) than in the Venezuela PCEE.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
N/A.
4.5 Institutional development impact:
Moderate. See assessment of Institutional Strengthening Component, above.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
During the period of execution, Venezuela faced several natural disasters, as well as climate
changes that increased the country's vulnerability to outbreaks of endemic diseases.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Three important factors that were subject, to some degree, to government control strongly affected
the project. First, macroeconomic conditions deteriorated dramatically during the period of execution.
Second, as noted earlier, the government formally initiated decentralization, which had--and continues to
have--profound impact on the organization and financing of core health programs. Third, the part of the
project implemented by the Malaria Directorate suffered from multiple changes in personnel, both within
the management of the executing agencies and in the larger sectoral and national context. Between the
project's start in 1994 and its close in 2000, there have been two Presidents, four Ministers of Health, six
directors of the Malaria Directorate and seven PCEE project directors within the Malaria Directorate.
Including the appraisal period, the turnover includes two additional Presidents, and two Ministers of
Health. (In contrast, it is interesting to note that the more autonomous Biomedicine Institute-which has
had the same director for 40 years-had a change in PCEE director only during the final year.)
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
The primary factor subject to the control of the implementing agencies that affected the PCEE was
the lack of use of monitoring and evaluation tools for decisionmaking (and particularly for finding more
cost-effective strategies). It is important to note, however, that the evaluation mechanisms were neither
built in to the project design nor was there apparent consequences for being without sound monitoring and
evaluation.
- 11 -



5.4 Costs and financing:
As shown in Annex 2, the cancellation of US$20 million of the loan funds (and an equal amount of
counterpart) was also associated with a Bank-approved reallocation of resources across inputs (no
corresponding reallocation was done explicitly across disease programs). Most notably, dengue control
and yellow fever control funding were disproportionately reduced. In addition, because of a change in the
administration of the housing construction and rehabilitation program, which was financed as part of an
effort to control Chagas disease, funds for housing were incorporated into infrastructure spending, rather
than being shown in budgets as a separate line item.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The potential sustainability of the benefits of this program is very difficult to. assess. On the one
hand, the PCEE was by far the largest financier of all endemic disease control in Venezuela for at least the
past four years, and financed a number of recurrent costs that will now have to be borne by central- and
state-level authorities. It remains unclear whether the government has made the appropriate budgetary
provisions for these outlays; without them, key public health programs and epidemiologic conditions will
deteriorate rapidly. On the other hand, the current leadership in the Ministry of Health is convinced that the
organization of endemic disease control can be made much more cost-effective. They seek to change from
centrally-operated, pesticide-intensive programs that rely on workers being sent long distances (at great
expense) to spray and fog endemic areas. They propose to integrate disease control activities into the
routine work of local-level health workers, and to stimulate more intensive community-level participation in
vector control--actions that are posited to be less expensive.
Balancing this information, it is likely that the benefits of the program will be sustained, but only if
large-scale, concerted, and technically appropriate efforts are made to ensure continuous funding over the
short term; and a shift to more cost-effective strategies for endemic disease control are made over the long
term.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
The Biomedicine Institute, with its new status as an "autonomous service," now has a budget
commitment of about one-third of what they estimate is required to maintain their several disease control
programs. They are actively engaging in raising funds from international foundations and other sources,
and have confidence that they will maintain their core functions, if not be able to expand.
The Malaria Directorate, as stated above, is depending on their ability to achieve large-scale
economies with new modes of operation, and therefore report that they will require a lower budget in the
past than they did under the PCEE. In addition, the now-autonomous School of Malariology has obtained a
sufficient core budget, and has plans for recovering costs of training, publishing, and information services.
- 12 -



7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
In general, the Bank's lending performance was satisfactory. However, there are several design
flaws (mentioned earlier) that would have been relatively easy to address early on. The most serious one
was the exclusion of a mechanism for systematic evaluation at regular intervals, to assess the effectiveness
(and cost-effectiveness) of the disease control practices being supported under the PCEE.
7.2 Supervision:
Despite the frequent changes in task management-there were three task managers over a six-year
period-supervision was satisfactory. It appears that the Bank was appropriately flexible in the face of
changing conditions, ranging from natural disasters to decentralization, and at the same time monitored
project progress on a regular basis and attended closely to procurement issues.
One shortcoming of project supervision is worthy of mention: Inadequate attention was given early
on to providing the special training and technical support required by a borrower lacking experience in
dealing with Bank requirements.
7.3 Overall Bank performance.
Satisfactory.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The Borrower appears to have been fully engaged in the preparation of the operation, participating
actively in all aspects of design work and organizing a series of workshops that brought together interested
parties.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
Implementation was essentially paralyzed for the first two and a half years of the project because the
government did not comply with its commitments to provide counterpart funding, and because a new
political administration had to be convinced of the operation's value. After the subsequent reduction in the
loan, however, the government performed in a satisfactory manner. The government complied with the
loan's legal covenants, all of which dealt with routine planning and administrative matters.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
The accomplishments of both implementing agencies are remarkable given the tremendous turnover
among leadership, as well as the challenges posed by all manner of natural and manmade disasters that
befell Venezuela during the past six years. This performance is attributable in large part to the dedication
and commitment of the technicians who were responsible for implementing activities under this project.
The ready availability of funds for training and operational research, as well direct disease control activities
was both appreciated and safeguarded by committed public health professionals.
- 13-



7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Satisfactory.
8. Lessons Learned
1.     Too Big. The size of the project relative to the budgets of the implementing agencies and relative
to the apparent financing requirements led to a situation in which: (a) the PCEE was a dominant source of
support in the health sector, possibly displacing national investments; and (b) there were no incentives to
seek or implement more efficient ways of controlling endemnic diseases. While the project was valued for
providing ready funds for important public health programs, in the final analysis it would have served the
country more if the resources had been more limited. It is interesting to observe that only close to the end
of the project, in 1999, did the Ministry of Health seek to achieve savings by limiting the use of "viaticos"
(travel and per diem payments to field workers and supervisors), integrating endemic disease control
activities into the work of regular health workers, and generating greater community participation.
2.     Lack of Indicators and Evaluation. Countless Bank operations--including this one-- have
demonstrated that serious evaluation does not happen in the absence of clear and tangible incentives to
stimulate them. In this case, evaluation activities were virtually absent from the design; but even if they
had been included on paper, there would have been little motivation for the Borrower to undertake them or
for the Bank's task manager to insist upon them. The institutional strengthening activities suffered
particularly from the lack of attention to impact indicators and evaluation. The Bank might be significantly
more successful in promoting meaningful evaluation if resource allocation decisions--either at the national
or the project level--hinged on the results.
3.     Planning for Sustainability. Opportunities were missed in their project to enhance the future
sustainability of endemic disease control activities. Primary among these were: (a) the lack of a gradual
shift in recurrent costs to the national counterpart funds during the implementation period; and (b) the low
priority given to evaluating the cost-effectiveness of various strategies to control endemic diseases. The
primary lesson to be drawn is that Bank management should insist, first, that new projects demonstrate in
the design phase how they will promote sustainability during the period of implementation; and, second,
that indicators of progress toward sustainability be monitored by Task Managers.
4.    Impact of International Competitive Bidding. A striking and unanticipated result of the project was
the reduction in expenditures on pesticides realized after the introduction of international competitive
bidding processes. The Government of Venezuela paid far lower prices using the ICB mechanism than it
had previously. Of all the contributions of the progran, this may be one of the greatest--and one of the
easiest to sustain, if the government continues to use competitive processes for procurement of pesticides,
drugs and other high cost consumables.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
The Borrower agrees with the content of the implementation completion report.
(b) Cofinanciers:
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
- 14 -



10. Additional Information
The Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Team consisted of:
- Ruth Levine (Task Team Leader)
- Isabella Anna Danel (Public Health Specialist)
- Michele Gragnolati (Economist)
- Patricia Bemedo (Program Assistant)
Comments were received from:
- Eduardo Velez Bustillo (Sector Leader, LCC 1C)
- Marta Elena Molares-Halberg (Country Lawyer, LEGLA)
- Issam Abousleiman (Disbursements Officer, LOAEL)
- Luis Gazoni (Sr. Procurement Specialist, LCOPR)
- Mariam Claeson (Public Health Specialist, HDNHE)
- Lawrence Barat (Technical Specialist on Malaria, AFTH4)
- Bruce Carlson (Consultant)
- John Wilson (Consultant)
- Jorge Arias (PAHO)
- Renato Gusmao (PAHO)
- The Borrower (Project Coordination Unit)
These comments are available upon request, or from the project file.
- 15 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Key Performance Indicators
MALAPIA
Deaths                                                             25                        7
Cases                                                          22056                    21685
Incidence*                                                       10.1                      9.1
DENGUE
Deaths      __                                                    62                       15
Cases                                                         32280                    26602
Incidence*                                                      14.8                     11.2
CHAGAS   _
Prevalecence                                                    82%                      '79%
INTESTINAL PARASITES
Prevalecence                                                  50.7%                    47.2%
HOOKWORM
Prevalecence                                                   5.3%                     3.4%
ASCARIS
Prevalecence                                                    26%                      24%
WHIPWORM__
Prevalecence                                                  27.2%                    27.1%
LEPROSY
Prevalecence*                                                    1.8                      0.6
LEISHMANIASIS CUTANEA
Cases                                                          2260                     2653
Incidence )'                                                    10.4                     11.2
LEISHMA-1ASIS VISCERAL
Cases                                                             32                       44
Incidence*"                                                      0.2                      0.2
* Per 10,000 population
** Per 100,000 population
- 16-



Output Indicators
Malaria
Houses to visit                                          13,120,700.00                8,813,571.00
Houses to spray                                          2,943,000.00                  864,234.00
Houses to fog                                            13,585,000.00                15,288,167.00
Malaria treatments to positive cases                      100,000.00                   145,529.00
Preventive Ma]aria treatments                             403,000.00                   406,735.00
Blood slides examined                                    1,382,000.00                  1,631,777.00
Dengue
Houses to visit                                           655,000.00                  2,897,129.00
Houses to spray                                          3,700,000.00                 Not available
Breeding areas treated                                   Not Available                 4,147,403.00
Houses to fog                                            6,200,000.00                 44,265,376.00
Chagas
Houses to visit                                           662,000.00                    170,103.00
Houses to spray                                           160,000.00                    14,847.00
M.I.V.I.C.A.                                               3,229.00                      1,561.00
Esquistosomiasis
Schistosomiasis Treatment                                  10,000.00                    1,296.00
Inspections of water courses (meters)                    64,000,000.00                9,857,874.00
Molluscididing (meters)                                  4,150,000.00                  755,861.00
Charlas Sanitarias                                        15,900.00                     4,790.00
Intestinal Parasites
Houses to visit                                           600,000.00                   238,371.00
Latrines to build                                          50,000.00                    2,867.00
Latrine inspections                                       180,500.00                    39,733.00
Charlas Sanitarias                                        56,000.00                    233,852.00
Antihelminthic treatments                                25,000,000.00                10,000,485.00
Yellow Fever and Other Diseases
Houses to spray                                           162,000.00                  Not available
Houses to fog                                            4,610,000.00                 Not available
Yellow Fever Vaccines to administer                      4,000,000.00                  2,085,022.00
Cholera
Aqueduct inspections                                      145,000.00                  Not available
Residual water treatment inspections                       9,500.00                   Not available
Solid waste inspections and disposal                       7,000.00                   Not available
Recreational water inspections                             12,500.00                  Not available
Chemical-Bacteriological examinations                     22,500.00                   Not available
Chlorine treatments (kgs)                                 675,000.00                   Not available
DGSSSA Information, Education, Communication
Household visits made                                     372,000.00                  Not available
Community meetings held                                    7,400.00                   Not available
County meetings held                                       4,000.00                   Not available
Speeches given                                             9,800.00                   Not available
Movies shown                                               10,400.00                  Not available
- 17 -



Leprosy
Multidrug Treatments                                         445.00                    Not available
Supervision Visits                                                                     Not available
Central to regional                                         230.00                    Not available
Regional to local                                           366.00                    Not available
Leishmaniasis                                                                          Not available
Glucantine Treatments                                       2,220.00                    Not available
Anfotericin B Treatments                                     215.00                     Not available
Immunotherapy Treatments                                   22,500.00                   Not available
Supervision Visits                                                                     Not available
Central to regional                                         230.00                    Not available
Regional to local                                           366.00                    Not available
Onchocerciasis                                                                         Not available
Visits to villages                                          7,360.00                   Not available
Diagnostic Tests                                           36,800.00                   Not available
Invermectin Treatments                                     145,100.00                   Not available
TB Information, Education, Communications (IEC)                                        Not available
Specialists to Hire:                                                                   Not available
Sociologists                                                 4.00                     Not available
Social Promoters                                            60.00                     Not available
Educators                                                    2.00                     Not available
Supervision Visits                                                                     Not available
Central to regional                                         200.00                    Not available
Regional to local                                          500.00                     Not available
- 18-



Institutional Strengthening Component Outputs
Operational research    Number of research       N/A                      11
projects
Graduate theses         Number of theses         N/A                     26
Participation in        Number of participants   N/A                     27
scientific congresses
Scientific articles     Number of articles       N/A                     7
published
Publication of the      Number of bulletins      N/A                     4
Bulleti of Malanolggyv
Management training     Number of students       12                      279
Foreign Fellowships     Number of students       8                        13
National Fellowships    Number of students       20                       13
Entomoloav courses      Number of courses        5                        9
Consultants contracted    Number of consultants    10                    92
Continuing education    Number of courses        175                      124
Professional            Number of courses        10                       29
specialization
Master's level courses    Number of courses      10                       28
Technical specialization   Number of courses     15                       9
Actualization Courses    Number of courses       100                      168
lB  1raining            Numrber of courses
In r~t nc vx e_     _   ._,__ _ _ X_,_.____
Central headquarters of   Percent completed      100%                    0%
DGSSSA (Maracay)
Expansion of the EMSA   Percent completed        100%                     100%
Research Center
Regional headquarters    Number of headquarters  9                        5
of the DGSSSA
Operational bases of the   Number of bases       25                       17
DGSSSA
Field training bases of    Number of bases       3                        0
the DGSSSA
Operational bases for   Number of bases          41                      30
the IB                                              .
Training centers for the   Number of centers     5                        3
IB                                                          _
-19-



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
A. DISEAsSE CMONT'ROL
COMPONENT
1. Malaria Control                              33,986.00               28,052.04            82.54%
2. Dengue Control                               17,139.50                 7,563.06           44.13%
3. Chagas Control                                3,799.20                 2,829.34           74.47%
4. MIVICA Rural Hiouse Improvement               18,587.10                 414.03             2.23%
5 Schistosorniasis Control                       3,565.60                  463.07            12.99%
6. Intestinal Parasites                          5,396.80                 2,125.70           39.39%
7. Yellow Fever                                  2,305.10                  522.97            22.69%
8. Cholera                                       9,791.90                 5,170.62           52.810%6
9. Other Metaxenic Diseases                        952.10                 1,288.93          135.38%
'0. IB- LeIshmaniasis Control                     2 606.30                1,582.46           60.72%
I 1. 113-Leprosy Control                          2,549.10                1,278.58           50.16%
1 ,2 IB-Onchocercosis Control                     2,351.00                1,019.10           43.35%
!3. lB-. eish/Oncho Entomology                     290.90                    50.01           17.19%
i 14 lB-Info, Educ. Comm.                         3,040.90                 298.70             9.82%
15. DGSSSA  Info. Educ, Comm.                     2,866.20                 396.96            13.85%/o
Sub-total                                        109,227.70               53,055.57           48.57%
B. INSTITUTIONAL
DEVELOPMENT COMPONENT
1. DGSSSA - Training                              4,526.30                1,699.23           37.54%
2. DGSSSA . Str. Mgmt.                            1,093.70               15,880.50         1452.00%
3. DGSSSA - Infiornation System                   2,475.20                2,779.16           112.28%
4. DGSSSA - Infrastructure                       24,564.80               16,769.49           68.27%
5. DGSSSA - Operation Research                    5,456.10                1,039.85           19.06%/z
6. IB-Training                                     536.80                   863.62          160.88%
7. IB -Strengthening Mgmt.                         594.90                 2,402.64          403.87%
8. 03-Operational Research                        3,422.60                6,098.73          178.19%
9. IB- Infrastructure                               515.90                  572.80           111.03%
10. IB -Information Systems                       2,485.40                 1,465.13           58.95%
Sub-total                                         45.671.70               49.571.16          108,54%
Total Baseline Costs                            154,899.40               102,626.73           66.25%
Physical Contingencies                           5,119.80                                    0.00%
Price Contingenj__         _             _      27.986.90                                    0.00%
Total Project Costs_                             188,006.10              102.626.731          54.591
- 20 -



Project Costs by Procurement Arranglements (Appraisal Estimate)
1. Works                                                                     
].l Buildings                                   |7.0                             10.1              I a/|                           18.1|
(3.5)                    (5.0)         (0.5)                               (9.V)g
1.2 Laboratory Renovation                                                                       0.3 b/                              0.3
(0.30)                             (0,30)
2. Goods
2.1. Construction Materials                                     -                               9.6  b/         20.1              29.7
(4.8)            (0.0)             (4.8)
2.2 Equipment                                               3.5                  1.0            0.9  b/              -             5.4
(3.2)               (0.9)          (0.8)                               (4.9)
2.3 Instructional Materials                                     -                               1.2  b/              -              1.2
(1.0)                              (1.0)
2.4 Vehicles                                               10.9                                        |                          10.9
(10.9)                                                                 (10.9)
2.5 Equipment for Op. Research                              2.0                                 1.0  c/l                            3.0
(2.0)                              (1.0)                               (3.0)
2.6 Vehicles for Op. Research                                   -                0.5               -                               0.5
(0.5)                                             (0.5)
3. Chemicals
3.1 Drugs                                                                           -           9.1  d/              -             9.1
(9.1)                              (9.1)
3.2 Pesticides                                             25.6                     -                                             25.6
(25.6)                                                                 (25.6)
4. Consultancies
4.1 Technical Assistance                                                            -           3.5  fl              -              3.5
-                   -          (3.5)                 -            (3.5)
4.2 Operational Research                                        -                               6.8  f/              -              6.8
-                   -          (6.8)                 -             (6.8)
4.3 Training                                    j                                               3.4  gl                             3.4
-           -         ~~~~~        ~~(3.4)   -(3.4)
4.4 Project Management                                                                          2.3  h, |                           2.3
(2.3)                 -            (2.3)
5, Miscellaneous
5.1 Supervision                                                 -                              11.5  i/                           11.5
(6.0)                -             (6.0)
5.2 Maintenance                                 |                                               5.5  i/                             5.5
(2.9)                              (2.9)
5.3 Operating Costs                                             -                   -                            51.2             51.2
(0.0)            (0.0)
TOTAL                                                         49.0                 11.6          56.1              71.3             188 .0
(45.2)               (6.4)         (42.4)             (0.0)            (94.0)
a/ force account
b/local shopping on the basis of quotations from at least three suppliers or contractors
c/ international shopping on the basis of quotations from at least three suppliers from at least two countries, up to US$0.9 million; local shopping per b/,
up to us$9.1 million;
d/ Limited international bidding, up to US$8.0 million; direct purchase, up to US$ 1.1 million;
e/ ICB with prequalification, acceptable to the Bank
f/ contracting of consultants, studies and auditors in accordance with Bank guidelines (August 1981 k
g/ reimbursement of expenditures for training including travel and per-dicms
h/ reimbursement of project managers and technicians under fixed-term contracts
i/ reimbuTsement of expenditures on a declining basis
- 21-



Project Costs by Procurement Arran ements Actual/Latest Est:imate)
1. I Buildings                            6,970,179.28                 4,894,972.27    316,123.29  12,181,274.84l
1.2 Laboratory Renovation                                 200,861.63     33,500.00                  234,361.63
2. Goods
2. 1 - Construction Materials                                                           2,649.60       2,649.60
2.2 Equipment                            11,640,596.70     74,034.74   1,225,825.12               12,940,456.56
2.3 Instructional Materials                               155,214.00    323,074.00   5,285,507.97   5,763,795.97
2.4 Vehicles                              6,963,720.31                  248,118.94    979,150.83   8,190,990.08
2.5 Equipment for Op. Research                                         1,538,005.95                1,538,005.95
2.6 Vehicles for Op. Research                                           238,856.41                   238,856.41
3. Chemicals
3.1 Drugs                                                              7,609,436.54    48,339.13   7,657,775.67
3.2 Insecticides and Pesticides          16,470,253.80                               5,054,568.45  21,524,822.25
4. Consultancies
4.1 Technical Assistance                                               3,138,017.73     23,696.23   3,1.61,713.96
4.2 Opcrational Research                                               3,613,156.65                3,613,156.65
4.3 Training                                                           1,342,218.58                1,342,218.58
4.4 Project Management
5. Miscellaneous
5.1 Supervision
5.2 Maintenance                                                                       627,963.95     627,963.95
5.3 Operating Costs                                                    3,430,454.50   3,332,391.10   6,762,845.60
TOTAL                                      42.044.750.09    430,110.37  27.635.636.69  15,670.390.55  85,780,88.70
- 22 -



Project Financing by Category
CvilWorks                             9.0    91              8.30     8.30            1877    9.80            13.62     7.46         81.20%    7612%
Equipment and instructional materials  5.9    0.7             8.5     0.85            13.56       6           12.30     0.96         90.72%    16.05%
Construclion materials                4.8   24.9              4.5      4.5               0.5    14.9           0.50     0.13         99.62%    0.1E7%
Vehicles                              10.9    0.0              II      1.1              7.22      2            8.70     1 23         120.44%    61.l4%
Dnugs                                 9.1    0.0
Insecticides and Pesticides          25.6       0             32       3.2            20.54       1           22.43     226         109.18%   126.00%
Technical Ass stance and Operational
researchal                            14.1      0            14.5        0             11.66      2           10.34     1.11          88.71%    5547%
Training and Project Management       5.7       0
Supenvision and Maintenance           8.9    8.1              8.2     3.28               3.3    38.3           1 25    2!9.95        37.87%   78.20%
Operating Costs                         0    51.2                    72.77             0.45       0
Unallocatec                                                    7         0
Total        _                       9401   94. 0           94.0     94.0t             74.06   74.001          9.1    42.11t          93.42%    56.90%
a/Operational research includes support for renovation of laboratones, laboratory equipment and vehicles.
Note It is only included the investment conresponding to the year 2000 for the Execulng unit of Malaia
- 23 -



Annex 3: Economic Costs and Benefits
Cost-Effectiveness Analysis
Dengue              3,647     178,696     2047     101,322     211,809      122 
Cholera          |  1,835     16,518     247      2,847       76,798        126
Chagas Disease        0      27,932       0         0         66,506        127
Leprosy               0       10,603      0        6,487      39,627        143
Yellow Fever         159       239        0         0         5,179         395
Malaria         |  3,301     29,710       54      17,907        -            -
(lFalciparum)                                           
Malaria               0      132,046      0       71,843        -            -
fVi:vax) 
(MTaoltal)ia        3,301    161,756      54      89,750     132,409        582
Intestinal            0       96,933      0      3,323,015    39,081        1,107
Parasites
Schistosomiasis       0         0         0        911          74          1,265
Onchocerciasis        0         0         0       23,309      3,100         1,276
Leishmaniasis         0         0        145       8,084      7,258         1,892
TOTAL               8,942 r492,677    2,493   3,555,725   581,841           331
a
Cost figures were all converted into 1999 U.S. Dollars
- 24 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty                Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)     Implementation      Development
Month/Year    Count         Specialty                         Progress           Objective
Identification/Preparation
April 7-26, 1991                1   Task Team Leader
I   Endemic Diseases (c)
I   Primary Health Care (c)
I   Health Inform. Systems (c)
I   Health Promotion (c)
I   Disease Prevention Specialist (c)
June 16-22, 1991                1   Endemic Diseases (c)
October 28-November 8,          1   Task Team Leader
1991                           1   Endemic Disease (c)
March 8-21, 1992                1   Task Team Leader
I   Tropical Diseases Specialist (c)
I   Public Health Specialist
I   Architect (c)
Appraisal/Negotiation
June 1-12,1992                  I    Task Team Leader
I   Tropical Diseases Specialist (c)
I   Architect (c)
Public Health Specialist
Supervision
March 7-11, 1994                1  Health Specialist
I  Public Health Specialist
I  Information Systems Spec. (c)
I  Operations Analyst
I  Disbursement Specialist
April 1 1 - 1 5, 1994           1  Task Team Leader
I  Information Systems Spec. (c)
I  Anthropologist (c)
June 26- July 8, 1994           1  Procurement Specialist
March 27-April 1995             1  Task Team Leader
I  Health Specialist (c)
I  Public Health Specialist
I  Procurement Specialist (c)
1   Inst. Dev. Spec. (c)
July 15-24, 1996                1  Public Health Specialist AA             S                  S
1   Sectorial Specialist
I  Economist (c)
1   Sectorial Specialist
-25-



December 6-13, 1996             1  Task Team Leader                        S                  S
I  Economist (c)
I  Procurement Assistant
I  Public Health Spec. PAHO
I   Sectorial Specialist
July 7-15, 1997                 1  Task Team Leader                        S                  S
I  Economist (c)
I  Public Health Spec. PAHO
I   Sectorial Specialist
I  Operations Analyst
January 19-23, 1998             1  Task Team Leader                        S                  S
I   Operations Specialist
I  Health Specialist (c)
I  Health Nutrition Specialist
I  NGO Specialist
I  Economist (c)
I  Architect (c)
I  Public Health Spec. PAHO(c)
I  PAHO Coordinator
July 20-28, 1998                1  Task Team Leader                        S                  S
1  Operations Specialist
I  Health Specialist (c)
I  Health/Nutrition Spec (c)
I   Inst. Develop. Spec (c)
I  Architect (c)
I  PAHO Coordinator
March 17-26, 1999               I  Task Team Leader                        S                  S
I  Procurement Analyst
I  Disbursements Officer
I  Institutional Dev. Spec.
I  Office Manager
I  PAHO Specialist
October 18-27, 1999             1  Task Team Leader                        S                  S
I  Instituational Dev. Spec.
I  Country Officer
I  Procurement Specialist
I  Operations Officer
ICR
March 16-17, 2000               1   Operations Analyst                     S                  S
I    Economist
June 19-23, 2000                1   Task Team Leader                       S                  S
I   Procurement Specialist
I   Echeverri
I   Institional Dev. Spec.
I   Operations Officer
- 26 -



(b) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle                  Actal/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks             US$ ( 000)
Identification/Preparation               60                       128.4
Appraisal/Negotiation                   20.8                       51.3
Supervision                           161.86                      427.5
ICR                                    7.09                        30.4
Total                                249.75                       637.7
- 27 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
El Macro policies                        O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
El Sector Policies                       O H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
D Physical                               O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
O Financial                              O H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
O Institutional Development              O H  0 SU O M  O N  0 NA
El Environmental                         O H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
Social
O Poverty Reduction                0 H  0 SU O M  0 N  0 NA
O Gender                           O H OSUOM O N * NA
O Other (Please specify)           O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
O Private sector development             O H  O SU O M  O N  0 NA
El Public sector management              O H  O SU O M  O N  0 NA
L Other (Please specify)                 O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
- 28 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                                 Rating
O Lending                                            OHSOS OU OHU
Ol Supervision                                       OHSOS  OU  OHU
O Overall                                            OHS OS O U O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                              Rating
FO Preparation                                       OHS OS   O  U  O HU
El Government implementation performance             O HS O S  0  U  0 HU
LI Implementation agency performance                 O HS OS  O  U  0 HU
El Overall                                           OHS OS  OU  O HU
- 29 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
1. 19 Project Supervision Reports, from December 1992 to June 2000
Identification BTO/ April 7-26, 199 1(Carlson)
Preparation BTO/June 16-22, 1991 (Carlson)
Preparation BTO/October 28-November 8, 1991 (Carlson)
Pre-appraisal/aide-memoire, March 8-21, 1992 (Carlson)
Appraisal/aide-memoire, June 1-12, 1992 (Carlson)
Launching/aide-memoire, March 7-11, 1994 (Cavanaugh)
Supervision/aide-memoire, April 11-15, 1994 (Weissman)
Supervision/BTO, June 26-July 8, 1994 (Moscoso)
Supervision/aide-memoire, March 27-April 4, 1995 (Carlson)
Supervision/aide-memoire, July 15-24, 1996 (Abrantes)
Supervision/aide-memoire, December 6-13, 1996 (Abrantes)
Follow up communication to December 1996 supervision [two documents]
Supervision/aide-memoire, July 7-15, 1997 (Abrantes)
Supervision/aide-memoire, January 19-23, 1998 (Carlson)
Supervision/aide-memoire, July 20-28, 1998 (Carlson)
Supervision/aide-memoire, March 17-26, 1999 (Marquez)
Supervision/aide-memoire, October 18-27, 1999 (Marquez)
Loan Closing Workshop/BTO, March 16-17, 2000 (Lagonera/Gragnolati)
Closing mission/aide-memoire, June 2000 (Marquez)
2. Staff Appraisal Report
3. Venezuela Health Sector Review (Report 10713-VE), May 1993
4. Informe de Cierre (prepared by executing agency) - first draft (September 2000)
5. Economic Analysis Report (citation pending)
- 30 -



Annex 8. Field Work Report
Field visit to State of Bolivar, Venezuela, 11/8/99-11/9/99
Isabella Danel
Accompanied by Dr. Pablo Reyes and Ing. Eduardo Delgado
11/8/99
Quick visit to demarcacion, Ciudad Bolivar
This is one of the demarcaciones (vector control operational bases) rebuilt with project funds. It
seems to be well-constructed and is clearly being used as intended as a place to organize activities
of malaria/dengue control workers, analyze information, and store chemicals and equipment.
Workers seemed very knowledgeable about what they were doing. There was evidence of
creativity in using resources (e.g. very old vehicles had been converted for use as insecticide
sprayers). Resources were being carefully protected.
Quick visit to the Regional Ministry of Health (Instituto de Salud Publica)
The Instituto includes malariology, public health and dermatologic services (IB) all under one
roof. (This regional structure is a variation on what is found in other states where all of these
operations are not necessarily housed together -- and may function more independently of one
another). Staff, including the director and vice-director, were very busy preparing for an all-day
conference on integrated health programs. I had a very brief conversation with the vice-director
(Dr. Ortega) who asked about further WB loans.
Santa Maria de Erebato (SME)
After a one and one-half hour trip by Cessna from Ciudad Bolivar we arrived at SME, a Ye'kuana
community of approximately 500 people. The vast distances, incredibly dense rain forest (mostly
impenetrable except by water or air) and extremely sparse population made a great impression on
me. I saw very few communities between Ciudad Bolivar and SME. Most were located along the
river near SME. Providing health care for these communities is clearly a big challenge.
Ministry of Health personnel (regional and national) and personnel from CENSAI (Sociedad Civil
Para el Control de las Enfermedades Endemicas y Asistencia Sanitaria al Indigena, the NGO that
coordinated the project in SME) accompanied me on this trip. I was welcomed by community
members who took us on a tour of their village and proudly showed us the work they carried out
together with CENSAI. This project was initiated by the community itself which approached
CENSAI for help in improving the housing in the village. CENSAI then approached PCEE with a
proposal for funding.
The project involved repairing some homes, and totally reconstructing those that were beyond
repair. A new community center (a very important feature of this indigenous Ye'kuana culture)
was also constructed. The community provided manual labor and local building materials were
used in construction. Community members who wanted repairs or new homes agreed to work in
the common labor pool. While women were not initially included, they later petitioned and were
- 31 -



involved in construction activities as well. Project successes and problems are highlighted in the
project report and include:
*     Community members decided what they wanted their houses to look like (traditional
round or square) and what the roofs should be made of (traditional thatched, or zinc or other
impermeable material). Many chose to construct dwellings that were larger than their original
homes, but others essentially reconstructed their original homes.
*     Ye'kuana windows are generally very small due to the belief that this will prevent evil
spirits from entering the homes. It was decided to enlarge these in order to improve ventilation
and lighting (and help reduce ARls). However, the large windows were divided into several
smaller panes, thus staying in keeping with traditional beliefs. All new windows had screens.
*     Some community members originally planned to build homes with zinc roofs but in
mid-construction switched to thatched. A lesson learned in mixing traditional and western designs
is that since the design for the zinc roof did not have a very steep angle, (as compared to the
thatched), some of these roofs are now leaking. The angle does not allow rain to run off the
thatch quickly enough thus contributing to leakage. The community and CENSAI are discussing
how to address this problem.
*     The community center is a magnificent construction and could probably hold the entire
conmmunity. The thatched roof is approximately five stories high.
*     A complaint raised during the project was that the community did not engage in its usual
hunting activities during construction, which took over a year, and food shortages were at times
an issue. This would be another lesson learned for any similar activities in the future.
The community is obviously pleased and happy with the work that's been done. They are
enthusiastic about future possibilities and during a formal meeting with them they specifically
requested assistance to improve their water supply and latrine system. Nearby Ye'kuana villages
have also now requested assistance in improving their housing.
I also had the opportunity to visit the community health post which is staffed by a simplified
medicine nurse. These nurses receive several months of basic health care training including
immunization, child growth monitoring, oral rehydration, treatment of ARIs, malaria case
identification, diagnosis and treatment, and TB case identification, diagnosis and treatment. I
observed the nurse using a solar microscope. He seemed very knowledgeable and capable and
showed us some of his positive malaria smears. In addition to these health services, CENSAI also
sends a team of health workers, including a physician and dentist, to each community
approximately every four months.
Conclusions: Positive example of collaborative work with an indigenous community that could
serve as a model for other such projects. Useful lessons were leamed. The immediate health
impact is unclear. There may be a long-term impact on ARI incidence. Cost per benefit is likely to
be high and points to limitations of such an analysis when comparing to other interventions in
more accessible, more densely populated communities. The project seems to have empowered the
community and raised expectations.
- 32 -



Visit with Dr. Cordero, Head of Epidemiology (includes malaria), regional MOH
Unfortunately, Dr. Cordero had just started working in this position 2 months ago and could tell
me very little about project processes or how it has strengthened the work of the MOH. He could
not tell me what percentage of the malaria budget came from the project. However, the discussion
brought out several administrative and management issues with disease control activities in the
region.
During the years of the project malaria incidence in the state showed a slow decline and then
several marked spikes in the 3rd and 4th quarters of 1999. Dr. Cordero relates this to the change
in government in early 1999 and the fact that there were no visits to the field (where active case
identification occurs) for the first 6 months of the year. Consequently, when visits restarted in the
3rd quarter, many more cases were identified.
The project financed the re-construction of 7 malaria demarcaciones in the state. The strategy of
using the demarcacion in controlling malaria has been in place since the 1950s. The project
strengthened the ability of these bases to function. The number of houses sprayed was greater
than targeted. General aerial spraying did not meet projected targets, but during the course of the
project the MOH decided to focus on spraying homes, considering it more effective.
IEC work has also been carried out as part of the project -- more effectively in some communities
than in others. Dr. Cordero thinks that in general the Venezuelan people tend to look to the state
to resolve their problems. IEC activities seemed to be limited and tended to focus on distributing
information about malaria/dengue prevention (e.g. pamphlets) to the communities. I did not get a
sense of any active community involvement in disease control and prevention. Community
activities tend to be in the hands of a salaried 'simplified medicine nurse' (SMN). (Most
communities have an SMN). However, not all these nurses have a microscope. Those in areas
with difficult access to health services are more likely to have a microscope. These nurses are also
trained to treat malaria. There is a new MOH strategy to "optimize resources" by training SMNs
and improving their capacity to resolve a greater number of health problems in the community.
There was considerable discussion of the difficulties in managing the project given that the state
had not been decentralized. "Municipalizing health" is a relatively new long-term MOH strategy
but it hasn't been implemented yet in the state of Bolivar. Dr. Cordero thinks that initially the
state was meant to be an administrator of the project and not the executor, but because of a lack
of capacity at the municipal level has become the executing agency. Both Dr. Reyes and Dr.
Cordero felt that the project would have benefitted from better supervision (by the WB),
particularly of technical and management aspects of the project itself
Other issues raised included excessive personnel turnover (even at the technical level) related to
changes in government. This turnover made it difficult to maintain ongoing, continuous
surveillance and control activities necessary to keep malaria in check.
Conclusions: The project improved infrastructure and working conditions for malaria/dengue
personnel, and provided an infusion of resources needed to carry out malaria/dengue control
work. Malaria requires ongoing, continuous surveillance, control and treatment activities. . These
- 33 -



were made difficult by poor management and high turnover. Also, it is unclear whether malaria
control activities could have been carried out more efficiently. As far as I could tell, no
operational research was carried out in the state to assess/improve the efficiency of control
activities. The malaria control practices of the MOH are clearly effective - however, a question is
whether they can be more efficient.
November 9, 2000
Visit to the demarcacion in Paragua, Bolivar
I met with the chief of the 'demarcacion', malaria workers and Sr. Texeguas, who coordinated
the project with CENSAI.
This was a two-hour trip by pick-up to one of the larger towns in Bolivar (pop=5000!). During
the trip I was again struck by the sparcity and dispersion of the population. I did not see a single
house in the two hours between the end of the city of Bolivar and the beginning of the town of
Paragua. Providing health services and disease control activities in such a situation is obviously
going to be costly.
Prior to 1996, the malaria project in Paragua was managed by the regional MOH (malariology).
PCEE gave money to CENSAI for the management and execution of the project in Paragua.
PCEE funds allowed the project to increase the pool of malaria workers by contracting thirty
additional workers. The project and its new management allowed for a 'regularization' of the
work, by assuring a steady budget and increase in local decision-making. The interventions used
to control malaria did not change --what changed was an improved capacity to carry them out
with an increase in human resources (for both active and passive case finding, and insecticide
spraying) and improved management. This assured a steady supply of the resources required
(insecticides, transport, gasoline etc.) and the maintenance of a set schedule for periodically
visiting nearly all communities in the municipality.
The project clearly had an impact on health with a reduction in the number of malaria cases,
(though, reflecting state trends, a peak in the 3rd-4th quarters of 1999 was noted due to
difficulties following the election and the closing of the project). The project also documented a
decrease of 33% (24 hours) in the average time between development of malaria symptoms and
its treatment.
Mortality from malaria has dropped to nearly zero (from 25-27 deaths in Venezuela annually).
However whether this reduction is due to the project is unclear. During this period the military
was recruited to help airlift severely ill people from inaccessible areas by helicopter, so they no
longer have to be transported to hospitals via waterways.
The project confronted many problems including the fact that in 1998 the MOH suddenly
increased viaticos 8-fold from 1,399 to 11,000 bolivares. This caused a strain on the malaria
budget.
Information - this demarcacion received a computer in December 1999. After taking a computer
course in Bolivar, they are sending data weekly to Ciudad Bolivar. Although that has happened
- 34 -



for years, now it happens more quickly. Data is easier to organize and is presented better. Each
demarcacion now has a computer and the regional MOH has two. There is no network linking
them. Nevertheless, malaria personnel thought the computer helped with the flow of infornation
-- even more at the regional level than at the municipal.
Two major issues related to sustainability were raised: 1) During the life of the project 90-95% of
the communities in municipality were covered by periodic visits from malaria workers. Since the
project closed, this has been reduced to only those areas considered most critical, approximately
30% of the municipality. This reduction is due mostly to a decrease in the number of workers.
There is no longer money to pay the additional 30 malaria workers hired by the project. It is not
clear how much this will impact on the health of the people (malaria incidence and prevalence). 2)
Management of malaria control activities improved during the project. Decision-making was
decentralized. The local demarcacion, clearly a very capable group of malaria workers, most with
many (8-10) years of experience, had a budget, and the base chief made day to day decisions on
expenditures. He could decide when to buy spare parts, gasoline etc. Now decision-making has
reverted to the state and the base cannot do anything without obtaining prior approval.
Consequently, during my visit, many malaria workers were sitting around idle because vehicles
were in disrepair or there was no money for gasoline.
Conclusions: The project improved malaria control activities and temporarily decreased malaria
incidence and prevalence. However, the work of the project has not been sustained in Paragua. It
is not clear if funding will increase in the future. Attention seems to be focused on integrated
health programs. One of the issues raised by this project is the lack of operational research on
identifying efficient, cost-effective (sustainable) methods of malaria/dengue control. The large
amount of money infused was used to continue old, successful, albeit apparently unsustainable
strategies. Management is another key issue with central (state) decision-making creating serious
bottle necks. Management problems appear to be related, at least in part, to a lack of skills at the
state level in its new, decentralized role as administrator of disease control activities.
- 35 -



Annex 9. Operational Research-Malariology
Years 1996-1998
1. Investigaci6n sobre "Selecci6n de metodos altemativos para el Control de los Vectores de la  Ing. Milena Mazzarri
Leishmaniasis en Venezuela"
2. Caracterizaci6n Genetica de poblaciones de Aaopheles darlini                             Dra. Yasmin Rubio
3. Evaluaci6n de equipos generadores de mezcla de gases oxidantes a partir de sal comuin, usado  Ing. Almiria Alfonso
en la desinfecci6n de agua en yeguenas localidades
4. Estudio sobre circulaci6n del virus de Fiebre Amarilla en la Reserva Forestal del Rio Caparo,
Edo. Barinas                                                                              Ing. Jose G. Rojas Mirabal
5. Identificaci6n y caracterizaci6n de Criaderos de Anopheles en un area Malarica del Edo.   Lic. Jorge Moreno
6.- Estudio descriptivo de Malaria en Comunidades Yanomami del Alto Orinoco Edo. Amazonas   Dr. Leopoldo Villegas
7. Estudio descriptivo de Malaria en Comunidades Yanomami del Alto Orinoco Edo. Amazonas    Dr. Leopoldo Villegas
8. Estudio de la Factibilidad de utilizar Echistosoma sp. en el Control Biol6gico de Biomphalaria  Prof Manuel Amarista
glabrata y de su infecci6n por Schistosoma mansoni
9. Estudio de la Dinamica de la Transmisi6n de la Leishmaniasis en el Estado Anzoategui, a partir  Dra. Ana Maria Zulueta
del afdo 1.997
10. Identificaci6n de Anofelinos infectados con Plasmodium spp, utilizando anticuerpos
polocionales monoespecificos contra la proteina circumesporozoitica                          Lic. Noraida Zerpa
11. Evaluaci6n de Metodos de Control Quimico de Insectos Vectores de Leihmaniasis Viceral en
el Estado Nueva Esparta                                         ~~~~~~~~~~Dra. Sonia Hemaindez de Samblas
el Estado NuevaEpart
12. Monitoreo de la Sensibiliodad "INVITRO" e "INVIVO" de Plasmodium falciparum a los
medicamentos antimalaricos en un area endemica del Estado Bolivar                              Dra. Ehsa Paez
13. Aspectos Ecol6gicos y Potencial Vectorial de las especies de Lutzomya SPP. (Diptera:
Psychodidae) en un foco endemico de Leishmaniasis del Estado Tachira, Venezuela (Informe      Gustavo Perruolo
Final)
14. Monitoreo de La Susceptibilidad y/o resistencia a insecticidas en cepad de Aedes Aegypti de
diferentes regiones de Venezuela (Segundo Informe)
15. La Esquistsomiasis y las Parasitosis intestinales en comunidades del area centro norte de
Venezuela (Informe final)
16. Evaluaci6n del IEFA como tecnica de inmunodiagn6stico en el programa de lucha contra la   Italo Cesari y col
Bilharziasis (Informe Final)
17. Peptidos sinteticos para el diagn6stico y vigilancia epidemiol6gica en Esquistosomiasis   Oscar Noya y col
Mansoni (Informe Final)
18. Identificacion de serotipos de Dengue activos en Venezuela (Informe Final)                 Jesuis Querales
19. Estandarizaci6n de Tecnicas de Elisa para detenminar anticuerpos IgM E IgG en Infecciones  Jesus Querales
por virus Dengue (Inforrne Final)
20. Factores asociados a infecci6n por virus Dengue en menores de 15 anios de edad. Maracay,  Jose Luis Caceres
Venezuela (Informe final)                                                                      o6LiCces
21. Evaluaci6n de algunos factores entomol6gicos de riesgo en la transmisi6n de oncercosis en el MaiEueaGrlt
rio Ocamo, Alto Orinoco (Amazonas), revio a su control con ivermectina (Infortne final)
- 36 -



22. Aplicaci6n de herramientas moleculares en el diagn6stico y caracterizaci6n de Lishmania en  Noris Rodriguez y col.
ireas endemicas de Venezuela (Segundo informe t6cnico)
23. Estudio Integral de focos de Leishmaniasis en Venezuela: Los vectores (Segundo inforne  Dora Feliciangeli
tecnico)
24. Ecologia Urbana del Dengue y su vector Aedes Aegypti, a traves de sistemas de informaci6n  Roberto Barrera y col.
geografica (Primer informe)
25. Efecto de las medidas de control de las infecciones intestinales endemicas sobre la nutricion y  Isabel Hagel
la respuesta imnune de ninios Venezolanos (Informe final)
26. Relaciones vector-reservorio en focos de Leishmaniasis (Informe final)                 Margarita Lampo
27. Monitoreo de cepas enzooticas/epizooticas del virus de la encefalitis equina Venezolana  Rosa Alba Salas
(Primer informe)
28. Seropositividad a Trypanosomo Cruzi en la Poblaci6n Rural Venezolana (Primer infonne)   Jose Luis Avila
29. Evaluaci6n de mosquiteros impregnados con el insecticida labdacyhlotrina para el control de  Yasmin Rubio
la malaria en el Alto Orinoco, Amazonas, Venezuela (Resultados preliminares)
30. Antigenos de Lishmania y Mycobacterium inductores de respuestas Thl y Th2 en             Maira Cabrera
rnmunoterapia: B3CG+Promastigotes de Leishmania para la LCA (Informe final).
31. Utilidad de la reverso transcripci6n-reacci6n en cadena de la polimerasa (RT-RPC) para la  Guillermo Comach
vigilancia proactiva y el diagn6stico clinico del dengue (Informe final).
- 37 -



- 38 -



~~~~~S0  .    .                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~BRD 24017
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1
('1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2
40~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~/
As,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~olomp0 0 vr 0h
)l0.cc~~~~~~~.                    per,~GU       Af Nh Wo Aon 6,
V CoNstrutio of REiol HeAdurescoj 0100.0
00h0W  0  h- b-r00  Or -d
ENDEMIC DISEASE CONTROL PROJECT~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.do.e'roretrcc
~~~~~*8  Olfields ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  r~,d.  di,f,M
Maiortuct Rofd R.i..1H.dq.rer                                                                                                                      s.r%f w Woe     8.p'%
0- 500 -trs                                                                                                                            4~~~~~~~~~~~~N  h  o.~o0c--    2-
20   ~           Natona Caitos                                     ,0000  -200.-50200
'-I---'--  Zt           Q        COLOM~~~~~~~~~~~~BA 1-S W             I
Rivers                                                                                                      ST V$NCelT,  SARRADOS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(  30, 0
1~00  -                                               t'o00~0.0--~0*  5UtNAWd
2  / , J 0           -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  ~ ~ ~ ~      1       EN D
Seleted 200e an 0Twn                                                r\) "                                             -S                             i 
BR AI
7?070                                          680                     660                     64'                ECUADOR                              BAI
AUGUST 1992



