Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 16479
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
FORESTRY SECTOR PROJECT
(Loan 3186-CI)
April 10, 1997
Country Department 11
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
( March 1997)
Currelicy i Unit
Exchianee Rate at:                               CFA francs
i991            U SS 1 00                        CFA francs 269.00
1992            US$ 1.00                         CFA francs 264.00
1993           LJSs 1.00                         CFA francs 387.00
1994            USSI.00                          CFA 1rancs 534.00
195             LJS$ 1.0(0                       CFA francs 500.00
1996            U_SS1 00                         CFA fiancs 455.00
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
January I - Decembe r 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CDC                     Commiionwealthi Development Corporation (Great Britain)
CIDA                    Canadian International [evelopment Agency
CPF                     Forest/Farmers Association (Cnommi.ssion PatKsans-Forets)
DCGTx                   Management and Control of Civil Works (Direction et Contro3le des
(G;racm.s Tiacvaumi
DFP'EI'R                States Permanenit Foreign Domain (Domuaine Foreslier Permiianent
cle I LEat Rznral/
EAP                     Emergencn Action P!an
FAC                     Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation (France)
FAO/CP                  FAO World Bank Cooperatixe Program
FED                     FEuropean Development Fund tFonds Europeen d(e D1eveloppcnment)
GCI                     Governmenit oftC6te d&lvoire
IET                     Tropical Ecological Institute (Institut d 'Ecologie Tropicale)
MEF                    MNinistrv of Economy and Finance (Mlini.sterc de lcEconomie et des
MINAGREF                M linistrv of AgricultuLe (Nlinist2re de  '.4griculture et des Laux et
J' ()17t5/s1
PCGAIP                 (Comnmiunitv-Based Protected Areas Management Project (Pr-o/et
(Coomionawatirc de Ge,rjijun dIes Aires Prot5gecs)
P /FR AF'AGWC           Protectionl/Exploitation'R6hiabilitationl/Agroforestry 'Agriculture
Working Cycle
PTE                     T1-emporary Logging License (P'enmis Tenporaire d'Exploitation)
SODEFOR                 Societc de Deveioppement des Plantations Forestieres
PDF                     Forestry Master Plan (Plan Directeurs Forestier!
WWF                     World Wildlife Foundation
Vice Plresisent             Jean-Louis Sarbib
Di-ector                    Shigeo Katsu
iDivision Chief'Manauee     Jeani-Paul Cliausse
Staft' Memnber              (3iuseppe Topa



COTE D'IVOIRE                             FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
FORESTRY SECTOR PROJECT
(Loan 3186-Cl)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE.
EVALUATION  SUMMARY  ......................................................... i
PART  I: PROJECT  IMPLEMENTATION  ASSESSMENT ..........................................................I
Statement and Evaluation of Objectives .........................................................                                        I
Introduction .........................................................1I
Project Objectives and Components ..........................................................I
Achievement of Project Objectives ..........................................................3
Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project .................................5
Project Sustainability ..........................................................8
Bank Performance .........................................................8
Borrower's Performance ..........................................................9
Assessment of Outcome .........................................................9
Future Operations ......................................................... 11
Lessons Learned ......................................................... 12
PART  II:  STATISTICAL  ANNEXES ........................................................ 15
Table  1. Summary of Assessments ........................................................                             15
Table 2. Related Bank Loans/IDA  Credits ..............................................                      .......... 17
Table 3. Project Timetable ........................................................                                   18
Table 4. Loan/Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual ............................... 18
Table 5. Key Indicators for Project Implementation .................................................... 19
Table 6. Key Indicators for Project Operation ........................................................                 19
Table 7. Studies Included in Project ........................................................                         20
Table 8A. Project Costs ........................................................                                     21
Table 8B. Project Financing ........................................................                                 22
Table 9. Economic Costs and Benefits ........................................................                         22
Table 10. Status of Legal Covenants ........................................................                         24
Table 11. Compliance with Operational Manual Statements ........................................ 26
Table 12. Bank Resources: Staff Inputs ........................................................                      26
Table 13. Bank Resources: Missions ........................................................                          27
APPENDICES
1.             Aide Memoire
2.              Summary in English of the Evaluation Report by the Borrower
3.              Evaluation by the Borrower
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
COTE D'IVOIRE
FORESTRY SECTOR PROJECT
(Loan 3186-Cl)
Preface
1.    This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Forestry Sector
Project (FSP) for which Loan 3186 CI in the amount of US$80 million equivalent was
approved on April 3, 1990 and made effective on March 1, 1991.
2.    The loan was closed on June 30, 1996, one year beyond the original closing date of
June 30, 1995 and was fully disbursed on November 5, 1996 after cancellation of US$29
million in July 1995. Cofinancing for the project was provided by the Commonwealth
Development Corporation (CDC).
3.    The ICR was prepared by a joint FAO/CP-World Bank mission' which visited the
country in November/December 1996 and reviewed by Giuseppe Topa, Jean-Paul Chausse,
Madani M. Tall (AFTA3), Cyprian Fisiy (AFTEI), J. Chevallier (AFTS3), and Hans
Binswanger (AFTAE). The borrower contributed to the preparation of the ICR by arranging
field visits and meetings, providing data and information as well as comments on the
mission's aide-memoire. The borrower has reviewed and supports the views expressed in the
present report. In addition, the borrower has provided its own final evaluation report, which
is included as appendix to the ICR. The cofinancier has also reviewed the report but has no
specific comments to offer.
H. Trupke (Mission Leader, FAO); G. Topa (National Resources Management, W.B.); J.P. Chausse
(Technical Manager, W.B.); C. Fisiy (Sociologist, W.B.); S. Mohammed and L. Gbeli (Resource persons,
W.B.).






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
COTE D'IVOIRE
FORESTRY SECTOR PROJECT
(Loan 3186-Cl)
Evaluation Summary
1.   Introduction. The project was the third Bank project in support of the country's
forestry sector. The First and Second Forestry Projects (Ln-1735-IVC of 1979 and Ln-2496-
IVC of 1985) mostly supported the establishment of industrial forests. Under the Second
Forestry Project the Government launched the preparation of a "Plan Directeur Forestier
(1988-201 55' (PDF), together with an Emergency Action Program (EAP) which included an
array of measures to stop deforestation and improve the conservation of the country's
remaining forest resources. The Bank agreed to financially support the action program
contained in the EAP and approved an advance under the Project Preparatory Facility (PPF).
The resulting project was seen as a first phase of a long term development program to
implement the Government of Cote d'Ivoire's (GCI) Plan Directeur Forestier (PDF).
Project Objectives
2.    Project Objectives. The objectives of the Forestry Sector Project were to stop
destruction of the rain forest, ensure sustainable production in the timber industry, improve
the efficiency of the domestic wood processing industry, protect national parks, and promote
better coordination between the agriculture and forestry sectors. The project objectives were
clear, realistic and most relevant to the country and the sector. Nevertheless the project came
under attack by some environmentally concerned Non-Governmental Organizations (NGOs),
mainly fearing that the project would result in involuntary resettlement and opening up of
forests to commercial logging, fears that, however, were proven unfounded.
3.    The project included: a) demarcation of the limits, and improved surveillance, of 1.5
million ha of gazetted forests, management plans for 700,000 ha of these forests, of which
500,000 ha were to be managed by private companies under long-term contracts, and
preparationof detailed land-use and agricultural developmentplans for the buffer zone of one
gazetted forest; b) upkeep of about 55,000 ha of existing forest plantations and establishment
of 9,000 ha of new plantations to complete programs initiated under the First and Second
Forestry Projects; c) related infrastructure and protection of the Comoe National Park; d)
research in natural forest management, industrial plantation techniques, agroforestry,
regeneration of vegetative cover, prevention of bush fires, effects of deforestation on the
climate, and non-wood forest products; e) additional infrastructure for forestry training
schools at Bouafle and Banco, as well as the incremental operating costs of these schools;
and f) strengthening of the technical capabilities of the Ministry of Agriculture, Waters and



- ii -
Forests (MINAGREF, now MINAGRA), the parastatal organization responsible for
plantations and natural forest management (SODEFOR), and the Directorate for the Control
of Public Works (DCGTx, now BNETD) through technical assistance, training and
equipment.
4.    Project Costs and financing. At appraisal total project cost were estimated at
US$147.8 million (including taxes and duties of US$35.3). A Bank loan in the amount of
US$80 million was approved on April 3, 1990 and made effective on March 1, 1991.
Implementation Experience and Results
5.    The project had a slow start-up. It was appraised in July 1988 and negotiations took
place in July 1989, when it was agreed to increase the Bank Loan from US$60.5 million to
US$80.0 million. Due mainly to difficulties within the Government of Cote d'Ivoire in
defining project implementation responsibilities and meeting counterpart funding
conditionalities, the loan became effective only on March 1, 1991 i.e. nearly three years after
appraisal. The late signing of the Commonwealth Development Corporation (CDC)
agreement delayed start-up of the industrial plantation component until early 1993.
6.    The resulting disbursement lag was accentuated by the initially poor implementation
progress due mainly to institutional weakness and persistent uncertainties over project
implementation responsibilities as well as substantial delays in the procurement of goods and
services. By mid-term review (June 1994) only about US$21 million were actually
disbursed. Subsequently US$29 million of the loan was canceled and the closing date
extended by one year. The revised loan amount of US$51 million was fully disbursed on
November 5, 1996. Total project cost have been reestimated at US$77.4 million (excluding
duties and taxes), a counterpart contribution of US$20.8 million and cofinancing by CDC of
about US$5.6 million.
7.    The Bank mounted six full supervision missions including a mid-term review and a
number of thematic missions, which is considered hardly sufficient given the nature and
complexity of the project. The Bank reacted positively to the borrowers' needs by extending
the loan closing date, but could not always maintain updated information over project
expenditures in view of the weakness of the project's financial reporting. Bank procedures
were sometimes considered burdensome by the borrower. Its own performance also was not
always satisfactory mainly due to late and insufficient counterpart funding and late
compliance with financial reporting requirements. The performance of contractors and
supplies was generaliy satisfactory, but many contractors suffered delays due to the
devaluation of the CFA Franc in January 1994. The borrower appreciated the allocation for
training but found that only about 50 percent of the technical assistance has performed in a
useful and satisfactory manner.
8.    Beside the above indicated changes in project cost and financing also considerable
changes in institutional responsibilities took place.  Initially, project implementation
responsibility was wide spread mainly between MINAGREF (now MINAGRA), SODEFOR



- 111 -
and DCGTx (now BNETD) leading to internal rivalries, overlaps, gaps and a slow down of
activities for bureaucratic reasons. The Government of Cote d'Ivoire's decision to make
SODEFOR solely responsible for gazetted forests and at the time phasing out the role of
DCGTx in project implementation greatly helped to overcome implementation problems.
This decision was supported by the provision of adequate counterpart funding to SODEFOR,
whilst the counterpart funding situation of MINAGRA remained critical throughout the
project, affecting its work program.
9.   In line with its new mandate SODEFOR evolved from an organization dealing with
industrial plantations into the managing agent for vast areas of gazetted forests for production
and environmental protection. Furthermore in 1993 its status was changed from Government
institution into a state company but following private sector management principles.
SODEFOR continued to behave in a bureaucratic manner, however, at the same time rapidly
expanding, with operating and investment costs increasing from CFA francs 5.6 billion in
1991 to over CFA francs 21.2 billion in 1997/8, and a forecast of CFA francs 22.6 billion by
the year 2003/4, far in excess of revenues, due mainly to the insufficient productivity of the
gazetted forests in their present state. Unless GCI continues to provide complementary
funding (including external assistance) SODEFOR's operation in its present form is
unsustainable.
10.   With the benefit of hindsight, the assigned task (take control and manage all gazetted
forests in the country) was too vast and too general for SODEFOR to undertake successfully.
As a result, the agency focused almost exclusively on the achievement of physical targets.
Appraisal targets have been achieved or even exceeded with the full demarcation of 1.9
million ha including the opening of 2,364 km of limits and their replanting (1,730 km)
mostly with teak and gmelina. Mechanized clearing prevailed initially but was gradually
replaced by manual operations which will be mostly used in the future.
Inventories/management plans were prepared for over 1.2 million ha, over 9,400 km
(cumulative) of forest roads were maintained, 3,135 km rehabilitated, 1,179 km of new tracks
were constructed and over 2,040,000 ha were covered by aerial photography. For 18 forests
draft restructuring/resettlementplans were drawn up. Cofinanced by CDC a total of 10,069
ha of new industrial plantations were established and maintenance of previous plantations
continued.
11.   SODEFOR, however, failed to address the complex socio-economic issues
surrounding the presence and continuous infiltration of illegal occupants in gazetted forests.
Although at appraisal the order of magnitude of the problem was unknown, it was a major
objective to halt and even revert the damage caused by encroachment and illegal
felling/logging. To facilitate the process of removing illegal settlers from the forests and to
resettle them in the surrounding areas, Commissions Paysans Forets (CPF) were established
to serve as a platform of dialogue between the Government and the affected population.
These resettlement programs were twined with a program of agricultural intensification with
the aim to generally enhance productivity in the buffer zones surrounding gazetted forests
and to give support to resettlers in particular. In spite of these efforts less than 100 families



- Iv -
out of an estimated 43,000 illegal farm households were partially transferred. Trials by
providing farmers with alternative plots (5 ha each) as incentive also proved unviable.
12.   The project, however, did manage to substantially slow down infiltration. Very few,
extremely well controlled logging operations, and hardly any new encroachments took place
during the period 1992 to 1993. Encroachment restarted in mid 1994 when devaluation of
the Franc CFA provided new incentives for cash crop production in the forest zone, and the
electoral climate weakened the political will of state institutions to resist encroachment. This
demonstrates that the achievements are fragile and can quickly succumb to external pressure.
13.   MINAGRA benefited mainly from  the establishment of a well functioning
Monitoring and Evaluation Unit. Also about 50 percent of the forestry schools program was
implemented and some support given to the Comoe Park. The research and study program
had only been a partial success due mainly to its delayed start-up, not yet allowing the
translation of findings and recommendations into concrete action plans.
14.   The project has contributed to improve the efficiency of the domestic wood
processing industry and was instrumental in creating a favorable environment for debate
between Government agencies, the private sector and the civil society. It has created
awareness that the conservation and sustainable management of the country's forest is a
central developmental, environmental and economic issue that calls for urgent action and
solutions. In light of the above findings the project's outcome is rated as satisfactory. This
assessment can be made also in the absence of proper economic reevaluation for the project
as a whole, which has not been attempted. Such a recalculation would have been highly
speculative as, vis-a-vis SAR estimates, no new technical parameters have emerged which
would allow to prove or disprove the initial assumptions.
Summary of Findings, Future Operations and Key Lessons Learned
15.   The most important finding of the project is that protection and management of
natural forests requires much more than just the establishment of the institutional framework
and provision of related infrastructure. The complex socio-economic aspects require
considerable negotiative work, a close collaboration between stakeholders with special
attention to those at grassroots level.  Implementation experience has furthermore
demonstrated that a holistic approach to the problem is required not placing the onus -on a
single agency but fostering especially the vertical coordination between all
agencies/institutions concerned with agricultural development, and by not tackling natural
forests in isolation but in the broader context of the rural economy as a whole.
16.   The Government of C6te d'Ivoire and the international donor community remain
strongly committed to preserve the country's natural forests and biodiversity and restore
forest cover. In the future, major emphasis should be given to consolidate achievement and
complete ongoing programs including the gradual easing out of illegal forest occupants.
Major efforts would have to be made to improve SODEFOR's accounting system and
budgetary position through cost savings and the development of additional sources of



- v -
revenue, whilst at the same time the roles and functions of the local CPF's need to be
reviewed, integrating them more closely in the process of forest management and protection.
Also MINAGRA's capacity to manage the various parks needs to be enhanced and further
investments (eventually under the Projet Communautaire de Gestion des Aires Protegeies)
(PCGAP)) are required.
17.   Agricultural pressure on forest areas must be reduced, especially through an
accelerated program of agricultural intensification, and adequate pricing policies. These
activities could be twined with a program to promote on farm tree planting, and supported by
action to clarify and safeguard traditional and modem land tenure rights.
18.   The major lessons to be drawn from project implementation experience are that:
(a)   project objectives and implementation responsibilities need to be as specific
as possible, but project design should be tlexible enough to allow adjustments
if and when required;
(b)   project monitoring and evaluation should critically review the work program
of the implementing agencies to ensure its focus on the achievement of long-
term objectives, at the same time keeping tight control over the program of
work and financial performance;
(c)   protection and management of natural forests including resettlement of illegal
settlers is a long term process of considerable socio-economic complexity
requiring mutual understanding of the prerogatives of the various parties
involved including policy makers, implementing agencies and affected
population. In order to be sustainable, action programs have to be based on
negotiated terms agreed by all stakeholders (including the private sector) and
supported by adequate measures to create a favorable incentive framework.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
COTE D'IVOIRE
FORESTRY SECTOR PROJECT
(Loan 3186-Cl)
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATIONASSESSMENT
1.   Introduction. The forests of C6te d'Ivoire have always played a vital part in the
economic development of the country. Their exploitation has generated substantial foreign
exchange earnings and employment in the logging and timber processing industry and they
have met the country's needs for fuelwood and construction timber. Under increasing
population pressure, however, deforestation has accelerated rapidly caused mainly by
agricultural encroachment and, partly, by unsustainable logging of valuable timber species.
2.   In 1985, the Government of C6te d'Ivoire (GCI), with Bank assistance under a
Forestry Sector Project, launched the preparation of a Forestry Master Plan (Plan Directeur
Forestier (PDF)) to define a comprehensive, long-term strategy for the management of the
forestry sector. The PDF was issued in 1988, together with an Emergency Action Program
1988-1995 (EAP) including an array of measures to stop deforestation and improve the
conservation of the country's remaining forest resources. On the basis of its EAP, the
Government requested the FAO/World Bank Cooperative Program to identify a specific
project for external financing.  The Bank approved an advance under the Project
Preparation Facility (PPF) to support detailed project preparation and implementation of
urgent protection measures for selected natural forests. The project was appraised in July
1988 with the participation of the Commonwealth Development Corporation (CDC) and
the Canadian International Development Agency (CIDA), and negotiated in July 1989.
The loan was approved on April 3, 1990, made effective on March 1, 1991 and closed on
June 30, 1996, one year beyond the original closing date.
Statement and Evaluation of Objectives
3.    Project Objectives and Components. The project covered the Forest Region where
most of the remaining forests are located. The main objective of the project was to assist
the Government of Cote d'Ivoire (GCI) in implementing the main activities outlined in the
EAP i.e. to: a) stop the destruction of the rain forest; b) ensure a sustainable production of
industrial timber through improved management of natural forest, and development and
improved husbandry of industrial plantations; c) improve the efficiency of the domestic
wood processing industry; d) protect the country's national parks; and e) promote a better
management of the interface between agriculture and forestry.



-2 -
4.    The project objectives were clear, and most relevant to the country and the sector.
The project was ambitious as it aimed at tackling, for the first time, all dimensions of the
forestry problem in a comprehensive and integrated approach. As a result, the project was
demanding for the borrower and complex as it consisted of numerous components with a
large geographical coverage. Despite its laudable objectives, the project was initially
heavily criticized by some environmentally concerned NGOs, on the grounds that it would
result in heavy involuntary resettlement and in the opening up of protected forests to
commercial logging. As project implementation experience has proven, these fears were
unfounded.
5.    The project was seen as a first phase of a long-term development program to
implement the Government's PDF. In order to achieve its objectives the project has
provided funding for an extensive action program comprised of the following components:
(a)  The demarcation and improved surveillance of 1.5 million ha of gazetted
forests; the preparation and implementation of management plans for
700,000 ha of these forests, of which 500,000 ha would be managed by
private companies under long-term contracts; the preparation of a
detailed land-use and agricultural development plan for the buffer zone of
one gazetted forest; and incremental agricultural inputs to help farmers
intensify agriculture in the buffer zones.
(b)  The upkeep of about 55,000 ha of existing forest plantations and the
establishment of 9,000 ha of new plantations to complete the planting
program of the First and Second Forestry Projects.
(c)  Complementary infrastructure and protection measures for the Comoe
National Park.
(d)  Additional infrastructure for the Forestry Training Schools at Bouafle
and Banco, and their incremental operating costs.
(e)  Research in natural forest management, industrial plantation techniques,
agro-forestry, regeneration of vegetative cover, prevention of bush fires
on the effects of deforestation on the climate and on secondary forest
products.
(f)  The strengthening of the technical capabilities of the Ministry of
Agriculture, Waters and Forests (MINAGREF - now MINAGRA), the
parastatal organization responsible for plantations and natural forest
management (SODEFOR), and of the Directorate for the Control of
Public Works (DCGTx - now BNETD) through technical assistance,
training and equipment.
(g) The establishment of a unit in BNETD to supervise, monitor, and
evaluate the project.



-3-
The project was also to support GCI's efforts in implementing policy reforms aimed at
improving the forestry tax regime, rationalizing the system for logging and log exports,
improving resettlement policies, and restructuring public enterprises operating in the
sector.
Achievement of Project Objectives
6.    Demarcation and Surveillance. Appraisal targets have been exceeded with the full
demarcation of 1.9 million ha including the opening of 2,364 km of limits and their
replanting (1,730 km) mostly with teak and gmelina. Mechanized clearing prevailed
initially but was gradually replaced by manual operations, which will be mostly used in the
future. Inventories were prepared for over 1.2 million ha with zoning and forest
management plans drawn up for 18 forests, over 9,400 km (cumulative) of forest roads
were maintained, 3,135 km rehabilitated and 1,179 km of new tracks were constructed. In
addition over 2,040,000 ha were covered by aerial photography.
7.    In line with Government's objective, a substantial part of the component aimed at
progressively relocating illegal settlers from gazetted forests. At appraisal the order of
magnitude of the illegal settlement was unknown and no survey was carried out prior to
appraisal. Only in 1994 a census was carried out which identified about 43,000 families in
the project forests (out of over 60,000 illegal settler families in all gazetted forests).
8.     From 1992 the Commissions Paysans Forets - CPF- (69 in total, of which 48 in the
project's forests) were established. Chaired at divisional level by the Prefect, the CPFs
consist of representatives from SODEFOR and delegates elected from each of the villages
surrounding gazetted forests and from among communities located in the forest as well as
the extension service. These CPF's were to serve as a platform for dialogue between the
Government and the affected populations with the aim of jointly developing acceptable
solutions to the problem of illegal encroachment.
9.    The resettlement of forest colonizers was the responsibility of the SODEFOR. The
resettlement strategy was characterized by: a) negotiation of replacement land with
adjoining communities; b) imposition of agricultural intensification to accompany land
allocation; and c) lack of flexibility and alternatives to the resettlement options chosen.
For these and other reasons, less than 100 families were relocated by the end of the project.
10.   The failure of the resettlement program can be attributed first and foremost to
farmer resistance to give up plantations and habitats but also to others factors including: (a)
influence of traditional law on land tenure; (b) lack of freely available land of comparable
quality; (c) inadequate inventories and means to follow-up illegal settlements; (d)
inexperience of SODEFOR in voluntary resettlement; (e) lack of convincing research
results for alternative/intensified agriculture; and (f) inadequate information and extension
support.



- 4 -
11.   Zones were identified within the gazetted forests to "stabilize" existing plantations
and settlements.  These zones were called series agricoles.  Only plantations and
settlements located outside the series agricoles were to be relocated. Trials in inducing
farmers to voluntarily move out of the forest by providing them with a 5 ha plot in the
buffer zone at the periphery of the forest have demonstrated that this approach is
insufficiently flexible, paternalistic and financially unsustainable. From the limited
experience gained (Tene pilot project) in the implementation of resettlement, the cost of
displacement per household is about CFA francs 250.000. The present arrangements of
allowing illegal settlers to continue the exploitation of their plantation during a transition
period before new plantations come into production does not provide the appropriate
guarantee that the illegal settlers will abandon their farms at the stipulated deadline. The
failure of the resettlement sub-component which was linked to the program in support of
agricultural intensification made the latter redundant.
12.   As a test, the original project design included the management of selected gazetted
forests in collaboration with private forest companies. Three companies were selected for a
trial period of two years. Results were inconclusive because the test was carried out
without first establishing a clear understanding of each parties' objectives and concerns.
The approach to cooperation was developed unilaterally by SODEFOR in an agreement
involving regulated logging and creation of forest management infrastructure by private
companies. Companies did not participate in the selection of the forest areas, nor in
planning and did not fully understand SODEFOR's long-term goals or the significance of
the technical parameters they were to respect in their logging operations. Most importantly,
the companies' primary concern was to ensure long-term access to wood for processing
and commercial activities; this was not addressed by the agreement. Similarly, SODEFOR
was not sure of the companies' commitment to sustainable management and sylvicultural
improvements in the forest, did not feel sufficiently protected against poor performance,
and was unsure that firms would respect the terms of the agreement. When the contracts
reached their expiration date, they were discontinued.
13.   Industrial Plantations. In spite of a delayed start, over 10,000 ha were planted
(mostly teak) and previously established plantations were maintained. Approximately
US$4 million of the CDC loan remained undisbursed by Bank loan closing and the
Government has requested CDC to use the remainder for future additional plantings and
maintenance to which CDC has agreed.
14.   Comoe National Park. The component consisted originally of only one activity
namely the provision of infrastructure, vehicles and equipment for the park. During project
execution a second sub-component was added including studies for the formulation of a
new policy and investment program for the management of protected areas. Due to various
delays, the revised program was not implemented. Only an emergency action plan for
Comoe was finally financed in a substantially scaled down manner (about 10 percent of
appraisal estimate).
2The program accouned for over US$25 illion or about 17percent of SAR proect costestimate
2The program accounted for over US$25 million or about 17 percent of SAR project cost estimate.



15.   Forestry Training Schools. Infrastructure works for the school at Bouafle were
almost completed, but the lack of furniture, training material and equipment will seriously
affect future operation of the school and quality of training. On the warning of the World
Wildlife Foundation (WWF), the rehabilitation and expansion of the school at Banco was
discontinued due to environmental concerns.
16.   Research and Studies. Although with some delay, the research program was
implemented as planned. The preliminary results are considered useful and have already
partly been translated into action programs. Unfortunately the agro-forestry research,
essential for the resettlement program has started late and conclusive results are not yet
available. Most of the studies were carried out as planned but in some cases the delays
were such that by project closing only rough drafts were available requiring additional time
for finalization. As a consequence findings and recommendations have not yet been
translated into an action program. This is particularly unfortunate in the case of the study
on fiscal policy for the forestry sector, as the improvement of the present fiscal policy is
expected to considerably enhance Government revenues.
17.  Institutional Strengthening.  The component was to finance a total of 47
person/years of technical assistance, 16 person/months of short-term consultancies, staff
training and equipment as well as a management audit for SODEFOR. As planned, the
management audit was carried out in 1991, a total of 29 person/years of technical
assistance and 19 person/months of short-term consultancies were utilized. According to
the assessment of the various agencies the performance of the TA personnel was mixed
with only about 50 percent being considered satisfactory. In general their impact on the
project was considered as not justifying the cost involved in training programs.
Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project
18.  Implementation Record. The project had a slow start. It was appraised in July 1988.
In light of the then existing uncertainty over cofinancing arrangements for the forest
demarcation and surveillance component and the additionally identified need for incremental
agricultural inputs, it was agreed during negotiations to increase the Bank Loan from
US$60.5 million to US$80.0 million. Although negotiations were completed in July 1989,
Board presentation had to be postponed until April 1990, because of difficulties within the
Government of C6te d'Ivoire. The loan became effective on March 1, 1991 due to delays in
fulfilling the agreed effectiveness requirements.
19.   The resulting disbursement lag was accentuated by the initially poor implementation
progress due to persistent uncertainties over project implementation responsibilities, as well
as delays in procurement (para. 29). At mid-term review (June 1994), as only about US$21
million had been actually disbursed against an SAR estimated of US$66 million, it was
recommended to reduce the loan amount. These recommendations were reflected in the
second amendment to the Loan Agreement (August 1995), resulting in the cancellation of
US$29 million as well as the reallocation of loan proceeds between existing categories. The



- 6 -
closing date was extended by one year mostly to complete essential works, allow the
purchase of additional vehicles and equipment and continue the study program. Further
changes were formalized with the third amendment to the Loan Agreement (June 1996).
20.   The revised loan amount of US$51 million was fully disbursed by November 5, 1996.
Total project cost have been reestimated at US$77.4 million, a counterpart contribution of
US$20.8 million and cofinancing by CDC of about US$5.6 million. (Annex: Tables 8A and
8B).
21.   Beside these changes in project cost and financing considerable changes in
institutional responsibilities also took place. Initially, project implementation responsibility
was widely distributed among MINAGREF, SODEFOR and DCGTx, leading to internal
rivalries, overlaps, gaps and a slow down of activities for bureaucratic reasons. GCI's
decision to make SODEFOR solely responsible for natural forests (decree of February 13,
1992) and at the same time phase out the role of DCGTx in project implementation greatly
helped to overcome implementation problems. The change in emphasis is also reflected in
the utilization of the Bank loan, with nearly 90 percent by SODEFOR, 8 percent by
MINAGRA and the remaining 2 percent by the DCGTx.
22.   The project called for fundamental changes in the structure, operations, approaches
and work programs of the project agencies. SODEFOR was to evolve from an organization
dealing with industrial plantations into the managing agent for vast areas of natural forest
for production and environmental protection. In order to enhance its presence in the field
SODEFOR decentralized and opened five field offices (Abengourou, Agboville, Bouake,
Daloa and Gagnoa) covering 27 forestry divisions, subdivided into 76 sectors with a
present total staff strength of about 1,170 persons. In 1993, SODEFOR's status was
changed from that of a Government agency to a state company following private sector
management principles, allowing for more independent decision making, but also
increasing operating costs due to an adjustment of salary scales to private sector levels.
23.   While SODEFOR acquired the technical skills necessary to fulfill its new mandate,
the assigned task (take control and manage all gazetted forests in the country) was too vast
and too general for SODEFOR to undertake successfully. Not fully utilizing its semi-
autonomous status, SODEFOR tended to behave in a bureaucratic manner and focused
almost exclusively on the achievement of physical targets. Efforts to achieve financial self-
sufficiency were systematically placed within a long-term perspective, and research into
cost-effective solutions became a secondary preoccupation.
24.   SODEFOR's operating cost increased from CFA francs 3.7 billion in 1991 to over
CFA francs 12.6 billion in 1996/97. Unless current trends are modified, it is expected that
operating costs will exceed CFA francs 15.5 billion by 2003/4. Similarly, investment costs
rose during the same period from FCAF 1.9 billion to CFA francs 8.6 billion, and are
forecast to stabilize at CFA francs 7.1 billion by 2003/4. In contrast, revenues amounted to
only about CFA francs 10.3 billion in 1996 and are calculated to reach about CFA francs
14.3 billion by the year 2004, indicating a potential net deficit even if investment costs are



- 7 -
not taken into account. This deficit issue has to be addressed by the Government,
particularly since in the coming ten years, SODEFOR's efforts will be primarily devoted to
forest rehabilitation and protection, with only a minor emphasis on forest commercial
logging and income generation.
25.   The major problems with implementation of forest management plans (para. 6)
stemmed from the project's inability to address the complex socioeconomic issues
surrounding the presence of illegal occupants in gazetted forests. While the complexity of
the problem was well understood early in the project, emphasis continued to be placed on
implementation of works. Training of project staff to help overcome the socioeconomic
challenges faced by the project was insufficient in terms of quantity and quality. Extension
and patrolling inside the forest was carried out with little interaction with local settlers to
try to understand their problems and identify solutions. Discussions and negotiations
involving foresters, local people and local authorities were limited. No adaptive research
was carried out by the project and no specialist was employed to systematically address
the socioeconomic issues faced by the project. Instead, a blanket approach was adopted for
all forests; few variations were introduced based upon local specificity and accrued
experience. Despite the creation of "commissions paysans-foret", the quality and quantity
of consultation with forest dwellers remained inadequate through the end of the project.
Major Factors Affecting the Project
26.   Factors Not Generally Subject to Government Control. The project was appraised
on the basis of preparatory work done by FAO/CP and in collaboration with CDC, the
latter providing cofinancing for the industrial plantations component (para. 13). The fact
that the necessary cofinancing agreement was not signed by CDC until late 1992 delayed
the start up of operations by nearly 2 years. WWF's warning against the improvement of
the Banco Forestry School, on environmental grounds, impeded the implementation of this
sub-component (para. 15).
27.   Factor Subject to Government Control. As indicated, Board presentation and loan
effectiveness were delayed due to difficulties within GCI in defining project
implementation responsibilities and in meeting effectiveness conditions especially those of
counterpart financing. Those difficulties continued to prevail throughout the start-up phase
and major improvement took only place once SODEFOR was given sole implementation
responsibility and its counterpart funding situation assured from sales receipts. The
counterpart funding situation of MINAGRA, remained precarious throughout.
28.   Factors Generally Subject to Implementing Agency Control. The slowness and
hesitations of the Park's Department of MINAGRA to respond to the re-defined
requirements for the funding of the parks sub-component resulted in lack of field action
and under-disbursement of the loan (para. 14).
29.   The fact that initially SODEFOR took an unduly long period for the tendering
process delayed the procurement of goods and services by up to 12 months (para. 19).



-8 -
Inadequate attention was paid to creating and using suitable financial management tools.
As a result, financial commitments for supplies, works and services were ultimately made
in excess of the funds available for SODEFOR.
30.   In general the performance of contractors and suppliers was satisfactory. Many
contracts, however, suffered delays due to the devaluation of the CFA francs in January
1994 necessitating financial adjustments and re-negotiations. This particularly affected the
supply of vehicles but also the construction of the forestry base stations. Some orders
which were placed in 1996 had to be canceled due to non-delivery by the time of loan
closing. Only about half of the technical assistance provided under the project was
considered to have performed satisfactory.
Project Sustainability
31.   The project's future depends almost entirely on SODEFOR's capacity to focus
technically and financially on specific priority objectives. If current trends are maintained,
SODEFOR's operating costs alone will continue to exceed its revenues for the next ten
years, and the project's approach would be financially unsustainable (para. 24). SODEFOR
must streamline its operations and develop more cost effective measures for the
management of gazetted forests in collaboration with the concerned population in and
around these forests, and with the private sector. In addition, the agency would have to
actively explore complementary and alternative ways to generate sustainably additional
revenues.
32.   The funds originally allocated for the parks sub-component were to complete
rehabilitation works carried out in the Comoe National Park under the World Bank
financed Second Tourism Project (closed in 1988).  It is reported that since then,
considerable infiltration and illegal wood harvesting has taken place. MINAGRA's funds,
organization and commitment proved to be inadequate to tackle the task of park
management and rehabilitation (para. 14). The component is therefore unsustainable
without the support from external sources including the PCGAP.
33.   Overall, further external support (under a possible PSF II) is necessary to sustain
and consolidate the still fragile achievements of the project.
Bank Performance
34.   The Bank has played a dominant role in project preparation, since the then main
Government counterpart agency (DCGTx) was not particularly familiar with forestry sector
operations. In designing the project insufficient attention was paid to the socioeconomic as
well as complexity and political relevance of resettlement, the order of magnitude of the
problem, the technical issues involved, and the time frame needed for achieving results
was seriously underestimated. Project design also failed to give sufficient consideration to
pressure shifting from the protected gazetted forests to other forested areas.



- 9 -
35.   During implementation the Bank fielded six full supervision missions (Table 13)
and a number of thematic missions. This is hardly sufficient given the nature and
complexity of the project. The location in Abidjan of the Bank staff responsible for the
project's follow-up proved to be useful. The Bank reacted positively to the borrower's
needs by extending the loan closing date. However, as the project gained momentum, a
number of rapid decisions had to be made on disbursements and on reallocation of funds
between various categories. This sometimes resulted in a lack of adequate information over
the overall project expenditures. The borrower expressed satisfaction with the support
provided by the Bank but felt that the Bank's procedures were sometimes burdensome.
Borrower's Performance
36.   The borrowers' performance improved substantially after a clear institutional
framework was established for project implementation. The Government's decision
allowing SODEFOR to use sales returns for counterpart funding removed a major
implementation constraint. In the case of MINAGRA, the situation, however, remained
critical throughout the project period and the lack of counterpart funds affected the
implementation of the work program. The borrower complied, often with substantial
delays, and only after several reminders, with financial reporting covenants (Table 10)
resulting in overdue project accounts, SOE audits and special account audits, indicating
serious weaknesses in the financial monitoring systems.
Assessment of Outcome
37.   The project has achieved (or even exceeded) most of its major physical objectives,
i.e. forest inventories, perimeters planting, reforestation, new industrial plantings and
forestry infrastructure.  In addition one half of the forestry schools program  was
implemented and some support given to the Comoe Park. The research and study program
has only been a partial success due mainly to its delayed start-up, not yet allowing the
translation of findings and recommendations into concrete action plans
(Table 7).
38.   On the institutional front considerable progress has been made. Although the
project's impact on MINAGRA as a whole appears negligible, its monitoring and
evaluation capabilities have considerably increased, but are still suffering from weaknesses
due mainly to a lack of formal linkages with other agencies and departments. SODEFOR
has emerged as a much stronger agency, present and equipped on the ground with
matching capacities and capabilities at headquarters. However, its inability to cover
operating expenditures remains a serious issue. By far the most important achievement in
terms of institution building were: a) SODEFOR's better understanding of the complex
social issues related to illegal forest encroachment, b) SODEFOR relinquishing the option
of evicting illegal settlers by force, and c) the start of a process of negotiations with the
affected populations through the creation of the CPF as a link between Government and
farmers. Although not foreseen at appraisal, the establishment of the CPFs has helped to
ease tension and created at a basis for dialogue.



-10-
39.   The objective of arresting the destruction of the rain forest was partially achieved.
Very few, extremely well controlled logging operations, and hardly any new
encroachments took place during the period 1992 to 1993. Encroachment restarted in mid-
1994 when the devaluation of the CFA franc provided new incentives for cash crops
production in the forest zone, and the electoral climate weakened the political will of state
institutions to resist encroachment. According to preliminary estimates, only about 12,000
ha were encroached during the period 1992 to 1996. This compares very favorably with
the prior ten year annual estimated averages of about 50,000 ha It also demonstrates,
however, that the achievements are fragile and can quickly succumb to external pressure.
40.   The resettlement program  which was predicated on the implementation of a
program for agricultural intensification could be seen as a failure of the project as less than
100 families, were transferred out of the project forests. Experience proved that the order
of magnitude of the illegal settlement problem should have been more carefully assessed
and project activities should have initially focused on a few selected forests testing
different resettlement approaches. The need for the clearance of illegal settlers and a
resettlement policy were agreed by the Government and the Bank. Modalities for
implementation of the resettlement program were left open. This flexibility proved
appropriate as the project was to tackle a large number of different candidates for
relocation, dispersed through a large number of forests, thus requiring variable approaches.
The experience gained under the project will be useful for follow-up projects/programs.
41.   The project has contributed to improve the efficiency of the domestic wood
processing industry, by eliminating the inefficient quota sawmills and by replacing several
thousands of temporary logging permits by a system of allocation of logging rights for 170
areas to a limited number of efficient and well-equipped operators. Much remains to be
done, however, to ensure that an appropriate fiscal policy and mechanism for sustainable
forest management are in place. The project was instrumental in creating a favorable
environment for debate between Governmental agencies, the private sector and the civil
society. It has created awareness that conservation and sustainable management of the
country's forests is a central developmental, environmental and economic issue that calls
for urgent action and solutions.
42.   For these reasons the project's outcome is rated as satisfactory. This assessment
can be made also in the absence of a full economic reevaluation for the project as a whole.
Such a reevaluation would have been highly speculative as, vis-a-vis SAR estimates, no
new technical parameters have emerged, which would allow to prove or disprove the initial
assumptions.
Future Operations
43.   The Government remains strongly committed to preserve the country's natural
forests and biodiversity, and restore forest cover. In the future, major emphasis should be
given to consolidate achievements and complete ongoing programs. In this respect the



- 11 -
maintenance of the natural forest cover in the gazetted forests will continue to be of
primary concern. Based upon the experience gained under PSF I the practice of providing
resettlers with alternative plots of land in the "buffer zones" will be discontinued, possibly
in favor of a gradual easing out of illegal forest occupants, following individually
determined time schedules and not involving any type of compensation. Tailor made
extension support will have to be provided to settlers based on proven research
recommendations, while helping create off-farm income opportunities. Priority attention
should be given to the evacuation of settlers from the series de protection3 because of the
imminent risk of permanent damage to the ecosystem followed by those in the serie de
production to maintain the economic value of the areas. The program could be initiated in
those forests for which zoning plans (plan de remembrement) have already been approved
by the respective CPF and gradually expanded to the national territory.
44.   The roles, functions and modus operandi of the CFP's should be reviewed with the
aim of enhancing their participation in forest management and protection giving the
population of the villages in the periphery of the gazetted forests the opportunity to work
hand in hand with staff from SODEFOR. Village sub-committees which have developed
in some areas are considered to be a first step in this direction, as are the forest workers
cooperatives which have been established with the help of CIDA.
45.   The present external monitoring  and evaluation  system  as maintained by
MINAGRA is considered satisfactory with regard to physical objectives but needs to be
more development objective oriented. The project's operation should continue to be
maintained (preferably within the framework of a possible PSFII project). An impact
evaluation of OED could take place in about five years' time.
46.   Increased efforts should be made to reduce SODEFOR's operating cost and
streamline investments, including the gradual shift of selected activities to the private
sector including farmers, NGOs, the CPF's and wood industries. Furthermore, new
avenues for revenue generation will have to be explored (para. 31).
47.   Agricultural pressure on forest areas will have to be reduced through an accelerated
program of agricultural intensification, and adequate pricing policies. These activities
could be twined with a program to promote on farm tree planting, and supported by action
to clarify and safeguard traditional and modern land tenure rights.
48.   MINAGRA's capacity to manage the various parks leading also to a better
utilization of their tourism potential needs to be enhanced and further investments
(eventually under the PCGAP) are required.
3 According to the prevailing internal eco-systems, areas in gazetted forests are classified into: a) series de
protection (rare and fragile ecosystems to be protected at 100 percent); b) series de production (production
forest-open for controlled exploitation); c) serie de reconstitution (areas with potential for rehabilitation);
d) serie agricole (area almost totally put to agricultural use).



- 12 -
Lessons Learned
49.   Project Objectives. Faced with overly general objectives and excessively broad
responsibilities, project implementing agencies tend to lose their capacity to make strategic
choices and search for options that will ensure cost-effectiveness (paras. 23 and 24).
Project objectives should be as specific as possible, and assigned responsibilities should be
well within the capacity of implementing agencies. When project implementation reveals
that initial objectives are exceedingly general or work programs unrealistic, projects should
be retrofitted with more realistic objectives and work programs. Monitoring and evaluation
parameters should be modified accordingly.
50.   The protection and management of gazetted forests cannot be addressed in
isolation. Concentrating financial and human resources in support of institutions and
interventions in gazetted areas (SODEFOR) increases pressure on resources located
outside gazetted forests. It is not possible to ensure forest protection and sustainable
management if the broader context is not considered. Land use needs to be improved in
gazetted and non-gazetted rural areas. Institution strengthening needs to take place in a
balanced manner, helping the various institutions involved in gazetted and other rural areas
develop in a balanced mutually reinforcing manner.
51.   Implementing Agencies. It is necessary to continuously adjust project approaches
to needs identified through implementation. Once the importance of the socioeconomic
problems had been clarified, SODEFOR should have reallocated more human and financial
resources on developing locally-appropriate solutions, creating special training and recall
courses for general staff and staff specialized in negotiating agreements with forest
dwellers, and establishing well-structured public information programs to clarify and
sustain the project objectives (para. 25).
52.   Implementing agencies have a tendency to become self-serving, giving priority to
activities that they control and from which they benefit. Hence they may concentrate on
creation of infrastructure, studies, acquisition of equipment and training of staff while
placing less emphasis on more challenging interventions critical to long-term success.
Project effectiveness should constantly be reviewed and measured against long-term
project objectives and goals. It is possible to implement successfully a large number of
project activities, and still have a limited impact on the key problems being addressed.
Implementing agencies that have broad mandates and work programs should be assisted to
develop skills to plan strategically, and to assess various options and scenarios.
53.   Continuous attention should be paid to the adequacy and performance of financial
management tools. Financial information produced by the project should be systematically
utilized in strategic planning and decision-making by the concerned agency (para. 23).
54.   Stakeholder Participation. The structure of the CPF, which shows a bias in favor of
institutional sources of power (prefects, traditional chiefs, party officials, etc.), does not
lend itself to an efficient co-management framework with the enforcement of rights and



- 13 -
obligations of the different stakeholders. There is need to review the representation of the
different groups of stakeholders to ensure effective interaction between all those implicated
in the management of the resource base (para. 25).
55.   Public goods such as gazetted forests are threatened when economic or political
pressures increase. The experience of the project indicates that systematic sensitization of
local judges, prefects and authorities accompanied by massive public information
campaigns on the status, boundaries and rules prevailing in gazetted forests are effective
means by which to withstand external forces (para. 25). Experience also indicates that for
projects dealing with public goods, commitment to project objectives should be
continuously sought, and checked at the highest levels of ruling and opposing political
forces and within grassroots organizations and stakeholder groups (para. 44).
56.   Resettlement. The movement from forceful eviction from the forest, prior to the
CPFs, to a co-management strategy requires consciousness raising and confidence building
measures (para. 38). These could be partially achieved through the forest work contracts
and other participatory mechanisms which enlist the involvement of local communities in
the management of the forest domain. The beneficiary populations need to realize that they
could earn a livelihood and improve their quality of life through a rational management of
the forest and rural domain.
57.   SODEFOR's strategy of negotiating replacement land in adjoining areas for the
resettlers has been a major bottleneck. This approach distorts local mechanisms for access
to land in societies where land markets have not been developed. SODEFOR should allow
individual families to identify and negotiate for their replacement land (paras. 1 0 and 11).
58.   The failure to implement the management plans is closely associated with
SODEFOR's strategy to ensure that agricultural intensification accompanies the
resettlement of people living in gazetted areas. This has not worked and the SODEFOR
should de-link its resettlement program from that of agricultural intensification (para. 1 1).
59.   Depending upon the situation, relocation may or may not be a suitable response to
problems with local forest protection and management. PSF experience demonstrated that
much of the knowledge needed to develop solutions acceptable to the Government and
local people cannot be gathered prior to project initiation. The PSF approach provided
sufficient flexibility to adapt the original relocation ambitions of the project to the reality
of the situation. The fact that, after five years of implementation PSF has been unable to
elucidate a clear solution to the wide range of resettlement problems is additional evidence
that attempts to fully resolve issues and approve relocation plans prior and as a condition
for project initiation are inappropriate (paras 10, 1 1 and 39).
60.   Working with the private sector. Agreements for cooperative forest management
should be developed by the concerned parties in collaboration and partnership. Each group
must understand the other's priorities, concerns, and need for security and guarantees prior
to initiating action (paras. 12, 15 and 25).



- 14 -
PART II: STATISTICAL ANNEXES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievementof Objectives               Substantial         Partial           Ne2lieible         Not applicable
Macro Policies                          E                  El                  E]
SectorPolicies                          E                                        l                  El
Financial Objectives                     5                  a                                       5
Institutioial Development                E3                                    1=                   El
Physical Objectives                                         5                   5                   5
Poverty Reduction                        5                  E                   5
Gender Issues                            n                  o                   a 
Other Social Objectives                  n                 1                   E3
EnvironmentalObjectives                 n                                      11
Public Sector Management                                    5                   5                   5
Private Sector Development               5                                      5                   5
Other (specify)                          n                  5                   5
B. ProjectSustainabilitv                     Likely                     Unlikely                      Uncertain
(/)                          (1)                            (/)



- 15 -
(Continued)
HighIy
C. Bank Performance                          satisfactory             Satisfactorv                   Deficient
(V)                         (/)                           (1)
Identification                                                       E:
Preparation Assistance                  E]
Appraisal                               n                            E:f
Supervision                                                          E
HighIy
D   BorrowerPerformance                              satisfactory     Satisfactorv        Deficient
(1)              (/)               (~/)
Preparation
lImplementation                                                                        iiC
CovenantCompliance                                                    D
Operation (if applicable)                                                              EZI
Highly                                                   Highly
E. Assessmentof Outcome                    satisfactory    Satisfactory      Unsatisfactory       unsatisfactorv
E3~~~~~~~~E



- 16-
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/IDA Credits
Loan/Credit Table      Purpose                                 Year of Approval       Status
Proceeding Operations
I    Forestry 11      Establish forest plantations to substitute for  1985           Completed
(Ln. 24960)      dwindling natural forest reserves by
dubbing area planted under first project
2.   Palm Oil V        Replanting and new planting of estate and    1985              Completed
(Ln-26270)       smallholder plantations
3.   Rubber V          To increase area of rubber planted and to    1987             Completed
(Ln. 28740)      diversify participation by increasing
proportion of small and medium size
growers
4.   Ag. Extension     Improvement of agriculture extension in  1986                  Completed
(Ln. 27650)      the country's three main general extension
agencies
5.   Ag. Sector        To consolidate and further expand       1989                   Completed
Adjustment       structural adjustment reforms mainly in the
(Ln. 31270       field of resource management and
institutional improvements including
agricultural credit and marketing
institutions
Following Operations                                                                                 l
I .   Pilot Women in   Support for several large scale pilot   1990                  Active
Dev.             projects including a) support for rural
(Ln. 32510)      women's groups, b) creation of rural
development fund, d) support for
cooperative savings and credit
organizations, d) pilot land tenure
improvement, and e) studies
2.   Agricultural      Support for reorganization/ reinforcement   1994               Active
Services         of agricultural services (research,
(Cr. 26360)      extension) including creation of
autonomous agency and institutional
strengthening of ministry of agriculture
3.   Rural Savings     To strengthen the network of mutual     1994                   Active
(Cr. 25970)      savings & loan cooperatives through
technical and financial assistance
4.   Agr. Sector       To pursue suitable policy reforms in the  1995                 Active
Adjustment 11    agriculture sector following devaluation,
(Cr. 27790)      they include reforms in the cocoa/coffee
(Cr. 27791)      sectors, rice sector, and trade



- 17-
Table 3: Project Timetable
Date Actual/
Steps in Project Cycle                      Date Planned             Latest Estimate
Identification (Executive Project Summary)              September 1986           January 1987
Preparation                                             August 1987              October 1987
Appraisal                                               February 1988           July 1988
Negotiations                                                                     June to July 11, 1989
Board Presentation                                      September 1988           April 3, 1990
Signing                                                                          April24, 1990
Effectiveness                                           July 23. 1990            March 1, 1991
Midterm review (if applicable)                                                   June 1994
Project Completion                                      December 31, 1994        Dec.31, 1995
Loan Closing                                            June 30, 1995            June30, 1996
Table 4: Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ millions)
FY 90    FY 91    FY 92   FY 93   FY 94    FY 95    FY 96    FY 97
Appraisal Estimate          8.0       20.5     35.5    52.5    67.5       77.0     80.0       51.00
Actual                       -         6.5      7.1     15.6    20.8      24.2     39.9       51.0
Actual a % of Estimate                31.7     20.0    29.7      30.8     31.4     49.8      100
Date of Final Disbursement                               November 5, 1996
The loan agreementwas formally revised in July 1995 includingthe cancellationof US$ 29 million and a reallocationof
loan proceeds. The loan closing date was subsequently extended by one year to June 30, 1996 and the revised loan amount
of US$51 million was fully disbursed on November 5. 1996.



- 18-
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Key Implementation Indicators in SAR/Presidents Report  Estimated   Actual
Demarcation (ha)                                       1,500,000    1,923,831
Demarcation (km)                                           2,700        2,381
Surveillance (ha)                                      1,500,000    1,923,831
Management Plans (ha)                                    700,000    1,519,210
Replanting (ha)                                            2,500        4,646
Forest Roads
- construction (km)                                            -        1,179
- rehabilitation(km)                                                    3,136
- maintenance (km)                                             -        9,440
Industrial Plantations (ha)                                9,000       10,135
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
Not Applicable



- 19-
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Purpose as Defined
Study                           at Appraisal/Redefined              Status              Impact of Study
I. Evolution of vegetative cover       Identificationof location and status of  Completed       Served as basis for demarcation
natural forest cover                                     and managementplans
2. Incidence of bush fires             To study incidence, consequencesof bush    Completed      Improved fire prevention
fires and propose ways and means of                      through sensitizationof
prevention                                               population
3. Forestry Eco-systems                To study animal and plant ecosystems in  Completed        Study results used to identify
natural forests                                          Botanical Reserves and
improve forest management
4. Reasons and causes for the withering  To study entomological,climatic and   Completed         Results have help SODEFOR
of Terminal iasp.                      phytopathologicalreasons of the                          in the selection of species for
phenomenon                                               reforestation
5. Economic assessmentof wood          To study mainly sources and consumption    Completed      Better understandingby
resources of gazetted forests in the   of fire wood, charcoal and construction                   SODEFOR of consumption
savannah and preforest belt zone      timber and develop action plan for wood                    pattern and basis for marketing
harvesting and marketing                                 strategy
6. Action program for the developmentof   To elaborate an emergency action program    Completed  Basis for emergency action
the Comod Park and for the management   to improve and preserve the Comoe Park                   program and to develop
of Comod and Azagny                    and the management of both Comoe and                     improved strategy for
Azagny parks                                             safeguarding protected areas
7, Protection and Managementof the     To study ways and means to better protect   Ongoing
Mont Peko park                         anid manage the park. Study was expanded
to also cover ties Ehotiles and the reserve
of MontNimba
8. Hunting and bush-meat               Create basis for huntingregulations     Ongoing
9. Impact of the first fiscal reform of the  Review of fiscal measures to improve  Completed     Served as basis for further
forestry sector                        revenue generation and efficiency of                      studies on fiscal pol'icy
forestry sector
10. Proposed second fiscal refonn      Proposal for a simplified and improved  Completed        The study was completed only
fiscal system, including improved tax                    in June 1996 and
collection                                               recommendationsare not yet
translated into action programs
I I . Wood Sector Study               To secure as basis for the reform of the  Not done        Prepared to be undertaken
sector                                                   under PSFII
12. Improvementof wood harvesting      To identify scope for improved logging,  Completed       Draft under review
more efficientsawmilliongand
rehabilitationof the rural forestry sector
N.B. Only studies I and 2 were foreseen at Appraisal. Additional studies which were foreseen i.e. a) the impact of deforestationon the
climate; b) non-wood forestry products; and c) disengagementof SODEFOR from the managementof industrial plantations.were not
carried out. Instead studies 3 to 12 above were undertaken.



- 20 -
Table 8A: Project Costs
At Appraisal it had been estimated that total external financing will amount to 80% of project cost
net of taxes and duties. Details on taxes and duties incurred under the project could not be made
available to the ICR mission, but there is evidence that the actual project cost figures provided by
GCI are net of duties and taxes. Therefore, it was not possible to provide a detailed break down into
local and foreign cost and the actual project cost figure of US$77.4 million would have to be
compared with the net appraisal estimate of US$1 12.5 million.
Estimated Project Costs             Appraisal Estimate (US$M)
Loca  Foreign
Item                                    I     Costs      Total      Total
Cost
s
Natural Forests Demarcation, Protection  22.3   12.2      34.5       34.4
and Management
Industrial Plantations                25.4   11.7         37.1       18.5
ComoeNational Park                     0.9    0.7          1.6       1.0
Nat. Forestry Training Schools         5.8    3.3          9.1       1.3
Research and Studies                   4.1    1.9          6.0       4.5
Institutional Strengthening            2.3    4.1          6.4       7.5
SODEFOR Headquarters                   6.7    1.7          8.4       9.3
Monitoringand Evaluation               1.6    0.7          2.3       0.4
Agricultural/Forestrylnputs            8.5   16.7         25.2        -
Refund of PPF
Total Base Cost                       77.6   53.0        130.6       0.5
Physical Contingency                   3.2    1.7          4.9        -
Price Contingenicy                     8.2    4.1         12.3
Total                                 89.0   58.8      147.8        77.4 b/
a/ Includingtaxes and duties of US$ 35.3 million.
b' Excludingtaxes and duties.



- 21 -
Table 8B: Project Financing
Appraisal Estimate (U S$M)       Actual/Latest Estimate(US$M)
Local      Foreign     Total      Local    Foreign       Total
Source                      Costs       Costs                 Costs      Costs
IBRD/IDA                                            79.8                              51.0
CDC                                                  10.0                              5.6
Domestic Contribution                                58.0                             20.8
Total                       89.0        58.8       147.81-                            77.42
I Includingtaxes and duties of US$ 35.3 million.
2 Excludingtaxes and duties.
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
An economic reevaluation for the project as whole, has not been attempted. Such a recalculation
would have been highly speculative as, vis-a-vis SAR estimates, no new technical parameters have
emerged which would allow to prove or disprove the initial assumptions. However, based on data
provided by SODEFOR trial ERR calculations were carried out for industrial teak plantations (2,000
plants/ha.) and low density (625 plants/ha.) gmelina, framire, frake and samba plantation' indicating
that teak is with an ERR of 10.8 % substantially more viable than the other species with an ERR of
only 6.4 %; the combined ERR for the entire plantation component is estimated at 9. 1%. No analysis
was carried out for the natural forests, since following government provided data for three types of
gazetted forests i.e. degraded by 10%, 33% and 50% and above, non of these show a positive cost
benefit ratio. Whilst in the first two cases timber sales alleviate financial losses, in the latter case no
such sales are expected as all commercially interesting species have been logged out. A conversion
in economic cost and benefits did not alter the picture. This demonstrates that conventional
economic methodologies do not lend themselves to evaluating the externalities associated with the
protection and improved management of natural forests.
Basic assumptions made: Direct and financial costs have been converted into economic costs using
an conversion factor (CF) of 0.8, in contrast to the SAR which applied an average CF of 0.6. This
change is due mainly to the devaluation of the FCFA. For teak economic log prices of US$ 355 have
l   According to SODEFOR production costs and returns are almost equal for all plantation species except teak which
has a higher export market value. In contrast to SAR assumptions for these species only one thinning in about year
20 results in financial returns.



- 22 -
been utilised which is nearly double the SAR assumptions reflecting a steep increase of teak prices
on the world market. Simiiarly prices for sawn logs have been assumed at US$ 282. Economic prices
for poles were calculated at US$ 110, where as economic cost for firewood and local construction
were obtained using the standard factor of 0.8.



Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Covenant Present    Original       Revised                               Descriptionof
Agreement  Section    type    status  fulfilmentdata   Fulfillement                            covenant                                                  Comments
L________          data
L31860    3.01      5        C       3/93                          Carry out Part F ofthe projectthrough its MINFIN and Parts A, E, Fl through  Loan Amendmentsigned in March 1993 gives full
MINAGREF, Parts Al a, A2a, A5, C, D2, El and F2 through SODEFOR all   responsibilityfor forest protectionand managementto
with due diligenceand efficiency in conformitywith appropriate    SODEFOR and eliminatesDCGTx from implementationand
administrative,financial, forestry, environmental and research practices and    monitoring/evaluation
provide funds and resources needed for the Project
3.01 (b)  3       C        3/91                         (i) establishand maintainatCAA three revolvingProjectAccounts in its name  Full compliance
for MINAGREFand in the names of DCGTx and SODEFOR, respectively;(ii)
make an initial depositof CFAF 50,000,000in its accountfor MINAGREF,of
CFAF 120,000,000 in the DCGTx account and of CFAF 620,000,000 in
DCGRx account and of CFAF 620,000,000 in the SODEFOR account
3.02     5        C                                     Except s the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurementof works, goods and  Full compliance
consultantsservicesshall be govemedby the provisionof Schedule4 to this
Agreement
3.03     5        C                                    Take all necessaryactionto implementthe Action Plan for Forestry  Full compliance
Exploitationset forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement
3.04     5        C                                    'Cause MINAGRA,DCGTx and SODEFORto fumish annuallyto the Bank   Full compliance
for commenttheir respectivedraft budgetand work programs for the following
year, not later than October31
3.05     5        CD       12/91                        Fumish to the Bank for comment, the recommendationsof the study on the  Full compliance
marketing of SODEFOR's plantationproducts, to be carried out under Part b.2
of the project
3.06     7        NL       12/92                       (a) take all measures necessaryto remove progressivelyagricultural  Less than 100 familiesresettled. ResettlementPrograms to be
implantationin the areas included Part A. I of the Project in accordancewith    handled through "CommissionPaysans-Foret'. National
principles satisfactoryto the Bank; and (b) carry out a review on the  Forest Farmers Commission has approved resettlement
implementationof said measures in orderto submitto the Bank, areportof    guidelineson 07/21/1993.Govt. has approvedon 06/08/1994
such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have requested   same guidelines
3.07     5        CD      6/90                         Carry out a reviewof the comprehensivelist of holdersof temporary  Review carried out and list submittedto the Bank. All PTEs
exploitationpermits and of its compliancewith the Forestry Code; on the basis  cancelledon all gazetted forests.
of such review, take any necessary corrective measures and information from
the Bank accordingly
3.08     12       CD      6/90                         Prepare new regulationsfor log exports                            Full compliance



Covenant Present    Original        Revised                               Descriptionof
Agreement  Section    type    status  fulfilmentdata   Fulfillement                             covenant                                                    Comments
______________      data
3.09     5         CD      6/90                          Cause SODEFORto enter, into a contract,satisfactoryto the Bank, with CTFT- Full compliance
Cl for purposes of carrying out the research activities referred to under Part D. I
of the Project
4.01 (a)  I        C                                     For all expenditure,with respectto which withdrawalsfrom the L.A. made on   Full compliance
the basis of SOEs: (i) maintain or cause to be maintained in accordance with
sound accountingpractices, records and accounts reflecting such expend., (ii)
ensure that the records evidencingsuch expend. are retained until at least I year
after the Bank has receivedthe audit report for that fiscal year in L.A.
4.01 (b)  I        CD                                    (i) have the recordsand accountsreferredto in para(a) (i) ofthis section and    SODEFORsubmittedits 1991, 1992 and 1993 audits reports.
those for special accountsopened in its name for MtNAGRAand in the names  MlNAGRA'saccountjust recently activatedto be auditedthis
of SODEFOR, DCGTx, respectively for each fiscal year audited, in accordance year and report due by March 31, 1995
with appropriate auditing principles consistentlyapplied, by independent
auditors acceptable to the Bank
4.03 (a)  5        C       6/90                          Employ experts to carry out, the managementaudit referred to under Part F.3 of Full compliance
the Project
4.03 (b)  5        CD      3/91                          Based on the said audit, prepare an action plan on managementimprovement   Full restructuringplan adopted in 04/1994 by SODEFOR's    N
measures, in consultationwith the Bank                             board of directors. Long term developmentstrategy completed
and adopted on July 5
4.03 (c)  5        C                                     lmplementsaid plan in accordancewith the time table thereof        See action 4.03 (b) above
CovenantClass                                                              Status:
I   Accounts/audit                                                C    - Complied with
2 - Financial performance/generaterevenue from beneficiaries      CD   -Complianceaflter Delay
3 - Flowandutilizationof Projectfunds                             NC   -NotCompliedwith
4 - Counterpartfunding                                            SOON - Compliance Expected in Reasonably Short Time
5 - Managementaspectsof the Projector of its executingagency      CP   - Compliedwith Partially
6 - Environmentalcovenants                                        NYD  -Not Yet Due
7 - Involuntaryresettlement
8 - Indigenouspeople
9 - Monitoring,review and reporting
10- Implementation
11 - Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or other resource allocation
12- Sectoralor cross-sectoralregulatory/institutionalaction
13- Other



- 25 -
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Not Applicable
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Stage of                     Actual
Project Cycle
Weeks           US$
Through Appraisal              62.7           141.9
Appraisal                      27.9           67.2
Negotiations through Board     27.1           73.3
Approval
Supervision                   209.6          893.2
Completion                       6.01         15.9
TOTAL                333.3         1,191.5
Allocation to FAO/CP.



- 26 -
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
PerformanceRating
Number                        Specialized
Stage of               Month            of         Days in          StaffSkills        Implementation       Development         Types of
Project Cycle           Year         Persons        Field          Represented             Status            Objectives        Problems
Identification      2/87           4             24             E, F, A, PM
Preparation         11/87          8             25             E, F, PM, L, 1, F
Pre-evaluation      3/88           2             9              E, F
Apprasal            7/88
Policy Support      2/89           1             6              Div. Director
Start-up Support    6t90           3                           E, F, EF *                                                                   |
Start-upSupport     12/90         2                            E.F                          2                   2                Fin.
Supervision 
5/91          3              7             S, E,
6/92           2             7             F,E                           2                   2           Study Progress
12/92         4              18            E, S,F                        I                   I            Document
Progress
6/93           3             1 2           E, S+                        2                   2            Procurement&
Study Progress
6/94           7             18            E, S, F, FA, OA               2                   2            Procurement
Study + TA
progress
2/95           5                           E, RS, F, OA                  S                  S            Procurement&
Study + Ta
Progress
Completion          12/96          12             14            E                            S                   S
. ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ..
E - Economist, F = Forester, A = Agronomist, PM - Processing and Marketing, L - Legal Specialist, I = Institutions Specialist, EF = Ecologist/Forester,
FA = Financial Analyst, OA = Operations Assistant, RS - Resettlement Specialist.
* in collaboration with CDC
+ in collaboration with CFD
1 Does not include thematic missions.
2 FAO staff only.



APPENDIX 1
AIDE MEMOIRE






REPUBLIQUE DE COTE D'IVOIRE
PROJET SECTORIEL FORESTIER (PSF)
MISSION D'ACHEVEMENT
(28 novembre au 12 decembre 1996)
AIDE-MEMOIRE
I.    INTRODUCTION
1.   JUne mission conjointe de la FAO/CP-Banque Mondiale composee de M. H. Trupke (Chef de
Mission, FAO); G. Topa (Specialiste de Gestion des Ressources Naturelles, BM); J.P. Chausse
(Directeur Technique, Secteur Agricole, Region Afrique, BM); C. Fisiy ( Sociologue, BM); L. Gbeli et S.
Mohammed (consultants nationaux) a sejourne en C6te d'lvoire du 28 novembre au 12 decembre 1996
dans le cadre de la preparation du Rapport d'Achevement du projet.
2.     Les observations de la presente mission sont-fondees sur la revue de la documentation fournie
par la Banque et par l1emprunteur, sur des visites a diverses forets class6es et plantations industrielles,
des perimetres d'exploitation dans le domaine rural, le parc de Mont Peko, l'Ecole Forestiere de Bouafle
ainsi qu'A des installations de transformation de bois.
3 .    La mission s'est entretenue avec S. E. le Ministre de l'Agriculture, et a tenu des seances de
travail avec les operateurs du secteur bois et leurs organisations syndicales, ainsi qu'avec la communaute
ivoiriennes des ONGs.
4.     La mission exprime sa reconnaissance A la SODEFOR et aux ministeres de l'Agriculture et des
Finances pour leur participation active aux travaux de la mission, la bonne qualite des documents de
base, ainsi que pour la bonne organisation des visites de terrain et des seances de t.avail.
II.    LE PROJET
Generalites
5.     Le Projet represente la troisieme operation d'appui de la Banque A la C6te d'lvoire dans le
secteur forestier. Les premier et second projets (Ln-1735-IVC de 1979 et !,n-2496-IVC de 1985) ont
essentiellement appuye la mise en place de plantations industrielles. Dans le cadre du second projet
forestier, le Gouvemement a lance la preparation d'un Plan Directeur National du Secteur Forestier avec
un Programme d'Action d'Urgence (PAU), comprenant une serie de mesures visant A arreter la
deforestation et ameliorer la conservation des ressources forestieres restantes du pays. La Banque a
donne son accord pour l'appui financier du programme d'action du Programme d'Urgence, et approuve
une avance de preparation de projet (PPF).
6.     Le projet a ete evalue en juillet 1988 et negocie en juillet 1989. Le pr&, d-un montant equivalent
de 80 millions de dollars E.U, a ete approuve le 3 avril 1990, mis en vigueur le ler mars 1991, et cl6ture
le 30 juin 1996, soit un an apres la date initiale de cl6ture. Le pret a ete entierement decaisse le 5
novembre 1996, avec l annulation en juillet 1995 de 29 millions de dollars E.U. Une convention de



2
cofinancement de la composante Plantations Industrielles du projet d'un montant equivalent de 10
millions de dollars E.U, a ete signee par la CDC le 14 decembre 1992.
Obiectifs et Composantes
7.     Dans le cadre de l'appui au Programme d'Urgence, le Projet avait les objectifs suivants: (i)
freiner la destruction de la foret naturelle; (ii) assurer une production durable de grumes industrielles
grace A une gestion amelioree des forets naturelles, de meme que le developpement et la meilleure
conduite des plantations industrielles; (iii) ameliorer l'efficacite de l'industrie locale de transformation;
(iv) proteger les parcs nationaux; et (v) promouvoir une meilleure gestion de l'interface agriculture-foret.
8.     Le projet a finance un programme comprenant les composantes suivantes:
(a)    La delimitation et la surveillance accrue de 1,5 millions d'ha de forets classees; la
preparation et la mise en oeuvre des plans d'amenagement (y compris la conservation
des ecosystemes rares ou fragiles) pour environ 700.000 ha de ces forets, dont 500.000
ha seraient sous la gestion des compagnies privees sur la base de contrats A long terme;
la preparation de plans detailles d'utilisation des terres et de developpement agricole
pour les zones de transition des forets classees; et les mesures d'accompagnement devant
permettre aux agriculteurs d'intensifier leur agriculture dans les zones de transition et
d'assister les agriculteurs reinstalles.
(b)    Le maintien de 55.000 ha de plantations forestieres existantes et la creation de 9.000 ha
de nouvelles plantations, permettant d'achever le programme de plantation initie dans le
cadre des premier et deuxieme projets sectoriels forestiers (prets N 1735-IVC, 1979 et
2496-IVC, 1985).
(c)    La mise en oeuvre de mesures complementaires au niveau des infrastructures et de la
protection dans le Parc National de la Comoe.
(d)    La mise en place d'infrastructures additionnelles pour les ecoles forestieres de Bouafle et
du Banco et la prise en charge de leurs couts additionnels de fonctionnement.
(e)    L'adoption d'un programme de recherche en matiere de gestion des forets naturelles, de
techniques de plantations industrielles, de la regeneration du couvert vegetal, la
prevention des feux de brousse, les effets de la deforestation sur le climat et les produits
secondaires.
(f)    Le renforcement des capacites techniques du Ministere de l'Agriculture et des Eaux et
Forets (MINAGREF), de la structure para-etatique en charge de la gestion des
plantations forestieres et des forets naturelles (SODEFOR), et celle de la Direction et
Controle des Grands Travaux (DCGTx), A travers l'assistance technique, la formation et
l'equipement.
(g)    La mise en place d'une unite A la DCGTx pour superviser, suivre et evaluer le projet.
9.     Le projet devait aussi appuyer l'effort du Gouvernement dans la mise en oeuvre des politiques de
reformes visant A ameliorer la fiscalite forestiere, A rationaliser 1[exploitation forestiere et [texportation



3
de grumes, A ameliorer la politique de reinstallation, et A restructurer les entreprises publiques operant
dans le secteur.
m   EXPERIENCE GENERALE DU PROJET
Decaissement du Pret
10.           Le projet n'a demarre qu'en mars 1991 A causes des retards observes dans la satisfaction
des conditions de mise en vigueur, en particulier dans la mobilisation des fonds de contrepartie. La
composante Plantations Industrielles n'a demarre qu'en debut 1993 parce que le financement de la
Banque etait lie A la mobilisation du pret Commonwealth Development Corporation (CDC). Le retard
initial des decaissements a e  aggrave par des difficultes A mettre en place un cadre institutionnel
convenable, et A des retards dans I'acquisition des biens et services.
11.    A la revue A mi-parcours de juin 1994, environ 21 millions de dollars E.U seulement avaient et
decaisses sur une estimation initiale du Rapport d'Evaluation de la Banque de 66 millions de dollars E.U.
II a et donc decide par le Gouvernement en accord avec la Banque, de reduire le montant du pret, en
prenant egalement en compte les effets de la devaluation du franc CFA. Ces modifications ont conduit A
l'amendement de l'Accord de Pret de juillet 1995, aboutissant A une annulation de 29 millions de dollars
E.U.
12.    Le niveau des decaissements s'est ameliore, lorsque le Gouvernement a confie entierement la
gestion des forets naturelles A la SODEFOR. Au MINAGRA revenait la responsabilite des parcs, du
suivi-evaluation, de certaines etudes et de contrats de recherche; tandis que le r6le de la DCGTx se
voyait progressivement reduit.
Les Principaux acquis du Proiet
13.    Le projet a atteint et depasse la plupart de ses principaux objectifs physiques, A savoir
l'inventaire des forets classees, la demarcation des limites des perimetres des forets, 1'entretien et
I'accroissement des surfaces reboisees, et la creation des infrastructures minimales pour la gestion du
patrimoine forestier de I'Etat. En plus, une bonne partie du programme des ecoles forestieres a ete
execute et quelques appuis initiaux donnes au Parc de la Comoe. Par contre, le programme de recherche
et d'etudes a demarre en retard, ce qui n'a pas permis de traduire les resultats en actions concrets.
14.    En general l'objectif de freiner le defrichement des forets classees a ete atteint, mais les acquis
demeurent tres fragiles. Tandis que les nouveaux defrichements avaient ete presque arretes au cours des
annees 1992, 93, 94, ceux-ci ont ete repris A partir de 1995 lorsque la devaluation du Franc CFA a donne
une nouvelle impulsion aux cultures en zone forestiere, et que le climat electorale a affaibli l'efficacite
du projet (et plus en general des institutions de l'etat) A faire appliquer la loi et les regles prealablement
etablies pour freiner le defrichement en zone de foret classee. Globalement, les estimations preliminaires
des surfaces defrichees au cours de la periode 1992 A 1996 se situent A 12.000 ha. Bien que ce chiffre ne
represente pas un resultat satisfaisant, il est bien inferieur aux estimations des defrichements anterieurs
au projet. La fragilite des acquis en matiere de protection des forkts et le manque d'une maitrise
suffisante de l'elment socio-economique par les institutions concernees, reduisent le niveau de
satisfaction des acquis du PSF I en matiere de protection de forets.



4
15.    Sur le plan institutionnel, des progres remarquables ont et6 realises. La SODEFOR a su acquerir
une culture, une expertise nouvelle et une structure forte et bien equipee avec des competences et
capacites nouvelles tant au niveau du siege qu'au niveau du terrain. Bien que l'impact du projet au
niveau du MINAGRA dans I'ensemble soit plus modeste, la capacite du ministere en matiere de suivi-
evaluation s'est considerablement accrue.
16.    Les acquis les plus importants en matiere de d6veloppement institutionnel ont et : (i) la
comprehension de la complexite du probleme social qui sous entend les dynamiques d'occupation
illegale des forets; (ii) I'abandon par la SODEFOR de l'option de ddguerpissement par la force; et (iii) le
debut d'un processus de negociation avec les populations A travers la creation des Comites Paysan Foret
faisant la liaison entre le Gouvernement et les paysans. Bien que n'ayant pas et prevus lors de
1'evaluation du projet, leur creation a considerablement aide A diminuer les tensions et creer une
premiere instance de concertation. Meme si les Comites Paysan Foret ne sont pas encore aussi
operationnels que l'on pourrait esperer, et que leurs r6les et fonctions meritent une red6finition, ils
apparaissent comme un premier outil et une premiere instance de dialogue et negociations avec les
populations occupants le domaine forestier de l'Etat.
17.    Par rapport au programme de reinstallation des agriculteurs hors foret, il est difficile d'affirmer
que le peu de resultats concrets du projet representent un echec ou un succes, dans la mesure ou
1'experience acquise par le projet a permis une prise de conscience de l'envergure du probleme et un
changement d'attitude des institution concemres, en meme temps qu'un recentrage du programme sur
des bases plus realistes.
18.    En ce qui concerne la rationalisation du secteur bois, le projet a permis l'elimination de scieries
A quota, et le remplacement de plusieurs milliers de permis temporaires d'exploitation, par 170
perimetres de grande taille attribues A un nombre limite d'operateurs choisi parmi les plus serieux, les
plus qualifies et les mieux equipes. Meme si beaucoup reste A faire pour assurer: (i) des conditions
acceptables d'exploitation et d'amenagement durable des ressources forestieres, et (ii) une fiscalite qui
soit un veritable outil de promotion de la bonne gestion forestiere, le PSF a su contribuer A creer un
environnement propice A la discussion sur ces themes avec un gouvemement devenu plus interesse et
avec un secteur prive plus sensible A une meilleure gestion des forets.
19.    Pour les raisons ci-dessus enumerees, la mission juge la performance du projet globalement
satisfaisante.
Les Faiblesses du Proiet
20.    Les principales faiblesses du projet decoulent du fait qu'il n'a pas su aller au-dela du niveau
d'acquis tres fragiles et prdliminaires par rapport A ses objectifs principaux, de protection et
amenagement de forets, de renforcement institutionnel et de partenariat avec le secteur prive et les
populations riveraines. Un travail considerable reste A faire pour atteindre pleinement les objectifs
originaux du projet.
21.    Le projet a mis un accent plus important sur l'execution des travaux physiques et sur les etudes,
et a relativement neglige la mise en place de nouveaux systemes de gestion forestiere en collaboration
avec le secteur prive et avec les populations rurales. La preuve en est que toutes les forets du projet
disposent aujourd'hui de plans d'amenagement, mais aucun plan n a ete jusqu'A present approuve par le
Ministre et mis en vigueur.



5
22.    La plus grande partie des fonds du projet a dte depense A travers la SODEFOR. Cette institution
a vu croitre son niveau d'activite et son chiffre d'affaires d'environ 3,5 a presque 15 milliards de FCFA
par an pendant la vie du projet. Cependant la SODEFOR n'a pas su instaurer un systeme d'information
et de gestion financiere correspondant A son important budget. En fin de projet, la saisie des pieces
comptables en fin d'exercice budgetaire se fait avec des retards inacceptables, le suivi des engagements A
moyen terme est quasiment inexistant, et la consolidation et le rapprochement des comptes du siege et
des Centres de Gestion demeure presque impossible, ainsi que l'identification du patrimoine et des
investissements par Centre de Gestion.
23.    La SODEFOR n'a pas developpee de strategies visant a parvenir A terme A un equilibre financier.
Selon ses propres projections, la SODEFOR ne saurait arriver a un equilibre financier pour les 20 ans a
venir. Tandis que cette situation pourrait s'expliquer par un programme d'investissement ambitieux, peu
d'efforts ont ete consacres A formuler et comparer differentes options, afin de degager des strategies, des
types d'intervention et des modalites de gestion plus performantes.
24.    Le MINAGRA pour sa part, n'a pas suffisamment veille A ce que la DGEF puisse developper ses
capacites en parallele avec celles de la SODEFOR et jouer le r6le normatif et de contr6le qui lui revient.
Les Performances de la Banque et de l'Emprunteur
25.    Dans la conception du projet, les aspects socio-economiques, de meme que l'impact politique de
la reinstallation etaient insuffisamment pris en compte tant au niveau de la dimension du probleme que
dans ses modalites de realisation des solutions. En plus, la portee du changement que le projet pretendait
introduire au niveau institutionnel et au niveau des comportements des populations qui occupaient la
foret aussi bien qu'au niveau des acteurs publics et prives du secteurs forestier et rurale, n'etait pas
toujours compatible avec la duree du projet. La conception du projet n'avait pas su prendre en compte la
grande variabilite des situations d'occupation irreguliere des forets, le potentiel reel de reinstallation en
dehors des zones classdes, et la pression resultant de la protection de forets classees sur les autres zones
forestieres. La Banque a joue un role actif dans la preparation du projet, dans la mesure ou son
partenaire au titre du gouvernement, la DCGTx, n'etait pas suffisamment familier avec le secteur
forestier.
26.    La Banque a conduit six missions de supervision et un certain nombre de missions thematiques.
En general, 1'emprunteur a exprime sa satisfaction concernant l'appui de la Banque, mais a senti que
parfois, les procedures de decaissement et de passation des marches etaient lourdes, et le montant des
avances sur le compte special insuffisant; ce qui conduisait A des problemes de tresoreries.
27.    La performance de l'emprunteur s'est amelioree substantiellement A la suite de la definition d'un
cadre institutionnel clair pour 1'execution du projet. La ddcision du Gouvemement de permettre A la
SODEFOR d'utiliser le revenu des ventes des quotas d'exportation pour financer la contrepartie de
l'Etat, a contribue A lever une contrainte majeure d'execution. En ce qui concerne le MINAGRA, la
situation est demeuree cependant critique A travers la periode d'execution du projet, et le manque de
fonds de contrepartie a serieusement affecte l'execution de son programme d'action.
28.    Un probleme majeur qui necessite une solution definitive avant qu'une operation PSF I1 ne soit
lancee, concerne le cycle d'approbation et de soumission des DRF A la Banque A travers le circuit CAA.
Ceci a determine des retards de paiement A certains fournisseurs qui se sont parfois adresses directement
aux administrateurs de la Banque Mondiale pour assistance.



6
29.    Le fait que des montants importants aient ete soumis par le Gouvernement A la Banque pour
paiement alors que les fonds du pret etaient entierement epuises, temoignent des faiblesses, de la part de
l'emprunteur et peut etre de la Banque, A assurer un suivi financier des engagements et des
d6caissements adequats. Cet aspect sera examine de maniere specifique par l'audit des comptes 1996.
La Poursuite des Activites du PSF I
30.    Le Gouvemement et la communaute des donateurs restent fortement engages dans la
preservation des forets naturelles et la biodiversite et dans la restauration et la gestion du couvert
forestier.
31.    Le projet a permis de creer des conditions favorables A l'ermergence de capacites et d'une
strategie de gestion durable des ressources forestieres. Ces acquis etant partiels, les resultats jusqu'ici
obtenus seraient perdus si le Gouvernement devait arreter la poursuite des efforts en cours.
32.    Une meilleure integration du domaine forestier classe et du domaine rural devra etre assur6e
dans la poursuite des activites du projet, soit au niveau des populations, soit au niveau des institutions de
l'Etat.
33.    Les roles, fonctions et modes de fonctionnement des CPF devraient etre revus avec l'objectif de
g6nirer un sens de responsabilite et induire une participation plus spontanee des populations riveraines
dans la gestion et la protection de la foret.
34.    Des efforts doivent etre deployes pour identifier des solutions specifiques, adaptees aux
diffirents cas d'occupation illegale de la foret. Ceci demande une totale reorientation de certains plans
d'am6nagement et des changements de la description des postes et de l'emploi du temps du personnel de
centres de gestion (remplacer leur travail de patrouille par un veritable travail de negociation et d'appui
aux populations).
35.    Les activites actuelles de la SODEFOR aboutissent a de serieux manques A gagner.  Les
projections jusqu'A l'an 2004 ne donnant aucun signe d'amelioration de la situation, dans la mesure ou
les revenus generes ne permettent meme pas de couvrir le fonctionnement, des efforts accrus devraient
etre entrepris dans le sens de la reduction des couits de fonctionnement et des investissements A de justes
proportions, en transferant des activites specifiques au secteur prive industriel, aux agriculteurs, aux
ONG et aux industries du bois. De plus, la faisabilite financiere des strategies et du programme de
travail en cours doivent etre re-examinees et de nouvelles sources d'economies et de generation de
revenu devraient etre explorees.
36.    La pression agricole sur les zones forestieres devrait etre reduite grace A un programme accel&e
d'intensification agricole, avec un accent particulier sur les activites de I'ANADER dans les zones
riveraines des forets classees. Ces activites devraient etre jumelees avec des programmes permettant
d'integrer la culture des arbres (individuels, en lignes, en bocage, en petits lots) dans les zones rurales en
accordant une attention aux ameliorations qui seront introduites par le Gouvernement en matiere de
securisation des droits fonciers coutumiers et du droit foncier positif.
37.    Le partenariat avec le secteur prive devrait etre relance sur une nouvelle base, securisante pour la
SODEFOR et compatible avec les imperatifs economiques des activites de transformation et de
commerce du secteur du bois.



7
38.   La capacite du MINAGRA A gerer les divers parcs permettant une meilleure utilisation de leur
potentiel est A stimuler et des interventions ad hoc devraient etre realisees.
Lecons A tirer
39.   Une liste des le,ons A tirer du projet sera jointe A l'ebauche de Rapport d'Achevement A
transmettre prochainement au Gouvernement.
IV. CALENDRIER ET DILIGENCES
40.   Le Gouvernement transmettra son rapport d'achevement (integrant les composantes MINAGRA
et SODEFOR) le 15 janvier au plus tard. Ce rapport devra contenir une synthese de 10 pages qui fera
partie integrante du rapport d'achevement officiel du projet. Le rapport du Gouvernement sera transmis
A la Banque avec une breve lettre de couverture indiquant comment le Gouvernement entend faire valoir
les le,ons tirees du PSF I dans la formulation du PSF II.
41.   La mission preparera un Rapport d'Achevement provisoire comprenant des annexes statistiques,
et le transmettra au Gouvernement pour commentaires au cours de la deuxieme quinzaine du mois de
Janvier 1997.
42.   Une fois les commentaires du Gouvernement re,us, la Banque tachera d'amender le rapport et de
remplir toutes les formalites pour soumission officielle du document au cours du mois de mars.



8
DESCRIPTION SOMMAIRE DES ACOUIS DU PROJET PAR COMPOSANTE
Delimitation. Inventaires et Surveillance
1.     Les objectifs physiques initialement fixes ont ete depasses. Actuellement la SODEFOR dispose
d'une delimitation complete sur 1,2 millions ha et de donnees d'inventaire sur plus de 1,7 millions ha.
Elle est actuellement presente sur un ensemble de 2,1 millions ha de forets naturelles.
2      Pour 24 des 63 forets classees couvertes dans le cadre du projet, des plans provisoires
d'amenagement sont disponibles. Et pour 18 forets, des plans provisoires de remembrement ont 6te
discutes avec les Commissions Paysans-Fores (CPF). Ces CPF (actuellement 69 au total dont 48 dans la
zone du projet) ont ete mises en place A partir de fin 1992, dans le but de servir de forum d'echanges
entre le Gouvernement et les populations riveraines et infiltrees en forets classees, afin de trouver
conjointement des solutions mutuellement acceptables au probleme de l'occupation illegale de forets.
3.     Malgre les efforts fait lors de l'evaluation du projet, 1'envergure du probleme d'installation
illegale a ete mal maitris6e. Le recensement systematique conduit en 1994 a revele que plus de 43.000
familles occupaient illegalement la fore et que les possibilites de deplacement volontaire etaient tres
r.duites. Les agriculteurs resistaient A l'abandon des plantations A cause: (i) du manque de terres de
qualit6 comparable et gratuitement disponibles; et (ii) du manque de resultats convainquants de
recherche pour une agriculture alternative d'intensification.
4.     Le dialogue entre le Gouvernement et la Banque a permis de desamorcer certaines hypotheses
visant A utiliser la force pour des operations de deguerpissement massif et d'etablir un dialogue avec les
population A travers les Commissions Paysans-Forets.
S.     Des essais de deplacement volontaire ont ete faits en donnant aux agriculteurs sortant des forets
classees, une parcelle de terre de 5 ha en dehors des forets. Cette mesure s'est revelee financierement
insoutenable. Selon l'experience limitee acquise, le coat de la reinstallation par famille se situe entre
250.000 A 1 million de FCFA. Les dispositions actuelles qui permettent A des agriculteurs clandestins de
continuer l'exploitation de leurs plantations en production dans les series de production, ne donnent pas
de garanties suffisantes que les plantations en foret soient abandonnees A terme.
6.     Tandis que beaucoup d'important progres ont ete realises en terme de dialogue avec les paysans
et que des plans de concentration des zones'agricoles A l'interieur de la foret (plans de remembrement)
sont en instance d'execution, les resultats concrets obtenus par les activites de reinstallation des paysans
sont tres modestes. Peu de paysans ont ete deplaces et une methodologie de deplacement A l'interieur ou
en dehors du domaine classe n'a pas encore ete mise au point. Comme plus de 25 millions de dollars
E.U etaient disponibles dans le cadre du pret, essentiellement pour des mesures d'accompagnement A la
reinstallation, le manque d-execution de cette composante a joue un r6le important dans la decision
d annuler 29 millions de dollars E.U du pret.
Am6na2ement Forestier en Collaboration avec le Secteur Prive
7.    LUidee de cette composante du projet de passer au secteur prive un certain nombre de forets
classees en contrat de gestion d'amenagement/exploitation n'a pas ete correctement interpretee par la
SODEFOR et ses partenaires, et a ete abandonnee avant qu'elle ne puisse donner des resultats
concluants. Ces contrats trop prescriptifs et de duree trop limitee, ne donnaient pas suffisamment de



9
garanties a la SODEFOR et aux titulaires des contrats, que les objectifs recherch6s par chacune des
parties seraient atteints. De toute evidence, cette operation test de partenariat avec le secteur prive est &A
ameliorer et a relancer sur des bases plus solides.
Les Plantations Industrielles
8.     En depit du demarrage tardif, presque la totalite des 9.000 ha ont e  plantes. Les plantations
precedemment etablies ont ete maintenues, ce qui a contribue a la creation d'un capital de 100.000 ha de
plantations amenagees en C6te d'Ivoire dont l'exploitation pourrait en partie prendre la releve de
1'exploitation des forets naturelles. A peu pres 2 millions de dollars E.U du pret CDC n'etaient pas
decaisses a la cl6ture du pr& de la Banque. Le Gouvernement a alors demande a la CDC d'utiliser le
solde pour completer les operations de plantations et la maintenance.
Le Parc National de la Comoe
9.     La composante etait constituee de 2 sous composantes, a savoir la Mise en Place
d'Infrastructures, Whicules et Equipements pour le parc et la conduite d'un certain nombre d'etudes
requises pour la formulation d'une nouvelle politique de gestion des aires protegees. En consultation
avec la Banque, il a et decide d'etendre a d'autres aires protegees le dispositif initialement con,u pour
la Comoe. Cependant, a cause d'une certaine inertie de l'institution concemre, la composante Parc a et
mise en oeuvre a une echelle substantiellement faible (environ 10 % des estimations a l'evaluation).
Les Ecoles de Formation Forestiere
11.    Les travaux d'infrastructures de l'ecole de Bouafle sont presque termines. Cependant, le manque
de meubles, de materiel de formation et d'equipements vont serieusement affecter le fonctionnement et
la qualite de formation dans l'ecole. Sur indication par le WWF de certains risques environnementaux,
la rehabilitation et 1'extension de l'ecole du Banco ont et arretees.
Recherche et Etudes
12.    En general, le programme de recherche a e  execute comme prevu. Les resultats preliminaires
sont consideres comme utiles et commencent a etre traduits en actions. La plupart des etudes sous la
responsabifite de la SODEFOR ont et conduites, mais leur resultats restent incomplets (projet
d'entreprise) ou pas appliques.
13.    Le retard accuse dans la production des etudes, dont la nature strategique devait permettre de
reformer le secteur de l'exploitation et la fiscalite forestiere, est particulierement regrettable.
Le Renforcement Institutionnel
14.    Cette composante devait financer un total de 47 personnes/an d'assistance technique, 16
personnes/mois de consultance a court terme, de la formation et de l'equipement. ainsi que l'audit de
gestion de la SODEFOR. Comme prevu, I 'audit de gestion de la SODEFOR a ete conduite. En 1991, un
total de 29 personnes/an d'assistance technique et de 19 personnes/mois de consultance a court terme ont
ete utilisees. Selon les competences individuelles des experts, leurs performances ont et jugees de tres
insuffisantes a tres satisfaisantes. En general, leur impact sur le projet a et evalue comme ne justifiant
pas le cout de leurs prestations. Une Cellule de Formation a ete creee a la SODEFOR et chargee de la
mise en oeuvre de la formation du personnel.






APPENDIX 2
SUMMARY IN ENGLISH OF THE EVALUATION BY THE
BORROWER






REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
FORESTRY SECTOR PROJECT
(Loan 3186-CI)
Summary in English of Evaluation Report by the Borrower
The Borrower's summary completion report is structured along the same lines as the
Bank's ICR.
The project completion provides an account of the various project components.
The section on project implementation generalities states the main dates and events of the
project life, and the main achievements for the institutions involved. These achievements
are: (i) for SODEFOR the acquisition of new skills and management capacity, and (ii)
for M1NAGRA the design and initial implementation of a new forest sector policy and
improvement of training capabilities of a new forest sector policy and improvement of
training capabilities.
Under project implementation, the following project elements are dealt with:
*  Technical Achievements. Details are provided about the type and amount of works
undertaken in the fields of forest inventory, plantation development, and park
management activities.
*  Research and Studies. Research undertaken or coordinated by SODEFOR (on
management techniques for natural forests and man- made plantations, and on agro-
forestry) and studies undertaken or coordinated by MINAGRA (on forest fiscality
and forest sector reform) are described.
*  Training. This section states that (i) it was not possible for MINAGRA to complete
the design of a national forestry sector training strategy, and (ii) training was
crucially important for SODEFOR to get new technical skills and staff aptitudes.
*  Institutional Strengthening.  This is described in terms of consultancies on
SODEFOR's and MINAGRA's behalf (80 months of consultancies out of 129
months originally planned were utilized).  The support provided for project
coordination (one permanent position at MINAGRA) is also described.
*  Financing. This section provides figures on the Government's CDC's and Bank's
financing. It also notes that the project overspent more than 3.3 billion CFA Francs



2
(which could not be paid out of the loan), and that these payments were still pending
at the time of closure of the loan.
The section on achievements emphasizes the progress made by the project, especially in
terms of (i) policy formulation (forest fiscality and sector reform), (ii) strengthening of
SODEFOR, (iii) creation of Govemment/Local Farmers joint committees for the
management of gazetted forests, and (iv) creation of new mechanisms of sub-contracting
forest works to the private sector.
A section on overall stock taking of project experience lists the main general
shortcomings experienced during the project life: (i) cumbersome procurement and
disbursement procedures and consequent project implementation delays, (ii) late staffing
and inadequate counterpart funding, (iii) unfinished completion of works at the Banco
Forestry School and of the wood sector study, the (iv) mixed results from external
technical assistance. The section also notes insufficient training and strengthening
provided to SODEFOR in the fields of sociology and financial management.
Project sustainability is rated positively, especially in view of: (i) SODEFOR's newly
created skills and capacity, and the policy and strategy instruments that were provided or
initiated under the project, and (iii) MINAGRA's newly created monitoring capacity for
the forestry sector.
The Bank's performance is described as good, in terms of quality of technical
supervision. Bank procedures for procurement and disbursement are described, however,
as excessively cumbersome.
SODEFOR's performance is described as good in view of the considerable
organizational, institutional, and cultural enhancements that were achieved. The creation
of Government/Local Farmer joint forest management committees is cited as a factor
contributing to SODEFOR's positive performance.
Regarding MINAGRA's performance, the report lists the Ministry's achievements in
terms of protected area management strategy and monitoring capacity.
The overall project impact is positively rated in view of the fact that the project has
exceeded most of its physical targets, and that considerable progress was made through
the institutional strengthening, studies and research components of the project, However,
it is noted that the magnitude of works undertaken by SODEFOR under the project made
this institution dependent on external financial assistance for several years to come.
Regarding future operations, the report emphasizes that SODEFOR needs to: (i)
decentralize its operations and financial management more effectively, (ii) improve its
subcontracting policy and instruments, (iii) make studies and research more field-
oriented; and (iv) improve the existing joint forest management policies and mechanisms
and its overall relations with forest settlers and local populations. Regarding MINAGRA,



3
the report suggests that a more systematic use should be made of objective-based
planning tools (ZOPP) in the design of future forestry operations.
The main lessons learned by SODEFOR are that: collaboration among Government - and
non-government agencies, donors, local population and forest settlers is essential for
effective forest protection and management; (ii) adequate legislative and regulatory tools
and procedures, and appropriate techniques are necessary for effective forest sector
management; (iii) sound financial management is crucial for avoiding unexpected
financial problems; (iv) flexible organizational structures and appropriate training
policies are instrumental for project success.
The main lessons learned by MINAGRA are that: since most forest logging operations
take place in rural areas, non-gazetted forests should be adequately managed and forest
departments capacity should be reinforced accordingly; (ii) sector work is useful to the
advancement of the forestry sector.
The document concludes that the PSF project made a positive contribution to improving
the management of the Ivorian forest resources, and wishes that a follow-up externally-
financed project is implemented without delays after the end of the PSF project.






APPENDIX 3
EVALUATION BY THE BORROWER






REPUBLIQUE DE COTE D'IVOIRE
Union-Discipline-Travail
MINISTERE DE L'AGRICULTURE ET DES RESSOURCES ANIMALES
PROJET SECTORIEL FORESTIER
Pr6t 3186 - IVC
RAPPORT D'ACHEVEMENT
RESUME
JANVIER 1997






Preface
Le present document constitue le Rapport d 'achevement du Projet Sectoriel Forestier, pour
lequel le pret 3186 - IVC d'un montant equivalent a quatre vingt millions de dollars US ( $
80 000 000 ) a 6te approuv6 a la date du 24 Avril 1990, apres 1'evaluation du projet en Juillet
1988 et les n6gociations de Juillet 1989. Le projet sectoriel forestier a demarre effectivement
le 01 Mars 1991.
Le pret 3186 - IVC a ete cloture le 30 Juin 1996 au lieu du 30 Juin 1995. Le
d6caissement final a eu lieu le 5 Novembre 1996 apres I'annulation en Juillet 1995 de 29
millions de dollars US.
Le projet a et6 cofinance par la Commonwealth Developement Corporation pour un
montant de 10 millions de dollars US ( 6.5 millions  ) le 14 Decembre 1992.
La contribution de la partie de la C6te d'Ivoire a et d'environ 58,8 millions de
dollars.
(au taux de 312 FCFA le dollars avant le changement de parite).






ol ------------------- -                   lafajd np suo5al wc
6... .es@ ................................ .e@ .. e@  6v* vninj )uamauuoi zuo,
6  . . . .. .  ..                ol d np s)Iulns?s. sap uO!lufnlhUA
..                              .nalunidwual ap a3uvuuojxaj
8..... *----------------------  atv!puoN anbusq 8l ap aauvuuojiaf
..                                          larojd   np   ?1!1!qsjna
L..                                                    arod al
WaiP' JU3AV sluvuiuuaS?p sinaOaJ )j la aAnao ua aS!W ul ap upg
L..                             sjlfqo xne lioddel. ed sqnb3V
9..  . .--... .-....-....------  ro.d np sj!1aaqo
9....... .       -.       afoid np samuuiutoJad sap askjouy
9.                    ...................................u.utu  ueld  nV
S'. .....  lauuo!flousu inddV
c..                       -------------------- anbiuq3al uwld nV
..                      -                   -arfold np uo!Jnaxa
z................. afold np uoipin3xa, insaj!jviaua!
............................. -arold np uo!ldix3saU
:PHIVWNOS






1
Description du projet
Le Projet est intenrenu alors que la degradation de la foret dense ivoirienne avait atteint une
cote critique. Ce projet constituc lc premier programme dc mise cn (ruvre du Plan Directeur
forestier adopte par le gouvernement en 1988. 11 represente la troisieme intervention de la Banque
Mondiale dans le secteur forestier apres celles de 1979 et de 1985 financees conjointement avec la
Commonwealth Devclopement Corporation.
Les objectifs du Projet dans le cadre de l'accord de pret signe le 24 Avril 1990 etaient d'aider la
Cote d'Ivoire a: i) proteger les forets classees; ii)renforccr les liens entre I'agriculture et la
foresterie ; iii) rationaliser et am6liorer I'amenagement et l'exploitation des fores ; et iv) assurer un
approvisionnement regulier et ameliorer l'efficacite de l'industrie de transformation du bois.
Le Projet comprenait les parties suivantes:
Partie A: Delimitation, Protection et Amenagement des Forets.
Partie B : Plantations Industrielles
Entretien et protection d'environ 55.000 ha de plantations industrielles existantes et
creation de 9 000 ha de plantations nouvelles pour completer les blocs etablis dans le cadre du
premier et deuxieme projets.
Partie C: Parcs Nationaux.
Achevement des travaux d'infrastructures dans le Parc National de la Comoe.
Partie D : Recherche et Etudes.
Partie E: Ecoles Forestieres.
Partie F: Renforcement Institutionnel.
1. Ministere charge des Eaux et Forets.
2. SODEFOR.
3. DCGTX.
Les responsabilit6s pour 1'execution de chacune des composantes se presentent ci-apres:
- Partie F3, Ministere de l'Economie et des Finances;
- Parties A.2b ; E2 et Fl Ministere Charge des Eaux et Forkts;
- Parties Ala ;A2a ; AS; C ; D2 ; El et F4 DCGTx;
- Parties Alb; A3 ; A4 ; B ; DI et F2 SODEFOR.
- Le Ministere charge des Eaux et For&ts assurant la coordination du projet, tandis que la
DCGTx devrait assurer le contr6le de 1'execution et le Suivi - Evaluation.



2
Generalites sur 1'execuiion du projet
Apres la signature de I'accord dc pret intervenue le 24 Avril 199X, lc projet n'a d6marr6
effectiv'ement qu'en mars 1991 compte tenu des retards dans la satisfaction des conditionnalit6s de
la banque, des con flits de competence et de responsabilite qui ont surgi entre la SODEFOR et 1'ex
DCGTX. La resolution de ce probleme a abouti i l'affectation i la SODEFOR et au MINAGRA
des composantes initialement sous la responsabilite de l'ex DCGTX suivant les amendements du
premier avenant a l'accord de pret du 17 Mars 1993.
De meme, les fonds ont et6 reaffectes, conferant i la SODEFOR et au MINAGIA les
montants respectifs de 73,5 millions et de 6,5 millions de dollars US pour l'ex6cution des
composantes dont ils ont chacun la responsabilite.
De son demarrage effectif a la revue a mi parcours, le projet n'a connu qu'une faible execution,
consecutive a certains faits: i) conflit de comp6tence et de responsabilite signale plus haut; ii)
difficultes de la C6te D'Ivoire a assurer les montants de contrepartie ; iii) retards de la signature de
la convention de Pret CDC qui etait liee a celui de la Banque Mondiale etc.
Ainsi, lors de la revue i mi parcours du projet en Juin 1994, le niveau des decaissements n'excedait
pas les 23 % des montants alloues. Ce constat conjugue avec le changement de parite du franc CFA
intervenu en janvier 1994, a decide la banque a reduire le montant du pr&t de 29 millions de dollars,
le ramenant alors i 51 millions de dollars US par le deuxieme amendement en date du 9 Aout 1995.
Au deli de ces remarques, il faut noter que le Projet a permis a la SODEFOR d'ouvrir
d'importants chantiers : la mise en cruvre d'une approche novatrice de gestion participative des
forkts dassees ainsi que l'application des methodes et techniques nouvelles d'amenagement des
forets naturelles ; au plan de la gestion, la decentralisation et la deconcentration pour se rapprocher
des for&s ; le developpement de la sous - traitance d'un grand nombre d'activit6s; La mise en
place de strategies d'autofmancement concretisees par un projet d'entreprise.
En ce qui concerne le MINAGRA, la mise en oeuvre, ulterieurement, des projets de reforme
(r6forme de l'exploitation foresti6re, restructuration de l1enseignement agricole) et des strategies
nouvelles de gestion des aires proteg6es envisagees a partir des resultats des etudes, de meme que
les investissements realises au niveau des ecoles forestieres ( extension d'ecoles de formation),
auront des retombees positives sur l'environnement 6conomique et social.



3
Execution du Projet
AU PLAN TECHNIQUE
DJiniltation, Protection et Amenagement des Forets (annexes Ia, Ic)
1. Le Projet a permis de delimiter 1.923.831 ha de forets classees , soit 2.381 km materialis6s.
Soit un taux de r6alisation de 128 o. La delimitation, r6alisee en mode manuel, a vu la
participation des populations riveraines, ce qui a contribue a abaisser son cout. Quant a La
protection et la surveillance des for6ts class6es, elles ont et6 rendues possibles par le
rapprochement des agents de leur foret graice a la cr6ation de secteurs(55) et i la construction de
base - vie (bureaux et logement des agents de secteurs) etc.
2. L'approche participative, dont sont issues les Commissions Paysans Forets, apparait comme
1'evolution majeure au terme du PSF, en ce sens qu'elle associe les populations rurales a la gestion
durable des forets classees en leur accordant une juste place. (annexes Id).
3. Le Projet a permis, aussi, de doter 24 forets class6es couvrant 1.519.210 ha de plans
d'arn6nagement. Ces plans d'am6nagement ont et6 rediges a partir d'inventaire statistique a un taux
de 1.25 % et des enquetes socio-economiques prenant en compte des facteurs socio - economiques
qui interferent sur l'amenagement durable des forets class6es. Par contre le programme
d'arnenagement exploitation portant sur 500 000 ha n'a pas donn6 toute la satisfaction attendue
eu egard aux divergences entre la SODEFOR et les soci6tes priv&es concessionnaires. Cette
exp6rience a et interrompue en 1993 et les travaux d'amenagement ont et6 par la suite
entierement r6alis6s par la SODEFOR.
Plantations industrielles(annexe Ib)
4. 10 135 ha de plantations industrielles ont e6t r6alis6es. Ces plantations sont essentiellement
localisees dans les anciens chantiers de reboisement de TENE, SANGOUE, IROBO, M'IOPRI et
BOUAFLE. Et 55 000 ha de plantations anciennes ont fait l'objet de traitements sylvicoles
divers(6claircies, 6lagages, entretiens, traitements phytosanitaires, etc.).
Parcs Nationaux (annexe le)
5. Initialement, le PSF pr6voyait la rehabilitation des acquis des projets ant6rieurs et le
financement d'un complement d'infrastructures (pistes, campements, postes de surveillance etc.).
En cours de r6alisation, il a et convenu d'y ajouter d'autres actions: diverses 6tudes devant
concourir a la mise en place d'une nouvelle politique de gestion des aires proteg6es; un
programme d'urgence relatif, au depart, au Parc National de la Comoe mais par la suite 6tendu a
l'ensemble des Parcs Nationaux hors projet et i une reserve naturelle.
6. Au titre de cette composante, des equipements ont ete acquis, les etudes r6alis6es ont perrmis
d'identifier la strat6gie de surveillance des aires prot6g6es. Mais les travaux de g6nie civil n'ont pu
etre realises du fait de la complexite des procedures et de la mise en place tardive des fonds de
contrepartie .



4
RECHERCHE ET ETUDES (annexe II)
SODEFOR
7. Les programmes de recherche, menes a travers des conventions comportant des avenants
annuels, ont permis d'apporter un appui a la SODEFORt dans les domaines de l'am6nagement des
forets naturelles, des plantations forestieres et de l'agroforesterie. Cependant des volets importants
de ces programmes n'ont pu etre effectues ou menes a leur terme. En plus, on a constat6 un
manque de coop6ration entre les organismes de recherche (IDEFOR/DFO et IDESSA) d'une
part, et les diff6rentes structures b6n6ficiaires (Recherche et Developpement) d'autre part.. C'est
pourquoi, les contacts etablis avec l'ANADER(Agence Nationale d'Appui au D6veloppement
Rural) l'impliquant dans la conduite des programmes devront etre intensifies.
8. Les etudes portant sur l'6volution du couvert v6getal, le d6p6rissement des Terminalia dans
les reboisement, et l'analyse 6conomique du potentiel ligneux des forkts class6es de savane, ont
permis de mieux asseoir le diagnostic sur les forets class6es, et fourni des outils precis pour la
redaction des plans d'am6nagement.
MINAGRA
Quatre 6tudes sont associ6es a cette composante. Ce sont:
9. i)L'etude sur l'impact de I'application de la 1ere phase de la r6forme de la fiscalite forestiere;
ii) l'6tude sur la r6forme de la fiscalit6 forestiere et sur la filiere bois l'etude sur la r6forme de la
fiscalite forestiere( achev6e), 1'etude sur la fdli&re bois(reportee au PSF II) ; iii) 1'etude sur la reforme
de l'exploitation forestiere(achev6e).
En conclusion, les etudes ( reforme de l'exploitation forestiere et reforme de la fiscalite
forestiere)demarr6es tardivement ont pu s'achever a la cl6ture du PSF1. Cependant, leur
exploitation n6cessite des reame6nageants et des aj ustements qui doivent intervenir dans la
deuxieme phase de ces 6tudes , sous forme de seminaire - ateliers regroupant tous les partenaires.
FORMATION
MINAGRA (annexe IVa)
10. L'objectif de cette composante 6tait d'elaborer une strategie nationale de  formation    des
techniciens des filieres foret et parcs et de renforcer l]es structures d'accueil et les equipements des
ecoles forestieres de Bouafl6 et du Banco. Cet objectif n'a pu etre r6alis6 qu'en partie. Pour l'6cole
de Bouafl6 le programme de g6nie civil a ete entierement execut6 en fin de projet. Mais des
problemes insoupqonn6s (problemes d'impact environnemental dans le cas de l'ecole du Banco)
ont empech6 la realisation de celui de l'6cole du Banco.
SODEFOR (annexe I Vb)
11. La formation a et6 determinante pour la realisation des objectifs du projet. Elle a permis de
developper les aptitudes du personnel pour satisfaire aux exigences des strat6gies adopt6es par la
SODEFOR. La Sodefor a conduit cette action en s'appuyant sur les comp6tences internes de la
societ et assure ainsil48 948 unit6s de formation de maniere a uniformiser le niveau des
personnels par rapport aux exigences des nouveaux m6tiers pratiques dans 1'entreprise.



5
APPUI INSTITUTIONNEL
12. Cette action s'est realisee sous la forme d'appui apport6 au NIINAGRA et a la SODEFOR
par la pr6sence d'experts et la r6alisation de certaines etudes non rattachees i une composante
sp6cifique.
Appui technique au MINAGRA
Assistance technique
13. Quatre experts ont et6 recrut6s pour assister le MINAGRA dans la realisation des
composantes lui incombant. Les experts en am6nagement forestier et en exploitation forestiere
ont ete affectes a la Direction Gen6rale des For6ts (DGEF), 1'expert en planification forestiere au
Cabinet du Ministre et celui en suivi-evaluation a la Direction de la Programmation (D.P.) du
MINAGR-A.
14. Le nombre de mois d'expertise pr6vu ainsi que le nombre de mois consomm6 sont
pr6sentes au tableau suivant ( mois de pr6sence effective, d6duction faite des mois de conges).
Domaine d'intervention     Previsions               Prestations  des  experts  en Realisations    au
__duree p_et_             place selon contrat           31/03/96
initiale*   orevisee**    dbut         fin             (nbre de mois)
(nbre de mois)
planification forestiere   20           31          01/04/93       31/12195**     31
amenagement forestier      20          |            24/11/93       30/06/96      126
exploitation forestibre    20           26          07/09/93       30/06/96       26
suivi-evaluation           20           46          01/03/92       30/06/96****   46
total                      80119                             1                     129
-  selon le document d'appel d'offres pour le recrutement des experts ** pour tenir compte de la date de la fin du projet reportde
du 30/06/95 au 30/06/96 et de la date de debut des contrats des experts; *** le contrat de l'expert d'une dur6e de 2 ans a 6te
prolongd jusqu'au 31.12.95; **** I'expert a M affectd A la DCGTx du 01/03192 au 08110/93 et est en service au MINAGRAIDP
depuis le 11/10/93.
15. Des donn6es de ce tableau il ressort que la consommation de mois d'expertise se situe a
100% de la prevision revisee e ta 61% de la pr6vision initiale.
16. Les experts ont contribu6 avec des fortunes diverses a la conduite du projet. Le non
aboutissement dans les delais de certaines etudes est le fait de problemes administratifs (lenteurs
administratives, retard dans la mise en place des fonds de contrepartie, difficult6s de satisfaire aux
conditionalit6s impos6es par la Banque Mondiale, etc.) et de comp6tence des experts.
Coordination de base.
17. A la demande de la B.M., il a et6 institue, au sein du Cabinet du Ministre, un poste de
coordination de base du PSF. Ce poste est occupe a temps partiel par un Conseiller Technique du
Ministre qui pr6side les reunions. Son v6hicule, ses materiels informatiques ainsi qu'une partie de
ses frais de fonctionnement sont imput6s au budget du projet. Le premier conseiller qui a occup6
ce poste de juin 1993 a fin janvier 1995 ayant fait valoir ses droits a la retraite, a ete remplace par
un autre depuis le 01/02/1995.



6
Appui technique SODEFOR.
18. Au niveau de 1'assistance de longue dur6e, onze experts (huit canadiens et trois francais)
provenant de cinq organismes diff6rents ont appuy6 la SODEFOR au cours du PSE  Trois
experts ont participes ai des activites operationnelles( am6nagement, inventaire, cartographie)
Les autres sont intervenus dans des activites de soutien( informatique, politiquc commerciale,
audit interne ). Sur l'ensemble des domaines d'intervention les r6sultats ont et6 satisfaisants i
l'exception de l'informatique et de la politique commerciale. 11 faut noter qu'une assistance
technique de courte dur6e a et6 egalement d6veloppee au cours du PSF et a donn6 des
r6sultats satisfaisants. Cette approche peut ere la solution alternative dans certains domaines.
AU PLAN FINANCIER (annexe 19
SODEFOR
19. Les annees 1995 et 1996 ont repr6sentees respectivement 24,5 0o et 45,2 -o des d6penses
total du projet. Ces forts taux sur les dernieres ann6es du projet sont r6v6lateurs des difficult6s
rencontr6es lors du demarrage du projet. Les demandes de d6caissement sont de 35.919.538.816
FCFA, reparties en part Banque Mondiale: 23.347.720.622 F CFA, part CDC: 2.334.182.690 F
CFA et part  BSIE: 10.237.639.104 FCFA. 11 faut noter que 3.358.681.808 F CFA de demande
de remboursement adress6es a la Banque n'ont pas pu etre satisfaits. Par ailleurs, certaines
contraintes ont entrain6es des retards et des complications dans la mobilisation des fonds:
l'insuffisance du fonds de roulement, l'accroissement inattendu des conditionalite en particulier le
relvement de 20 % du compte sp6cial d'investissement. En outre, les d6caissements tardifs de la
CDC.
MINAGRA
20. La consommation totale des allocations de la Banque Mondiale par rapport a la prevision
est de 58,6 %. Si on note que les travaux de genie civil et les infrastructures n'ont pu etre realises
qu'a raison de 28 % pour l'ensemble de cette composante, en ce qui concerne I'assistance technique
le taux de r6alisation est de 140 %.
Analyse des performances du projet
OBJECTIFS DU PROJET
21. Les objectifs du projet tels que presentes dans le rapport d'evaluation sont d'une grande
clart6 et suffisamment r6alistes. Cependant I'avenant du 17 Mars 1993 i I'accord de pret en
int6grant la composante socio-economique a apport6 des modifications sans pour autant les
expliciter(pas d'indicateur pour la mesures des performances).
22. En dehors de cela, les objectifs contenus dans le rapport d'6valuation sont conformes a la
politique forestiere de la C6te d'Ivoire 6nonc6 dans le Plan Directeur Forestier 1988-2015.



7
ACQUIS PAR RAPPORT AUX OBJECTIFS DU PROJET
23. 11 scrait difficile de citer tous les acquis du projet, ncanmoins, on peut retenir: i)la reforme de la
fiscalite dont l'6tudes est achev6e ; ii) la mis en place des p6rimetres d'exploitation forestiere qui permet
d6sormais une gestion plus rationnelle de la ressource forestiere tout en associant les opulations ruralcs;
iii)le renforcement institutionnel de la SODEFOR, qui est devenue un v eritable service forestier
maitrisant toutes les techniques d'am6nagement et de gestion des forets naturelles ; iv)la rnise en place
des commissions Paysans/Fores qui constitue a ne point douter une avanc6e remarquable dans le sens
d'une gestion participative du patrimoine forestier national ; v)le d6veloppement de la sous-traitance qui
a permis A la fois l'6mergence de cooperatives et de groupes villageois et la redynarnisation du secteur
prive.
24. Autres acquis :i) I'elaboration de la strategie de conservation des aires protegees; ii) la
r6alisation des 6tudes retenues au titre de la sous - composante parcs nationaux ; iii)les equipements
au b6n6fice des parcs nationaux pour assurer un minimum de surveillance; iv) la maitrise du Suivi -
Evaluation exteme des projets par le iMinist6re de l'Agriculture et des Ressources Animales; v)
1'extension et la r6novation de l'6cole forestiere de Bouafle; vi) I 'equipement des 6coles
foresti6res de Bouafl6 et du Banco.
BILAN DE LA MISE EN CEUVRE ET FACTEURS DETERMINANTS AYANT
AFFECTE LE PROJET
25 . Plusieurs facteurs ont affect6 la bonne ex6cution du projet. I1 s'agit de facteurs sous le contr6le
du Gouvemement ou sous le contr6le de la SODEFOR elle-meme. Concemant le Gouvemement, on
relkve: i)la lenteur et la lourdeur des proc6dures de passation de marche ; ii)les delais importants dans la
procedure des demandes de retrait de fonds et le retard dans la mnise A disposition du personnel
additionnel en provenance du MINAGRA ; iii)les difficultes a mobiliser les fonds de la contrepartie
Ivoirienne : iv)la r6alisation partiele des objectifs en matiere de formation forestiere et '6quipement
des 6coles forestiere ;v)la bonne fin de la r6novation et de l'extension des infrastructures de 1'6cole
forestiere de Bouafl6, l'interruption, suite a des problemes insoup,onn6s (problemes d'impact
environnemental) des travaux de renovation qui venaient a peine de debuter obligeant le
MINAGRA a trouver un autre site pour l'ecole forestiere du Banco ; vi)Le renforcement
institutionnel partiel de 1' Etat et le report au PSF2 de l'etude sur l'analyse de la filiere bois ; vii)la
presence effective de l'assistance technique prevue aupres du MINAGRA sans que les r6sultats
attendus soient totalement atteints et cela pour les quatre experts. Les performances ont varie selon
les individus et l'appui qu'ils ont recu de leur structure d'accueil.
26. Concernant la SODEFOR, son personnel insuffisamment form6 aux techniques
d'amrnagement, a l'anirnation rurale et a la gestion fmanciere, le caractere novateur des methodes
d'amenagement et de rapproche participative adoptees par la SODEFOR n'ont pas favorise l'atteinte
rapide de ses objectifs. Une vigoureuse politique de formation a permis d'en attenuer l'ampleur. Un
autre facteur tout aussi important a et6 la difficult6s de mise en oeuvre de la d6centralisation. Par
ailleurs,. La r6alisation des travaux d'6quipement des forkts a &6 handicapee par les lenteurs
observ6es dans la signature des march6s, le retard dans la constitution des dossiers d'appels
d'offres, les defaillances du suivi et de contr6le dans l'execution des travaux et les retards dans
I '6tablissement et le payement des DRF. Enfin, si la sous-traitance a et6 dans l'ensemble une option
positive, ele a ete a certains 6gards handicapante pour la r6alisation des travaux. En matiere de suivi, la
cellule de suivi inteme SODEFOR, tres embrvonnaire, n'est pas apparue comme un outil
significatif dans la gestion du projet.



DURABILITE DU PROJET
27. La mutation de la SODEFOCR en un v6ritable service forestier, d6centralis6 est le gage
certain d'une permanence des acquis majeurs du projet. La reforme de la fiscalit6, lorsqu'elle scra
effective donnera les moyens pour le fonctionnement de ce dispositif. Par ailleurs, I'adoption par
l'Assemblee Nationale d'un code de l'environnement cree des conditions encourageantes pour la
permanence des acquis du projet. De plus l'intensification et la modernisation des exploitations,
d'une part, et la politique volontariste de r6gionalisation du gouvemement, d'autre part, r6duisent
les risques d'aneantissement des acquis du projet.
28. Le MVIdNAGRA par le biais du suiVi - evaluation, mieux maitris6, sera d'une grande utilit6
pour la supervision des projets, d'autant plus que ses agents pourront beneficier de formation dans
des structures mieux equip6es.
PERFORMANCES DE LA BANQUE MONDIALE
29. L'appui apport6 par la BANQUE dans la mise en oeuvre du projet, sous forme de
surveillance et de conseil, est tres appr6cie par le MINAGRA et la Sodefor; La qualit6 des experts
ayant pris part aux diff6rentes missions est indiscutable. Et leurs suggestions ont aid6 a l'atteinte de
certains objectifs. Cependant, on peut noter que les proc6dures lourdes de d6caissements, de
passation des marches et des conventions (Modification presentation DRF ; relevement de 20% du
seuil de paiement du compte special etc.) ont gen6 parfois l'execution du projet ; et le recours a des
consultants qui changent d'une mission de supervision a I'autre n'est pas de nature a permettre une
ex6cution harmonieuse des projets.
PERFORMANCE DE L'EMPRUNTEUR
SODEFOR
30. Au terme de ce projet, a tous 6gards, d6cisif pour la gestion de la foret ivoirienne, le
MINAGRA et la SODEFOR ont connu une 6volution positive pour une gestion future qui ne sera
pas un saut dans l'inconnu.
31. En l'espace de cinq ans, la Sodefor se presente comme une entreprise restructuree et
decentralis6e, dotee de 5 Centres de gestion sur le terrain, de 4 Directions operationnelles au Siege
d'un Service formation dont la contribution a et6 determinante dans la r6alisation des objectifs du
Projet, et a 6labor6 un Projet d'entreprise dans lequel sont consignees les finalit6s, les strategies et
les actions a mener dans les prochaines 20 annees. La Sodefor avait une expertise en matiere de
reboisement, bas6e sur le reboisement m6canise. Mais elle a innove en pratiquant le reboisement
manuel a l'execution du PSF. Ce mode manuel s'est r6ve6l efficace et economique sans perdre la
qualit6 des travaux. Elle s'est appropriee aussi l'expertise en matiere d'6laboration et de mise en
ceuvre de plans d'ame6nagement d'une foret quelconque. Pour parvenir a ces r6sultats, la Sodefor a
initie une nouvelle approche de la question des populations riveraines ou infdltr6es des forets en les
associant a leur gestion pour obtenir une gestion durable. De ses actions de sensibilisation et de
dialogue incessant, est nee un nouveau concept, la Commission- Paysans- foret(CPF).



9
MINAGRA
32. Le MINAG,Rt s'est efforce de raccourcir les d6lais d'approbation des march6s, a 61abore
une strat6gie de conser-vation des aires prot6g6es, et acquis, a travers sa Direction de la
Programmation, la capacit6 de suivi-evaluation des projets. En outre, la strat6gie nationale de
formation des techniciens des filires forets et parcs a et6 d6finie dans ses grandes lignes dans le
projet de restructuration de la formation agro-svlvo-pastorale pr6par6 par le MINAGRA en 1995.
EVALUATION DES RESULTATS DU PROJET
33. Les r6alisations du projet ont g6n6ralement depass6 les pr6visions. Ainsi au niveau de la
delimitation et de la sunreillance le taux de r6alisation est de 128%. Les am6nagements pr6sentent
quant a eux un taux de realisation de 217 o, tandis que les plantations industrielles se situent a
112%. Les composantes d'accompagnement du projet, la recherche, les 6tudes et la formation ont
ete conduites avec satisfaction. Une mention sp6ciale peut etre accordee a la formation dont
I'action a et6 d6terminante pour l'atteinte des objectifs.
34. 11 faut noter, toutefois, que le cout elev6 des r6alisations physiques rendent la SODEFOR
dependante des bailleurs de fonds sur une longue periode.
35. Les resultats des composantes executees par le MINAGRA sont relativement satisfaisants,
malgre les difficultes liees a l'indisponibilite des fonds de contrepartie.
FONCTIONNEMENT FUTUR
SODEFOR
36. Le Projet Sectoriel forestier a bouleverse totalement la Sodefor dans sa mission, son
organisation et son fonctionnement. Si l'on peut considerer cette phase comme une phase
d'exp6rimentation reussie a bien des egards, cependant, beaucoup reste a faire pour que la Sodefor
soit une entreprise performante techniquement et administrativement, une ref6rence en foresterie
tropicale comme ses capacit6s la destine.
37. Pour cela, elle devra se donner les procedures appropri6es et ameliorer celles qui existent,
parfaire la d6centralisation, poursuivre la formation des agents, am6liorer sa gestion fmanciere et
comptable. Sur le plan technique, 1'exp6rience de la sous-traitance devra etre poursuivie, mais
assortie des precautions n6cessaires a sa reussite; la recherche-developpement devra s'efforcer
d'etre plus pres du terrain, rechercher les partenariats pour provoquer les synergies n6cessaires; la
cogestion, dimension importante et indispensable de la gestion forestiere, devra trouver le ton juste
pour concilier les interets en pr6sence.
MINAGRA
38. Afin de favoriser une meilleure d6fmnition du PSF2 , la Direction de la Programmation
preconise que le processus d'evaluation ex ante du projet incorpore la tenue d'un atelier de type
ZOPP . La Direction Gen6rale tient a la disposition des structures dont eUe demande la
collaboration en vue d'un usage efficace, des tableaux matriciels de collecte des informations du
terrain.



I ()
LECONS DU PROJET
SODEFOR
39. La realisation du Projet a permis d'acqu6rir l'experience de gestion d'un grand projet. Et les
lesons sont nombreuses et enrichissantes.
40. La Sodefor s'est rendue compte que la conjugaison des efforts de tous (Agence d'execution,
Bailleurs de fonds, Gouvernement, Populations riveraines et infiltr6es, Op6rateurs du secteur de la
for&e...) en vue de sauvegarder la foret ivoirienne est irremplacable; que la gestion durable de la
foret est possible. Il faut pour cela: i) une legislation forestiere appropri6e ; des procedures
appliquees ; un suivi rigoureux des phases d'ex6cution, sur le plan technique pour le respect des
normes et des delais et sur le plan de la gestion afm d'6viter les d6rapages de toutes sortes ; ii)Une
organisation souple qui permette toues les adaptations n6cessaires a la bonne fm du projet; iii)Une
politique de formation adapt6e.
MINAGRA
41. Le projet sectoriel forestier a permis de:
i) organiser l'exploitation forestiere pour une gestion rationnelle de la ressource; 1'essentiel de
la ressource 6tant prelev6e jusqu'alors dans le domaine rural, il convient de prendre en main les
forets de ce domaine pour une exploitation durable ; a l'instar de la Sodefor, l'administration
forestiere peut etre redynamisee dans le cadre d'un PSF2 qui b6n6ficierait des acquis du PSFI ; ii)
former au MINAGRA des sp6cialiste en suivi - 6valuation des projets ; iii) r6aliser les etudes
necessaires a l'avancement du secteur foret.
Conclusion
Le PSF a contribue grandement a la gestion de la foret ivoirienne, particulierement du domaine
permanent de l'Etat, iA importe de consolider les r6sultats acquis et les actions entamees par la
poursuite des activit6s. Pour ce faire, le demarrage de la deuxieme phase ne devrait pas trop tarder
et les actions visant a mieux conserver le domaine rural devraient b6n6ficier de financement
adequat.
En effet, le domaine rural a fait l'objet d'une exploitation abusive. Mais une reforme en cours
d'application a pour objet d'en rationaliser la gestion et d'en prolonger la duree de vie.
L'application judicieuse de cette r6forme ne pourra se faire sans un support financier et technique
qui aille au delai des ressources g6n6ralement consenties par le budget de l'Etat.






IMAGING
Report No.:         16479
Type:      ICR



