Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 7421-RCI
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF COTE D''VOIRE
FORESTRY SECTOR PROJECT
FEBRUARY 23, 1990
Occidental and Central Africa Department
Agriculture Division
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their offcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be dislosed without World Bank aothorizaton.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit: CFA Franc (CFAF)
Annual Averages: CFAF per U.S. Dollar
1980 CFAF 211      1987 CFAF 347
1985 CFAF 490      1988 CFAF 2.75
1986 CFAF 347      1989 CFAF 312
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AfDB              African Development Bank
BCEAO             Banque Centrale des Etats d'Afrique de l'Ouest
CAA               Caisse Autonome d'Amortissement
CCCE              Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique (France)
CDC               Commonwealth Development Corporation (Great Britain)
CIDA              Canadian International Development Agency
CTFT-CI           Centre Technique Forestier Tropical de COte d'Ivoire
DCDFR             Direction de la Conservation du Domaine Forestier et du
Reboisement
DCGTx             Direction et Controle des Grands Travaux
DFP/E/R           Domaine Forestier Permanent/de l'Etat/Rural
DPCGEF            Direction de la Planification et du Controle de Gestion de
l'Economie Foresti6re
DUS               Droits Uniques de Sortie
EPA               Etablissement Public a Caract.re Administratif
EPIC              Etablissement Public A Caractere Industriel et Commercial
FAC               Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation (France)
FED               Fonds Europeen de Developpement
IET               Institut d'Ecologie Tr3picale
KfW               Kreditanstalt fUr Wiederaufbau (Federal Republic of Germany)
MEF               Ministere de l'Economie et des Finances
MINAGREF          Ministere de l'Agriculture et des Eaux et Forets
PIE/R(AFIAGWC     ProtectionIExploitation/Rehabilitation
/Agroforestry/Agriculture Working Cycle
PTE               Permis Temporaire d'Exploitation
SODEFOR           Societe de Developpement des Plantations Forestieres
TIG               Taxe d'Int6ret General
FISCAL YEAR
Government and SODEFOR: January 1 - December 31
PROJECT YE~AR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
FORESTRY SECTOR PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page
DOCUMENTS CONTAINED IN PROJECT FILE .................................                  iii
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY           ............................................         iv
KEY FEATURES OF THE AGRICULTURE AND FORESTRY SECTORS ...............           .       vii
I. BACKGROUND.                                                                           1
A. Introduction.                                                             1
B.  Economic and Agricultural Context .
II. THE FORESTRY SECTOR..                                                                3
A.   Forest Resources and the Forest/Agriculture Interface                   3
B.   Forest Legislation ....... ...............                              5
C.   Forest Exploitation .................................                   6
D.   The Wood Industry ....... ................                              7
E.   Fiscal System        ............................... .                  7
F.   National Parks ....... .............. .............                     9
G.    Institutions in the Sector .....          .....................       10
H.    Sector Strategy ........        .............................         11
I.   Bank Involvement in the Sector .......... .. ..........               14
J.   Other Ongoing Projects in the Forestry Sector   1.......              l
III.  THE PROJECT ...................................................                   16
A.   Project Rationale, Objectives and Description ........                 16
B.   Detailed Peatures ...................................                 18
1.   Forest Protection and Management ....           ...........      18
2.   Industrial Plantations         .     .........................  21
3.   National Parks .................................                22
4.   Forestry Training Schools ......................                22
5.   Research and Studies ...........................                 22
6.   Institutional Strengthening ....................                23
7.   Monitoring and Evaluation ......................                23
IV.   PROJECT COSTS, FINANCING, PROCUREMENT, DISBURSEMENT,
ACCOUNTS AND AUDIT .......................................                       23
A.    Project Costs .......................................                23
B.   Project Financing ...................................                 25
The report is based on the findings of a Bank appraisal mission which took
place in June/July 1988 consisting of Messrs. A. R. Whyte (Mission Leader),
J.-P. Chausse, F. Wencelius (Bank), J. Gorse (Bank Consultant), S. Brook
(CDC), and J.-L. Caron and R. Barry (CIDA Consultants). Figures and drafting
were checked by Mrs. J. Ogang and secretarial work was done by Ms. D. Abhd.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
TABLE OF CONTENTS (Cont.)                                                  Page
C.   Procurement    .........................................    26
D.   Disbursement   ........................... ......            27
E.   Financial Management, Accounts and Audits ...........        29
V.    PROJECT MANAGEMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION           .....29
A.   Project Implementation     .....................             29
1.   Forest Protection and Management .............. .      29
2.   Industrial Plantations .........................       30
3.   Research and Studies ............. .. ............     30
B.  Annual Work Program ......      ...........................  31
C.   Monitoring and Evaluation .....     ......................  31
VI.   PRODUCTION, MARKETS AND PRICES, AND FINANCIAL ASPECTS    .........     31
A.   Production   ..........................................      31
B.  Markets and Prices ..................................        32
C.   Financial  Aspects   ...................................     36
VII.  BENEFITS, ECONOMIC JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS       ....................  36
A.   Benefits   ............................................      36
B.   Economic Justification .....     .........................  37
C.   Risks         ...............................................  42
VIII. ASSURANCES, CONDITIONS AND RECOMMENDATION .....................        42
ANNEXES
2-1        SODFFOR Organization Chart
2-2        Guidelines for the Management of Agricultural Settlements in
Gazetted Forests
3-1        Implementation Schedule
3-2        Forests to be Demarcated and Managed
3-3        Demarcation, Surveillance and Management Program
3-4        Industrial Plantation Program
3-5        Technical Assistance - Summary Job Descriptions
4-1        Project Costs
4-2        Disbursement Schedule
5          Terms of Reference for Management Audit
6-1        SODEFOR Planted Area
6-2        Area Planted under Bank Projects
6-3        Project Cash Flow
7-1        Economic Rate of Return - Industrial Plantations
7-2        Economic Rate of Return - Natural Forests
MAP
IBRD 20968 : COTE D'IVOIRE - Forestry Sector Project
Location of Forests and Major Forest Industries



- iii -
REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
FORESTRY SECTOR PROJECT
DOCUMENTS CONTAINED IN THE PROJECT FILE
A.   DOCUMENTS AND REPORTS
1.   Pret Sectoriel Forestier, Rapport d'Identification. FAO/CP,
March 1986.
2.   Plan Directeur Forestier 1988-2015. Ministare des Eaux et Forets,
March 1987.
3.   Programme Sectoriel Forestier, Rapport de Preparation. FAO/CP,
February 1988.
B.   WORKING PAPERS
1.   Forest Exploitation
2.   Fiscal System
3.   National Parks
4.   Forest Protection and Management
5.   Forestry Training
6.   Research and Studies
7.   Project Costs
8.   Markets and Prices
9.   Economic Evaluation



- iv -
REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
FORESTRY SECTOR PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:       Republic of COte d'Ivoire.
Beneficiaries: Ministry of Agriculture, Waters and Forests, SODEFOR, DCGTx.
Amount:         US$80 million.
Terms:          20 years including 5 years of grace; standard variable interest
rate.
Proiect
Description:   The project is the first phase of a long-term program to arrest
the destruction of the country's natural 'orests and reetore
forest cover on about 20Z of the country.   It includes the
following components:
(a)  demarcation of limits and improved surveillance of 1.5
million hectares of gazetted forests; preparation and
implementation of management plans for 700,000 ha of these
forests, of which 500,000 ha to be managed bv private
companies under long-term contracts; and preparation of a
detailed land-use and agricultural development plan for the
buffer zone of one gazetted forest;
(b)  upkeep of about 55,000 ha of existing forest plantations and
establishment of 9,000 ha of new plantations to complete
the planting program ervisaged under the First and Second
Forestry Projects (Loans Nos. 1735-IVC and 2496-IVC);
(c)  complementary infrastructure and protection of the Comoe
National Park;
(d)  research  into  natural  forest  management,   industrial
plantation  techniques,   agroforestry,   regeneration  of
vegetative cover, prevention of bush fires, tne effects of
deforestation on the climate and the enhancement of
continued availability of non-wood forest products;
(e)  additional infrastructure for the Forestry TraininL Schools
at Bouafle and Banco, and incremental operating costs of
these schools;
(f)  strengthening of the technical capabilities of  MINAGREF,
SOr!FOR, and DCGTx through technical assistance, training,
and equipment;



- v -
(g) establishment of a unit in DCGTx to supervise, monitor and
evaluate the project.
The project will also support government efforts in implementing
policy refoxms to improve the forestry tax regime, logging and
log export systems, policies governing farmer resettlement, and
the restructuring of public enterprises operating in the sector.
Estimated Proiect Costs a/
Local    Foreign    Total    Z of Brse Cost
----- (US$ million)-
Natural Forests Demarcation,
Protection and Management         22.3       12.2      34.5           26.4
Industrial Plantations              25.4       11.7      37.1           28.4
Comoe National Park                  0.9        0.7       1.6            1.2
Nat. Forestry Training Schools       5.8        3.3       9.1            6.9
Research and Studies                 4.1        1.9       6.0            4.7
Institutional Strengthening          2.3        4.1       6.4            4.9
SODEFOR Headquarters                 6.7        1.7       8.4            6.5
Monitoring and Evaluation            1.6        0.7       2.3            1.8
Agricultural/Forestry Inputs         8.5       16.7      25.2           19.2
Total Base Cost                     77.6       53.0     130.6          100.0
Physical Contingency             3.2       1.7        4.9
Price Contingency                8.2       4.1       12.3
Total                           89.0      58.8      147.8
a/ Including taxes and duties of US$35.3 million.
Estimated Disbursements
Bank Fiscal Year
1990     1991     1992      1993     1994    1995    1996
--------(US$ million)---------------…----
Annual                 8.0     12.5      15.0     17.0     15.0      9.5     3.0
Cumulative             8.0     20.5     35.5      52.5     67.5    77.0    80.0



- vi -
Benefits and Risks
The main benefits of the project will be (a) the preservation of an
ecosystem essential for the long-term sustainability of CBte d'Ivoire's
agriculture; (b) the protection of the wildlife and biodiversity of the
country's remaining rain forests; and (c) the maintenanca of a sustainable
production of hardwood logs for exports or local processing through rational
management of natural forests.   In addition, the project will increase the
production of tropical hardwood through the establishment of new industrial
plantations on fallow land and better maintenance of existing plantations.
Research programs will improve the knowledge of environmental issues and help
develop policies and techniques for the protection and management of natural
forests and industrial plantations. Finally, the project will strengthen the
policymaking and implementation capacity of the institutions involved in the
sector.
The project's principal risk is that the implementation of m.easures
to protect natural forests and of the fiscal reforms needed to rationalize
logging and timber-processing may be resisted by vested interests benefitting
from  the  status  quo.    However  strong  support  is  given  at  the highest
government level to the protection of natural forests. Implementation of the
first stage of the fiscal reform is a condition of Secord Tranche Release
(March 1990)  of the Agricultural Sector Adjustment Loan  (ASAL,  1989).   A
second risk is that of not achieving high enough standards in the management
of industrial plantations. This risk will be minimized through institutional
strengthening, control, and monitoring by DCGTx and through Bank supervision.
Economic Rate of Return
The return on the project's industrial plantation component is
estimated  to be  16Z.   The  return on  the natural  forest  protection  and
management  component  is estimated to be at least 10  before  taking into
account non-quantifiable benefits from the expanded production of minor forest
products and the ecological benefits from reduced deforestation.



- vii -
REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
FORESTRY SECTOR PROJECT
KEY FEATURES OF THE AGRICULTURE AND FORESTRY SECTORS (1987)
1.   Population
Total (thousand)                                          11,200
Growth Rate (X, 1980-87)                                     4.2
Rural as X of Total Population                              55.0
Rural families                                           840,000
2.   Economic Overview
Total GNP (US$ million)                                    8,262
GNP Real Growth Rate (Z, 1980-87)                            1.1
GNP per capita                                               750
Agricultural GNP as X of Total GNP                          36.0
Agricultural GNP/Head of Rural Population (US$)              410
3.   Forestry Areas
Total Land Area (km2)                                    322,365
Forests - Forestry Zone ('000 ha)                          3,000
- Savanna ('000 ha)                               2,600
Plantations ('000 ha)                                         71
4.   Production
Logs (m3)                                             2.7 million
Fuel wood (m3)                                        7.0 million
Charcoal: - tons                                          18C,00O
- m3 equivalent                            3.0 million
Processed timber:
Sawn timber (m3)                                        774,000
Other (m3)                                              220,000
5.   Exports
Logs (m3)                                                 620,000
Sawn timber (m3)                                          490,000
Other (m3)                                                120,000
Value of Exports of timber and wood products
(CFA billion)                                              82.1
Total exporta (CFA billion)                                 929.1
Total timber exports as percent of total exports              7.9
6.   Government Revenues
Tax revenues from timber (CFAF billion)                      14.7
Total tax revenues (CFAF billion)                           675.0
Percent of total tax revenues                                 2.2



1
REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
FORESTRY SECTOR PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. BACKGROUND
A.   Introduction
1.01      The Government of Cbte d'Ivoire has requested Bank assistance for
improving the protection and management of the country's forestry sector. The
proposed Forestry Sector Project will constitute the first phase of a long-term
program to protect the remaining natural forest resources and improve their
management, preserve the environmental benefits derived from these forests and
natural parks, and ensure the long-term contribution of forest sector to the
economy.
1.02      The proposed  loan will  substantially broaden the scope of Bank
involvement  in the  sector.   While the  two previous  Bank  forestry  loans
(Nos. 1735-IVC, 1979 and 2496-IVC, 1985) primarily financed the establishment
and maintenance of industrial plantations. with cofinancing from the Commonveslth
Development Corporation (CDC), the main emphasis of the poposed operation will
be on the protection and rational management of the country's remaining tropL..al
forests.
1.03      Increasingly concerned with the severe environmental problems caused
by the widespread destruction of the country's natural forests, the Ivorian
Government prepared, with Bank support under the Second Forestry Project, a "Plan
Directeur Forestier 1988-2015" outlining its long-term strategy for the
development of the forestry sector, and an "Emergency Action Program" including
the measures to be taken immediately to protect and better manage the remaining
natural forests.  The Government asked, in September 1986, the FAO/World Bank
Cooperative Program to identify a specific project for external financing based
on the Emergency Action Program.  On the basis of the recommendations of the
FAO/CP identification mission, the Bank approved a Project Preparation Facility
(PPF) to finance the detailed preparation of the project and urgent protection
measures for selected natural forests.  The project was appraised by the Bank
in July 1988 with the participation of the Commonwealth Development Corporation
(CDC) and the Canadian International Development Agency (ACDI), and was
negotiated in July 1989.
B.   Economic and Agricultural Context
1.04      With a GNP per capita of US$750 in 1987, Cote d'Ivoire ranks well
ahead of its neighbors in the Western Africa Region.  Its current population of
11.5 million is growing at an annual rate of about 4.22 (1980-87), partly because
of high immigration from neighboring countries.  Since independence in 1960, the
country has enjoyed a remarkable degree of political stability which, combined



2
with favoraDle resource endowments and a steady inflow of cheap labor, has
fostered rapid economic development. Until the mid 1970s, GDP grew at a real
average annual rate of 7.7X, without maior interna.. ir external macroeconomic
imbalances.
1.05      During  the  second  half  of  the  1970s,  however,  Cbte  d'Ivoire
experienced a succession of external shocks, including a coffee and cocoa boom
from 1975 to 1977, a rapid deterioration in the market for these commodities
from 1977 to 1979 and a sharp increase in import prices In 1979. At the same
time, the macroeconomic and sectoral pol_cies pursued by the Government
progressively deteriorated. Following the massive increase in the revenues of
the Agricultural Stabilization Fund (CSSPPA) generated by the boom in coffee
and cocoa prices during the 1975-77 period, the Government embarked on an overly
ambitious public investment program mainly directed toward large projects with
low economic returns. Public investments almost tripled in real terms between
1976 and 1980. When commodity stabilization revenues started to dwindle after
1978, the Government relied heavily on foreign borrowing and money supply
expansion to finance its ambitious investment program.   This led to a rapid
acceleration of domestic inflation and, with a fixed exchange rate vis-&-vis the
French Franc, to a gradual erosion of the competitiveness of the Ivorian economy.
The resulting intensificatior of competition from imports was met by increased
tariff and non-tariff import rcstrictions.   This, in turn, induced a growing
anti-export bias which further aggravated discrimination against export
agriculture and industry. By 1980, the overall deficits of the public sector
and the balance of payments reached 12X and 17Z of GDP respectively. Medium-
and long-term debt outstanding (PPG) had climbed to 422 of GDP, from 182 in 1975.
E .onomic orowth came to a halt and Cote d'Ivoire had exhausted its external
reserves.
1.06      In 1981, the Government launched a Structural Adjustment Program to
restore macroeconomic equilibria and lay the basis for the resumption of
sustained growth.  The focus of the program was on internal demand adjustment
and the initiation of structural reforms to restore growth. Public investment
was reduced, the parastatal sector substantially restructured and a broad range
of fiscal measures  implemented to increase  revenue.   Monetary policy was
tightened. Measures were also taken to improve the most obvious distortions in
the system of economic incentives and a tariff-cum export subsidy scheme was
introduced in 1986 to compensate for the estimated real exchange rate
overvaluation. Finally, a four-year rescheduling (MYRA) was agreed upon in 1986
to reduce the external debt burden. The program was supported by three SALs from
the Bank in 1981, 1983 and 1986, and by an EFF and two standby agreements from
the IMF in 1981, 1984 and 1986. Partly due to the program and partly due to very
favorable international prices for coffee and cocoa, macroeconomic equilibria
were temporarily restored in 1985/86. The economy grew at 5Z in real terms in
1985 and 3.6? in 1986.
1.07      Macroeconomic improvements were short-lived and the economic situation
quickly deteriorated in 1987 and 1988. The sharp decline in the world market
prices of agricultural products (in particular of cocoa and coffee, Cote
d'Ivoire's main export commodities) and expansionary fiscal policies were the
main causes of deepening economic difficulties.   As world prices fell below
domestic support prices, CSSPPA started incurring substantial losses for the
first time in its history. The budgetary situation, in equilibrium in 1985 and
1986, moved to a deficit of 62 and 13.5? of GDP in 1987 and 1988 respectively.



3
1.08      During 1988, believing that the fall in the world prices wouald be
temporary, the author-ties were reluctant to aljust the cocoa and coffee domestic
support prices to reflect world market conditions. As record cocoa crops in Cate
d'Ivoire, Malaysia, Nigeria and Gha:La were confirmed for 1988/89, signaling a
fourth consecutive annual surplus on world markets, and the International Coffee
Agreement collapsed, COte d'Ivoire's terms of trade losses precipitated the
mounting financial crisis, with fast increasing internal and external imbalances.
Domestic arrears increased to CFAF 383 billion (nearly 13X of GDP) by June 1989,
putting the country's financial system in jeopardy. Faced with this situation,
the Government decided to take far reaching corrective measures which led to the
preparation of a financial and economic adjustment program to be supported by
the Fund through a standby agreement and by the Bank through three sector
adjustment operations in the agricultural,  energy and water Pectors.   The
Agricultural Sector Adjustment Loan (ASAL), which includes reforms in the
forestry fiscfr. policies, was approved by the Bank on October 24, 1989 and the
Energy Sector Adjustment Loan (ESAL) on December 21, 1989. The Fund's Standby
Agreement was approved on November 20, 1989.
1.09      Agriculture Sector.  The sector contributes about 35% of the country's
GDP and 70% of its export revenues. It provides employment for about two-thirds
of the national work force, generates substantial fiscal revenues and provides
the basis for much of the country's industrial and services development sector.
Agricultural resources and activities cover two regions with different ecologies,
farming systems, and demographic characteristics: the forest region in the South,
with good soils and good rainfalls, where the main sources of growth are
concentrated; and the drier savanna region in the North. The much higher returns
from forest agriculture have brought about rapid immigration into the forest
region, where further population pressure has induced widespread deforestation
and is starting to be serious threat for the region's ecology. Cocoa and coffee
(about 2.5 million ha) occupy about two thirds of the total cropped area and
dominate the forest region economy. Annual food crops account for about 25Z of
the cropped area and other tree and industrial crops about 5%. Savanna farming
is based on rainfed food crops and cotton which is grown by about one third of
the  farmers.    Maize  is  the  dominant  crop  followed  by  cotton,  rice,
sorghum/millet, groundnut and cassava. Future growth in the agriculture sector
will continue to depend heavily on the sustainable development of agricultural
production in the forest zone where most of the potential lies. Preservation
of the remaining natural forests is essential to maintain the ecological
environment needed to achieve this long-term sustainable growth (para 2.04).
II. THE FORESTRY SECTOR
A.   Forest Resources and the Forest/Agriculture Interface
2.01      Forest Resources.   The forests of C6te d'Ivoire can be divided
according to the country's two main ecological zones: the tropical rain forest
in the humid south, with rairnfall ranging from 1,400 to 2,000 mm/year, and the
savanna forest in the northern part of the country where average rainfall is
between 1,000 and 1,400 mm/year.  Of the 14 million ha of rain forest in COte
d'Ivoire at the beginning of the century, only about 12 million ha remained in
1960.  Today, although the extent of rain forests is not known with precision,
it is estimated that only about 3 million ha are left, of which 600,000 ha
constitute national parks. The remainder is composed of about 3 million ha of



4
tree crops, 1 million ha of food crops, and 7 million ha of degraded forest and
bush fallow. In the Savanna region, the forest area is estimated at less than
2.5 million ha, of which about half (1.3 million ha) in the large Comod National
Park.
2.02      Deforestation is partly caused by logging of preferred timber species
at rates well in excess of their incremental growth rates.   Deforestation,
however, is mostly caused by agricultural. encroachment. It is estimated that,
while 5 million m3 of timber was logged annually in the early 1980s, more than
three times that amount was disappearing because of indiscriminate felling and
burning by farmers. Other causes of deforestation in the more fragile savanna
include ar. increasing demand for fuelwood, in particular around important urban
centers, and bush fires.
2.03      If present trends continue, most of the remaining high forest will
have disappeared by the year 2000.  Timber production, which up to the early
1980s amounted to 5 million m3 annaally, would decline to less than 200,000 m3.
This would imply the disappearance of nearly 40,000 jobs in the logging/wood
industry and a loss in excess of US$400 million in annual export earnings. Of
even greater concern, however, are the potential ecological consequences of
continued deforestation. The opening-up of the forest canopy, if unchecked, will
have far reaching consequences for the country's ecological balance and may
negatively affect its agricultural and overall economic development.
2.04      ForestIagriculture Interface.  The conversion of the rain forest into
timber and agriculture, in particular into valuable cash crops such as cocoa and
coffee, has been the foundation of the 'Ivorian economic miracle". The issue,
however, is that this conversion process is transforming a relatively low
yielding but  sustainable  resource--the  rain forest--into a farming system
yielding higher economic returns in the short-term, but which may not be
sustainable in the long-term for two reasons. First, under traditional farming
systems, the rapidly increasing population pressure will result in shorter fallow
periods which will not allow sustainable cultivation. This will lead to large
scale soil degradation and to the abandonment of large tracts of unproductive
land  to  grass  and  shrubs  of  low  economic  value.    Second,  large  scale
deforestation will increase reflectivity, wind velocity, run-off and erosion
rates, and generally reduce the recycling of moisture in the ecosystem.  The
water transpired freely from forests will no longer be available for recycling.
affecting not only the ecosystem of the forest areas themselves but also that
of areas at the northern border of the forest region which may then give way to
a savanna ecosystem, with an agriculture of much lower productivity.
2.05      The Government's Response.  The basic principles of the Government's
past strategy to manage the forest/agriculture interface were sound.   They
included: (a) identification and protection of unique/fragile ecosystems within
extensive (1.9 million ha) national parks (para 2.20); (b) delimitation and
rational exploitation of about 5 million ha of gazetted dense forests (para
2.08); and (c) gradual release of other forest areas to agriculture according
to rational land-use platning.   This  strategy,  however,  was overtaken by
overwhelming migrations and demographic pressure, as well as by a lack of
firmness in curbing powerful vested interests. The Government's awareness of
the urgent need to take corrective measures started in earr;est in the late 1970s
when the extent of ecological damage became more and more evident. Police action
was stepped up to protect parks and gazetted forests but it was strongly resisted
and, in the end, ineffective. By the mid-1980s, the Government became convinced



5
that only a strategy integrating measures to stabilize and intensify agriculture,
involve local populations in forest management and rationalize logging would
permit to conserve the country's remaining tropical forests. This comprehensive
strategy was developed in the Government's "Plan National Forestier" issued in
1987 (para 2.28) and is the basis for the present project.
2.06      The likely impact of future encroachment of agriculture on COte
d'Ivoire's rain forests is presented under three scenarios in the table below.
Scenario A assumes that the Government will be unable to contain encroachment,
in which case probably all but 200,000 ha of forest will have disappeared by
the year 2000. Under Scenario C, it is assumed that the Government will be able
to effectively protect all of the remaining 3 million ha of rain forest. The
intermediate scenario B is probably the most realistic.   It assumes that the
Government will succeed in bringing future agriculture encroachment under control
over the next 10 years and protect, as permanent forest reserves, about 2.3
million ha of the remaining high forest (1.7 million ha managed as production
forests and 600,000 ha as national parks and reserves).
Likely Impact of Future Encroachment on Rain Forest
1986                    2000
----(----- (million hectares) -----------
(A)         (B)           (C)
Tree Crops                3.0          3.8          3.7           3.6
Food Crops                1.0          1.3          1.3           1.3
Bush Fallow               7.0          8.7          6.7           6.1
Rain Forest               3.0          0.2          2.3           3.0
Total Land               14.0         14.0         14.0          14.0
2.07      Each oi these scenarios will have a different impact on farming
systems in the forest zone. If the Government succeeds in protecting a large
portion of the existing rain forest (2.3 to 3 million ha under scenarios B and
C), less land will be available for agricultural production. The protection of
about 2.3 million ha of netural forest will freeze about 401 of the land still
potentially available for agriculture in the forest region (under Scenario A,
this land would be converted to extensive agriculture).   Protection of the
remaining natural forests will therefore induce a substantial increase in the
pace of agricultural intensification in the remaining areas of the forest region
if sustained growth in agricultural production is to be achieved. Farmers will
need to make increased use of modern inputs. It will be necessary to ensure that
these inputs are available.   In addition, increased efforts are necessary to
develop sustainable land-intensive farming systems, in particular for food crops,
through improved research and extension services.
B.   Forest Legislation
2.08      Forest legislation in COte d'Ivoire dates from 1912 and the country's
Forest Service is the oldest in Francophone countries. After independence, the
forest domaine was defined by Law No. 65-425 of December 20, 1965 (the Forestry
Code)  and subsequent decrees.   Under Decree 78-251 of March 15, 1978, the
country's natural forests were divided into the Permanent Forestry Domaine (DFP)



6
and the Rural Forestry Domaine (DFR).  The DFP was intended to cover about 5
million ha (excluding national parks): 3 million ha in the forest zone and 1.7
million ha in the savanna. Subsequent declassification of f3rests reduced the
areas to about 2 million ha and 1.2 million ha in the forest and savanna regions
respectively. The DFR covers wooded areas which are to be gradually released
for agricultural development but are, in the meantime, exploited for timber.
The Societe pour le Developpement des Plantations Forestieres (SODEFOR) was made
responsible for demarcating the forest to be included in the DFP.  However, it
had only demarcated 1.6 million ha (out of a total objective of 3.2 million ha)
by 1980, when funding for the operation ran out.  Since then, upkeep of gazetted
forests' boundaries has been irregular and inadequate.
2.09      The  present  area  of  remaining  dense  forest  is not  known with
precision.  The best estimate puts it at about 5.5 million ha, of which about
1.9 million ha are under national parks (para 2.01).  The only recent information
comes from an aerial survey carried out in 1986 over 1.2 million ha of forests
in the South. This survey showed that about 60? of the forest areas which were
to be included in the DFP was well preserved, 202 was already degraded and the
remaining 20? had been totally replaced by crops or fallow. Extrapolation of
these findings would indicate that, in 1989, about 2.2 million ha of dense
forests remained, excluding national parks (an other 2 million ha).   Illegal
occupation and clearing of gazetted forests have not in the past been followed
by eviction as provided under the Forestry Code: when the Administration tried
to enforce the law, the courts have been slow and reluctant to extract penalties.
The common perception is that the land belongs to the person who develops it.
However, the Government is now taking vigorous steps to deal with illegal
settlers in gazetted forests (para 2.28).
C.   Forest Exploitation
2.10      Current logging policies and practices are presented in detail in the
Project Implementation File (Working Paper No. 1). Except for areas within the
country's National Parks and Reserves, natural forests--whether of the Permanent
Forest Domaine (gazetted forests) or of the Rural Domaine--are opened to logging
operations. Logging rights are granted in the form of a Temporary Exploitation
Permit (PTE) which covers an area of 2,500 ha for a period of five years,
renewable.   Under the Forestry Code, all concessionaires are required to be
technically competent, have the necessary equipment and prove that forestry
exploitation is their principal activity. However, the authorities have great
difficulty in ensuring compliance with these regulations and few PTE holders meet
the requirements. According to the findings of a recent census, only 51 of the
755 concession holders actually work their concessions (seven are industrial
enterprises, the others individuals usually operating with inadequate equipment).
The other PTE holders sublease their concessions to professional loggers against
the payment of royalties which artificially increase the cost of exploitation
(para 2.18).
2.11      These practices have caused severe inefficiencies and misallocation
of resources.   The small size of concession areas and the short duration of
permits prevent optimal utilization of equipment and increase costs. The low
levels of competence and equipment of loggers lead to a waste of resources.
Subleasing of logging permits encourages "mining" of forests through maximum
extraction over the short-term.  Finally, the allocation of permits to rent-
seekers increases logging costs to genuine operators and results in a diversion



7
of revenues which, instead of accruing to the Government, are secured by private
individuals who seldom reinvest in the sector.
D.   The Wood Industry
2.12      The Ivorian wood industry has developed largely under the stimulus
of log export legislation. To promote local processing, the Government linked
the export of logs to the domestic processing of timber. Exporters must operate
local pro:essing facilities to receive log export quotas (corresponding to their
share of domestic processing). The effects of this quota system have been the
following: (a) the number of local processing facilities increased rapidly (to
81 currently) but most facilities were established only to obtain log export
quotas and are neither efficient nor financially viable by themselves; (b)
limiting arbitrarily the total volume of log exports encouraged the concentration
of export on very few high value species and discouraged the promotion of lesser
known but potentially interesting species; and (c) rather than stimulating
development of finished products, the quota system mostly encouraged the domestic
production of sawnwood which often yields a lower value-added than log exports
(para 2.18).
2.13      Of the 81 plants currently in operation, 54 are sawmills, 17 produce
plywood, moldings and other finished products, and 10 are integrated concerns
handling forest ex,Aoitation through processing to export.  All processing is
located in the South and South-West of the country. About half of the sawmills
are Ivorian-owned and are characterized by outdated and inefficient equipment.
Exports are carried out by the integrated concerns, (which generally have parent
or associated companies in Europe) and 14 export agencies which also provide
advances to local loggers.  The volume of log exports fell from 3 million to
300,000 m3 between 1980 and 1988, while that of processed timber increased from
380,000 to 450,000 m3. In value, log exports fell from CFAF 100 billion to CFAF
14 billion between 1980 and 1988, while processed timber exports increased from
CFAF 23 billion to CFAF 43 billion.
E.   Fiscal System
2.14      Background.  The current fiscal system in the forestry/wood processing
sector is described in detail in the Project's Implementation File (Working Paper
No. 2). It has a triple-tiered structure: (a) area taxes payable for logging
over a specific forest area; (b) stumpage fees (taxes d'abattage); and (c) export
taxes (DUS) on log and sawnwood exports.
2.15      Area taxes include: (a) a fee for the granting and renewal (usually
for a five-year period) of logging permits (CFAF 50 and 25/ha respectively);
(b) an annual licence fee of CFAF 10/ha; and (c) a general purpose tax (TIG) of
CFAF 400,000 per logging permit.  Globally, these taxes represent a very low
amount per m3 logged (about CFAF 120/m3).
2.16      Stumpage  fees  vary  according  to  species,  from  CFAF 100/m3  to
CFAF 600/m3.   These taxes are low and bear no relationship to the value of
standing timber.   They are fixed administratively and updated at infrequent
intervals. They are also easily evaded. In 1986, the total amount of collected
stumipage fees was about CFAF 750 million, or about CFAF 200/m3 logged.



8
2.17      Export taxes levied on logs and sawnwood are based on reference prices
(valeurs mercuriales) for logs and actual declared f.o.b. values for sawnwood.
Export tax rates on logs vary from 24X to 45% of the reference price, according
to the species.  They are much lower on sawnwood exports (2? to 42 of f.o.b.
value).   Other products (veneer, plywood, finished products) are exempt from
export taxes and, when exported outside the Western Africa Economic Community
(CEAO), benefit from export premiums varying between 4? and 14% of f.o.b. value.
In 1986, export tax revenues amounted to about CFAF 14.7 billion, of which CFAP
13.3 billion was from log exports alone.
2.18      Efficiency of the System.  The current fiscal system has proved ill-
suited to achieve the Government's fiscal and development objectives in the
forestry sector:
(a)  the Government recovers globally about 50% of the stumpage value of
standing timber when logs are exported (mostly through export taxes).
However, it recovers only 12% of that value through the export of
sawnwood and less than 1X through the export of plywood, veneer and
finished products. The domestic processing industry therefore obtains
its raw material free of charge, while government fiscal receipts are
fast disappearing with the irreversible decline of log exports;
(b) logging licenses are often granted, in contradiction with existing
laws, to intermediaries who sublet them to logging operators against
substantial Oroyalties" (between CFAF 500 and CFAF 1,500/m3 of log).
These rents, estimated in 1986 to be almost CFAF 3.5 billion,
represent substantial foregone fiscal earnings for the Government.
Log export quotas to domestic processors, which have Lecome marketable
and are traded at prices ranging from CFAF 2,000 to CFAF 3,000 per m3,
also constitute unjustified rents which amounted to about CFAF 2
billion in 1986. Together, the value of logging royalties and export
quotas obtained by intermediaries and domestic processors amounted in
1986 to about 40% of the Government's total fiscal receipts from the
sector. In addition, intermediaries insist in getting their royalties
within a very short time (although PTEs are granted for five years),
which induce mining-type of logging practices, when professional
loggers would often prefer to spread their operations over a longer
period, on the basis of commercial orders;
(c) a large number of the sawmills created to take advantage of the quota
system have very poor conversion coefficients.   As a result, the
value-added by cubic meter of log generated by the production of
sawnwood is much lower than that generated by log exports.   Most
sawmills survive only because of the rent they enjoy in having access
to free raw material and to log export quotas. Their low efficiency
induces a considerable wastage of raw material: on average, they
require more than 2.5 million m3 of logs to produce one million m3 of
sawnwood, while efficient transformation would require only about 1.8
million; and



9
(d)  rural communities living in forest areas do not see any benefit in
logging. The TIG, once paid in kind by loggers through investments
(roads, schools) in favor of local populations, is now paid in cash
to the local administration and usually serves other purposes. For
Ivorian farmers, logging brings no benefits and they have therefore
no incentive to protect the forest.
2.19      The current fiscal system has therefore a very negative impact on the
Government's fiscal receipts, the conservation of existing resources, the value-
added generated in the sector and the distribution of this value-added among
economic agents. It is urgent to design and implement a reform of this system
for making it a more effective tool for implementing the Government's forestry
development strategy. The main lines of the necessary reform are presented at
paras 2.34 and 2.35.
F.   National Parks
2.20      The Ivorian Government has made considerable efforts to preserve its
unique ecosystem. National parks and reserves cover about 1.9 million ha, i.e.,
about 6Z of the country total area (Working Paper No. 3 of the Project
Implementation File). The largest parks are Comoe (1.3 million ha), Tal (330,000
ha) and Marahoue (101,000 ha). Except for the Banco Park (3,000 ha) established
in 1953 on the outskirts of Abidjan, the decrees creating parks were issued
between 1968 and 1974.   The Tal Park was established in 1926 as a wildlife
reserve.  It was declared a Natural World Heritage site under the International
Convention concerning the Protection of the World Cultural and Natural Heritage
and designated as a Biosphere Reserve under the UNESCO/MAB program.
2.21      Protection of nature and wildlife is governed by Law No. 65-255 of
August 4, 1965 and subsequent decrees relating to hunting and capture of animals,
establishment of national parks and reserves, and traffic in game and trophies.
However, parks in C6te d'Ivoire are under increasing pressure and the Government
is experiencing difficulties in protecting their integrity.   Tal is still
reasonably intact, but Marahoue is heavily penetrated by agricultural
encroachment, Comoe suffers from poaching, and Banco is threatened by the growing
population of Abidjan. The National Parks Service of MINAGREF has insufficiLnt
staff, equipment and operating funds to maintain effective surveillance and
protection over the parks. The laws themselves are not always easy to comply
with or enforce (for instance night hunting and closed hunting season,
distinguishing between pregnant and non-pregnant female. young and adult animals)
and the categories of protected species need to be updated. The Administration
also faces protracted delays and obstacles in bringing poachers to justice.
Finally, it is increasingly evident that park protection through legal measures
and police action is not a feasible alternative, and that the active involvement
of local populations in park management is the only avenue offering reasonable
chances of success. Such interactive management system is being developed for
the Tal National Park.



10
G.   Institutions in the Sector
2.22      Ministry of Agriculture,  Waters  and Forests.   Until  the  recent
(October 1989) Cabinet reshuffle, the forestry sector was supervised through a
specific ministry  (Ministere des Eaux et Forets).   The Ministry had been
established in 1986 as a visible indication of the Government's deep concern
for the degradation of the country's natural forests and resolve to take remedial
action. The Government also declared 1988 "Year of the Forest" in Cate d'Ivoire
and the Ministry launched: a series of actions to increase the rural populations'
awareness  of  ecological  issues.    Since  the  reshuffle,  the  Ministry  of
Agriculture, Waters and Forestry (MINAGREF) has been responsible for both
agricultural and forestry development, to allow for a better integration of
policy-making and program development. MINAGREF's Forestry Department has about
1,600 staff: 43 professionals, 115 technicians, 600 assistants and 900 forest
guards and rangers. In spite of increasingly severe budgetary difficulties, the
Department's allocation under the Government's recurrent budget (BGF) has
remained at its 1984 level.  To increase public expenditures in favor of the
sector, the Ministry has developed an ambitious program to be financed by
external sources, including the World Bank under the proposed project.
2.23      SODEFOR was established in 1966 as a State Development Company.  It
was transformed into a State Industrial and Commercial Enterprise (EPIC) in
1985. SODEFOR's broad mandate is to participate in the preparation of programs
for the development of forest resources and to execute such programs either
directly or by delegation to other public or private organizations.   It is
specifically responsible for: (a) the management of natural forests; (b) the
establishment, upkeep and exploitation of industrial plantations and (c) the
marketing and, when appropriate, processing of production from the plantations
under its management.
2.24      SODEFOR is administratively and technically under the authority of
MINAGREF and is financially accountable to the Ministry of Economy and Finance
(MEF). The direct supervision of SODEFOR's activities is to be exercised by a
Consultative Management Commission of eight members (seven nominated by
ministries and the eighth by forestry sector professionals).   However, this
Commission has not met since 1985.  As a consequence, its annual budgets and
accounts have been approved only by SODEFOR's Director General.
2.25      SODEFOR has a permanent staff of over 620 and employs about 2,000
contractual workers. It manages about 70,000 ha of industrial plantations, of
which about 32,000 ha have been planted under the Bank-financed First and Second
Forestry Projects. It is carrying out, in collaboration with the Tropical Forest
Technical Center (CTFT), a pilot project in natural forest management financed
by the French fund for economic cooperation, CCCE. It also manages, on behalf
of MINAGREF, nine small fuelwood and pole plantations and the Abidjan Zoo.
SODEFOR's organization chart is shown in Annex 2-1.   It has headquarters in
Abidjan and four regional directorates (two in Abidjan and one each in
Yamoussoukrou and Bouake).   Its headquarters  departments  cover management
control,  financial  and human  resources,  natural  forest  development,  and
plantations management. Each main plantation site is headed by a manager who
reports to the relevant regional director and, functionally, to the Directors
of the appropriate headquarters departments. In 1983, the Government undertook
an extensive audit of SODEFOR under the structural adjustment program supported
by the Bank. Although measures were taken to correct shortcomings, SODEFOR's



11
management information system is still inadequate and needs further improvement.
In addition, a new detailed management audit of SODEFOR should be undertaken to
review its organization and management in the light of the renewed emphasis given
to natural forest management in its future operations.
2.26      Forestry Training.  All forestry staff are trained in Cote d'Ivoire.
Forest engineers are trained at the National Agricultural School, forestry
technicians at the Agricultural Institute in Bouake, forestry assistants at the
Forestry School in Bouak6, and forest rangers at the Forestry School in Bouaf1e
(Working Paper No. 4 of the Project Implementation File). The Forestry Training
and Education Service of MINAGREF is responsible -r these schools. Renovation
and equipment of these institutions, initiated with CCCE financing, will be
completed under the pro,ect.
2.27      Forestry Research.  Forestry research (Working Paper No. 5) is carried
out by the Centre Technique Forestier Tropical (CTFT). Like the other forest
zone research institutes in C6te d'Ivoire (rubber, coffee and cocoa, oil palm,
etc.), CTFT is currently managed by the French Center for International Research
(CIRAD) nnder a contract with the Ministry of Scientific Research and Culture.
CTFT's research program deals mainly with silviculture in natural stands and
plantations, genetic improvement, tree pathology, and wood technology. Under
the first two Bank-financed forestry projects, SODEFOR has establiehed very
satisfactory contractual relationships with CTFT to carry out research programs
in areas directly related to its operationa. objectives.
H.   Sector Strategy
2.28      In the late 1970s, the Government became increasingly aware that the
ecological basis necessary for forest agriculture was being seriously threatened
and that the "laissez-faire" development attitude was not compatible with
sustainable long-term economic development. The Government's 1976-80 Development
Plan already outlined two main objectives for the sector: establishment and
adequate protection of 3 million ha of gazetted forests, which should be managed
on a sustained yield basis, and planting of 500,000 ha of short-rotation timber
during the following 50 years. However, these targets could not be met, as the
Government was slow in taking the measures needed to protect natural forests and
rationalize their exploitation, and the implementation of a program of industrial
plantations of 10,000 ha/year was far beyond the Government's financial means
and SODEFOR's capacity to manage. In view of this slippage, a task force was
established in 1984 to prepare a National Forestry Plan. Preparation of the Plan
was supported by the Bank under the Second Forestry Project. A final draft of
the "Plan Directeur Forestier 1988-2015" (PDF) was completed in July 1987 and
approved by the Council of Ministers in April 1988. In the meantime, the newly
created (1986) Ministry of Waters and Forests undertook a number of initiatives
including a forestry seminar in 1987 (the first to be held in COte d'Ivoire),
which led to the declaration by the President of 1988 as the Year of the Forests,
and vigorous but limited actions to deal with illegal settlements in gazetted
forests, particularly in the Marahoue National Park.
2.29      The two main themes of the PDF are: (a) preservation of ecological
balances, and (b) rational management of existing resources. PDF's long-term
objective is to increase forest coverage, including national parks to about
6.4 million ha, or about 20% of the country's total area. In production terms,
the objective is to restore timber output at the 1981-83 level of 4 million



12
m3/year (roundwood equivalent), 2 million m3 from natural forests managed on a
sustainable basis and 2 million m3 from industrial plantiations. The latter would
require a total area of about 250,000 ha at a yield of 8 m3/ha/year. To achieve
this target by 2015, the pace of plantation would have to be stepped up from
5,000 at present to 10,000 ha/year. The Plan postulates this increase in two
stages: 8,000 ha/year from 1991 to 2000 and 10,000 ha/year thereafter.
2.30      In addition to the long-term strategy outlined  in the PDF,  the
Government has prepared an Emergency Action Program to tackle the sector's most
pressing issues. This Emergency Program includes:
(a) sensitizing the rural population in the areas of fire protection,
community planting and preservation of national parks and gazetted
forests;
(b)  strengthening MINAGREF's capacity to protect the forests,   through
staff  redeployment  and  training,  greater  mobility  and    better
equipment, and improved collaboration with other administrative
departments;
(c) concentrating efforts on the management of natural forests through
inventory, demarcation, surveillance, preparation of management plans
and effective control of timber offtake;
(d) using plantations for regenerating the vegetative cover on bush
fallows and for the enrichment of degraded natural forests;
(e) promoting increased participation of the private sector in the
management of natural forests, including their replanting;
(f) improving the cooperation between the Forest Administration and local
communities   to   ensure   a   concerted   management   of   the
agriculture/forestry interface (land utilization, reclassification
of forests, establishment of boundaries, development of buffer zones
and stabilization of agriculture, etc.); and
(g) updating the forestry legislation and fiscal regimes, in particular
to promote: (i) the progressive replacement of short-term, area-based
logging permits by long-term contracts based on management plans; (ii)
changes in the fiscal regime including the eiiminaticn of the current
log export quota system; and (iii) the rationalization. and improvement
of tne domestic wood-processing industry.
2.31      The Government therefore recognizes the need to reform many of its
current policies and procedures to improve the management of national forest
resources. Issues concerning farmers settled illegally in the forests, forest
exploitation and fiscal policies, as well as specific measures to deal with
these issues, are discussed below.
2.32      Farmer Settlements.  The Government's objective is to progressively
clear illegal settlers from gazetted forests. They will be resettled outside
forests boundaries or, in exceptional cases, within these boundaries in areas
specifically allocated to agriculture. Forests areas where settlements are too
extensive will be degazetted. Resettled farmers will be allowed access for a
period of three years to perennial crops they had previously established in the



13
forests.    The Government has provided  the Bank with a statement of its
resettlement policies which are acceptable to the Bank (Annex 2-2).   These
policies will be applied to resettlement operations undertaken under the project
(para 5.09).
2.33      Forest Exploitation.  As a general principle, logging licences will
no longer be granted to non-professionals. This will eliminate private rents
and increase government fiscal receipts. Also, short-term, area-based logging
permits (PTEs) will progressively be replaced by permits or long-term concessions
specifying the timber to be felled, sold through public auctions as gazetted
forests will be gradually subjected to detailed inventories and management plans
(para 3.11). This will eliminate mining-type operations in favor of sustainable
logging schedules.   Also,  the private companies benifitting from long-term
concessions will provide an effective assistance to the forestry administration
for the protection of areas under their management against agricultural
encroachment, the major factor of deforestation. These reforms will therefore
promote the better conservation of existing forest resources.
2.34       Fiscal Reform.  The proposed fiscal reform aims at:
(a) fostering a more rational exploitation of existing resources;
(b) promoting processing activities which generate the highest value-
added as well as sustained productivity gains in the transformation
process;
(c)  allowing the Government to recover a satisfactory share of the value
of standing timber without applying excessive fiscal pressure on
domestic processors; and
(d) permitting rural communities to share more equally in the revenues
from logging activities.
2.35      Most of these objectives could be achieved by selling timber stands
through public auctions. However, public auctions require that inventories be
carried out to assess available resources, and that sufficient competition exists
among interested industrial enterprises. In C6te d'Ivoire, although the latter
requirement appears to be satisfied, the Administration does not currently have
the capacity to carry out detailed inventories over large forest areas.  The
proposed reform will take these constraints into consideration and be bised on
the three following principles:
(a) The present thriple-tiered taxation system will be maintained.
Rowever, the various taxes will be substantially increased to ensure
that an adequate percentage of the stumpage value of standing timber
is recovered by the Government.
(b) Much higher logging licence fees will be imposed on short-term leases,
to discourage rent-seeking behavior.   In addition, the current log
export quota system will be abolished and the export of logs regulated
through an appropriate use of export taxes.
(c) Competitive mechanisms for the sale of standing timber will be
gradually introduced, with auction prices replacing area taxec (and
corresponding to the consumer's willingness to pay over and above



14
established levels of stumpage fees and export taxes). Bidding for
long-term concessions will be done on the basis of timber to be logged
during the first five years of the concession, as determined by the
forest management plan.  Annual fees will then be renegotiated at
regular intervals between the Government and long-term concession
holders.
2.36      The Government is currently completing the detailed review of the
country's forestry fiscal and exploitation systems.   Preliminary analysis of
the stumpage value of the main species logged in Cote d'Ivoire indicates that
the stumpage taxes can be considerably increased. Agreement on the main lines
of the fiscal reform, and its implementation timetable, was obtained under the
Agricultural Sector Adjustment Loan (ASAL). An increase of the various forestry
taxes to levels satisfactory to the Bank is a condition of the ASAL's Second
Tranche Release (March 1990). Increased timber taxation will strongly diminish
incentives to rent-seeking intermediaries.   It will therefore promote more
rational logging operations. In addition, specific measures will be taken under
the project to rationalize logging, processing, and export policies and
regulations (para 5.03).
2.37      The increase in timber taxation will also promote the increased
efficiency  of domestic  processing operations.    Firms with  low conversion
coefficients will have to improve their performance through better management
and/or investments: financing is available under the Bank-financed Industrial
Finance and Development Project (Loan 2617-IVC) and there is plenty of good
second-hand equipment available on the European market. A number of inefficient
sawmills established by log exporters to secure quotas will however probably
close down. The effect of the reforms will be to significantly increase local
processing efficiency and, therefore, reduce the current raw material wastage.
I.   Bank Involvement in the Sector
2.38      Past Bank's assistance to the sector, through the First and Second
Forestry Projects (Loan 1735-IVC for US$18 million approved in 1979 and Loan
2496-IVC for US$31.3 million approved in 1985), mostly supported the
establishment and maintenance of industrial plantations.   Both projects were
financed jointly with the CDC (£5.8 million and £8 million respectively). The
Second Forestry Project is still ongoing. A Project Completion Report (PCR) on
the First Forestry Project was prepared by SODEFOR and submitted to the Bank in
June  1987.   The project was  audited by the Bank's Operations Evaluation
Department (OED) whose conclusions are given below.
2.39      The First Forestry Project consisted of establishing 20,000 ha of
industrial plantations over five years in four logged-over forest areas with
short- to medium-rotation hardwood species. It also provided for the upkeep of
about 22,000 ha of previously established plantations and technical assistance
to the Ministry and SODEFOR. SODEFOR executed the planting program on schedule.
Although costs were 33? over estimates inr CFAF terms, appreciation of the
U.S. dollar against the CFA Franc resulted in costs in dollar terms being very
close to the appraisal estimate of US$47.3 million. The economic rates of return
estimated in the audit report range from 8.3? to 112 according to the species.
This is close to the appraisal estimate of 11.6Z.  Lessons learned from the
project include: (a) the importance of adequate fire prevention measures; (b) the
need to fully investigate agricultural encroachment in areas to be reforested



15
and make appropriate arrangements; (c) the importance of marketing efforts,
particularly for secondary species and thinnings, the sale of which greatly
affects project viability; and (d) the need to develop lower cost alternatives
to planting and maintenance. These matters are being addressed under the Second
Forestry Project.
2.40      Implementation of the Second Forestry Project began in late 1985.
It consists in the establishment of a further 20,000 ha of industrial plantations
and the maintenance of 42,000 ha of plantations already established. It also
includes the continuation of technical assistance to the Ministry and SODEFOR.
Physical implementation of the Project is on schedule, and plantation upkeep and
fire prevention measures are satisfactory. In CFAF terms, the actual costs of
the Project are close to the appraisal estimate but, because of depreciation of
the U.S. dollar, funds available under Bank loan will allow only about 15,000 ha
to be planted instead of the 20,000 ha initially envisaged.
2.41      Although SODEFOR has been generally successful in achieving  planting
targets, recent Bank/CDC supervision missions have concluded that the standards
of plantations fall short of expectations. The main reasons lie in shortcomings
in the management of field operations, inadequate knowledge of the ecological
requirements of certain species and the absence of improved vegetative planting
material. These shortcomings are being addressed.
2.42      Finally,  the  Bank  financed  wildlife  protection  measures  and
infrastructure for the Azagny National Park and the Comoe National Park under
the Second Tourism Project (Loan 1698-IVC, closed on December 1988). Performance
under this Project was satisfactory.
J.   Other Ongoing Projects in the Forestry Sector
2.43      Five orgoing projects in the sector are financed by other external
donors:
(a)  Natural Forest Management.   CCCE is financing a pilot project in
natural forest management on about 7,000 ha in the Yapo forest near
Abidjan; the project consists essentially in experimenting with
various techniques in natural stand silviculture, carried out since
1977 by SODEFOR and CTFT.
(b)  Industrial  Plantations.    CCCE  also  financed  abouL  5,000 ha  of
industrial plantations at Segui4 and near Bouake. An interim follow-
up project is under consideration. It would be limited to research
in silviculture, inventory of existing plantations, ank detailed
management study of a yet-to-be-identified forest.
(c)  Research.   In addition to CTFT's general research into forestry, a
two-year research project in agroforestry and intensive plantations
management in the savanna region has recently been approved by the
European Development Fund (FED).
(d)  Plantations and Forest Management in the Savanna.  AfDB is currently
financing a project which includes: (i) the establishment of 5,000 ha
of industrial plantations (Teak, Gmelina and Pine) in the Bouake area
and a further 5,000 ha (Teak, Gmelina and Eucalyptus) near Korhogo;



16
(ii) management and exploitation of 1,600 ha of plantations
established in the Center and North Regions and of 10,500 ha of
gazetted forests near Korhogo; (iii) assistance in establishing a
sawmill near Bouak6; and (iv) accompanying research, training and
infrastructure.
(e)  Rural Land Tenure Project.   Under the Bank-financed Center-West
Agricultural Development Project (Loan 2167-IVC), a pilot operation
has been initiated in early 1989, with cofinancing from CCCE and FAC,
to carry out cadastral surveys and register land tenure rights in five
pilot areas, some bordering gazetted forests.
III.   THE PROJECT
A.   Project Rationale, Objectives and Description
3.01      Rationale.   The forests of C6te d'Ivoire play a vital part in the
country's economic development. Their exploitation generates substantial foreign
exchange earnings and jobs in the logging and timber processing industry.
Besides meeting the country's needs for fuelwood and construction timber, they
have contributed to soil fertility and to the ecosystem needed for the fast
expansion of the country's main export crops, coffee and cocoa, and provided non-
wood ferest products of nutritional and medicinal importance for rural
communities.   However,  the accelerating disappearance  of the forests now
threatens not only the future production of timber, but also irreplaceable
ecosystems and the environment on which forest agricuxlture depends.   Cbte
d'Ivoire has experienced,  over the last two decades,  a period of steadily
declining average rainfall.  This decline has accelerated during the 1980-87
period: detailed data from MINAGREF indicates that, in various parts of the
country, annual rainfall declined by 0.5? between 1960 and 1980, and by 4.6? p.a.
between 1980 and 1987.  Although there is still no conclusive evidence of a
positive correlation between large scale deforestation and a decline in rainfall,
it would be dangerous to overlook a possible direct causal relationship.
3.02      Past efforts have been too narrowly based to slow down the destruction
of the forests.   The comprehensive and 'ntegrated approach laid down in the
Government's National Forestry Plan (NFP) will, for the fist time, tackle all
dimensions of the problem: (a) natural forest, wildlife, and bic-diversity
protection and management; (b) interface of agriculture with forestry; and (c)
improvement in the efficiency of public and private institutions operating in
the sector, particularly through the reform of the sector's legal and fiscal
framework. The Bank has played a significant role in developing such an approach
and its support to NFP implementation will serve as a catalyst for other donors.
3.03      Objectives.   The project will basically undertake all activities
included in the Government's Emergency Action Program to (a) stop the destruction
of the rain forest; (b) ensure a sustainable production of industrial timber
through the improved management of natural forests, and the development and
better husbandry of industrial plantations; (c) improve the efficiency of the
domestic wood processing industry; (d) protect the country's national parks; and
(e) promote a better management of the interface between agriculture and
forestry.



17
3.04      Project  Description.    The  project  will  comprise  the  following
components:
1.   Forest Protection and Management.  The Government's Emergency Action
Program in this area wili be supported in its totality by the project:
(a)  Natural  Forest  Protection.    Identification  of  limits  and
demarcation of about 1.5 million ha of gazetted rain forest, and
strengthening of their surveillance.
(b) Natural Forest Management. Preparation of management plans for
700,000 ha of gazetted forests (of which 500,000 ha in five
forests already identified for management by private companies
under long-term agreements) and subsequent execution of these
management plans.
(c) Buffer Zone Pilot Project and Agricultural Inputts. The project
will promote the improved management of the forest/agriculture
interface by supporting the establishment of buffer zones around
protected forest areas and increased use of modern inputs to
stabilize agriculture. The management plans of gazetted forests
prepared under the project will include a land-use/agricultural
development plan for adjoining areas.  A specific development
plan will be prepared for the buffer zone of one gazetted forest,
for execution under a separate follow-up project.
2.   Industrial Plantations.  The Government's Emergency Program calls for
25,000 ha of new industrial plantations to be established during the
next five years.   The Bank-financed project, however, will only
finance the planting of 9,000 ha of new plantations to complete the
block. established under the Second Forestry Project, as well as the
upkeep of approximately 55,000 ha of existing plantations.
3.   National  Parks.      The  Government's  Program  includes  the  re-
establishment of clear limits and the provision of infrastructure and
equipment for the surveillance and protection of the Tal and Marahoue
Parks, as well as the completion of infrastructure works in Comoe Park
(initiated under the Second Tourism Project).  Only the Comoe Park
will be financed under the project, while specific programs for the
Tal and Marahoue Parks will be financed under separate operations by
the Federal Republic of Germany (KfW) and the European Community (FED)
respectively (para 4.05).
4.   Forestry Training Schools.   The project will  finance additional
infrastructure equipment and staff for the Forestry Training Schools
in Bouafle and Banco.
5.   Research and Studies.  The project will finance the entire government
program in this area.  The research program will include: research
into  natural  forest  silviculture  and  management,   industrial
plantations techniques and agroforestry, and studies on the evolution
of vegetative cover, incidence of bush fires, effects of deforestation
on the climate, and the identification and promotion of minor forest
products.



18
6.   Institutional Strengthening.  The project will continue to support
government efforts to improve planning and implementation capabilities
in the sector through:
(a) technical assistance to the Forestry Directorate of MINAGREF in
forest development planning and mor'toring, and in resource
management;
(b) technical assistance to SODEFOR for natural forest management,
planting operations, financial management and marketing; and
implementation of a full-fledged management audit of SODEFOR;
and
(c) technical assistance to DCGTx in project monitoring and
evaluation.
7.   Monitoring and Evaluation.  A unit will be created within DCGTx to
ensure overall control and monitoring of the project.
B.   Detailed Features
3.05      The project will be carried out over five years  (1990-1994),  in
accordance with the implementation  schedule presented in Annex 3-1.   Its
components are described below and more details are given in the project's
Working Papers.
1.   Forest Protection and Management (Working Paper No. 4)
3.06      The protection and management of gazetted forests require the policy
reforms discussed in Section II of this report and other actions to promote t.he
involvement of local populations in vianaging the gazetted forests, encourage
intensified and stabilized agriculture in areas adjoining the gazetted forests,
and provide incentives to the private sector for its active participation in
implementing forest management plans.
(a) Forest Protection
3.07      About 1.5 million ha of the remaining natural forests will be newly
demarcated and protected .nder the program. The fortsts to be protected will
be selected according to specific criteria such as their ecological features,
production potential, and current state of preservation (18 gazetted forests
covering 1.1 million ha have already been identified from an aerial survey; the
400,000 ha not yet identified will be selected from additional areas surveyed
under the project). A list of gazetted forests is given in Annex 3-2 and the
demarcation, surveillance and management program to be undertake.n under the
project is pre-sented in Annex 3-3.
3.08      Preliminary studies, including maps (at 1/100,000 scale), biological
surveys, socioeconoiiic studies, and soil surveys will be carried out on the
concerned gazetted forests and adjoining areas. These studies will permit:



19
(i)  the identification of areas to be either maintained as
unlogged wildlife/biological reservee, used for timber
production  purposes,   allocated  to  agroforestry,   or
transferred to agricultural Oevelopment; and
(ii) the provision to MINAGREF of data on socioeconomic
conditions and soils for agricultural development in the
buffer zones and the design of a program for reestablishing
illegal settlers.
(iii) the preparation of a detailed land-use and agricultural
development plan for the buffer zone of one gazetted forest
and the provision of incremental agricultural inputs to be
used in areas adjoining buffer zones.
3 09.     Subsequer.t  actions will  include opening and maintaining  limits,
establishing and operating the surveillance system, and carrying out the
resettlement programs. The main limits will be established around the gazetted
forest areas to be protected or used for timber production purposes (these areas
will gradually be cleared of illegal, settlers). The limits will be opened half
manually and half mechanically; it is estimated that 25% will be opened ir, dense
forest and 75Z in open areas where plantations (mainly Teak and Gmdlina) will
be used to help visualizing the limits. The total length of the limits to be
opened under the project is estimated to be about 2,700 kilometers. Secondary
limits will be opened or re-opened to demarcate the gazetted forest areas
allocated to agroforestry. Six units (demarcation brigades) will be responsible
for opening the limits, each unit comprising a forest ranger, three foremen and
a work force. For every 100,000 ha, five guard posts will be established and
there will be one patrolling unit at the cantonment level. Maintenance of the
limits will be the responsibility of the concerned guard posts which will employ
local people to carry out the works.   The surveillance projram will include
detailed weekly patrolling programs, an annual aerial survey, and a general
program to sensitize rural populations to the benefits of gazetted forest
protection. The resettlement program will be implemented according to policies
established by the Government, which are satisfactory to the Bank (para 2.32).
(b) Forest Management
3.10      Out of the overall 1.5 million ha to be protected under the project,
about 700,000 ha of gazetted forests will be the object of a detailed inventory
and management plan under the project. Management plans will be prepared on a
priority basis for five gazetted forests (totalling about 500,000 ha) which have
already been identified for management under long-term concessions allocated to
private companies under a negotiated contract (para 3.12). The remaining 200,000
ha for which management plans will be prepared under the project will be selected
during project implementation.   Other external donors have expressed their
interest in financing the preparation of management plans for natural forests
(para 4.05). Forest areas to benefit from their support will be selected out
of the 1.5 million ha protected under the Bank-financed project which, however,
will not firance management plans.
3.11      A general inventory at a sample of 1% to 2X will provide basic data
on forest flora,  and commercial timber.   Inventory teams will include an
ecosystem specialist who will complement these data with data on wildlife.



20
Further detailed inventories, at 10? sample, will then be carried out to define
the detailed management plans including the maximum anaual allowable cut. The
management plans will cover a period of 20 years. The gazetted forests will be
divided into Functional Zones as follows:
(i)  Protection.  Protected Zones (PtZ) will be, if necessary,
established to preserve biodiversity and protect fragile
environments.   No intrusion will be permitted in these
protected areas.
(ii) Exploitaticn.   Zones designated for production purposes
(PdZ), which will cover about 702 of most gazet:ed forests,
will have for primary objective to produce timoer and non-
timber products on a sustainable basis. For timber
production, measures will be taken to organize the
exploitation of mature commercial timber under a felling
rotation of 20 years (exploitation during four years in five
successive areas), carry out the thinning of secondary
species to increase yiells of valuable species, and organize
improved harvesting of non-timber products (fuelwood, poles,
medicinal plants, chewing sticks, game, etc.) by local
populations.
(iii) Rehabilitation. The objective in rehabilitation zones (RZ)
will be to restore the forest cover and the production of
timber  and  non-timber  products.       The  zones  to  be
rehabilitated will be progressively cleared of illegal
settlers.
(iv) Agroforestry. Agroforestry zones (AfZ) will be the areas
where illegal settlers will be allowed to remain in gazetted
forests.   The objective will be to limit agriculture to
existing tree crop plantations, promote agroforestry
systems, and involve settlers in forest management (civil
works, harvest of non-timber products).
(v)  Agriculture.  Areas where agrihultural encroachment is too
extensive will be degazetted and transferred to agricultural
use; these areas will be used for resettling illegal
settlers from the zones mentioned above.
3.12      Specific arrangements for the management of five gazetted forests by
private companies have been outlined. Several logging companies have expressed
strong interest. The concerned gazetted forests are as follows.
Gazetted Forest           Total Gazetted Area
(ha)
Deb6                            100,000
Cavally                          56,000
Niegre                          101,000
Haut Sassandra                  102,000
Scio                            134,000
Total                       493,000



21
The interested companies will sign with the Government an interim agreement
which will regulate logging operations for a period of three years during which
a forest management plan will be prepared.   The interim agreement will give
exclusive logging rights to the concessionaire in exchange for certain
obligations including an effective participation in the preparation of the
management plan and the respect of an agreed annual work program specifying the
zones, volumes and species to be harvested. The agreement will call for the
payment by the concessionaire, in addition to the taxes in force, of an annual
fee reflecting the benefits (reduced transport costs, nonpayment of royalties,
etc.) from the concession. On completion of the inventory and management plan,
the interim agreement will be replaced by a long-term lease based on the detailed
management plan.
(c) Buffer Zone Pilot Project and Incremental Agricultural Inputs
3.13      Forest management pl.ans prepared urnder the proSect will systematically
include the survey (socioeconomic, land-use, soils) of areas adjoining  t:he
protected forest areas (buffer zones) and the preparation of programs for the
resettlement of lIlegal settlers out of protected areas and for the development
of stabilized agriculture in the buffer zones.  Specific attention will be given
to these areas by extension services. A specific detailed feasibility study will
be carried out for the development of the buffer zone of a gazetted forest to
be protected and managed under the project. The pilot program will be financed
under  a separate  operation.   Also,  the project will  finance  incremental
agricultural inputs in buffer zones and other areas adjo'ning protected forest
areas. Until recently, forest farmers have made little use of modern inputs
either for the production of cocoa and coffee, the dominant cash crops, or of
food crops. However, emerging land constraints are inducing farmers to adopt
land-saving/yield-enhancing technologies (fertilizers, insecticides, improved
planting material). The protection and conservation of the remaining natural
forests, by freezing a substantial part of the land still available for extensive
agriculture, will speed up the shortening of fallow periods and induce an
increased use of modern inputs to maintain soil fertility and increase yields.
2.   Industrial Plantations
3.14      The program will provide for the upkeep of approximately 55,000 ha
of industrial plantations established at Irobo, Mopri, Sangoue and Tene from
1967 to 1989, including those established under the Bank's First and Second
Forestry Projects.   Weeding will be carried out by tractor and brush-cutter
according to an agreed-upon schedule.   Silviculture operations will comprise
pruning and thinning,  depending on the species.   Fire protection will be
maintained at the existing satisfactory level.
3.15      The project will also provide for the establishment of 9,000 ha of
new plantations to complate the planting program envisaged under the Second
Forestry Project and fili. in the remaining plantable areas.   No additional
infrastructure or heavy equipment will be required.  The industrial planting
program by location and species is given in Annex 3-4. The species breakdoxn
proposed for these new plantations is 292 Teak, 382 Gm6lina, 20? Framire, 6Z
Samba, and 8Z Cedrela. Actual plantings will be determined following detailed
surveys and take into account agreed-upon economic and technical criteria.



22
3.   National Parks (Working Paper No. 3)
3.16      Minor infrastructure works will be carried out (rural tracks and
fords, renovation of buildings, and construction of guard posts) to complete
the rehabilitation works carried out in the Comoe National Park under the Second
Tourism Project (para 2.42). Specific programs for the protection and management
of the Tal and Marahoue National Parks will be financed under separate projects
by KfW and FED (para 4.05).
4.   Forestry Training Schools (Working Paper No. 5)
3.17      Bouaf 16 Forestry School.  The project will finance; additional lodging,
an administrative block and laboratory, water supply and electricity, as well
as incremen'al operating costs for the school of forest guards in Bouafl4. In
addition to training in surveillance activit.ies, the curriculum will emphasize
the gensitizatior o.i. an.' collaboration with, local populations, wildlife and
its protecticn, and extensien advice in forest activities and agroforestry,
including establAshment of forest nurseries. The initial training period will
be extended from three tco nine months.  This initial period will be followed by
three m.onths  of :iecialization in riural forestry, national parks, nacural
resources management or fisheries.  The nurmber of trainees will be increased from
60 in 1988 to 120 in 1990.
3.18      Banco Forestry School.   The project will also finance a teaching
block, lodging, vehicles, teaching and other materials and equipment, and
operating costs for the Banco Forestry Training Center. The Banco school will
offer a variety of courses: for students at the Ecole Nationale Superieure
Agricole (ENSA), at the Bouake Agriculture Institute and at forestry schools in
Bouak4 and Bouaf1e; for SODEFOR forestry staff; for staff from ministries and
institutions involved in the management of forestry and agriculture; and for
university students requiring training in forestry and environmental issues.
5.   Research and Studies (Working Paper No. 6)
3.19      Research will be carried out in three main areas: (a) management of
natural forests, including response to silvicultural treatments; (b) adaptive
research on industrial plantations (breeding of planting material, vegetative
propagation, ecological requirements of species, phytosanitary protection, etc.)
to improve plantations' productivity and efficiency; and (c) research and trials
in agroforestry to use trees for stabilizing agriculture, maintaining or
restoring soil fertility and producing timber for construction, fuelwood, etc.
These research programs will be carried out by CTFT under contract with SODEFOR.
3.20      Additional  studies  will  be  carried  out  on:  (a)  analysis  and
monitoring of vegetative cover; (b) the incidence of bush fires; (c) the effects
of deforestation on the climate; (d) secondary forest products; and (e) private
sector involvement in the management of forest (including SODEFOR) plantations
(para 5.05).



23
6.   Institutional Strengthening
3.21      The   project   will   fLnance   technical   assistance,   short-term
consultancies, training and eqL4p,ment for MINAGREF, SODEFOR and DCGTx, as well
as a management audit of SODEFOR (para 5.04). Terms of reference for technical
assistance are given in Annex 3-5.
3.22      Technical assistance to MINAGREF will total 10 man-years through the
recruitment, for the project period, of a Forestry Economist and a Specialist
in Forestry Data-Processing. Technical assistance to SODEFOR (32 man-years) will
include the continuation of the posts financed under the Second Forestry Project
(Financial Director, Marketing Specialist, and Operations Methods Engineer) as
well as the recruitment of two Forestry Management Specialists, one Biometrician
and one Ecology/Ecosystem Specialist for the duration of the project period.
Provision is also made for about 16 man-months of short-term consultancies for
developing  cost accounting  systems and  in other areas  to be  identified.
TtechnLcal assistance to DCGTx will total five man-years through the recruitment
of one Specialist in Honitoring anid Evaiuation.
7. Monitoring, sand Evaluiation
3.23      DCGTx will be respor.sible for overall control and monitoring of the
project. A unit will be established for this purpose, adequately staffed and
provided with the necessary vehicles, equipment and operating funds.
IV.   PROJECT COSTS, FINANCING, PROCUREMENT,
DISBURSEMENT, ACCOUNTS AND AUDIT
A.   Project Costs
4.01      Total   project   costs   are   estimated   at   CFAF 46.1   billion
(US$147.8 million),   including   taxes   and   duties   of   CFAF 11   billion
(US$35.3 million).      Foreign   exchange   requirements   are   estimated   at
US$58.8 million, representing 39Z of project costs. Total project costs include
the cost of activities carried out in 1988/89 under the Project Preparation
Facility (PPF) (preparation of detailed maps for selected forests and parks based
on satellite imagery, identification of the limits of forests to be managed by
the private sector, equipment, and training) which will be refinanced under the
loan.
4.02      Base costs are estimated in June 1989 prices.  Physical contingencies
have been assessed at lOZ on the natural forest component and at 5? on the
industrial plantations, national parks, training and research components. Price
contingencies are based on the following inflation estimates: on foreign costs,
3Z for 1989 and 1990, and 4Z thereafter; on local costs, 42 annually throughout
the project period. Project costs are detailed in Annex 4-1 and Working Paper
No. 7. They are summarized below.



24
Project Cost Summary
Base
Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total        FE   Cost       Taxes
-                           U---CFAf-Siiorn on        W- W(CFAF bTlTon)
Natural Forests:
Demarcation             2,378   1,181   3,659    7.82    3.79   11.41         33     8.7       917
Surveillance            2,063   1,441   3,494    6.58    4.82   11.20         41     8.8    1,882
Management              2.622   1.193   8,716    8.08    3.82   11.90         32     9.1       840
Sub-total               6,963   3,815  10,768   22.28   12.28   84.61         8S    28.4    2,819
Industrial Plantations:
Now Plantations         3,991   1,710   5,701   12.79    6.48   18.27         80    14.0    1,183
Upkeep of Plantationoi  3 JLS     39:   _   87   12.69    6.21   18.80       a8    14,4      j468
Sub-tot6l               7,S19   S,e49  11,588   26.3s   11.89   37.07         82    28.4    2,639
Como6 Park:                271     229      s0ai   0.87    0.73    1.60        46     1.2       116
Forestry Schools:
Bousfle                   951     608   1,667    3.06    1.94    4.99         89     8.6       487
Banco                     889     410   1.279    2.79    1.31    4.10         32     8.1       s06
Sub-total               1,820   1,018   2,838    6.84    3.26    9.09       8S      6.9       748
Research and Studies:
Research                1,032      298   1,328    8.31    0.96    4.28        22     8.4       290
Studies                   236      294     529    0.76    0.94    1.89       S5      1.3       134
Sub-total               1,287      590   1,857    4.08    1.89    5.95        82     4.7       424
Other Costs:
Institutional Strength.   720   1,278   1,998    2.31    4.09    8.40         64      4.9      898
SODEFOR Headquarters    2,104       534   2,638    6.74    1.71    8.46        20     B.6       545
Monitoring & Evaluat.      621     210      731    1.87    0.67    2.34        29     1.8       162
Agricultural Inputs      2.847  65203   7.860    8.48   18.88   26.18          a6    19.2    1.972
Sub-total               5,992   7,223  13,216   19.21   23.16   42.38        64    82.4    8,086
Base Costs              24,222  16,522  40,744   77.83   62.98  130.59         40   100.0    9,705
Physical Contingencies    996      542   1,637    3.19    1.74    4.93        a5      8.8      400
Price Contingencies      2.582   1,274   3,836    8.21    4.08   12.29         82     9.8      912
Total Costs             27,779  18,338  48,117   89.03   58.78  147.81         89   113.1   11,017



25
B.   Proiect Financing
4.03       Project financing is presented in the table below.
Prolect Financing Plan
IBRD     CDC      RCI      Taxes    Total
-----------  --(USl_TIi Ion)----------------
Natural Forests:
Demarcation              10.6                         3.2    13.8
Surveillance              9.7                         4.1    18.8
Management               11.0                         8.1    18.1
Sub-total                31.3      o0.0              10.4    41.7
Industrial Plantations:
New Plantations          12.2      5.i                8.9    21.2
Upkeep of Plantations    11.9      4.9                4.8    21.6
Sub-total                 4i-1    l875    -i i
Coaeo4 National Park:      1.4                         0.4      1.8
Forostry Schools:
fEarsia                   30                1.0       1.6 k86
Bonco                     8.0               0.6       1.1      4.6
Sub-total                 86.0     0.       1.5       2-.7 
Research and Studies:
Research                  8.9                         1.0      4.9
Studies                   1.4                         0.6      1.9
Sub-total                 5 .      0171 0    I 0               371
Other Costs:
Inst. Strength.            6.7                         1.4      7.1
SODEFOR Headquarters       5.6               1.9       2.0      9.5
Monitoring & Eval.         0.4               1.7       0.8      2.7
Agricultural Inputs                         17.8       7.6    25.2
Sub-total                11.7      0.0    21.2       11.6    44.5
TOTAL COSTS              79.8    10.0    22.7        86.8    147.8
Share of Financing (X)
With Taxes               54        7        15        24      100
Without Taxes            71        9        20         -      100
4.04       The Bank loan of US$80 million will finance about 71? of the project
cost net of taxes. The British Commonwealth Development Corporation (CDC) will
provide US$10 million equivalent to cofinance the Industrial Plantation
Component. Total external financing will amount to 80? of project cost net of
taxes.   A condition of disbursement  of the Bank loan  for the industrial
plantation component will be the effectiveness of the CDC loan. The Bank loan
will be made to the Government for a period of 20 years including a five-year
grace period, at the standard rate.
4.05       Several other donors have stated their strong interest in supporting
the Government's Forestry Emergenc7 Action Program.   The Federal Republic of
Germany (KfW) recently appraised a project which will include the protection of
the Tal National Park and the protection and management of about 200,000 ha of
natural forests in the eastern region of the country. The European Community
(FED) also indicated its readiness to finance the development and protection of
the Marahoue  National  Park.    Because  of  these  explicit  interests,  these
components of the Government's Emergency Program have not been included in the
Bank-financed project.



26
C.   Procurement
4.06      MINAGREF, SODEFOR and DCGTx will be responsible for the procurement
of civil works, goods and services necessary for implementing their respective
parts of the project. Civil works (US$15.5 million) will include a large number
of small houses, guard posts and field offices scattered throughout the forests
and national parks (US$7.5 million) and the extension of the forestry schools
(US$2.5 million).  Because construction works are too small and scattered to
attract international bidding, they will be procured through local competitive
bidding (LCB) procedures which have been reviewed and found satisfactory by the
Bank. Foreign bidders will not be precluded from pa ticipation. The civil works
program also includes the opening-up of forest limits (US$5.5 million).  The
quantity of work involved in this operation cannot be defined in advance and it
will be carried out under force account. Similarly, plantation establishment
and maintenance will be carried out by SODEFOR under force account. This type
of work has normally been carried out by SODEFOR since private contractors are
not available to undartal;e such fragmented operations. Recognizing this, the
Bank assisted in developing SODEFOR's capabilities in this area by providing
equipment and training under the First and Second Forestry Projects.
4.07      Vehicles and machinery (US$11.2 million) will be procured through
International Competitive Bidding (ICB), except for lots under CFAF 20 million
(US$65,000) --up to an aggregate amount of CFAF 300 million (US$1 million)--
whlch may be purchased after obtaining quotations from at least three reputable
suppliers. Field and office equipment (US$8.1 million) comprise a large number
of small items which will be purchased through LCB, except for lots under CPAF
20 million (US$65,000)--up to an aggregate amount of CFAF 300 million (US$1
million)--which may be procured after quotations of at least three suppliers
from two eligible sources.   Operating costs consist of (a) local personnel
salaries and travel costs; (b) fuel and spare parts which will be procured
through LCB; and (c) supplies and materials which will be procured through ICB
except for lots of less than CFAF 10 million (USS3l,000)--up to an aggregate
amount of CFAF 150 million (US$500,000; -which may be procured by the executing
agencies in accordance with their normal procedures which have been found
satisfactory to the Bank. Research (US$4.9 million) will be carried out by CTFT,
the Ivorian Forestry Research Institute. Technical assistance (US$7.1 million)
and studies (US$1.9 million) will be procured in accordance with Bank Guidelines.
Incremental agricultural inputs will be distributed through existing marketing
channels and procured through standard commercial practices.   All bidding
packages for goods estimated to cost more than CFAF 60 million will require
Bank's prior approval as will final awards of related contracts. Prior approval
will also be required for the recruitment of the project's technical assistance.
Other contracts will be subject to random post-review by the Bank. Assurances
were obtained at negotiations that the above procurement arrangements will be
followed. Procurement arrangements are summarized below (figures in parentheses
show the amounts to be financed by the Bank).



27
Procurement Arrangements
Items                      ICB       LCB       Other       N/A     Total
--- (US$ million) --------…-----
Civil Works                        10.0        5.5                  15.5
(7.0)      (3.9)                (10.9)
Plantations                                    25.6                  2Z.6
(12.8)                (12.8)
Vehicles and              10.2                 1.0                  11.2
machinery               (7.1)               (0.7)                  (7.8)
Field and office           4.1      3.0        1.0                   8.1
equipment                (2.9)   (2.1)       (0.7)                 (5.7)
Operating Costs            ?.G    23.1         0.5        17.6      48.2
(4.8)  (15.9)      (0.3)      (12.0)    (33.0)
Research and Studies                           6.8                   6.8
(4.8)                 (4.8)
Technical Assistance                           7.1                   7.1
(5.0)                 (5.0)
Agricultural Inputs                             _         25.3      25.3
Total                 21.3    36.1          47.5       42.9      147.8
(14.8)  (25.0)       (28.2)     (12.0)    (80.0)
D.   Disbursements
4.08      A schedule of disbursements is presented in Annex 4-2.  Disbursements
on the first two forestry projects have proceeded ahead of schedule and will have
been completed within six years. Disbursements under the project are expected
to be completed by June 30, 1996.
4.09      Three  Special  Accounts  will  be  opened  at  Caisse  Autonome
d'Amort.ssement (CAA) for Bank disbursements against MINAGREF, SODEFOR, and DCGTx
expenditures.   At effectiveness,  the Bank will deposit the equivalent of
US$500,000, US$5 million, and US$500,000 respectively in these accounts.
Accounts' replenishment will be done against full documentation except for those
based on Statements of Expenditures (SOEs) which will be used for civil works
costing less than CFAF 30 million; equipment, goods and vehicles costing less
than CFAF 20 million; consulting services contracts costing less than CFAE 10
million; and all force accounts, plantation costs, operating costs and training.
Minimum amount for the replenishment of MINAGREF, SODEFOR and DCGTx'x Special
Accounts will be US$100,000 equivalenL, US$500,000 equivalent and US$100,000
equivalent respcctively.   MINAGREF's SOEs will be certified by DPCGEF and
SODEFORs and DCGTx's by their respective Director general. SOEs will be subject
to specific review by the auditors. Supporting documentation will be retained
by MINAGREF, SODEFOR and DCGTx for examination by Bank supervision missions.



28
Disbursement of Bank Loan
Percentage
Category                               Amount     Finance by Bank
MINAGREF
1  perFating Cost for Natural Forest Protection       8.00            70
2. Technical Assistance                               1.60            80
SODEFOR
3. ClviI Works
(a) Natural Forest Management                      2.60            70
(b) Headquarters                                   0.10            59
4. Vehicles and Equipment
(a) Natural Forest Management                      8.30            70
(b) Industrial Plantations                         2.00            s0
(c) Headquarters                                   0.90            s0
5. Operating Costs
(a) Natural Forest Management                      9.60            70
(b) Industrial Plantations                        19.10            Be
(c) Headquarters                                   5.30            ?0
8. Technical Assistance                               4.90            806
7. Research                                           8.50            70
DCGTx
d.s C;v I Wor-ks
(a) Natural Forest Protectior                      2.90            70
(b) Natural Parks                                  1.30            70
(e) Forestry Schools                               1.20            50
9. Vehicles and Equipment
(a) Natural Forest Protection                      3.10            70
(b) Natural Forest Management                      0.80            70
(c) Forestry Schools                               1.30            50
10. Operating Costs: Natural Forest Protection         2.80            70
11. Technical Assistance                               0.50            80
12. Studies                                            2.60            70
13. Monitoring and Evaluation                          0.18            s0
OTHERS
14. Project Preparation Facility Advance               0.60
16. Unallocated                                        7.92
TOTAL                                             80.00
4.10       To ensure efficient and timely implementation of the project,  the
Government will channel its contribution through three project accounts opened
at CAA to finance MINAGREF's, SODEFOR's and DCGTx' expenditures. As a Condition
of Effectiveness of the Bank Loan, the Government will deposit CFAF SO million,
CFAF 620 million and CFAF 120 million in MINAGREF's, SODEFOR's and DCGTx'
accounts respectively, representing the Government's contribution to three months
of project expenditures.   Assurances were obtained at negotiations that the
Government will replenish these accounts, quarterly and in advance, to their
initial amount so as to meet its funding obligations under the project over the
following three months.
E.   Financial Management, Accounts and Audits
4.11       MINAGREF.   The Ministry's Directorate for Planning and Management
Control (DPCGEF) will be responsible for the financial management and control
of the project's components to be implemented by the Ministry. It will maintain
accounts and prepare disbursement applications for MINAGREF's project
expenditures.



29
4.12      SODEFOR.   In accordance with SODEFOR's statutes (EPIC), the Agent
Comptable of the Ministry of Economy and Finance will be responsibie for general
accounting and preparation of annual accounts, and SODEFOR's Direction des
Ressources for budgetary control and cost accounting. SODEFOR's annual accounts
are currently audited by international auditors under arrangements satisfactory
to the Bank. These arrangements will be continued under the project.
4.13      Assurances were  obtained at negotiations  that:  (a) SODEFOR will
continue to have its accounts, annual financial statements and SOEs auditbd each
year by auditors acceptable to the Bank; (b) MINAGREF and DCGTx will have their
project expenditures and SOEs audited each year by auditors acceptable to the
Bank; and (c) the audit reports wil be submitted to the Bank no later than six
months after the close of each fina cial year.
V. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION AND MANAGEMENT
A.   Project Implementation
1.   Forest Protection and Management
5.01      Natural Forest Protection.   Demarcation will be carried out by
SODEFOR under supervision by the Direction de la Conservation du Domaine
Forestier et du Reboisement (DCDFR) of MINAGREF, based on maps, biological
surveys, socioeconomic studies and soil surveys prepared by DCGTx. SODEFOR will
then be responsible for opening the limits and establishing boundary markers.
HINAGREF (DCDFR) will be responsible for forest surveillance and subsequent
maintenance of the boundaries.
5.02      Natural Forest Management.   SODEFOR will be responsible  for the
preparation of forest management plans. It will also carry out silvicultural
operations through its Direction de l'Amenagement de la For§t Naturelle. The
feasibility study of the Buffer Zone Pilot Project will be carried out by DCGTx
in collaboration with MINAGREF, SODEFOR and CTFT. Implementation of the specific
pilot project will be the responsibility of MINAGREF, in close associiation with
SODEFOR. For the natural forests already identified for management oy private
companies under long-term concessions (Haut-Sassandra, Scio, Debe, Cavally and
Nidgr4), all PTEs have already been cancelled as of January 1, 1990. Logging
will resume in selected areas of the concerned forests only after detailed
inventories have been completed and under interim agreements (up to three years)
between the Government and the interested companies.  Upon completion of the
detailed management plans, the interim agreements will be replaced by negotiated
long-term concessions based on the forest management plans. Interim contracts
are being negotiated and will be signed before June 30, 1990. Assurances were
obtained at negotiations that, for the other natural forests for which management
plans will be prepared under the project, existing PTEs will be cancelled and
logging suspended before the beginning of inventories and long-tenm logging
concessions will be auctioned on the basis of these inventories and associated
management plans.
5.03      Assurances were also obtained at negotiations that the Government will
(a) carry out, before June 30, 1990, a detailed review of all the existing PTE
holders and take the necessary corrective actions to ensure compliance with the



30
Forestry Code; and (b) prepare and submit to the Bank before June 30, 1990 new
arrangements to regulate log exports.
2.   Industrial Plantations
'.04      Industrial  plantations will  continue  to be managed  by SODEFOR.
However, SODEFOR's 'oork program and responsibilities have been increased both
geographically (with the AfDB project in the Center and North) and in nature
(with more emphasis given to natural forest management). This dictates that an
in-depth review of SODEFOR's organization, management and staffing be done. The
Terms of Reference for this Management Audit are given in Annex 5. Assurances
were obtained during negotiations that the management audit will be launched
before June 30, 1990, a detailed action plan to implement agreed-upon audit
recommendations will be prepared before March 31, 1991, and the plan will be
implemented thereafter in consultation with the Bank.
5.05      To keep SODEFOR's work program within manageable limits, it should
divest itself progressively of responsibilities for the upkeep and exploitation
of industrial plantaticns. This divestiture can be effected in various ways:
by contracting out upkeep and thinning; by selling standing timber; by forming
a joint venture between SODEFOR and a private company; or by handing over
plantations to private companies on long lease. It is not realistic to expect
this divestiture to be feasible before the plantations are close to commercial
exploitation (which will not be before the late 1990s). However, opportunity
should be taken under the project to prepare for such divestiture. Assurances
were obtained at negotiations that a study of alternative methods to manage
industrial plantations and sell their products will be carried out before
December 31, 1991.
3.   Research and Studies
5.06      Research and trials on natural forest management, establishment and
upkeep of industrial plantations and agroforestry will be carried out primarily
by CTFT in close collaboration with SODEFOR. CTFT will also obtain assistance
as required from the Company for Agriculture Modernization (SATMACI) and the
Institute for Research on Cocoa and Coffee (IRCC). Assurances were obtained at
negotiations that a contract between SODEFOR and CTFT, satisfactory to the Bank,
will be concluded before June 30, 1990.   DCGTx will be responsible for the
studies of vegetative cover, bush fires, secondary forest products and the
effects of deforestation on the climate, the last two in association with the
Ivorian Institute for Tropical Ecology (IET) or other research institutions.



31
B.  Annual Work Program
5.07     MINAGREF, SODEFOR and DCGTx will prepare detailed annual programs for
their respective operations under the project. These work programs will include
operating and investment budgets as well as financing plans. Assurances were
obtained at negotiations that the draft annual work programs and budgets will
be submitted to the Bank for comments before October 31 of each year.
C.   Monitoring and Evaluation
5.08     DCGTx will be responsible for the monitoring and evaluation (M&E) of
the project. Monitoring data for the surveillance of national parks and forestry
schools com?onents will be provided through quarterly and annual reports from
MINAGREF, and for the demarcation, forest management, and industrial plantation
components through quarterly and annual reports from SODEFOR. CTFT will also
provide quarterly and annual reporta on itF research activities.  On the basis
of these various reports, the Goverrment will prepare and submit to the Bank
annual reports on project implementation and progress.
5.09      Review of Resettlement Operations.  Before the end of the third year
of project implementation, the Government will undertake a detailed review of
operations carried out under the project to resettle farmers outside of gazetted
forests.   Assurances were obtained at negotiations that the findings and
recommendations of this review will be submitted to the Bank before December
31, 1992.
VI. PRODUCTION, MARKETS AND PRICES, AND FINANCIAL ASPECTS
A.  Production
6.01     Natural Forests.  Incremental production of natural forests under the
project has been assessed for a typical 100,000 ha forest over three rotations
of 20 years. The "without project' hypothesis assumes that annual production
will decline from 200,000 m3 initially to 50,000 m3 in year 9 and cease
thereafter. With protection only, annual p oduction will be 125,000 m3 for the
first rotation and 65,000 m3 thereafter.   With protectior and management,
production will rise to 80,000 m3 in the second rotation and to 88,000 m3 in the
third rotation, while thinning will increase production to 95,000 m3 and 110,000
m3 in the second and third rotations respectively.  Extrapolating to the 1.5
million ha of natural forests to be protected under the project and allowing for
phasing, annual incremental production (assuming 700,000 ha out of the 1.5
million ha under protection are also under management) will be as follows.
Annual Incremental Production ofNaturl  Fore to under tho Proect
With Protection
With Protection      Management.
Without Proiect.  With Protaction  A Manmaoment    & Silvicultur.
Tot.        Tot.   Inc.      Tot.   Inc.       Tot.  Inc.
C017tk7 ('O(OO (3t eV   C 06j'( 000- (a3a I9 (Jf?('00Oa) (m3/ha ('0t
lt  r otation   2.0-0.0  8S2  1.28    1,875  1,018  1.28    1.878  1,018  1.28  1,87e  1.018
2nd rotation  0.0  0  0.65  975   978    0o.0    1.080  1.080  0.93  1.186  1.080
8rd rotation  0.0  0  0.68  975   978  0.88    1,144  1144  1.10  1,842  1.842
a/  Average o-'c thie 10  ear rotationa.



32
6.02      Industrial Plantations.  Annex 6-1 shows the total area of industrial
plantations established up to 1988 and under SODEFOR's management. Species
planted under the two Bank-financed projects are shown in Annex 6-2. Output of
existing plantations under the shorter rotation species, with proper maintenance
operations, will peak between 2004 and 2008 at about 900,000 m3/year. Production
will then fall until Teak plantations are harvested at maturity, after 2035, when
it will reach about 300,000-400,000 m3/year.
6.03      About 9,000 ha of new plantations will be established under the
project. The table below irdicates the total production expected per hectare
for each of the species to be planted.
Expected Production of Industrial Plantations
(per hectare)
Framire
Teak   Gmelina   Cedrela   Framire   (Associated)
Fuelwood (m3)          142      100        90         75           60
Poles/Posts (units)   500         0         0          0            0
Sawlogs II (m3)        140       65        70         70           45
Sawlogs I (m3)         140     145        160        180          115
Veneer Logs (m3)        50        0         0          0            0
Year of Final Cut       50       20        25         25           25
The total production expected from the project will therefore amount to about
900,000 m3 of fuelwood, 600,000 m3 of second grade sawlogs, 1.4 million m3 of
first grade sawlogs and 20,000 m3 of veneer logs.  Fuelwood production would
start with the first thinning operations in project year (PY) 7 and continue
throughout the life of the plantations. Sawlog production would start around
PY10 and finish with the final cut of Teak plantation, around PY55.
B.   Markets and Frices
6.04      Industrial Products.   The annual volumes of timber logged in Cote
d'Ivoire for industrial purposes between 1960 and 1987 were as follows
(Working Paper No. 8).
Volumes Logged Annually for Industrial Purposes a/
Total          Log          Domestic         Share of
Production       Exports      Processing   Domestic Processing
-(00---------- 0(o0  m3)---------------
1960          1,045              823             222              212
1965          2,537            1,905             632              252
1970           3,548          2,511            1,037              29?
1975           3,960           2,419          1,541               39?
1980           4,960           3,055          1,905               38?
1985           3,843           1,900          1,943               512
1986          3,599            1,583          2,014               562
1987           3,252           1,231          2,021               62Z
a/   Roundwood equivalent.



33
Total production went up almost fivefold between 1960 and 1980 before declining
steeply after 1984. The main reason for this decline is the destruction of the
natural forest, but important contributing factors are also the disappearance
of high quality species and increases in production costs which have resulted
in a loss of competitiveness on external markets.
6.05      Two major  trends  have  emerged  over  the  last  two  decades:  the
increasing pLoportion of logs processed locally, either for export or for local
consumption, and the sustained growth in local consumption of wood-based
products.   The volume of timber processed locally increased gradually from
1 million m3 in 1970 to about 2 million m3 in 198?.  The recent reduction in
total log production has been entirely absorbed by log exports which fell from
3 million m3 in 1980 to 1.2 million m3 in 1987. As a result, the percentage of
logs processed locally has steadily increased from 38Z in 1980 to 62? in 1987.
6.06      In 1987, the local industry processed about 2 million m3 of logs which
were transformed as follows.
Domestic Production of Industrial Wood-Based Productions (1987)
Product      Total Production       Export Market       Domestic Market
('000 m3)   (T)      ('000 m3) (2)       ('000 m3)   (Z)
Sawnwood         775       100        490     63         285         57
Peeling          154       100         70      45         84         55
Slicing           12       100         10     83           2         17
Plywood           45       100         23     51          22         49
Other             10       100          8      67          4         33
Total            998       100        601      60        397         40
Roundwood
Equiv.        2,020       100      1,220                800
The domestic market absorbed about 402 of total production of wood-based
industrial  products.    Sawnwood  accounted  for more  than  70?  of  domestic
consumption  (paper not included).   Other major industrial products consumed
locally include plywood and paper products, the latter representing the bulk of
Cote d'Ivoire's wood-based imports.
6.07      Fuelwood.   Fuelwood and charcoal are the main sources of fuel for
about 802 of the population.  It is difficult to assess precisely the volume of
wood felled annually for fuelwood and charcoal purposes.   Based on limited
household surveys, it is estimated that, in 1985, total domestic consumption
amounted to about 7 million m3 of fuelwood (roundwood equivalent) and
180,000 tons of charcoal (3 million m3 roundwood equivalent) for a total fuelwood
consumption of about 10 million m3 roundwood equivalent. This volume amounts
to nearly four times the production of logs for industrial purposes and is
therefore of considerable importance.   Currently, there is no indicacion of
fuelwood shortage, except around the larger cities, in particular Abidjan, Bouak4
and Korhogo, whose supply requires transport over increasing distances. As a
result, urban consumption has gradually shifted from fuelwood to charcoal and,
to a lesser extent, from wood-based fuel to substitutes such as natural gas.



34
6.08      Other Products.   Other products used for household or artisanal
purposes include poles (for construction, fencing, etc.) and a variety of
products ranging from tool handles to boats and small household implements. No
survey has ever been carried out to determine the volumes involved. Although
many of these products are gradually declining in importance because of the
increasi.Lg availability of non-wood substitutes, they will continue to play a
major role over the next two decades, particularly in rural areas. In addition,
although no survey has been carried out to determine the volume and value of non-
wood forest products, it is demonstrated that these products play an important
role in food security and medical care in rural areas.
6.09      The Domestic Market.  Demand for industrial wood-based products will
depend on the growth of population and per capita incomes.  The table below
presents estimates of the domestic demand by 1995, 2005 and 2015 according to
two scenarios with regard to the future growth of real income per capita.
Proiect Domestic Demand (Roundwood Equivalent)
1987    1995    2005    2015
-----------('000 m3)---------
Scenarios
-  Growth in Per Capita Incomes at 1% p.a.   800   1,140   1,685   2,500
-  Growth in Per Capita Incomes at 0 p.a.   800   1,095   1,545   2,180
Expected Domestic Log Production            3,315   2,040   3,240   4,050
6.10      Under the more conservative projection (stagnant real per capita
incomes), donmastic demand would reach 2.2 million m3 by 2015 (excluding paper
products which would continue to be imported).   Government projections of
domestic log production indicate that about 4 million m3 would be produced by
2015. This would be adequate to cover domestic demand and also leave scope for
sizeable wood-product exports. This supply scenario assumes, however, that (a)
the natural forests will be adequately protected and managed on a sustainable
basis; (b) a greater number of species will be felled and commercialized than
is currently the case (40 against 20); and (c) about 8,000 ha/year of industrial
plantations  will  be  established  and  satisfactorily  maintained.    A  more
conservative scenario, still requiring success in achieving (a) and (b) above,
would put expected 2015 log production at about 2.5 million m3, i.e., enough to
meet projected domestic demand. Failure to adequately protect and manage the
natural forest would cause domestic log supply to drop well below expected
domestic demand. COte d'Ivoire would then become a net importer of wood-based
products.
6.11      Export Markets.  Projections of the future international demand for
primary forest products suggest that demand for sawnwood will grow at about 0.7Z
annually through the end of the century, wood-based panel at 1.82, and paper at
2.6Z. Projections are marginally better for tropical products, such as those
produced in C6te d'Ivoire: 1.2? p.a. for sawn hardwood and 1.9? for plywood and
veneer.  These growth rates are not very high.  They reflect falling average
income elasticit!:s of demand for almost all products (these elasticities are
in fact negative for butb sawnwood and plywood in industrial countries).



35
6.12      On  the  basis  of  these  projections,  the  total  world  roundwood
requirements should amount to about 1,750 million m3 by the year 2000, an
increase of about 350 million m3 from 1985. To meet this demand, it is estimated
that the additional world supply potential by 2000 will be about 580 million m3
(of which 390 million m3 in industrial countries and 190 million in developing
nations). This suggests that the market for industrial wood-based products will
be very competitive. Countries contemplating investments in new forest resources
must make sure that these investments are carried out in an efficient manner and
that the country has a significant comparative advantage for the products
concerned.
6.13      Current Prices.   The price of logs exported by COte d'Ivoire in
1987/88 varied from CFAF 35,000/m3 to CFAF 8C,000/m3 according to species.
Export prices of logs have been stable, in real terms, during the 1975-87 period.
Ivorian sawnwood exports are facing competition from neigliboring countries and
also Asia. Prices are therefore very competitive. In 1987/88, they varied from
CFAF 50,000/m3 to CFAF 150,000/ m3 according to species (average CFAF 85,000/m3).
Ivorian sawnwood is mostly sold on the European market (its principal outlet)
where it fetches a price about 10 below similar products produced in Europe from
imported logs because of their relatively lower quality (due to poorer equipment
and know-how). Other exported industrial products include veneer and moldings.
6.14      The price of sawnwood on local markets (domestic and neighboring
countries) is considerably lower than for exports. This is due to (a) the lower
quality of logs used and therefore of the resulting product; and (b) dumping
practices by some local producers, technically bankrupt but allowed to continue
their operations (the average 1988 price of local sawnwood was about CFAF
30,000/m3, about 15Z below estimated production costs). Prices for poles, posts
and other wood-products consumed by local households are difficult to determine.
On average, it appears that the 1988 price of small poles was about CFAF
1,000/unit and that of larger poles about CFAF 2,000/unit. Fuelwood is retailed
at about CFAF 6,000/m3 (CFAF 2,800 per stere) in urban areas and CFAF 2,500/m3
(CFAF 1,200 per stere) at roadside.
6.15      Projected Prices.   As more developing countries are moving toward
restricting log exports and promoting domestic sawnwood production and exports,
competition for sawnwood will increase. It is projected that sawnwood prices
will decline in real terms by 0.52 p.a. between 1988 and 2000. On the other
hand, log prices are expected to increase at 1? p.a. over the same period as
their supply will be constrained by national policies aimed at local
transformation. It is estimated that prices for veneers will increase at about
12 p.a. between 1988 and 2000.
6.16      On the Ivorian domestic market, the price of logs and sawnwood is
expected to increase by 10? in real terms over the next three years as the
domestic/industrial sector is rehabilitated and the companies currently selling
sawnwood and plywood below cost disappear.   After this adjustment,  it is
estimated that the price of logs, sawnwood and plywood will follow the evolution
of international prices.   The price of household/artisanal wood products is
projected to stay constant in real terms.   Finally, the cost of fuelwood is
expected to increase by 2Z p.a. in real terms, reflecting projected increases
in demand by a fast expanding population and the growing scarcity of fuelwood
around the cities.



36
6.17      The table below presents the current and projected prices for the main
Ivorian wood-based products (in 1988 CFAF).
Proiected Prices of Wood-Based Products
(CFAF/m3)
1987/88               2000
Export Markets
Export logs                         46,000              42,000
Sawnwood                            85,000              80,000
Peeling                             85,000              96,000
Slicing                            250,000             282,000
Moldings                           200,000             225,000
Local Markets
Sawnwood                            30,000              33,000
Plywood
Fuelwood (retail)                    6,000               8,000
C.   Financial Aspects
6.18      An assessment of the project financial implications to the Government
over the period 1?89-2010 is given in Annex 6-3. Outflows comprise project costs
and debt service on the Bank loan under the project. Inflows consist in project
financing, sales of SODEFOR plantation timber, and taxes on incremental natural
forest output.   Total average taxes on incremental forest output have been
estimated at an average of CFAF 6,500/m3, based on the proposed tax reform. Over
the project's construction period (first five years), the net outflow will be
about CFAF 21.4 billion. After the project construction period (1995 onward),
recurrent project costs will level at about CFAF 2.5 billion and debt service
charges progressively decline from about CFAF 4 billion in 1995 to CFAF 2 billion
in 2010. Sales of plantation timber will peak at about CFAF 15 billion between
2004 and 2C08. The principal source of revenue will be taxes on the incremental
forest output which will turn positive in Year 7 (after a drop in the "with
project situation" because of restrictions on indiscriminate logging) and rise
rapidly to around CFAF 12.3 billion. The overall annual cash flow will become
positive in 2000 and the cumulative cash flow in 2004.
VII. BENEFITS, ECONOMIC JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
A.   Benefits
7.01      The project will initiate and support a completely new approach to
protecting the natural forests and environment in C6te d'Ivoire.   Instead of
allowing continued destruction of the forests through farmer penetration and
indiscriminate logging, making only partial restitution through the establishment
of industrial plantations, comprehensive measures will be taken under the project
to protect the remaining natural forests and the most important national parks,
promote private participation in natural forest management, consolidate the



37
existing industrial plantations, and strengthen the institutions operating in
the sector. The main benefits of the project will stem from:
(a) preservation of ecosystems essential for the sustainability of the
country's main agricultural products;
(b) preservation of the biological diversity of the rain forests;
(c) enhancement of continued availability of bushmeat and medicinal
plants;
(d) maintenance of government revenues and export earnings from timber
through increased natural forest productivity and better management
of industrial plantations;
(e) strengthened institutional planning and implementation capacity; and
(f) development of improved methods and techniques of natural forest
protection and maa:agement.
B.   Economic Justification
7.02      An  economic  rate  of  return  has  been  calculated  for  (a)  the
establishment and maintenance of industrial plantations; and (b) the protection
and management of natural forests. Natural forest managemeL:t will cover a wide
range of operations from simple protection to relatively complex silviculture
operations for increasing the yield of natural forests. The detailed economic
analysis of these various activities is presented in Working Paper No. 9 and
summarized below. Summaries are given in Annex 7-1 (Industrial Plantations) and
Annex 7-2 (Natural Forests). No economic analysis has been attempted for the
project's national parks, training, and research components.
Economic Price AssumPtions
7.03      Economic values of inputs and outputs have been derived from observed
or projected financial prices by making adjustments for transfer payments (taxes
or subsidies) and distortions in exchange r&tes. Tradables have been estimated
at their export/import parity price.
7.04      The value  of timber has  been estimated by  its  stumpage value.
Stumpage values have been derived, for each of the main tree species, by
deducting the cost of felling, processing and marketing from their border price.
As different end-products yield different stumpage values for the same species,
the average economic value of logs has been estimated as the weighted average
of the stumpage values from their different end-uses. The economic value of
species to be used for establishing industrial plantations but not readily
marketed in C8te d'Ivoire (Teak, Gmelina, Cedrela) has been assessed at the value
of similar products from comparable species.
7.05      The opportunity cost of land has been assumed to be the net value of
the production foregone. Industrial plantations will be established on degraded
forest or bush fallow. Population pressure is still low in the concerned areas
(less than 20 inhabitants/km2) and it has been assumed that land will be readily
available for alternative (agricultural) purposes nearby, at least during the



38
lifetime of plantations (20-50 years). No value has therefore been attributed
to land in the case of industrial plantations.   However,  in the case of
protection and management of natural forests, given the size of the areas
concerned (1.5 million ha), the opportunity cost of land is a fundamental
parameter of the forestry/agriculture interface. In that case, the net economic
benefits from natural forests (under different levels of management) has been
compared with the net benefits from an alternative (i.e., agricultural) use of
land.
7.06      The various activities undertaken under the project have costs and
benefits which can be easily identified and quantified. However, many of these
activities also have intangible benefits:
(a) the protection of natural parks will help preserve priceless
ecosystems/gene banks;
(b) plantations established in connection with natural forest management
(for filling gaps, creating partitions or firebreaks) will not only
yield timber but also have positive externalities for the surrounding
natural forest (fire protection, reduction in evapo-transpiration,
visible borders between protected and unprotected areas); and
(c) the protection of large tracts of natural forests will have a major
impact on the environment in terms of (i) soil protection and evapo-
transpiration, and therefore have a positive impact on the
agricultural potential of surrounding areas; and (ii) continued
availability of bushmeat, food and medicinal plants.
Wherever possible, these externalities have been quantified in the analysis.
Industrial Plantations
7.07      two kinds of plantations will be undertaken under the project.  First,
new industrial plantations will be established on the sites of SODEFOR's ongoing
planting operations.   These new plantations will take advantage of existing
infrastructure (access roads, buildings) as well as of the fact that part of
start-up costs will be avoided because the necessary equipment and manpower are
already on site. These plantations will be established on degraded forest or
bush fallow by conventional, partly mechanized (land clearing ar:d preparation)
and manual methods. Second, plantations will also be established in connection
with natural forest management operations. These plantations will be scattered,
small in size and established manually.   They will have a dual objective of
production and of protection of the associated natural forest. Their yield in
industrial timber will be lower than that of conventional industrial plantations.
However, their establishment cost will also be lower and they will provide
important indirect benefits to the adjoining natural forest.
7.08      The  Economic  Rates  of Return  (ERRs)  of  the various  industrial
plantations to be established under the project are summarized below.



39
Economic Rates of Return of Industrial Plantations
(U)
Costs              Costs Yields           Switching
Base Case   Up 20Z    Up 20X   Down 20?         Value (10Z)
Costs Yields
Teak            7.8        7.0        8.8         6.8          -37   + 60
Gmelina        10.1        8.8       11.6         8.6          -     -
Framire        12.2       11.2       13.5        11.0          +45   - 32
Samba           6.9        6.1        7.9         5.9          -50   +100
Cddr6la        11.9       10.9       13.3        10.6          +40   - 27
Overall     10.0         8.9       11.3         8.7         -      -
Associated
(Framire)   14.2        13.2       15.1       13.2          +40   - 35
7.09      About 7OZ of new plantations will be established with Gmelina, Framire
and Cddr4la, which provide adequate rates of return. Teak and Samba show a base
case ERR of less than 10Z. However, Teak will be planted because of its fire-
resistant properties and because it has a variety of domestic uses.  A small
proportion of the area (6Z) will also be planted with Samba to increase the
species mix and to test the vegetatively propagated planting material currently
being developed.
7.10      The return on the maintenance of the plantations established under the
First and Second Forestry Projects is estimated at 18.9Z. The combined rate of
return of the project's plantation component (new plantations and maintenance
of existing plantations) is estimated at 15.6Z.
7.11      The  economic  viability  of  Framire  plantations  established  in
connection with the management of natural forests (associated plantations) is
satisfactory at 14.2Z. Associated plantations will also have a positive impact
on the surrounding natural forests. These benefits have not been quantified.
They are however significant, and the actual ERR of associated plantations will
therefore be well over 15Z.
Protection and Management of Natural Forests
7.12      The economic analysis of the project's Natural Forest Component has
been carried out by assessing separately (a) the net benefits from the protection
and rational management of the remaining rain forests; and (b) the net benefits
from specific silvicultural practices aimed at increasing the productivity of
natural forests.
7.13      Protection and Rational Management.  The analysis has been performed
on a representative (100,000 ha) natural forest with the following assumptions:
(a) both in the "with" and the "without, situation, net economic benefits
would stem from (i) the economic stumpage value of the trees logged;
and (ii) the net economic value of incremental agricultural production
which would take place on deforested areas;



40
(b)  without the project, the total existing stock of trees would be logged
during the first 10 years, to be partly replaced by agriculture.
Logging would be done only on 402 of the potentially marketable
species (the actual rate under current practices). Each year, 10,000
ha would be cleared and planted according to prevailing farming
systems: 30? with tree crops (cocoa and coffee 1,500 ha each) and 152
with rice (1,500 ha), the balar-e being left under fallow;
(c)  with the project, the forest would be put on a sustainable logging
schedule within a long-term management plan. Logging would be done
on about 602 of potentially marketable species.   No agricultural
development would take place in the concerned forest area. Given the
current and projected ready availability of degraded forest and bush
fallow nearby (7 million ha in the forest region in 1985), the
agricultural development, which would have taken place on pristine
forest land without the project, would be diverted to non-protected
areas. However, to take into account emerging land constraints, it
has been assumed that only 852 of areas that would have been planted
"without project" would be effectively planted in the "with project'
situation; and
(d)  deforestation  would  have  a  negative  impact  on  agricultural
productivity, and yields would therefore decrease gradually in the
"without project" scenario.
7.14      The impact of deforestation on agricultural productivity is difficult
to quantify.   Indeed, it is difficult to assess the correlation between (a)
deforestation and rainfall; and (b) rainfall and agricultural productivity.
Moreover, there may exist critical rainfall thresholds for sustainable
agriculture: a 10? decline in rainfalls of 2,000 mm/year may not be as critical
to most crops as a 1OZ decline in rainfalls of 1,000 mm/year.   The analysis
presented here consists in: (i) determining what would be the decline in
agricultural productivity due to deforestation without the project that would
be necessary for the activities under the project to achieve an ERR of at least
10?; and (ii) making a judgment on whether such a decline would be likely in the
event of total deforestation.   The table below presents the result of this
analysis.
Economic Impact of Forest Protection and Management
Impact of Deforestation on                 Project         Net Present Value
Agricultural Productivity                     ERR         of Benefit Stream a/
(?)           (CFAF million)
Agr. 'ields not affected                      1.5                    -965.0
Agr. Yields down 102 after 15 years          10.5                      90.5
Agr. Yields down 252 after 15 years          12.5                     511.0
a/ At a 1O0 discount rate.



41
With no effect of deforestation on agricultural productivity (i.e., taking into
account only the incremental timber output), the ERR of the project's natural
forest component would be very low (1.5?). However, if agricultural productivity
was to decline by 102 by Year 15 in the "without project' situation, the rate
of return of the project would increase to 10.5?. It would increase to 12.5?
if agricultural productivity was to decline by 25? by Year 15 without the
project. On the assumption, therefore, that it is reasonable to expect that the
productivity of forest agriculture would fall by at least 10? over a 15-year
period because of widespread deforestation (and pending a better understanding
of the forest/climatelagriculture relationships), the proposed investment in
rain forest protection and management is economically justified.
7.15      The  above  analysis  only  takes  into account  direct  quantifiable
benefits from the project. There are, however, additional direct or indirect
benefits which have not been included in the analysis. Among the most important
are the following:
(a)  suBstantial quantities of non-wood forest products are used by the
population for daily subsistence (bush-meat, plants, fibers, medicinal
products, etc.).  It is estimated that game hunting provides about
half of C6te d'Ivoire's total red meat consumption. These products
would disappear with natural forests; and
(b) large scale deforestation would have a negative impact not only on
forest agriculture Dut also on that of areas at the northern botder
of the forest zone, where a decline in rainfall may bring a shift to
a savanna ecosystem with a much lower sustainable productivity.
7.16      Investments in Silvicultural Treatments.  It is also proposed under
the project to undertake silvicultural treatments of the natural forest for
increasing its productive potential in valuable species.   These treatments
(felling or poisoning of low value species) will be undertaken only if the
density of valuable species in the forest warrants the proposed investments in
silvicultural treatments.   The economic analysis considers several scenarios
based on (a) the productive potential (mean annual increment - MAI) of the
natural forest; and (b) the increase in yield expected from the proposed
silvicultural treatments.   The tabile below presents the ERR of the proposed
investments according to these two parameters.
Economic Rate of Return of Silvicultural Treatments
Base Case    Costs up 20?
Forest w'th 1AAT of 0.9 m^/ha
Incremental MAI of 33?             8.5             7.8
Incremental MAI of 50?            10.5             9.5
Incremental MAI of 75?            12.5            11.2
Forest with MAI of 1.5 m3lha
Incremental MAI of 33?            10.7             9.9
Incremental MAI of 50?            12.5            11.7
Incremental MAI of 75?            14.3            13.5



42
7.17      The analysis indicates that the proposed silvicultural treatments are
economically justified, and should be undertaken, only for natural forests
relatively rich in commercial species (not excessively degraded or already over-
logged) and if the incremental yield expected from the treatments were at least
50Z of the forest's MAI without treatment.
C.   Risks
7.18      The main risks which could affect project implementation, along with
the measures proposed to minimize them, are the following:
(a)  The principal risk concerning the project's natural forest component
is that measures to protect the forests, rationalize forest
exploitation and timber processing and reform current fiscal policies
will be resisted by vested interests benefiting from the status quo.
However, the measures proposed under the project have a strong support
at the highest government level and disbursements of the recently
approved Agricultural Sector Adjustment Loan are linked to a
satisfactory  implementation  of  these  measures.         Progress  on
implementation will be closely monitored by the Bank.
(b)  The main risk concerning the industrial plantation component is that
projected improvements in the establishment and maintenance of
industrial plantations do not materialize. However, the research and
test programs under the ongoing projects will provide the technical
basis for improved techniques, while the strengthening of SODEFOR's
management, together with monitoring and control by DCGTx, should
ensure satisfactory implementation.
VIII. ASSURANCES, CONDITIONS AND RECOMMENDATION
8.01      Assurances.    The  following  assurances  were  obtained  from  the
Government at negotiations:
(a)  procurement arrangements will be followed (paras 4.06 and 4.07);
(b)  the Government will replenish MINAGREF, SODEFOR and DCGTx' respective
Project Accounts quarterly and in advance to their initial amounts,
so as to meet its funding obligations under the project (para 4.10);
(c)  accounting and financial management arrangements will be followed
(para 4.13);
(d)  policies for the management of natural forests will be followed (para
5.02);
(e)  the Government will (i) carry out before June 30, 1990 a detailed
review of all existing PTE holders and take all necessary corrective
actions to ensure compliance with the Forestry Code; and (ii) prepare
and submit to the Bank before June 30, 1990 new arrangements to
regulate log exports (para 5.03);



43
(f) the management audit of SODEFOR will be launched before June 30, 1990,
a detailed action plan to implement agreed-upon management audit
recommendations will be prepared before March 31, 1991 and the plan
will be implemented thereafter in consultation with the Bank
(para 5.04);
(g) a study of alternative methods to manage industrial plantations and
sell their products will be carried out before December 31, 1991 (para
5.05);
(h)  a cont..ct between SODEFOR and CTFT, satisfactory to the Bank, will
be concluded before June 30, 1990 (para 5.06);
(i) MINAGREF, SODEFOR and DCGTx will submit their draft annual work
programs and budgets under the project to the Bank for its comments
before October 31 of each year (para 5.07); and
(j)  the Government will undertake  a detailed review of resettlement
operationc carried out under the project before the end of the third
year of implementation and the findings and recommendations of this
review will be submitted to the Bank before December 31, 1992 (para
5.09).
8.02      Conditions of Effectiveness.  The following measures are conditions
of effectiveness of the Bank Loan:
- the opening of the three Project Accounts at the Borrower's CAA in
the name, respectively, of MINAGREF, SODEFOR and DCGTx, and the
deposit in these accounts by the Government of CFAF 50 million,
CFAF 620 million, and CFAF 120 million respectively (para 4.10).
8.03      Condition of Disbursement.  The effectiveness of CDC Loan will be a
condition of disbursement of the Bank Loan against the project's Industrial
Plantation Component (para 4.04).
8.04      Recommendation.  Subject to the above conditions, I am satisfied that
the proposed project constitutes a suitable basis for a Bank Loan of
US$80 million to the Republic of CBte d'Ivoire.



- 45 -
ANNEX 2-1
Ihl                -'
igI
Li 4
X    ~~~~. I
jalI i m
I~~~~~~~~~~I
u~                                   1.
.     I               



- 47 -
Page 1 of 2
COTE D'IYOIRE
EORESTRM SLETOR PROJECT
Guidelin2s for the KanAgemengf
Agricultural Settlements in Gazetted Forests
A.        A gazetted forest can be divided into several zones:
(a) Forest Protection/Production (FP/P) Zones, with no or little
agricultural encroachment;
(b) Agro-Forestry (AF) Zones, with limited agricultural encroachment
and good possibility to restore forest cover, with the
participation of local populations;
(c) Agricultural (A) Zones, with extensive agricultural encroachment
and which can be used to resettle agricultural production units
from the two zones mentioned above.
B.        Government's principles for managing agricultural settlements in
gazetted forests are as follows:
(a) resettlement of agricultural units found in Forest
Protection/Production Zones either in fallow areas available
outside the gazetted forests or, if necessary, in Agricultural
Zones of the gazetted forests;
(b) development and promotion of sustaInablo agro-forestry production
systems including various tree crops (industrial, fruit trees);
(c) demarcation within the gazetted forests of zones where agricultural
productLon would be permitted within strict management guidelines
based on (b) above and allowing for the preservation of remaining
forested areas.
C.        For *eah gazetted forest, the above principles will be applied
flexibly, taking into account local specificities. Forest manageont plans
will be based on the following guidelLnes with tsgard to the managoent of
agricultural production units:
(a) only the agricultural production units established within Forest
Protection/Production Zones vill be resettled as mentioned In
B. (a) above. The farmers concerned vill be allowed to exploit
their tree crop plantations established in FP/P Zones for a period
of at least three years to maintain their level of Lncome before
their new plantations establlshed outside gazetted forest or in the
A Zones of these forests begin generating rovenues;



- 48 -
ANNEX 2-2
Page 2 of 2
(b ) populations established within AF Zones will be allowed to remain
in these zones under a specific agreement concluded with Government
prohibiting the extension of cropped areas;
(c)  Agricultural Zones of gazetted forests used for resettling
agricultural production units from FP/F Zones will be subjected to
a cadastral/land use plan and agricultural production will be
allowed within the context of this plan.
D.        The resettlement operations will be carried out according to the
following steps:
detailed study of the demographic and land use characteristics of
the concerned gazetted forest;
detailed study and mapping of the potential resettlement areas
(within or outside the gezettod forest) including a pedologic
survey;
-    concertation between the concerned populations and the political,
administrative and customagy local authorities, about the future
use and development of reseteleaGne areas;
-   preparation ard implementation of a resettlement plan giving
beneficiaries a land area at least equal in size and produ!ction
potential to the production unit eliainated from the FP/P Zones;
-    provisLon of strengthened exteasion services, at farxmrs' request.
E.        The Management Plan of each ga2zteed forest vill lnclude such
resettlement program along with a tciitable for its implementation.



- 49 -
F08ESTIY SECTOR Z10JE
------- --    ------
DWLEMFAU09 5CEMULM
- --    f  - -          ------ - -  -   - - --     --e  --  - - - -n- - -   -a …  - I …--- I 
PROJECT CQOMNTS           |  1990  1  1991    1 1992  1  1993  1 1994
------------------                                                        ---------1-----1--L E  L …
NATUML FORZS?S                  I         t         I          I         I
Demarcation- halyear            j  218   I  42    I  zsa          239   i  2zs
Surveillafc  - halyear              7 2.18   I  3   g  Zs8        229 a1 u
Haas=em t - total ha private        M         417  2    I  491    43 "      693   t
Conversiou - tOtit aI                                   2.a   1  7sa       15 1
I         I         I         I         I         !
LMUS-A        P!ATATIONS                                                          f
3_____----- M------- ---                                                          i
Nev Plantations - halyear       j         I                      13M0 2536   1J 1  j 1200
Uokeup planttioUS- total ha                                      a | 2 1  |   I 53!Z s
NATIONAL PASI                             I         I         I         I 
Tai.                                             =I =         ~           
Harah@is
I         I.. I_              I t,. 
VA?ZOWALFORISTYASTZ   1                       -  ;                         ---
*        I         I         I         I         I         I
Bouafle                             -     i - i
%=eo~~~~~                                            ~~~~~ Il  I    I     I
RESEA., S=S                     I         I         I         I         I 
_   o            ~~~~~~~I    I    E    1    1    l
Natural Forest Magm=t           I         Ix                              -. - 1 
Industrial Pllatatious          |         t         I         I         I m       I
Stabil.zinS Agrictul            I tI                 1=1                1      -  I
Bush Fies                       |         I         |         I         I         I
VeSevatv  Cor                   I         I         1         I         I
Pilot   fe  Zone   ject         I         I         I         I         I         I
xNS;:?U'fO3  sT      m?Di    I            I         I         I         I  
so9w MOR-    ll
I         1         1         1         1         1
SODZO AD Q|AU?ZR                I                     a
I      l         1         1         1          1



- 51 -
AN'N'X 3 - ?
COTE OSYOIRE
FORESTRY SZCTOR PROJET
Forests to be Osrcated and Managed
Areas (lose ha)           Peri;oter
Gasettd Forests 
Total    OCnso   S Conos        km                 Remaks
CGsetted   Forest   of TotaI
To be managd by  Ideatifted
private meeer empanl.e
Sctl                                   134         79      sex        18  To be  anaged by Thani.y
tatogro                                101        s9       09S        185  To be sanaged by C:'
Oobe                                   10110       75      73          Of  To be mnaged by Thanry
Cavelly                                 Ea        if       lox         46  To be managed by Thanry
Haut Sasadre                           192         as   * S           139  Te be managed by Sri..
Sub-ttal                             4          367      74 t451
To be dem tad and
mana2ed subsequently
23        22      ?8s          3   Dmareated with Cabo.
C.oedtmne                              6a2        22       so         14U  Fores" la  h.' cedar-fouth
01aW~v                                  Is9C      43       4I3        239  uwor higb pressure
olea                                     9                 so          a  tre agrisulture.
Taa a.                                  44        21       46          a  For          I Uathe
Nabi                                              36       713         8   east under pressure
Taya                                    Z         24       on          41  f rm
Sdlongis                                          2f5      843         to agtaiuItsr.
Haut"e-d                               we          is      7          241  Fets  in ti  est
Ouskeue                                 54        41       763         I   thratened b
reteTi a5                                         14         3         76  agriculture 
ICrosslie                                9          9       6           8  las  dgrndad than
Mae                                               72n    1JOS         15n  the f*ome.
u"|i - 4s¢1^ i "e,~on                   4        m         I221
Unlideetlflad Fereedts                                      63 u      34"
T.OTAL                                          WU         70
_        _ 



- 53 -                                 ANNEX 3-3
COTE fIVTOflE
FORESTRY SECTOR PRQ=T
Demarcation, S.ue Jlance and Haaagement Progra
('000 ha)
……1990  11991       1992     1993       1994
Demarcation
Forests =zaged by private
sector c=panies                       170       323
other fo:ests                          48       106       288       289       ,g 
Total                                 2"8       429       288       289
Suirvillamce
A;e& =dsr surveillac 2e                         647       935      1224
No. of -,arolllng units/
catota-ts established                   2         4         3         3         3
No. of guard posts established         10        20        15        1s        1
__________o____e ___    e----c-_ooo        ---- f -o__ _  -    --- - e e - o  ---------
Man.gsement
Area vi-  general inventOCY
plus MZagewent p; a                             100       200       200       200
Conversiau plantaticas                                    250       750      12.50
e____    ce       --n ----bOOO O-    _oo- oow                  --oc-----c -c  ---o-- ---



- 55 -
ANSEX  3-4
COTE I'iDIE
IngsIria1 flotetiw Pray
IHctX'ul
atiUutd              Ptatjut     rOp        tlow     PIaatable
Plotable         11                          Flati-m Ara
Platatim        l        ff           I       " 1   Is"    1W!  it  1WU1eY3 imamiog          Rus
Irim                     a IO          450    aS                         US
-n                       263           12i00    1                        145       0
TM.                                   too105    in    I    I=S    1*     305     7
Tueo 4:ti4                U             W                                          0 O
a. Ilaitlatig            15s                                30    310   1200       6  Prawiihgt vroa lv i ni its1C be viis
--           - -    -           -            -  -            (lkt was * 75 pn via
Total                                Wi      1 ::    a     u     123      a      7in
Plutatsi                     Ipci es  leak   diu  Frate Frite  Sub  C1ret   toal
!rXa                                                        S                    SW
er s                     t     15                                        10      145
TMgim                                                             4W     25    4W
Savo                        ~~~~~~50    306                    Is13 1  2431
e1W Itg                                US                                        1210 fU  trola l, .a thk5 a  Mofar
-    _n    -G -    -   -
I-TuL                                 20    360a           tm     s      7To     "
;! 'ta     3n.n   UJ.  L60   23.5   L*g    1.2t  100.5
Imaatat:s k  sis lv t nTta Plutatuu3
ItIR   IM   IYY    tl!  IM  IWSIMU
Frak                                   0                                   0
FrA.ir                                 43    7N     S       US    US    lM
7                                     17     U    UO             U      2l U1
alis.                                 izm    to    n        no   i1t   lW
C*ala                                  in                          1 !  10   in 73
ItS                                          a       -S f-   -2"    t
T,,                   ,                      flU  3311123  _ u



- 57 -
ANNEX  3-5
Page 1 of 2
FORESTRY SECTOR PROJECT
Technical Assistance
Summary Job Descrigtiot
KINAGQEF
Two posts will be provided in MINAGREF:
Forestry Economist: analysis of policy issues in the forestry
sector (forest management, logging and fiscal policies) and in the
management of the forest/agriculture interface; planning of future
development of the sector and preparation of specific programs and
projects.
=    FoXestly Data Processing S2eciallst: establishment of computerized
systems for data collection and management, statistical analysis
for monitoring forest exploitation and timber supply; monitoring
the status of gazetted forests; management of personnel and
equipment and internal controls.
SODEFOR
Seven posts will be provided in SODEFOR: the Resources Specialist,
the Systems Speaialist and the Marketing Specialist already being financed
under the Second Forestry Project will continue to be financed under the FSL.
In addition, SODEFOR will recruit two Forest Management Specialists, a
Bior.atrLcLan/data processing Specialist and an Ecology/ecosystem Specialist:
Forest-      g2aaet SgecLa1&sts (2): conception and control of
natural forest management operations in the contaxt of forest
msanagoemt plans, lnclduing demarcation, inventories, conversion
operations, and coordination of activitie'a c=ried out with the
privateo sector;
*    BiometriCal/Data Processgin1: conception and execution of forest
lnventories, processing inventory data, including development of
appropriate coftwazre for use on portable YCs in the field and
linkage to computerized mapping facilities; training of personanl
in computer processing;
-  oj.agy/Kcospann isg jcLfh1,s.g: participate in inventories to
LdentLfy flora and fauna resources and ecosystems to be protected;
determine areas within gazetted forests to be set aside unlogged
reserves and make recomm ndations for their conservatLon. Set up
guidelines and mechanisms for monitoring of the environmental
impact of logging operations on gazetted forests.



- 58 -
ANNEX_ 3-5
Page 2 of 2
Resources Specialist: coordination and control of financial
resources, cost and budgetary accounting, and purchasing;
supervision of personnel, coordination of computer activities and
training of department staff;
S1atems SRecialiet: analysis of working methods and procedures and
design and implementation of systems for improving organization,
operations and management information systems;
Marketing S2eciAlist: identification of markets for all SODEFOR
products locally and for export with particular emphasis on
promotion of small diameter timber, establishment of sales outlets,
and development of a marketing function and department in SODEFOR,
including training of personnel;
DCGIx
One post will be provided in DCGTx:
Prolect Monilring n       Aluatin S ia : management of the
unit establidhed for sonLtoring. controlling and evaluating
implementation of the project, organLzation and training of unit
staff, and preparation of project completion report.



- 59  -                                            ANNEI 4-,
Page I of 5
COTE D'IYOIRE
PROJET SECTORIEL FORESTIER
COUTS DU PROET
(FCFA sillionsl
1        2         3         4         5
1990     1991       1992     1995      1994 1   Total  Devises    Local       Taxes
OELIRINATION
Vuhicules                  264.25    149.65      0.00    75.05      34.05    523.00    322.93   200.07    150.46
Eqaipunt                    33.97     11.10      2.70     13.22      4.80 1   65.78    39.09    26.69    21.03
Pistul, unquutn            218.52    427.60    310.3    310.33   310.75  1,577.53    501.65  1,075.98    452.7t
Personnal                   73.64    115.91    ll6.10    116.10    116.10 1  537.75       0.00   537.       53.77
Foaet. vehicules             1.32    146.21    146.21    146.21    146.21 1   66.15    295.76   370.39   210.04
Ratriel cons".              23.92    40.23      41.59    41.59    41.59    188.92    21.32    167.60        29.27
Cout de base               695.62   89. 60    616.92    702.4    63.50  39355.12  1,160.76 2,379.36   917.20
laprvus phyiiu              43.14     74.09     61.69    62.74    61.4     30.61         85.7    217.83    76.6Q
1trevas financiers          26.51     71.8       0.71    124.61    150.13 1  4M3.93    138.14   315.78    114.69
cut total                  765.26  1,0.67    759.32         .84   665.57  4,316.66  1,404.6   2,911.   1,108.66
SMILLANCE
Btimts                     287.45   390.11    205.32    25.32        0.00 11,08.20    435.2    652.92   272.05
Vehiculn                    67.50    135.00    101.2I   166.7!   236.23 1   70.75   333.11   375.64   297.68
Equipest                    66.50    133.09    10.0    100.03    100.42 1  500.2    293.09   207.20    74.29
Persmnnel                    0.08      2.57      7.72     12.6      18.02 1   41.18       0.0     41.18      4.12
Fanct. vhbicaln              8.60    146."    222.2u    27.        3      11,06.16    351.62   73.54    400.34
Eatreti. pistn               0.00      4.46      13.5     20.9      23.44 I   6.         27.82    39.7      13.4
Cawt dei ka                470.08    812.24      50.09   U.66    7.93  3,493.9   1,440.93 2,0.04  1,61.96
laroeus pkytips             4.        3i.m      60        60.57     1.5       34t.40    144."     05.30    106.20
lpruiu iuiens              1t.4        5.01      3.6     142.3    172.41 1    61.42    m.22    286.2    151.7
_           _         _      .a          -     I    _ -_ -             -        -
Cst tatal                  55.52   94          79.0   1,0.76  1,603.    t 4,324.76  1,780.23 2,54.55  1,320.12
-                                                                            I
lnfrntructure               37.8    102.70    152.0    192.84       40.0  1  5.14    21.06   3108    117A.9
VohiclI                     9."       59.70     4.20    134.25    109.20 1  451.40    250.13   200.66    151.05
Eqiipst                    122.14    52.15       19.0     17.54     19.08 1  230.23    126.0    104.22    62.5
PeruuI                      6.19    16.30    207.11    M.06   349.86: 1,06.12             0.0  1,086.12   108.61
Fct. vkicdn                 41.70    60.30    1Ol.33    144.10    17.4        561t.9    2l5.3   346.8      181.00
Fa tlaumt                   33.9i    50.20      64.30     92.62    119.081   360.26    110.71   249.56    8.37
'  Etde sr projst pilot        125.00   12.00    125.00    125.00        L.OS1   500.00    28.00   220.08    126.15
Cat de  u                    5.54   6.4    719.02   9.1    624.51 1 3,715.11  1,193.4  2,521.66    39.71
Itnru  0yu1'                17.04     19.19     26.07    42.04      3.05 1  142.40       6.15    80.25    39.36
ImWNu findws                20.51     D9*3,A    9.91    164.07    181.0 I  5M.14    150.1   354.53    110.76
Coot total                   Y.09    704.57   83.00  1,17.72  1,044.26 1 4362.6  1,40L20 2,9.44   98.82



- 60 -
{'EX  4-1
Pa;# 2 of 5
COTE D'IVOIRE
PROJET SECTORIEL FORESTIER
COWTS DU PRWET
(FCFA eillionts)
1        2         3         4         S
1990     1991      1992      1993      1994 N    Total  Devises    Lxal    Taies
PLANTATIONS INDUMTRIELLES
- 0UVELLES5
Etabltssuent              1,377.00  1,425.17  1,048.41   890.83  4U1.23 : 5,202.64  1,51.47  3,423.19   994.27
Velicules                     0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00     0.00 :    0.00       0.00     0.00      OAOo
Pmronngi                     16.95     16.95     16.95     16.93     16.95 1   94.74      0.00    64.74      9.47
F0nct. vihiculas             67.13     71.12     69.0      U.57     63.07     39.77   101.73   231.04   t25.71
Entrntion pist n              7.74     11.97     16.00     11.3     20.03 1   74.13    22.24    51.3        14.93
Cout de base              1,U460.81  1,525.21  1,151.24    99.76   561.29 1  ,701.30  1,710.43  3,990.87  1,133.29
aplrevu: physiquas           72.59     75.41     56.71    43.89    27.22:  20.83    85.52    195.31         56.24
Ilproves finsaiers           57.02    120.64    143.03    170.27    123.431  614.51   183.06   43i.45    12'.06
cut total                 1,59.43  1,7l2.26  1,350.9  l,2i3.v    711.931 4,59.64  1,97.01  4,617.4  1,312.59
PLANTATIONS INDUSTRIELLS
- ENThETIEN
Travaux ntrotin             717.27    524.32    435.0i    315.2i   204.04 1 2,217.92   660.29  1,37.64   422.71
e"hicules                   154.40    176.00    155.20    154.40     0.00 I  640.08   300.0    339.20   269.80
Naturiel agricole           340.20      0.00    132.06      0.00     0.00 I  4.2        3 z34.15  1i  S     70.93
Persoanel                   133.44    133.44    135.44    133.44    94.94 I  43O.49       0.00   6WM.49    63.67
F.act. vehiculn             269.46    261.92    257.83    253.39    134.7  1 ,179.      377.40    801.97   436.37
Entretiun pistes             75.3      7.        75.3      75.5     75.3 1  377.91    113.37    264.54    15.59
Entrutioa bat./bur.          63.5      6.V       6.5       U.50    U3.50 I  342.51   112.35   230.13    68.50
Cout de bate              1,760.9   1,243.76  1,279.34  serE        M 19 .4 5         1,93.3  3,992    1,406.46
lrevm  physiqn               81.27     5.42      57.21    43.36    24.24 1  261.3o        2.79    179.71    62.99
lsrws f inacims              63.4     1026    142.31    174.29   12.01 1  619.32         U.34   410."    154.11
-  -    __- .    -t -                                          -   - 
Ct total                  1,910.60  1,401.25  1,499.3  1, M.24    733.10 I ,747.41 2,229.3  4,517.91  I,4.46
OPI  ITIUN0JI
Infrastructure              150.00    200.00    10.00   2M.00    25.00 :50.00   2.50   27l.0    114.50
_e __. .   ,.                 _                          _     0
Cout de ban                 19.00    200.00    100.00    25.00    2.00 I  500.00   229.50   2V1.50    114.50
loprms physbis                7.530    10.00      5.00      1.25     1.25 1    25.00      1.l43    13.58      .73
lWrmvu  financiers            5.58     15.15     12.01      4.19     5.41 1   42.41    19.33       23.0      9.71
-   - -   -   -                               I :    - -_ __
Ctut total                  163.0    225.15    I1. 0       30.44     31.66 1  567.41   259.30   3O8.'*  1.94



44N'El 4-1
- 61  ---------
Face '  f 5
CUTE DVIM"E
PROJET SECTCRIEL FORESTIER
COUTS DU PROJET
(FCFA aillionil
1        2          3         4        5
1990      1991      1992      1993      1994      Total   Devises    Local    Taxes
FORMATION
B9UAFLE
Datisents                   262.00    148.58     19.38      0.00      0.00:  429.96    212.26    217.70    1:2.53
Vehi;ales                    37.50     52.00      0.00     37.50     52.00 1  179.00      84.13    94.87      75.29
Rateriel                     94.00    154.00      0.00      0.00      0.00    248.00    114.10    133.90    6'.96
Ferscnnel                   120.20    120.20    120.20     88.10     99.10    536.80      64.52   472.28    63.31
Fanctionnuunt                32.70     32.70     32.70     32.70     32.70   1 163.50    131.25     32.25    112.50
Cott de bass                546.40    507.4     172.29    158.30    172.80   l,557.26    606.26    951.00    437.37
leprevls physiquei           21.31     1.36       2.60      3.51      4.24 '   51.02      27.09    23.94      19.70
lapruvas financiers          20.29     38.46     20.72     26.22     36.87     1 142.55   51.89    90.66      40.53
Coat t2tal                  588.00    565.30    195.60    199.03    213.90  1,750.93    695.23  1,065.60    496.60
BANCOt
Datisnts                     48.80    109.68     94.81      0.00      0.00     252.36    109.46   142.90    64.94
Vehiculms                    37.50     41.00      0.00     37.50     41.00    157.00     73.79    93.21    65.94
Nateriel                     80.00    125.00      0.00      0.00      0.00 1  205.00      87.50    117.50     50.50
Persicnnel                  106.00    106.0     67.60     67.60      7.60 I  414.80      51.46   363.34    4Q.16
Fonctisnnesent               50.00     50.00     50.00     50.00    50.00 1  250.00       87.50    162.50     75.00
Cout de base                322.30    430.68    212.48    155.10    158.60   1,279.16    409.71   969.45    305.44
!aprevus physiqus            1O.82     16.23      7.24      4.38      4.55      43.22     17.91     25.31     12.81
Isprevus financies           12.24     33.21     25.93     26.07    34.25:   131.71       40.72    90.99      31.93
Coat total                  345.36    460.13    245.65    10.55    197.40  1,454.09    461.34    995.75    350.08
RECHERCHE 
Datiants                     31.0      33.00      0.0       0.00      0.00 1   64.90      27.16     37.74     16.2'
Vehiculas                    21.00     39.00      0.00     21.00     39.00 1   120.00     56.40    63.60    50.40
Rateriel                     31.20     47.80      0.00      0.00      0.00 1   79.00      39.34     39.66     19.83
Personnel                    U1.50    tO4.52    104.52    104.52    104.52 1  479.9        0.00   479.5       47.96
Fonctionnmoat                47.68    136.61    131.61    13.61    131.61      584.12    1n.02    411.09    155.98
Coat do bill                193.29    360.93    236.13    262.13    275.13  1,327.60    295.92  ,0O31.67    290.39
tlprovus physiqun             6.59     12.82      6.58      7.81      8.33 1   42.40      14.80     27.60     12.12
lsprevus financiers           7.36     29.44     29.48     44.70     60.12    170.10      34.37   1MM.7       36 33
Cout total                  207.22    402.20    272.19    314.71    3430. 78   1,540.10    345.09  1,1l.01    339.54



ANNEI 4-1
- 6 2-
-62-                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~Paqe 4 :4 5
COTE D'IVOIRE
PROJET SECTORIEL FORESTIER
COUTS DU PROJET
............. ............. 
(FCFA  Iimonm)
1        2         3         4         5
1990     1991      1992      1993      1994      Total  Dmvi,..     Local    Taset
ETUDES
Bati ents                     0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00     0.00       0.00      0o.O      0.00     0.00
Vehiculam                    44.98      0.00      0.00      0.00     0.00 1   44.91      21.14     23.84     18.89
Nateriel                     36.00     12.00      0.00      0.00     0.00 1   48.00    28.90    19.20        12.00
Pur'onnol                    29.80     29.80     36.30    18.60    31.00 1  147.50    98.76    59.73    29.00
Foncti6nnugnt                12.40     10.40     10.50      2.00     2.78 1   36.16    15.93    22.23        11.41
Etude$ non.dofiniem          75.00     50.40     50.00    50.00    25.00 1  250.40    138.96   111.42    63.18
''''  ''' @^ - ! - ~                            ..*   ....._.
Cout de bile                118.11    102.0      96.10    70.61    "171 1  129.04    293,63   235.41    133.46
luoroeus plwmiques            4.67      1.12      0.53     0.10      0.14 1    6.56       3.29      3.26     2.12
laproevu  financierm          7.02      7.23     11.23     11.11    11.94 1   41.58      27.31     21.27 *   I.
._......  *    sa        .e         --... _  .eaa    ......._
Lout total                  209.97    111.0    110.56    6.39        70.86t 1  54.16    324.23    259.95    147.29
R-;ElflT  ISTITUTIIIEL
NINUFOR                      50.00    100.00    100.00    100.00    100.00 1  450.00    20.00    160.00     90.oo
SODEFOR                     10000    300.00    300.i0   300.00    300.00 1 1.300.00   637,75   462.25    260.00
KaOT                         25.00     50.00     50.00     50.00    50.00 1   225.00    145.00    80.00      45.00
_ ,    -   -   c.n  _   _-  .-_
Cout de bau                 175.00    450.00    450.00   450.00   450.00 11.975.00  I.M.75    702.25    395.00
Isprevum phvmiqun             0.0       0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00 I    0.00       0.00     0.00      0.00
upruevum 4inacier             1.75     34.07     47.03    65.44      4. 63 1  239.92    154.61    85.31      44.63
Lout total                  103.7    484.07    097.03    515.44    534.63 12,214.92  1,427.       767.54    439.63
BOUDEU  COUTS O  U811
atiets                        6.17      6.17      3.17      6.17     1.17      40.65     1.34    24.51       10.21
V*iculgN                     3450    3.50        39.0      14.50    5.50 1  321.00    152.75    172.25    13.50
Equiplest                    72.69     17.9      17.59    17.59      17.5  1  143.251    71.63    71.63      50.14
Perionel                    204.7    212.75    212.75   212.75    212.75 1t 6,0.3 7       0.00  1.055.76    105.58
Fmctimwuumt                 214.n2    214.72    214.n    214.72    214.n 1I1,7.0o   29.27    760.32    242.34
ut de bag                     .03    51         492 .2s  3.n .       11.   2,3.46    m.    2,o4.47    544.77
l4rim  phyu1ip                0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00     0.00 1    0.00       0.00      0.00     0.00
lupr su finuciers            22.0o2    39.7n     59.54    N.h          .  I  311.74    61.07   257.67        63.9t
Clout total                  07.05    551.46      11.7I    2.6    20.31 12,"97.1    595.05 2.362.14   601.&
NC. aS. INFu                                                                  I
Lout de bar                 290.00    727.00  lI..00  2,200.00  39,00.00 17,150.00  5,203.00  2,747.00  1,972-.
Ioprevum phyuiqu              0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00     0.00 I    0.00       0.00      0.00      0. A
1t&rvum Iinauctwr             0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00     0.00 i    0.00       0.00      0.00    1.00
Cout total                  290.00    727.00  1,M3.00  2,200.00 3J300.00 I 7,S50.00 39203.00 2.747.00  1,9'2.30



- 63 -
PI'EX 4-1
Pi;e 5 :f 5
CCTE D'l1,0lFE
PROJET SECTCRIEL FORESTIER
COUTS DU PROJET
(FCFA eillions)
1        2         3          4        5
1990      1991      1992      1993     1194 1   Total  Dvises        Local     Tages
SUIVI ET EVALUATION                                                           :
Infrastructure                5.60      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00       5.60      3.08      2.52      1.69
Vehicules                    31.80      0.00      0.00     31.80      0.00      63.60    29.99    35.71       26.71
Ejuipaent                    15.50      0.60      0.60      0.60      0.60      17.90      8.96      v.04      5.01
Personnel                    45.58     45.59     45.59     45.59    45.59 1  227.90        0.00    227.90     22.79
Fonct. vehicules             1.45      19.45     19.45     19.45    1q. 4 1    97.23    31.11       66.12    35.99
Fonctionneaent               25.20     25.20     25.20      .' 20    2.20      125.98      8.13    117.86     21.55
Assistance technique         39.50     38.50     38.50     39.50     38.50     192.50    128.98    63.53      39.50
Codt de hase                181.62    129.32    129.32    161.12    129.32    73.71   210.05    520.66    152.Z1
Imprevus physiques            9.75      4.52      4.52      7.70      4.52 I   31.03       7.29     23.74      6.94
leFrevus financiers           7.03     10.21     15.97     27.54    29.20       88.92    23.67      65.25    20.31
_~~            ~                                   -- _ ... 0_    
rCut total                  198.40    144.05    149.81    196.3    162.04      950.66   241.01    609.: .   12.16
SOPIA'IRE
Travaux civils              830.92    991.24    580.35    431. 3     73.17 12,907.01  14242.13  1664.87   720.01
F:stes, enquetes            219.52    427.60    310.33    31'0.3    310.75: 1,57.53    501.65  1,075.M    452.71
Vsetcules                   842.4     7 .       344.65    744.75    570.00   3,212.73  1,625.75  1,596.96  1,2L1.61
E;jlipement                 692.40    553.33    272.35    149.18    142.411 2,009.65  1,162.56    947.08    430.01
,rivaux plantatloP        2,177.59  2,039.04  I,595.00  1,300.11    760.8  1187,92.62  2,395.36  5,477.27  1,497.39
Aesistance techni:ze        496.75    462.25    407.5    407.75    414.25 t2,188.75  1,403.03   78.73    434,79
PersarneL                   983.65  1,055.92  1,072.27  1,091.57  1,1145.42 '5,24.82   204.75  5,044.07   553.44
;:nctionneeunt            1,043.62  t,359.09  1,469.64  1,614.4t  1640.28 17,272.05  2,'61.92  4,765.24 2,21.92 4
Et'des nan-defiois           75.00     50.40     50.00     50.00    25.00      250.40    138.98    III.4C     63.19
Etbds sur projut pilot      125.00    125.00    125.00    125.00      0.00     500.00   290.00    220.00   126.15
itc. A4. Inputs             290.00    m.oo  1,333.00  2,200.00  3,300.001 7,950.00  5,203.00  2,747.00  1,974.00
Ccut de base              7,87.92  8,501.7   7,560.32  8,424.A3  9182.16 :40,744.56 1,521.03 24,323.5  9,5705.12
!Ip'evus physiques          321.68    369.0    293.17    302.4    250.28 1 1,536.        542.14    994.92    399.79
I:revus financiers          297.91    610.09    773.44  1063.8   1,1l7.90 1 3,9.9   1,M.55  2,562.4    911.95
c:ut total                8,485.51  9,141.21  9,626.93  9,79O. 74  9,75.34 1,117.50 19,3.72 2,90.79 t1,0o6.96



- 65 -
ANNEX 4-2
COTE D'IY0IRE
FEStAl SECTOR PRJECt
isttlated Disburtalut Sch*le
(USS *i11iaAt
3.k F?
and      Estiaat.
luarters    by     Cumul.   Dimbure.
Endinq    Quarter  Disbtrs. Profile
. _    . _*    .... _
1990 i3      6.00    6.00     4.90
,4      2.00    3.00     3.00
II9 :1       3.00   11.00    14.90
s2      3.00   14.00    21.60
33      3.00    17.00    2.*0            COE D"NVIRE: FORESIRY SEvTOft PROJE7
:4      3.50   20.50    32.00 
1992 I1     3.50   24.00      -.80
12      3.50   27.50    41.60
13      4.00   31.50    46.40         w
:4      4.00   35.50    51.20
,M931       4.00   39.50    55.20
:2      4.50   44.00    59.20   1
:3      4.50   48.50    62.60
:4      4.00   52.50    66.40   j                              f
1994 1       4.00   56.50    63380
:2      4.00   60.50    MMe20
:3      3.50   64.00    73.60
14      3.50    67.50    76.00 
1995 1        O3.0    70.10    77.60
:2      3.O    n.50    79.20
:3      2.00   75S.0    79.60          'm ,          t ,
84      1.50   77.0      0.00
1996 II      1.10   7.3.0    79.60
12      1.00   79.10    79.20
:3      0.1    3.00    30.o00
hmuu  LOU  UfKtivUt  NrCb  199



- 67 -
aMEX S
Page 1 of 3
COTS D'IVOIRE
FORESTRY SECTOR PROJECT
Society of Forestry Develogme
(SODEFOR)
Tarims of Reference for Management Audit
1.          SODEFOR was established in 1966 as a state development company and
was transformed into a state public enterprise of an administrative character
in 1980; in 1985 it was changed into a state industrial and commercial
enterprise (EPIC). SODEFOR's broad mandate is to (a) participate in all
studies leading to plans for the development of forest resources and products
and (b) to execute such plans either directly or %'y delegation to other public
or private organizations. It is specifLcally responsible for carrying out
forestry plantations; developing of natural forests; protecting, upkeeping and
exploicing plantations and natural forests; mrketing, and when appropriate
processing, of production from the forests It manages.
2.          As an EPIC, SODEFOR is administratively and technically under the
authority of the Hinistry of Wasters and Forests (KINEFOR) but financially
under the Ministry of Economy and Finance (MHF). In accordance with
legislation, control over SODEFOR, including approval of its annual accounts,
is supposed to be exercised by a consultative management comission of eight
members, seven nominated by ministries and the eighth by forestry sector
professionals. However, this cotission has not met since 1985.
3.          SODEFOR has a permanent staff of over 620, incliding technical
assistance personnel financed by bilateral and multilateral sources, and about
2,000 seasonal workers. It has about 67,000 planted ha under its
responsibilLty of which about 32,000 ha have been plmated under the World
Bank/CDC financed First and Second Forestry Projects and about 5,000 ha
financed by CCCe.  It is also carrying out, in cooperation with the Centre
Techniquo Forestier Tropical (CTFT), a pilot natural forest managment
project, financed by CCCE. In addltion, SODEFR manages on behalf of HINEFOR
nine fuelwood and pole plantations and the Abldjan zoo. It has its
headquarters ln Abidjan mad four regional directorates, two in Abidjan
covering the southemr chantiers, and one each in Yamoussoukio and Bouak6.
r= DIAMLU3U
4.          Under the Plan Directeur Forestier 1988-2015, which was approved
by the Governmnt in April 1988 and which will be supported by the Forestry



- 68 -
Page 2 of 3
Sector Project. SODEFOR's responsibilities will be greatly enlarged. 'n
addition to developing, maintaining and managing the existing plantations,
SODEFOR will be responsible for the following:
-     demarcating of the boundaries of 1.5 million ha of gazetted
forests, physical opening of their limits and subsequent maintenance of the
boundaries;
-     carrying out inventories and preparing management plans for
700,000 ha of forests and fubsequent silvicultural treatment and conversion
plantations;
-     planting a further 9.000 ha to complete the plantations financed
by the World Bank and CDC;
-     planting 10,000 ha in the center and north under a recently
approved AfDB project and managing a further 10,000 of gazetted forests in the
north under teh  same project; and                                           0
=     developing nurseries and providing support for MINEFOR's village
plantation program begun under the Year of the Forests.
Scans of 5tWLy
5.          The consultants are required to examine SODEFOR' s organizational
structure, management systems and oporating procedures to deterine vwhether
they are appropriate for its expanded future responsibilities. They should
comment and make recommendations on the following matters in particular:
-iuoL ttn
-     appropriateness of SODEFOR's statutes as an EPIC for Lts future
responsibilities;
appropriateness of organizational structure, allocation of
departmatal and divisional resposibilities (Directions/Sous-
directions); and
decGutralizaetion, adequacy in number and strength of regional
directorats.
t4a;mene SystM. 
badequacy of reports to management covering: technical, financial,
administrative, personnel, etc.;
adequacy of feedback from menagement through meetings, written
communications, etc.; and
o     adequacy of planing, programinA  and budeting.



- 69 -
&9NEX 5
Page 3 of 3
Finangia&l and iAcountifDl Systems
allocation of responsibilities for management of treasury and
accounting functions; and
-     adequacy of general, budgetary and cost accounting procedures,
reports to management and operating departments.
foerational Procedures
review of procedures for land clearing, planting and upkeep of
plantations: possibilities for contracting out in lieu of force
account and advantages/dLsadvantages thereof; and
control over field operations: machinery utilization, labor and
material manacgement.
Personnel,
adequacy of staff in numbers and quality at all Levels to handle
the increased responsibilities ;
-     appropriateness of recruitment policies and training programs to
meet staffing requirements; and
-     adequacy of persormel manant and ceeQr development policies.
The above list is not exclusive and the consultants should add any other
matters which they consider important.
Consultant Personnel
The consultant are free to nominate persons they consider most
suitable for the assigment. However, their experlence should cover the
following fields:
-     organization and managemnt of large parstatals in Francophone
African;
management of large scale plantations (forestry, oil palri, rubber)
in several tropical countries presenting a variety of practices;
-     financial managemnt;
-     information technology; and
-     personnel management and training.
Durtigon of AssiMen
A total of six man-months is provided for the study; the elapsed
time between start of field work and presentation of draft report should not
exceed three months.



- 71 -
"0tE 0'IVOIRE                                                                 b~:±
FORESTRY SECTOR PROT
SOEF04 PImate Area
!C4II  961  1949  14970  1971  1972  !973  1974  1975  1976  1977  107I  1979  1990  198t1l982  198s  1994  1985  :q9&  :                        I-?Sc~
lit I ::7d Forestry
[roSa                    .38   3359   449   446   444   510   450   262   ilf   275                       1000  1001   907  1014  1002   £13   740   805   0:    00 1::24
"opri   ~          :24   29       43   413   455   465   464   37          25   254                 toil  1000   911   801   1004   5510   997   ':3  1c:4  !::o  :A4
sangout  ~        ~           50      5   210?   50    371   2l 453   440   512  1002  1001  IM0   1003  IOU8  1020   603  1121  ~                       :'z ::1    
Toes                                                      1170  1345  1314   440   510   507   913  1163  1001  1000  1001    970   t55  lool  7i3  ~;:o  :000 15760
SuhflOtaI  ~ ~     .2  ~53  10-42   8&4  1104  244202  2142  141T4   499  1019  162   4195  404t82                          391     396 121  ,8'59'  2437  3807  'OCO 33659
PCEc Dr3jecto
Ssqu~~~~~s ~434  1042  1214  114o1  I                      27   I       1to     84                               341            504   290   752   323   402             7420
Osuaf Is                                                                                  ~~~      ~    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~ ~~~~~49  444   313   402   410   512  2'91
S~~b:ata1  ~~~434  1092  1214  l1id                 II    27   IN   1to        8                                1039           952   593  1,354   933  11114          102,01.
Other, 
Abbe             2.37 252 4615so610 so 439 4702                                 131512   2                                                                                       47
An uldegoo              24789    120   132    107   104    95161    22   6                     a9     4 6
Bell                         ~~~~~10    74   131    40    41    47   130   150                                                        14                                9
Puipusa                                                                           9933335                                                                                          779
TOTAL              27414  1344  2703  261   304   3271  33M   2*8   33   2444  1377  1629  42011 400   464   391   4950  272  '5213  ::90  4:1   40G0  3479
is"8  cm3   S85   ear         E MW*n -  -    ut    U S M            aiM    NM S asoiM im 88838885835                        as"8 :88   3 33 8 !333   =8838 2:33
SPECIES
Teak                   ~~~~~~436  1042  1224  117!  1143  I345  1301   440   450   200        35                                      237   2054  1037  197    MO5 19009
Adileu                           24   2105342    266    193   53  24   1204   39                I                           1                                                    21.19
iKan;sa           140           219   2'I   23    224    30    01    42    44                   1                                                             4                   44.
"I'alrl   184               54   144   152   747   65          94   II?   111    29                                                                                          1
Okmta               it         6 IN    200   .1I392
Clots!&                                  I                                      I4  M1  7    351   710  1004  1989  1399  1431   772                  I  199 29      9    100  9937
Nrave'             66   290   643   VA6   433   546   946  1170    23  3VA                                                 46             15    24   546   499   :92   910  '411
Friek                      4            46    35    Is    10   26    033   315   M            437  100   2743  2126  3147  1934  4133   199  1714  1127  1439   i00 22914
SamOa                    130 140 14429 3211  14 12U2  24 1711t442 43229304 3022                                                                                     112:50 221
i"ll's                                                                                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~273   2.05   491   400  1331
Ping                                                                                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~7 55   134   200   1498
Badi                                                                                                                                                  292   1.30                  412
Other                      4              9 17 17268U46 27 914144S 61725 42                                                                    103172   2 119 190 992
Sub-total         23.7   414  1844  2700  2669  304   32i7   3346   *20   2193  2113  102   ID:   4207  4004  4147  3911  495   2729  5213  :90   49153  4000 6997!1
Eacal .ptus                                                                      49   154    194                                                                                  1:1.
Pint                                                                             24   134   134                                                                                   :94
iselina                                                       I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 4 3 2                                                                        44
Sub'ttati                                                                        4 333350                                                                                         779
TOTAL             2.37   41   114   270   369  34   327   FM*                   39    244    377  162   427  4004  W64   3911  4950  2729  5213  329 0415  4000 70734
NiM    MM                                          a m                                                          2888    88   8885                   a 53   38



- 73 -
::::   ~.':;:                                                          ' :-
.... .......... _._ ...... -. -. -_.--- 
970   ::30   2:  ::3:  ::9;  .994  !:3!  ::'            1:3J Q  Z'§-gS  seruent 1;39  1990  1991  1c2  !493
..  .          _ .          _ .  .   ._ .   ._  ._ .. _.  ._ _
76   :       'i   :;5    25      649    9.41
974    !:9   :'t   V'9    :7       9   :'C    :1    32    63    '=       47.2?
is       .     : :7'   743   312    1375   14.0?
:2:-I:a      1^     JES   2:1   435   360             *          :5    11     1662   2!.67
te:1.^t 10    :'    37    '5                                                     36    1.1?
eine                                                   7    it    63   100      2!1    2.n
at"m            4                               37   1      74      81    75     '      5.0?
1000   1001   907  1014  1002   422  '41   412   602   600    ,701  100.0
Teak                                           494   214  :23   219   412    142   Is.
Frake         324    531   679   382   797       2    1    31S   I1    250    :t95   4.0t
F-aire                       21                      160   ::    276   200       7n    8.6?
cearela       29     46?   202   404   209            It    62   III   33    192   20.3
Saga          191            13     2            3                123    7S       4    s.
6a.:;n.                                               73    52    75   100       300    3.2?
Fin*            13    33    60                                                   109    1.2?
the,                         2                 26   100    13      8    65      214    2.3?
1014   1000   919 38  10BE        50   997   13   1001  1200    9291  100.0
7eak                 C.6                       507   716180 3O      2   513  2273.1   23.3?
fllkl        651    539   50N   347   9O    74   245   200   22    IS    35iM    40.4?
rahirg                                                95   1316  292   2D0      72      7.4?
cadre'&       156    04   297   482                         51   114    37    1531   15.6?
Saib&         18"     43   193   138    30    22                   39    s0     729    7.4?
Gaellfla                                              51   Il   137   125        Mt    3.6?
Pipe            4                                                   8    40      S2    0.5?
Others                17    17    42                  14    19    17    50       17     1.
100I  1002.6  1003  109  1020   603  II21   64  1209  120   97.   100.0
Tin
'eak                                           5135I 73144              0  249   26.4?
Frke          690  541   50    627  970    42   214 119    "    10  3                42.3U
Fueagaw                                               20   1N    100   100       MI    3.3?
:edreia      430    453   477   '10                         46    6      23    1307   19.2?
isam           62            16    64                              75    25      242    2.61
6eeline                                              10     54   161   130       4d     4.9?
pill            I                                                                  I    0.02
0tutrs                                          10    17           137 n                0.
113   1001  1001  1009   S7         ION 10         100   100      9427  100.0
Tcl,Al                                                                                                                      rTotal Prcn
~k                   0.1                     199 1882 l    56  1103  i      6331.1   19.0  1100  I    1210 I    0U      230 11951  24.3?
frake       2744   2135  2364  13   34   127           1 2 7   49   5M    I5s         4.0   12S   100   1to    50    5015m7  S2.6t
Fruurt                       21          1s          54  547 1011 312    295            8.21  400350 TV 20   150 4452  9.11
C    lre1a   1006   1309  1197  1631   5t             M    174   31    10      632   19.0?  150   120   115    70   45  78   15.0
'its         442   43 229      30  50  0 0 25    150  I5   4.n 200200 2503 00  50 21                                                  7 s
aelina                                               234  1to    410   4        120;2   3.u 12    Ic        9     550 M  37   527   10.8?
Pill            6                                      7    M1 I"                371    1.0?                                    m  30.8
Onbu            4  17 1  42                          24519 If191  3 4 2.3?                                                     a8 4.n
4202 400.1  30  3912  39s          2067  3    27   N12  40 36215.6  100.0   30   3n    2130  1750  1200 4905 100.0
saw                              -            -     - "-         ma        M=          Ban   3       nu   nu   ==  3M=_



Prejat CMi FIN
tUN aillams)
FL                                      1       1       191 a12      1 1114   tow         l11      111      1197    31        1t    200        ml    202    23           24    2005    206    2007    24            2a01    2010   :-o1
hGiJ      Ct ts                             Ism 134   4 13    03   3MI    13             ju       23       24       M       24131   2463    11 14    2411    20        2U3      231      234      2335    2319    2310    273    2 29s
kt Uwviw
M    - Frar  ,ra,uit
3   Z1   m   to   m   w    *   s2  i7   I
UZ - IKOda rasett
1clKi S            t                        231       2        12      02     213        27      21      *27       21      U7       Ut      3         27      32L      17    127        327      21
bitwt                750   R11 H9    in2   in   UU Ji                                                    0W   443   1               341   251            233   155  it    59   23
M; - Fw
ft&Kipd                    314115                    304                           l3 11 30            170  T103          U        lira  1 70031  0 1831  00         3760    8700    3100    8700i   1703%
tawest                             In        7       "S  43 0 a          s    4m       5n m          I2  U  t    1561   1tu1    1301    ails    low          III      7         u       so        "      2"0      1,31
tite t to                           13     1a3                 a                                                          3 4 a
Ot - Firs  t.ro t
LVKipd                            1iUto   to IU    Iu                                            un   aI   Id   t1o   the   168 Ie                     n    la IU        I      N
Waez>                                        1                 n13     3       IV       16B  m 35        123      10        117     13       72        3      41       35       2n
CK - SKu iparz.t
PFrKipd                                     Ot1  277   m               32m   3n 2m               m       2n3   232m    m  2t m3 32                                    2J7 m2     129
bh e3t                             J        St         2      3       312    In$        3D       29      ZJ       712      10       IL      137      112      U        U        37       12
ct ~~~~~*^                                                       e~~~~        *        *       *        *        *        *       *        *       *        *        °       *        °        o
haulpuls                             *        *        *        *        *       *        *        *       *        *        *        *       *        *       e        *        o        *       *        *        o
Cm*amtitU                             3       0        3I                                                                                                       I       I3  6                                         0
Jc1d  bit Sarvaca                    21       32457   402       4213    4521   3313       BUS    3033    M113    Sill    41    4303    4450    4235    4319    3803    354__              3       2433    3967       3311
1Z IMU                              1227   34231   313    1473    14531   NM1              13 n            U74         15    1U       71132    M3      M3        42      113    37u 575    4146    4279    4140    221               2298
5as     35s=3   gas"           3   : 1   3Z         332S8  C353  :333   3553    53333   533    333 83 533Y0   SZZ=3  1::::   33=33                           _ =-:- :                 =:::=   ;::.:
Furtsry 5glar t. jaiu:
036 L~                                M      5           .     5M      SO D
CK  too                       I~~~~ 6          I        I        I       I
Kr bt. FuV Kaq                       1136  I35    1221  t221             T2    A3
T224n  ns  2n  22  lo  tim
Sala eat plt.   1,ff                   129     129      I3       I3       316      ID      523      34      500      557      783      k6      567      471     4*6   140,|9   11695.  134,9  1W!*    lo40:i4   t2i   10C92   1 3-
$deu  adt la     d                      11      41       34       37       55      a       16U      22        7      214    1         2!      II3    1S0        15       16      299      3"'    269      259      27-i'    ica e    2
Tazis aM aaKruusal
maUdl *wunt iNpu                  -1633   -314   -32    -3844   -3839 -159   -3295                9114    2571    433?    5699    -4!    90.9   10413   V SU    1274    12293   12' '3  1:23   1--S   1: ;S   '22 ;                 '
11a 111     E IFL211    33hr                           4U54    5211     53!'  2111   -3O'    149    3t;8    51313            AU        il.    9747   11016   119:   .'         39.627  775:j?   21?   26'. ':: -
==:==   =s=:=   3==3=3-: :-3 3:    3333:   =====   :=:,:  === =   =-==,   =3:=    33-==   3::=: -- =:  33::    3:::   3::::    3::                          3    : :3 3c:::f                  .
Pt noflo.                           -491  -716    -1180   -9465   -922  -40u            -l772   -72t?   -5216   -2711    -t.          2      'i 3     43A.           2'11,5   24412   22'1 1-t4    43   ";?'?  '-Ul        ; ,?5   . 'i
h1t  ilesf     - uftl:6tun          -49?l   -127.6  -2191'  -3115   -404                 -1112  -.011  -22147  -:2409  -s7e!  -:8z   -22000  -37617  -:2IE             SO10   12422   545'6   787E?  I loli  113         : .';     :



- 77 -                              A.NN EX 7' -1
Table I
COTE D'IVOIRE                     Page 1 of.1
FORESTRY SECTOR PROJECT
Econcmic Analysis of Industrial Plantations
Average Stumpage Value of Main Species: Economic Prices (1987/8P,)
Valeur de Bois sur Pied
Essences      Production  Grummes      Sci§Zes b)   Deroulages  Tranchases   Yovenre
Totale      2  CFAF      2  CFAP      Z   CFAF     I  CFAF      CFAF   I c)
(t3)           3           m3           m3          m3       m3
ea---se__C_______________ ___.-..__ I--------------------- ________
Aboudikrou  19,400      88  51,500    -       -   -             12  105,000  58,000  0.8
Acajou       66,400     55  42,300   45  28,200    -                  -       35,800  2.7
Aielh       8,100        -    -        -            100 24.400        -       24,400  0.3
Ako          75,400     82    22,000  -      -       18  17,300  -    -       21,100  3.0
Anihgri      55,OOC     87    64,500  -      -        -   -      13  81,300  66,700  Z.Z
Azobe        57,500     11    25,500  89  18,000    -  -          -    -      16,800  2.3
Badi        23,600      30    23,400  70  6,000       -   -       -    -      7,100   0.9
Bahia       108,800    51    36,000  49  25,000    -   -          -    -      30,600  4.4
B6t&        53,900      18   51,500   74  26,000    -   -        8   82,000  35,000  2.Z
Faro        24.400      7    22,700   -      -        93  27,400  -    -      27,100  L.0
Frak6       99,700      33   25,000   67   12,000   -             -    -      16,300  4.0
Framird     55,100      48   43,300   52   26,300   -  -               -      34,500  Z.Z
Fromager    216,700    44   17,100   -       -       56  17,400   -    -      17,300  8.7
Ilomba      97,900      55   19,100   -      -       45  19,300   -    -      19,20C  3.9
Iroko       504,300    -       -       99   20,700   -   -       1    50,700 21,200  20.
Kondrotti   16,800    -                -              100 25,400  -    -      25,400  0.7
Kamaipo      4,300    88       32,000  --                  -      12  97,000 39.800  0.2
Kotibe      82,900   43        33,000  55    19,700   -   -       2   88,900  26,800 3.3
Koto         38.400   59       41,100  .     -         22 18,900  19  80.000  43,600 1.'
Makore       8,100    94       46,500         -        -   -      6   92,300  49,200 0.'



- 78 -                                   ANNEX 7-1I
Table I
Page 2 of 14
MLkngoa      27,300   35       43,000  65    33.200   -   .        -  -       36,600 1.1
Sambs        495,600  8        22,600  86    11,100    6 21,300  -  -         12,600 19.8
Slpo         5.300    83       53,300  -     -         -   -      17  115,600 63.900 0.2
tIL          15,000   100      20,900  .     -         .   .       .  -       20,900 0.6
T1am         40,500   46       38,100  46    31,100    8   23,300 -  -        34,100  1.6
IL           3,400    81       22,000  -                           19  49,700 27,300  0.1
xatanda    22,900   100        21,400  -     *         -    -      -   *      21,400  0.9
Ta           15,000   100      22,900  .     * a            -      -   -      22,900  0.6
Valeur Htoyosue                                                               20, 400 89.7
a) Economic stuipage values bave been obtained by deducting froa the economic price of produ
the econoaic cost of loging, procesomng and ma *ksl.  Econoaic prLces have been taken as -'
Fob price  of sportes (at the CU) or the domtL ptice of products sold oan the domssti
welkts, adjusted by an SQC  (0.60).  Econaic costs  av  bees taken as the financil cos:t
adjusted for tcansfer paymets and by the W? (0.60).
b)Average of products exported nd sold oan te distic markets.
ci Percentage of total productin that yea r  (2.3 nLLIou w3 rond wood equivalent).



- 79 -                            A.X\EX 7-I
Table 2
Page 3 of 1_.
COTE D'IVOIRE
FORESTRY SECTOR PROJECT
Economic Anallsis of Industrial Plantations
Economic Value of Fuelvood
Financial           Economic
------ ----(CPA) …--------
Butane Retail Price CAbidjan)(ton)    1)      160,000             85,000
Transport to Consumption Center (ton) 2)      (10,000)            6,000
Cost of Butane at Consumption (ton)           160,000             91,000
Equivalent Puelvood                    3)     0.0324              0.0324
Price of Fuelwood at Cons umtion (a3)         5,200               2,950
Transport to Consumption (ai)          4)    800                  480
Felling and Stacking (m3)              5)     1,600               960
e--___ a.           -- ....
Stumpage Value (m3)                           2,800               1,510
1) including marketing margin of CIA? 50,000/ton (SCF * 0.6) and tazes and
duties of CPA? 55,000ton (SCF a 0.0)
2) 200 km at CA? 50/It-km (SC? - 0.6); distribution costs borne by government.
Average Gross       Approximate    Value/Efficiency   Estimated
Calorific           Household      per Kilogramme      Effective
Efficiency          Efficiency                          '000 Ical
(2)                            per Unit
a - - a- anne   - a  CO    -----   -------------  ------
0.)                 (2)         (1) z (2)
Air-dry Wood      3.5                    8.0            0.28            196/m3
Charcoal          7.1                    27.5           1.95            1,950
Propane/Butane   11.0                    55.0           6.05            6,050/ton
a) Air-dry vood: 700kgsI3
4) 10 km at CIAU 80W/M-k
5) 2.0 man-days of labor per z3 (SC? a 0.60)



- 80 -
ANJNEX 7 -1
Table 3
COTE D'IVOIRE               Page 4 of 14
FORESTRYRECTWTOAN
Eeoneie Atalysis _of 1ndustrial PTntc.ionx
Expc:ad Production and Rowenuo From Planations (he)
1. Tek         ---                      -----Y
U It Price/    S         10        15        25        35        U              Total
Fuelcood       1,56            16        15        17       25        25        U               142
Poles          SW                        86                                                     300
Posts          1,20                                in166                                       200
Sawloge X      12, 5                               1s       25        40        69              146
Sawlogos I     M9,                                                    20        120            146
Veneor I ogP   U,                                                               so             so
Totsl Revenue                 156o      292,U6  825,5W0  457,1W   1,117,5W 6,695,666 9,013,00f
2. T0611m       --_ ye
11it Priee/    5         6         12        20        Total
Fuelwood       19W             1i        25         u        5        in
Pole           -                                                      O
P.e.           -                                                      6
Savks U        6,i86                                29      48 
Savlogs I      1600,                                        145       145
YOMP I _0        
Totsl Rovemu                   16,_    5,"          175,6   2,78,5W 2,936,666
S. Fml                       eas
D It Price/    7         1s        26        Total
Fuelwood       1,'             25        26        31       75
Poles          -
Post           -
Swlogs U       1                                             6
Veneer leog    -                                            6
Total Reven"_                   7,       246,5W    686,M l 7j,M,
4. Prak6i
Yars           Unit Priem .   4          7          10       U        TotaI
Fuelwoe        ,ow             it        28        211      40        I
Poles          - 
SMIOG  n   so                                  laas
Sewlegs U      6,W                                 19        U         U
Sawleg  I      10,8W                                         in       1S
Venew     l    -                                                      0
Total Revene                   15        8w        UN,5W   2,539    2,96 ,9W



COVE D'IvoIRE
FONES1Th? ET     JECT
(Expected frodutl. sad Ecoe Ic 3Itm   ?.-Go Plentatlonm  (Per hr)
C. E_                                                             . C6dr&la --------- -Yeara----
UIlt Price/as                 15        {         Tetol                        unit Price/as a           9        25         Total
F_lwd          1                                       49        1              Fuled         Im             2O                  46         96
Poles                                                            6              Poles 
Pest           -                                                 *              Poeo "
S emlog I       57                                                              Ilesl I       16,53                    26        so        70
Samea I         ,                                      1         196            11"" e  1                                        166       I"
Veseer, loew    -                                                *                     so"er lo  -                                         a
TO" Ie Rveme                       45,t    11U.6    8,547,6W 5,763,8641                                      866       265,6    6,165,166 6,396,0
7. Prol .6 ceeerI --
Yeas.         uiMt Price-ns        7         It        is       Total
railsed         ,3                  51                  66
Pe'l 6, "l   t8                               s"s
SFl_wI, I      3i3                           is       D         45
l-eseSe        -                                                6 
tX ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ - *                                               I'
XtSeelo   It    ",GM                                   Sig
Vo_e low
e st



ANNEX 7-1
Table 5
- 82 -                             Page 6 of 14
COTE D'IVOIRE
FORESTRY SECTOR PROJECT
Economic Analysis of Industrial Plantation
Sumary: Basic Cost Per Hectare of Plantation
1.  Direct Coats                          Financial      Economic
-_____.- (CFAF) -------
Establishment
Survey                         4,300           2,890
Land Clearing                  132,830         80,450
Windrowing                      125,190        71,600
Soil Preparation               105,440         64,040
Nursery                        10,530          6,290
Planting                       24,630          15,000
Sub-total                 403,420         240,270
.
Prunina                              4,480          2,700
Thinnint                             15,000         9,050
Maintenance                          25,650         18,500
2.   Indirect Costs
Investments
Road Construction              38.490          22,490
Sub-total                 30,490         22, 490
Recurrent
Road Maintenace                3,265           2,970
Fire Protection                3,915           2,370
Administration                 22.000          12,620
Sub-total                 31,180          17,960



- 83 -
ANNEX 7-1
Table 6
Page 7 of 14
COTE DIOVOIRE
FORUnTY SECTOR PROJECT
Econeelol at. of Rtcese a Teak Plantations
Coo"
Year   Operation                 Direct IPAIre"t   Total  Rovnuos Net Benefit*
*   'Establishmnt            24 ,67  22,49  262,70                     (262,706)
1   Maintennce                1o,    17,9166   U,486                   (88,406)
2    Maintenance              16,W    17,M    86,48                     (6,48)
a    Maintenoac               Is,O    17.96    86,486                   (36,46)
4    Maintenane                13,36   17,966    6,400                  (26,441)
I    ThbnlnowJpnanng I         1i,7    17,36   2n,on       Ii,Sqi       (14,719)
6-6                                       17 ,96    17 ,09                (17,96 )
is    ThinningjPrunln  2       U1,17    U1,66t   28,466    Mo2,56       179,196
11.14                                      116    11,                       (11,659
1S    Tht"lnePrunlng 8                  1l,63   lt16       82M,566       818,33
16-24  *U,03   11,63                                                        (11,666)
25   Thosinng 4                          11,63 10 U,6      457,511       445,350
33-84                                      Ul,    11,63                     (11,5)
66    ThinnIng 5                        11,63    1,666U  1,117,566     1,195,35m
.6-43                                  .1,63-   11,t3                   (11,659)
U    Ciesuellg I6" ,35,9                                               6,3,3
less Cases          ER    7.o.
8enettIvity Analysisu
Caste up Sol    E1      a 7.95
Cot dew   s         ER * 3.66
ft  mu ai des 3W. ER a 6.66



- 84 -
7-1
Table 7
Page 8 of 14
COlT DYOZVflE
P0811  SCT?  PRJCT
3m...*  60. of NoOses Os @m lao Plenatatl
toommis ~ ~    ~    Cot
year   Operatles             Steth*l.t    oa   *euei    e  e,fl
-    a~~~~~~~-  -
6     steb 1l            246,2/6  22,4   2M2,7                    (22,t?W)
1   Mslst.oewem           I6,om    17936    Ulm4                   (86463)
2   MOIbl._....           1,W   17.,W    6,4                      (MO,4
a    Us.t."_m             1,'m    17,6W    "4"W                    ("2 'M
4   Volateoss             1o,o   170,3    ",4" 6                   (,n4)
I   Thlew es I            11M    17,36   3,779        13,          (14,729
0-?                                  vow    17,8"                    (17,3)
I   Thiastmg              11,7W   V7,66   3,728       37,            7,786
0-11                                  17.3    17,36                   (17,366
12   Thlumlag 8                     Ulm8    use"6   173,3W          188,3
18-19             .                    11,W   IL,6                     (Ulan5)
*    CI..rq.  lIs                                    2,7WtU       2,763,5
Clo 4 w                * em
Comes dos w    AM   1U."
b __sm.s d_ u  =*  6.86



- 85 -                          ANNEX 7-1
Table a
Page 9 of 14
COTI OivOO16
FORET   SCTR PROJECT
Eet.m.1 tatoe of Rtiara on Framire plantations
Coo"
Yer   Operation             Diroe Indirect   Totsl  Rtevewue  Net Beef Ito.
0   bteblleh.eat         2j271   22,4       2,7                 (22,
1  ainta,ano           13,511  17,960  16,44                   (36,411)
2     eilnta"n"           1,511  17,0"0    44                    (,460)
a8  Mia teone             101     17,9"  a,44"                   (16,40)
4   M* itS"SS              6,51u    1,?66  W,40                  . (3,440)
34                                  17,960  17,0"                  (17,0)
7   ThlInni  1             ,      17,0  1,7                        7,7n6
34                                  17,00  17t,0                    (17,96
3X   Thinning 2                    17,01   17,01    240Z,         22,04
11-24                                 U1,660  11,6                    (U1,6
23   ClOearflling                                  6,7Mtm        67U,in
so" C I_               u * 12.'
Coo" up   . Ms          U.5
Cos". d_  265       M   13.5
_ s    _ * 11.6



ANNEEX 7-1
- 86-                              Table 9
Page 10 of 14
coni O'iVOZIt
rem.le i.t. of i.tt. £em Peak. PImt.bke
Ue-e hX *t l        7 -   m"       -       rnn i1n)
S   Ieallsnt_          2U,27   32,43  32,7                 (32,768
I   Uelnt.aaae    13,50  17063  36,4a                 (36,408)
2   Mataibela_m         193  1750   X4,                    (36,461)
8   Ma_lateaaa          18,5   17,33  Ng4Ai                 (10,46)
4   Mlatmuee/
.hIasleg 1         2,2.  * 17_1 3,m2                    (21,2)
54                                  11  17,3                  (17,901)
7    %ThiaIa 2          11,7   17.3  .3.729    87,5           7,7
64                      ~~~~~~~~17,1W   Ulm3          (17.38)
is    hilu                       17,50  27,3    193,5         64,54
11.24                             1U.5   Ulm                    (11,61"
*~~~ ~ ~ ci.t.u                        :33_          am.m
cas. Cm$          5 0 *                      X.1
Casts aup Mg      -     3.
Reememwt dae      1W  a 6.13



- 87 -
ANIEX 7-1
Table 10
Page 11 of 14
COTW D'ZVOIRE
P1RWU SEcmO PROJCT
Ecenamlo lat. of RoU., ** Saab. PleIatt..s
Year   Opel-Ion              D lt  led1e.o    Total R1bweass   Not "of Ito
8    Etabtl 1    s       246,279   22341  26,7"                   (262,W)
I   MaIstnes'             1        17,1   U,411                    (3.41)
2    MaIatosanc            36,51   17,91  89,46(461
4    Molatseas'131
1711   1791                    C7.1
*    ThinnIng I            11,7M   171,20  -29,729    46m           15,236
196-14                                 11,61   U,6(1,69
15    ThiminnI  2                   u,6M)  11,61       IIa 2,85
16-29                                  11,61    U,61                   (11,619
aso" Caoses         mu.6.U
Seeaiti,ity LAnlpas'es
Coas up Msa            a 6.1
Co:si da, Ml    E  a 7.11
Raw.... dawn 20   OR a 6.11



-88-                                     ANNEX 7-I
Table 11
Page 12 of 14
COIl  3IYOIRE
pmiuv SECTC PROUET
EcMOMIe ltet of  notur e csdeOI Plentotio
Co
-   ~                 -   .     
Year   operto                       Irdrs      TouX_l Reen"  ft    1W
*    Establihment        24,270  22,4W   6,7"                    (2,7
X,  voblma"               19,90   I?"    U,04                     OSIA
1   Untwosei            16,M8   17,88    1648                   (3,481)
2   Mslatoaneo            10,8W    178 ,     g,4W                 (U,4*
4    UIslteMi             10,8W ,  17,16    3,40                  (6,481)
5                                  17,"6  17,16                   (17,81
tw ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~o                   Vow ltVow"
*   ThInaing I      ii,i    lsim    u,iW       umomW
748                                  17,1    17.8                   (7,11
i                                  17.,3"   1t,"    m,o           2h,6
1624                                    1,U    168                    ( 1,cue
23   C       lmrfoiiltg                             *,,lm         Slm
sono C&s.          8_  * U.1
Cots up 213        8    1.
Comm, d.m  awl      -    18313



89 -
Al",EX 7- 1
Table 12
Page 13 of 14
COT! DVNOZRE
PoE51RT SECTOR PROJCT
Econmic Rate of htiwsm on Aeseiate  Plantaane (Fsal re)
Cat
V"a     operation            Oleest Zadlrect   Totl   leveues Net ese Its.
- I             .               -         -
9    bblmmt            *,6      *,l   197,36                  (197,359)
1    bIaton|a            47,91    4,7   ,lng                       ,7
2    blatesance           19,63    1,9"9  21676                    (215,70)
8    Uibati,ee.           11,8      1,189  12,78                  (n,en)
4-4                           m7U        3       Su                     (Ids)
7    Thimiq 1             1l,619   1,9   21,676        12U            92S
Sen                             n3    a   m                              (no
12    Thisalg 2            19,619   1,_og    215      127,63        16,9g
13-24                            73        a       m                      (3)
25   CleselIa lo 4t-    4,,U0
soas Coae          IM     14.0
sonastivity Aa"lyelt
Co   GP 2up         m  a * .3
C_t de_s UaI    m  a 15.
besaes due USo   m  a 13.3



71,931                                  gin" nis Sowlo
1L64              'U'1wii ld kl;   U5UU       C2    t Uw632
4)11       ft.       1                                                                                                  p         *01
tug      ILlS        :                                                                                                           1A
in   :wD :                                                                                                                       WE
0i       I c-        :0 t
*1a      1S- K_      tI "i s        at         at          ml            il           to           19        IU        9t        00
"a   a's-    Iou   tu                          U          11   un Mt                  to           lo   fa    a.    910
6L4      : S-        I60            Hzg         Ut         969            203*         10*          £6        161    9it1        &SU
33L   I S-   2IL                    lza  Ut 1                             uL           to           m1   gui   D1    Om
#3-      l6-         1C-           Hz         0D          I              I           to           I         0         0         cm
9u-   16"-    H-                    Hza VA                                            to           6    6                        Ur
U-   IS-    :HZ-                    la         Ut         0              0             o           a         0                   O m1
R1-      'ef-        I H-           C1 l       VA          0             0            t0                     0         0         01OS
91-*10-    1Hz-                tU    ZU               0              0            U9          0         0         *         ZOZ
Z01-     l DI         mz-           HZ         at          I             I            IN           6         0         0
Ca       I I         :AH-           Ht Z       u          I              0 e                       0         0 O                 act
cu       !611           tZ_-        Ht         at          0                          t0                     0                   U 9K01
Di       IS01 o        Gz-          Hz                     0                          I "                    0         0         Ucm
91-      l x-        :z-            UZ         Z          0              0             0o                    I o       I         t*oz
9Ot      I ff-   : 19               Hzt        ID9         5                           0t to       t90        W1      a         uoz
I9D      : t         : I            Hz  U      at Z"                     l1t          l0o          Ca        ML        it        ZZOZ
099      :           191-             Z        ZZt       0oa             e1l           0to          OD       tZ        9Z        1zO0
iSo      : UV        :   1          Hz         ZZt         to             19*         lot          1t1i      g01       9        cOZt
191        it-        zn            Hz         ZUt        La             Il           lot          lii       tZZI      1          101
1191     :ta         :21 tt9                               £Z1            93 SIZ      SO           m         9tt        1        £IU0
Mt       I SR        atR            UC         ZU          i              m           *of          Z6        9a        C1        LIOt
gm1        cm         11W-          Hzt0o 0                                                        0         0         0         910!
049       193         uHz-          Hz         at          0 e                        to            0        0         0 e       102
9t-          -        a431-         Hz         1Z1        tOI             IL          to0          I11       9l1       t         tIOZ
919      1.4111       all1           Hz        23          OW0            591         109           301141   bull    *2          110
bL1      :  :        :i  Bl         tl Z        z  pbOit                   W            Oto        ttFz      Ktz       UE        Slf
1l50     ,oIl        I 11           Hz U:                   09 4m                     tat          atmI    KaI    "I t010t
512       :O         1191            Hz        USt         ZZZOlOC        60           10           010      *3         4        110Z
3        : m0        14:us          Hz         Z2t         c0"            tOt          to           3300!    £4b       1ti       0101
t101     : I-        : t            H stU        t         too0a tO                                 900 ttOt    "       m        OOZ
* 413    : S-          aug          t1t        M9t         cm91                        to           :1 Z  101     !    392       O0m1
094      :9 o           ls          O9t        its         .1s            CZ9          l0t          6 l    6N0l    Zt9           0ool
Zia        9zz        61            tIt        itn         130           t*0          1ot          91031    4**        9SZ       9O0
10901    :u tU         110 9:1                 of*        t90tl           410         20lt          =11      t*til   415          00
99   "i i-           :19             KtS       to         tX9             9349        10g          L041.      1911 IL            *001
!-       :) tt     9: t-            991       S23         0SI            0£1          SOS         0Nt        Ul        :!       S00t
Il-2-:I                             2K         l Lit      0              lb           50t          90'      0C         911      t0t0
99-        1          9:9           Ot- 0ss    Ot          *S             91          10l          Lot       tl        S6        lOOt
*9-      :0OR        :ttS-          9It        Ot9        01             011         tot          011       Be        115       0001
00e-        n9       :1t-           u19        119         14l            O1!         log          In        it        00        boo!
oa:-     :0-         :39-.          20         09t         to0           to0          lo;          S1        tt9        tt       BSoo
Zt9-     : ttl-      :              lo-t 0                 :s 1s101                   50si          90       9R!       OS        LoI
961-     . 11-       : Sl           s1t        UI9tt2                             .      ;         S         ;         £1 ib
ii:- i-   1'-           SZ9        081 in      L              LU           201 119                I'U       LU       *001
Id-  LiZ-       ~~Li-         V:t        409         *91            091          l0g          969       12!      ;o        1661
1t9-     :18S- S                    tz         909         911           :l;          299          915       LI        ol        1601
911-    1- :         :63-           211        990!        911            :'I1         1OL         :',        :,:      611       laO!
0Si-       a9 :: Ito-               91o        Si t)                      :S           )og          Ot        09;      Si        o661
6111-      too-      2              006        46.I        IL *n9 l9o                               !tl      1:S       LU        1661
L41-    :691-        :98-           Gab        1l1t        0              9ol1         too0         80Z!     toL        o0t      0661
001-                   00:-         005        otl         C                131!       t00o         SSIl      Oil      90S       696
Itsuill               IpAu 2l 1tUOLco3 IplPUiSj                              lUnfov        I         1'1cI  aSqlleS paomo!rj
: ea          !IN            11103              litula           pattlj geu   041g                1111j W ltt
1:1J:14 40~33  A0IS3iZ                               slivli
04101    ;'Pd }#tt     ;111                                                       t}e|.U  I)@U re            Sl§@ltm
.................                   ... ....  ... ...  .. 
£1    01CP1                                               l:OAT.6  i.:0
1 -!1  X3.N%0
- 06 -



Ai,EX  7-2
Table 1
-  91  -                                                 Pagel  of  7
FORESTlSEE           CT
Production of            For    'inF t    7 ha  under
plIfforolt ln agt_ itcenneloo
rles t-Ntation
WIblout Pero"l, With Pro, Alone    WI hProt. A Us.  WIth P.t..  at. A ThlinnI
v        -Iauo        sra       Vovo                   I        "         Value .
XT'^Ua)  t       b)  rt   )           b)                   b) ')                b)
m )       CPA)         C) CPA)                        CFA)
initlal Stock         6,814      _         6,14       _,814                          6,814 _
3.                    205        2,149     125        1.275      125       1,275      125       1,275
1.                    26         2,143     121        1,275      121       1,275      121       1,275
2.                    I          1,'M      121        1.275      125       1,275      125       1,275
8                     133        I,5       126        1,275      125       1.271      125       1,275
4.                    UO         1,2       12         1,275      125       1,271      125       1,275
5.                    10         1,020     120        127        125       1,27m      121       1,27
6.                    75         705       121        1,275      125       1,275      126       1,275
Y.                    76         761       121        1,275      128       1.276      125       1,275
6.                    5          16        126        1,215      12        1.271      125       1,271
9.                               1129                 1.27       121 16276            121       1,275
I.                    6         r          125        1,27       125       1,276      125       1,275
II.                   S                    i1         1,273      126       1.27       125       1,27t
12.                   3                     2         1,275      125       1,276      125       1,275
12.                   6         6           21        1,275      125       1,275      125       1,276
14.                                        128        125m    125          1275       12i       1.275
is.                   6                    i n        1.27       125       1,271      126       1,27g
1s.                                        i ts       1,275      125       1,276      121       1,275
1:.t3                            9         125        a,I7I      125       1,7        121n      1,276
.                     3          6         tS125      1,275      125       127       1in        1,276
It                    a                     WI        1.275      125 1m75             12s       1,275
Total                 1* i1      11,733    2',        25,606     2,66      2 3        3.        25,56
Flnl ftalk           9          -         5.,l6      -          O,X2      -          1.12      -
a) Velm t o tf standing tluliwir of ganmeela   a1l.;ae.1 .k s s.lolmt hats... s1 tandi    tl.h.r and volum, ot
los asmaed at M.5.
b) Averege value at loss n  btleatmd at * AP MS,40/o" C(Vl. 6).



ANNEX 7-2
Table 2
-92-                                              Page Z  of  ,
COTE D'VOIRg
f ORSSTNT1ECTUPROJECt
Feoductlon of * Noturol Foroot C104.01 h}l und r-
Second Rotation
Without Protectlon  With Prot. Alone    With ProC,r. t. A Thinnin_
Volume   VWle -      volume V  v l           l      Volvo     Y            Tu-
TrETF      ) T       TUF )           b)         )         b)    rW)   WTU b)
CFA)                 C )  CPA)          r     b) CPA)
2nllal Stoek        O          -         5,U        - I,2               -          6,122     -
26.                  S          6         aS         e3        as        016        e         9s
21.                  6          6         of        611        of         16 I                969
22.                  6          *         of         661       of        91l        n         00
23.                  6          6         6l         668       of        1s6        es        969
24.                  0          6         6f        a8s6       of         16        95        969
2S.                  *          9         of         "66       to        U1         is        960
26.                  *          6         6s        "6         of        M1         e         9s*
27.                  0          6         as         "I        as         16        99 9
26.                  6          0         6s         sea       Is        61         Os        90g
29.                  0          0         o6         6S        of        Its         6        909
86.                  6          6         of         "I                   M         as        no
1.                        0               o   6      68                  616        o         9609
32.                             6         6s         66        to        616       is         isO
2.                              a         6es        668      ou          M         90        too
u4.                             o          s 6oS               of        66         es        906
as.                                      a6          66 09               616        of        963
W.                   6          6         46         6         W          616      os         96o
7.                                        o f 65     668       is        016        os        99
as.                                       65         Us        of         616       of       9No
irout i                         6         1,,U       18.U6    1.,         16,=    &.M        1i,$"
F'.nal Steak         a          0         6,166      -         *,6        -          ,48s     -
a) Volu1  *o  stunding timber of 1amro_ell oile; oereie.  efi i_es  bot    standng timber and volme of
loge assumed Mt M..
b) Averw e  value Mt loge stimted et CAP*  39,46/si  (toble 6).



AYNNEX 7-2
-93                                             Table 3
Page 3 of 7
OOTE D'IVO!RE
FMB SOJECT
Production Of a NtraTlFOrestim  l.    he) under
Different anaoent Scenar_ -
Third Rotation
Without Pratection  With Prot. Alone       ith Prot. a Mat.   With Prot.. Mgt. A Thinning
olus    Value      Yolume    Value       o    V       .     Volumo    Value
'            TV I)  T'   b)   AV) T                  b  ) T       ' b)
CFA)                 CfA)      C*A )       F)
Initial Stock        9         *          I,1S      -         $,646      -         6,4U       -
40.                 60                    so8       873        11       611       1I         1,122
41.                  9                    G O6      678       *s         *9        I1         1,122
42.                  I                    66        678        Is        6         19         1,122
43.                  9                    G O       673        so        61$       11        1,122
44.                  I                    GO        673        Be        61         llJ       1,122
46.                  0         0          6673                 Is n                1          1,122
48.                  9         0          66        678        so        6         1l9        1,122
47.                                                 673        a         3#6        1no       1,122
48.                                                 673 0 U16                      11        1,122
49.                  I         I          B         678        a                    l9 11e   1,122
W.                   I         I6                    M         Be        l9 11               1,2
51.                  *                    G6        673        so                   le1 119   1,122
52.                  I                    as        673        IS                  u 1s9      1,122
93.                  a                    66        673        a                   l3 11      1,122
64.                  0         O          66        678        so         M        l2        1,122
5C.                                       so        678        aS         M        1o         1,122
6.                   9                    6 U       673        so        6M        e11        1,122
V.                   I    0               as        675       Is          M        119        1,122
So.                  0                    G O6      673       IS         M1        1i         1,122
50.                  0         a          66        678        Us        191        11        1,122
Total                O         O          1,32J     13,464    1,7        17,962    2,201      22,440
Final Stock          O         U          6,102     52,058   Gem         61,261    6,746      66,UO
a) Volum  of standlag timber of ceomercial species; cnversion  oefieient betetes stnding timbor and volume
lop assumed at .e.
b) Average value of lgp .wtbi ed at CPA? 21,4/e  (table 6).



- 94 -                                   ANNEX 7-2
Table 4
Page 4 of 7
FORESTRY SECTOR PIOJIC
Economic Value -of Cof fe. Cocoa and RICe
99P |         Coffee          R1C-
Crr Price (Now York) 1)             Ut ton   1700           2,200 2)       294
Frelght & Insurance                UV  ton    200            200            so
Fob Price (Abldjan)                 US ton    1.500          2,000          214
Exchange Rate                                 330            350            3350
Fob Priceo  Abidjan)                CrAF/ton  525,000        700.000        74,900
Port/Handling charges               CFAW/ton  3.910          3,940          5,000
Value at Port                       Cr AWlton  521,090       696.060        -
Transport/transit                   CrAI/ton  3,050          3,150          10,200
Storage/bagging                     CYAF/ton  25,000         36,200         _
Valuo at Narketing Center           ClAP /ton  493,040       654.710        65,100
Collection Chargeo/Procesuing       CFAI/ton  15,600         17,000         10,500
Tam Cate Value                      CVAF/ton  477,440        637.710        74,600
Ou Farz  Cost                       CFAI/ton  60.000 3)      144.000 4)     60,000 5)
__  ._         _ _ _ ___.
net value of Output                 ClAW/ton  417,440        493,710        14.600
1) World Bank Projections (Draft July 1S98); 1995 prices to 1908 U$.
2) p      (a 302 discount on Arabica prices oc  aesmi).
3) to rd/ha at ClAP 600/mi and SC, - 0.6 plus ClAP 7,500 La chemicals (SC? * o.6)4 &vera$
productions 500 kg/ha.
4) 10l/i/bh  at CeAP 6OO/ad end SC? a 0.6 plus CIrA  10,000/ha La chemicals (Sc? * O.6);
average production 350 kg of grees beansIhas coefficiet at processings 502.
5) 100 ad/ha at CIA? 1000/md and SC  a 0.6 plus 15,000/h  In chemicals (SC? a o.8); 1.70o
kg of paddy/has        coefficients 0.603.



COTE DIVOIRh
FORESTR ETOR PWOJECT
lrJllnre Aimple3 ural Proauction W1ith nd Wl3thout Prelact
B.    c Boa to  Ariu6Oter   I( loa ooasumod that the IW,I  ha o  forest would bo cleared for egrHcul.urs over a
a0            (I.  affy -a,;r   IIO a  a  oou(ld be  e3aroed and  planed occordlcig  0o prwt3all l   famrlne 82GteQe to
golO Go; cos  a C 1OaDS EB L 2ofee   19S1,    Ba Riess 1X,58  beada tod low/Boed r&"rve ,IS8  ha.
El.  -Ishohl8ohact Coetc  ASrOccIt@oro e 3teb>llDdtooet coats tbD bee3 sosld Sa folloW0:
LOoad CoeRng  al I cepoeD a 1 msde. of lober p.er hctere (CVAF O n 8 0.0) * CFAF 7240m
Eotolabloment                  Cs)Oa msadaye ob lebsr/   (C3AF CM m 0.6) D CFAF O90C
EEeabQoom   b o c .ffo      a 46 am-ade o0? lebroha (C£FAFMI n 0.6) 3 CFAF aos0 
EFstblI t shat b Ice       a o.m.*
SJ. ftoUml  rott    The v.lu.  of aoaeua  predotlol heas boe  aensmd as follows (kg/h2e)
Wor       a    a          2          5         4 e5                 0-60
Cocoa     0    0          O         0          260       5O0       am
coffee    S    S          6         6          6         175       8am
PadY      I    1,7"       1,760     1STM       1.700      1,700     1,700
*                                                                          I.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~n
4. -CSf lal from 16.i HA  (CFAF millill
Toer      a          1         2          a         4          a         O         7         3-66
E.tabll.hm? Ca...         120.0     48.2       48.1      4.2        2.0       0               0              a 
Establ= 1 Coca*           14.4
Establiskment Cof fee     ".
ot,b.tal             171.0     48.2       48.1      48.1       10.0      0 a                  I         0
Inflow
C-co                      0         S *                  0          167.7     815.0     815.       316.0     816.0
Coffee                    *         *          0                              a0 12 .0  267.0      257.0     267.6
Rice                      0         21.0       21.9      21.9       21.9      21.9      21.9       21.9      21.9
Subtotal                       1 21.0     21.9      21.9      179.4      405.6     698.9     598.9      593.9
Total Cashflow            (172.3)   (21.8)    (21.3)    (21.S)    165.0       465.5    598.9       695.9      9J.9 
o4



COTE D'IVOIRE
FoRESTRY sEcr7m R CT
Incr.m _ *   Coot of D Il-ltat.l.. Pretectla sad Ma.b-e ent.t of a Natural Foreot (I.0  hbe)
(CFAF mllilo.)
0         1          2         a          4         5          0-S        a         10-12    1i   14-10
-.---------___                                                            -__________--____-______________________.___________________________________
1. 0ol8lmtilge Nad Pretectloe             in0       27         27         27        27         27        27         27        27         27   27
1. Del. Pert. md    1a1a11 S!*                       75        44         44        g          75        44         75        44         75   44
D. 0e8. ProS. 1gb.  la 5llv.lt.re         am         75        44         44        44         310       44         19l       44         198  44
17       1U-29       21        n-24       35        10-so      to        a-92       as      54-80  a7
____________ -                                              _ -_-_      __  __  __----___      _____   _____    _____    _____   _____
A. DSoJimitatl.. and ProboottI.           17         37        17        27         27         27        27         27        27       27     27
2. Del. Prot. sNd Maoeemmst,              7s         44        75         44        75         44        75         44        75       44     76
S. De1. Pro%. m0e. sad Sllvlculture       108       44         A"         44        I"         44       1le         44       1l&       44    i1a
_-- -_ - -- -- - --                                                            - - - - _- _- - - - - - - - --- -- - -- -- -- -- - --- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -                       
80-41     41         42-44     45         4e-40     40         51-52     se         54-56   57      66-0
1. 00886at.l6.  sad Prta ctl.e            17        YT         27        17         27         t7        17         27        27      27      27
1. I.Pre%. sadla s        bb             44        75         44        75         44         75        44         75        44      76      44
0. DO.. Prot. NoS. sad Siiv libr          44        In         44        10         44         I"        44         1M8       44      10l   44
11. Sim tGbi 1.7
0. Se. table 1.9
m   xn
0 '
4                                                                                H.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
A                                                                                I-,  I~~~~~~~~~~~3~



MALI  r                                                             4' t
BURKINA   FASO
)                                       aADENOU  .                 \            fA\                           I 
Gt~(f    ODIENE        r                    '                   SS°OIGO          -- \-,----
GUINEA  ;                                                A                                       -
11 R ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CME NATIONAL PARK2
,, s R^tuDHE QX ' ' ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- -
-r                                                                  AI~~~~~A'      N N AR   F   Goxo
HA-.,  ,.AN
0~~~~
COE    'I OIR
DEE/CAVALLY  ....                                                P
NATIONATIONL OF FORESTSANDMAJORFORES  IASIE                        A
PARK                         7
COTE D' IVOI RE
FORESTRY SECTOR PROJECT
LOCATION OF FORESTS AND MAJOR FOREST INDUSTRIES
Industrial plantations under first and second forestry projects  FOREST INDUSTRIES:
Industrial plantations under AFDB project                   1     Number of sawmills
Industrial plantations under CCCE project                  Q      Number of processing plants
El   Forest managed under CCCE project
"\ Forests to be demarcated and protected                            Selected roads
-   Forests overflown                                             '    Selected towns
Forests to be managed by private sector                   - - - Rivers
Parks                                                     ---  Intemotional bourndories
Dense forest area
Southern limit of the Savanna
z                                    l.a., 777, inns.-. am. .v.-,r =a,.-n e,..1    _ an m .   %b.n
7fl37,07777777  ,7 l , 7 W7,Mr7,747,
0C
*0                                                                                             '0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5



