Page  1
Abidjan,  January 18,  1993
Letter no.  AG/416
His Excellency
Daniel Kablan Duncan
Minister of Economy,  Finance
and Plan
Abidian
Re:
Forestry Sector Project  (Loan No.  3186-IVC)
Amendment to the Loan Agreement
Excellency,
Please refer to the Loan Agreement (the Agreement) dated April 24, 1990, between 
the Republic of Cote d Ivoire (the Borrower) and International Bank for Reconstruction 
and
Development (the Bank).
Pursuant to your request dated July 20, 1992, we are pleased to inform you that 
the Bank hereby agrees to amend the Agreement as follows:
In the Preamble to the Agreement, Whereas (C) is deleted and Whereas (D) becomes 
Whereas (C).
Article I:  Definitions
In Section 1.02 of the Agreement, paragraph (c) is deleted and paragraphs (d) 
through (1) become paragraphs (c) through (k). Following the change in the name of the 
Ministry of Agriculture,
the new paragraph (f) now reads: 
"(f) "MINAGRA" means Ministere de I Agriculture et des Ressources 
Animales, the 
Ministry of the Borrower responsible for agriculture and 
livestock products".  Wherever it 
appears in this Agreement, the term "MINAGREF" 
is replaced by the term "MINAGRA".
Following the creation of the forestry research institute IDEFOR-DFO a new 
paragraph (1) is created, reading:
(1)
"IDEFOR-DFO" means Departement Forestier de l'Institut des Forfits, the 
Borrower's department responsible for forestry research".
Section 4.01 (b) (i) shall read: "have the records and accounts referred to in 
paragraph (a) (i) of this section and those for the special Accounts opened in its 
name for MINAGRA and
in the name of SODEFOR respectively, for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank."
Schedule 1
Schedule 1 to the Agreement is hereby amended as follows:
                         Amount of the       % of
                         Credit Allocated    Expenditures
                         (Expressed in       to be
 Category                SDR Equivalent)     financed
MINAGRA
Page  2
(1)Operating costs of
   Comoe Part Program and
   for coordination,
   Control and Evaluation       1,300,000      80
(2)Technical Assistance         1,800,000      80
(3)Civil Works:
   (a) National Parks           1,300,000      70
   (b) Forestry Schools         1,200,000      50
(4)Vehicles and Equipment
   (a) National Parks             500,000      50
   (b) Forestry Schools         1,300,000      50
   (c) Coordination, Control
       and Evaluation             100,000      50
SODEFOR
(5)Operating Costs
   (a) Forest Management       13,000,000      70
       and Surveillance
   (b) Industrial
       Plantations             16,000,000      50
   (c) Headquarters             5,000,000      70
A new paragraph 3 is added to Schedule 1 reading:
"3.  For the purpose of this Schedule, the term "Agricultural 
Stabilization and 
Resettlement Programs" shall mean expenditures incurred 
during the implementation of 
agricultural stabilization and rural 
development activities, including the possible 
relocation of agricultural 
holdings outside of production and protection zones of gazetted 
forests, undertaken 
within the context of management plans of priority gazetted forests 
approved by the Bank, including, inter alia, agricultural inputs, wells, rural tracks 
schools and dispensaries and other priority rural infrastructure."
Schedule 2: Description of the Project
Part A.5 shall read: "Preparation and implementation of management programs for 
priority gazetted forests, including activities undertaken in the context of the 
relocation of agricultural implantations located in protection or production zones of 
such forests."
Part C shall read: "Implementation of an emergency program for the protection of 
the Comoe National Park." 
Part F.1 shall read: "Strengthening of MINAGRA's capacity in forest planning, 
forestry data-processing and project's coordination, control and evaluation."
Part F.4 is deleted.
Schedule 4:
Section III (i) shall read: "for MINAGRA: a forestry planner/economist, a 
specialist in logging and processing, a specialist in forest management and an expert 
for the control and
evaluation of the Project."
Section III (ii) shall read: "for SODEFOR: two forestry management and inventory 
specialists, a biometrician/data-processing specialist, a marketing specialist, a 
specialist in
internal audit, an ecology/ecosystems specialist, and sixty man-months of short-term 
Page  3
consultancies according to project implementation needs."
Section III (iii) is deleted.
Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing by signing and dating the 
confirmation form on the attached copy of this letter and returning it to us.
Sincerely Yours
By /s/ Olivier Lafourcade
Director
Occidental and Central
Africa Department
REPUBLIC OF COTE D IVOIRE
CONFIRMED AND AGREED
By /s/ Kablan D. Duncan
Authorized Representative
DATE:
17 March 1993
