Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 3186 IVC
Loan Agreement
(Forestry Sector Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated April 24, 1990
LOAN NUMBER 3186 IVC
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated April 24, 1990, between REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;
(B)
part of the Project will be carried out by SODEFOR (as hereinafter 
defined) with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower 
will make available to SODEFOR part of the proceeds of the Loan as provided in this 
Agreement;
(C)
part of the Project will be carried out by DCGTx (as hereinafter defined) 
with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make 
available to DCGTx part of the proceeds of the Loan as provided in this Agreement;
(D)
the Borrower intends to contract from Commonwealth Development 
Corporation (CDC) a loan (the CDC Loan) in an amount of six million pounds sterling (L 
6,000,000) to assist in financing part of the Project on the terms and conditions set 
forth in an agreement (the CDC Loan Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower 
and CDC; and 
Page  2
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of Section 3.02 
deleted (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have. the following 
meanings:
(a)
"CAA" means the Caisse Autonome d'Amortissement of the Borrower;
 
(b)
"CFAF" means the currency of the Borrower;
 
(c)
"DCGTx" means the Direction et Controle des Grands Travaux of the 
Borrower;
(d)
"First and Second Loan Agreements" means the loan agreements dated August 
2, 1979 (Loan No. 1735 IVC) and March 18, 1985 (Loan No. 2496 IVC) between the 
Borrower and the Bank;
(e)
"First and Second Projects" means the projects described in Schedules 2 
to the First and Second Loan Agreements;
(f)
"CTFT-CI" means the Centre Technicue Forestier Tropical de Cote d'Ivoire;
 
(g)
"MINAGREF" means the Ministry of the Borrower in charge of Agriculture, 
Waters and Forests; 
(h)
"Project Accounts" means the accounts referred to in Section 3.01 (b) of 
this Agreement;
(i)
"Project Preparation Advance" means the project preparation advance 
granted by the Bank to the Borrower pursuant to an exchange of letters dated December 
30, 1987 and May 6, 1988;
(j)
"SODEFOR" means Societe pour le Developpement des Plantations Forestieres 
of the Borrower;
(k)
"Special Accounts" means the accounts referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; and
(l)
"Forestry, Code" means Law No. 65-425 of December 20, 1965 and its 
implementing decrees.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, various currencies that 
shall have an aggregate value equivalent to the amount of eighty million Dollars 
($80,000,000), as the sum of withdrawals of the
proceeds of the Loan with each withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such 
withdrawal.
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
Page  3
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
works, goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b)
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
CFAF three special accounts in CAA, one in its name for MINAGREF, one in the name of 
DCGTx, and one in the name of SODEFOR, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Bank. Deposits into, and payments out  of, the Special Accounts shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
(c)
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amount required to 
repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such Date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn 
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be 
cancelled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1995 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding 
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in 
Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the 
principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the 
rate applicable during such Interest Period.
(b)
As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the Bank shall 
notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such 
Semester.
(c)
For the purposes of this Section: 
 
(i)
"Interest Period" means a six-month period ending on the date 
immediately 
preceding each date specified in Section 2.06 of this 
Agreement, beginning 
with the Interest Period in which this 
Agreement is signed.
(ii)
"Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as reasonably 
determined by the 
Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum, of the 
outstanding borrowings of 
the Bank drawn down after June 30, 1982, 
excluding such borrowings or portions 
thereof as the Bank has allocated 
to fund: (A) the Bank's investments; and (B) 
loans which may be made by 
the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing interest rates 
determined otherwise 
than as provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.
(iii)
"Semester" means the first six months or the second six months of 
a calendar 
year.
 
(d)
On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six months' notice 
to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of this Section shall be amended to 
read as follows:
"(a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the Loan 
withdrawn 
and outstanding the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of 
the preceding 
Quarter, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each 
of the dates specified in Section 
2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay 
interest accrued on the principal amount 
outstanding during the preceding 
Interest Period, calculated at the rates applicable during 
such Interest Period."
 
"(b) As soon as practicable after the end of each Quarter, the Bank shall 
Page  4
notify the 
Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of 
such Quarter."
"(c) (iii) 'Quarter' means a three-month period commencing on January 1, 
April 1, 
July 1 or October 1 in a calendar year."
 
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually on 
February 1 and August 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and, to this and, shall carry out 
Part F. 3 of the Project through its Ministry in charge of Finance and carry out Parts 
A.2(b), E.2 and F.1 of the Project through MINAGREF, Parts A.l(a), A.2(a), A.5, C, 
D.2. E.1 and F.4 through DCGTx, and Parts A.l(b), A.3, A.4, B, D.1 and F.2 of the 
Project through SODEFOR, all with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity, with 
appropriate administrative, financial, forestry, environmental and research practices, 
and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other 
resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation or restriction upon its obligations under paragraph 
(a) of this Section, the Borrower shall exclusively for the purposes of the Project:
(i)
establish and maintain at CAA three revolving Project Accounts in 
its name for 
MINAGREF and in the names of DCGTx and SODEFOR, 
respectively;
(ii)
make an initial deposit of CFAF 50,000,000 in its account for 
MINAGREF, of 
CFAF 120,000,000 in the DCGTx account and of CFAF 
620,000,000 in the SODEFOR 
account; and
 
(iii)
thereafter replenish said accounts as and when required to ensure 
that, on the 
first day of each calendar quarter during each year the 
Project is executed, 
an amount equal to at least the initial 
deposit shall be available to 
MINAGREF, DCGTx and SODEFOR in 
their respective accounts to finance their 
estimated 
expenditures for the Project during the following calendar quarter.
(c)
The Borrower has given MINAGREF the responsibility for the coordination 
of the Project, and appointed DCGTx for the control of the execution of the Project 
and its evaluation.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
works, goods and consultants' services required shall be governed by the provisions of 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall take all necessary action to implement the 
Action Plan for Forestry Exploitation set forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 3.04. Throughout the execution of the Project, the Borrower shall cause 
MINAGREF, DCGTx and SODEFOR to furnish annually to the Bank for comment their 
respective draft budget and work programs for the following year, not later than 
October 31.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall furnish to the bank for comment, by December 
31, 1991, the recommendations of the study on the marketing of SODEFOR's plantation 
products, to be carried out under Part D.2 of the Project.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall: (a) take all measures necessary to remove 
progressively agricultural implantations in the areas included in Part A.1 of the 
Project in accordance with principles satisfactory to the Bank; and (b) carry out a 
Page  5
review on the implementation of said measures in order to submit to the Bank, not 
later than December 31, 1992, a report of such scope and in such detail as the Bank 
shall have reasonably requested.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall, not later than June 30, 1990, carry out a 
review of the comprehensive list of holders of temporary exploitation permits and of 
its compliance with the Forestry Code; on the basis of such review, the Borrower shall 
take any necessary corrective measures and inform the Bank accordingly.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall, not later than June 30, 1990, prepare new 
regulations for log exports. 
Section 3.09. The Borrower shall cause SODEFOR to enter, not later than June 30, 
1990, into a contract, satisfactory to the Bank, with the CTFT-CI for purposes of 
carrying out the research activities referred to under Part D.1 of the Project. Said 
contract shall specify, inter alia, the 
work to be performed, the personnel to be employed, and the budget provisions to be 
made therefor.
ARTICLE IV
Financial and Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from 
the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower 
shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained in accordance with sound 
accounting 
practices, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 
receipts and 
other documents) evidencing such expenditures are 
retained until at least one 
year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for the fiscal year in which 
the last withdrawal from 
the Loan Account was made; and
(iii)
enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records.
 
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) (i) of 
this Section 
and those for the Special Accounts opened in its name for MI 
and in the names 
of SODEFOR and of DCGTx, respectively, for each 
fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as practicable, but in any case not 
later than six 
months after the end of each such year, the report of 
such audit by said 
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as 
the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested, including a separate opinion 
by said auditors as to whether the 
statements of expenditure 
submitted during such fiscal year, together with the 
procedures and 
internal controls involved in their preparation, can be relied 
upon 
to support the related withdrawals; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time 
to time reasonably 
request.
 
Section 4.02. (a) SODEFOR shall maintain records and accounts adequate to 
reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices its operations and financial 
condition.
(b)
SODEFOR shall:
 
Page  6
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, 
statements of income and expenses and related 
statements) for each fiscal year 
audited, in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles consistently 
applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as practicable but in any case not 
later than six 
months after the and of each such year: (A) certified 
copies of its financial 
statements for such year as so audited; and 
(B) the report of such audit by 
said auditors of such scope and in such 
detail as the Bank shall have 
reasonably requested; and
 
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said 
records, accounts 
and financial statements as well as the audit 
thereof, as the Bank shall from 
time to time reasonably request.
 
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall: (a) employ experts to carry out, not later 
than June 30, 1990, the management audit referred to under Part F.3 of the Project; 
(b) based on said audit, prepare, not later than March 31, 1991, an action plan on 
management improvement measures, in consultation with the Bank: and (c) implement said 
plan in accordance with the timetable thereof.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
Measures have been taken for the dissolution or disestablishment of 
SODEFOR or for the suspension of its operations.
(b)
(i)
Subject to Subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
 
(A)
the right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of the 
CDC Loan `
shall have been suspended, cancelled or 
terminated in whole or in part, 
pursuant to the terms of the CDC 
Loan Agreement, or
(B)
the CDC Loan shall have become due and payable prior to the 
agreed maturity 
thereof.
 
(ii)
Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower 
establishes 
to the satisfaction of the Bank that:
 
(A)
such suspension, cancellation, termination or prematuring is 
not caused 
by the failure of the Borrower to perform any of its 
obligations under 
such agreement; and
 
(B)
adequate funds for the Project are available to the Borrower 
from other 
sources on terms and conditions consistent with the 
obligations of the 
Borrower under this Agreement.
 
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur; and
(b)
the event specified in paragraph (b) (i) (B) of Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of paragraph (b) (ii) of that Section.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as additional condition to the 
Page  7
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions, namely, that the Project Accounts have been established in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement, and the initial 
deposits have been made therein. 
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of the Borrower responsible for Economy and Finance 
is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of 
the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Economy, Finance and Budget
P.O. Box V 125
Abidjan
Republic of Cote d'Ivoire
Cable address:
Telex:
 
MINFIN
MINFIN 23747
Abidjan
Abidjan
 
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INTBAFRAD
197688 (TRT)
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA)
 64145 (WUI)
 82987 (FTCC)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
By /s/ Charles Providence Gomis
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Page  8
By /s/ Edward V.K. Jaycox
Regional Vice President
Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories o f items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                             Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                             (Expressed in       Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
    MINAGREF
(1) Operating                  3,000,000        70%
    Costs of Forest
    Surveillance
(2) Technical                  1,500,000        80%
    Assistance
    SODEFOR
(3) Civil works:
    (a)  Forest                2,600,000        70%
         Management
    (b)  Head-                   100,000        50%
         quarters
(4) Vehicles and Equipment:
    (a)  Forest                3,300,000        70%
         Management
    (b)  Industrial            2,000,000        50%
         Plantations
(c) Headquarters                 900,000        50%
(5) Operating costs:
    (a)  Forest                9,500,000        70%
         Management
    (b)  Industrial           19,100,000        50%
         Plantations
(c) Headquarters               5,300,000        70%
(6) Technical                  4,900,000        80%
    Assistance
(7) Research                  3,500,000         70%
    DCGTx
(8) Civil works:
    (a)  Surveillance          2,900,000        70%
Page  9
    (b)  National              1,300,000        70%
         Parks
    (c)  Forestry              1,200,000        50%
         Schools
(9) Vehicles and Equipment:
    (a)  Surveillance          3,100,000        70%
    (b)  Forestry              1,300,000        50%
         Schools
(10) Operating costs           2,800,000        70%
     of Demarcation
(11) Technical                   500,000        80%
     Assistance
(12) Studies                   2,600,000        70%
(13) Control and                 180,000        50%
     Evaluation
    Other
(14) Refunding of                500,000        Amount due pur-
     Project Prepara-                           suant to Section
     tion Advance                               2.02 (c) of this
                                                Agreement
(15) Unallocated               7,920,000
         TOTAL                80,000,000
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of: (a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement; and (b) payments made for expenditures under Categories 4(b) and 5(b) of 
paragraph (1) above, until the conditions of
effectiveness of the CDC Loan have been fulfilled.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower in: (i) protecting the 
gazetted forests; (ii) improving the interface between agriculture and forestry; (iii) 
rationalizing and improving forest management and exploitation; and (iv) ensuring 
regular wood supply and improving the efficiency, of its wood processing industry.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
Forest Demarcation, Protection and Management
 
1.
Natural Forest Demarcation:
 
(a)
carrying out of demarcation studies for about 1.5 million ha of gazetted 
forests; and
(b)
demarcation of the forest limits.
 
2.
Protection and surveillance over 1.5 million ha of gazetted forests: execution 
of works and acquisition of equipment therefor.
Page  10
3.
Natural Forest Management: carrying out of forest inventories and preparation of 
management plans for about 700,000 ha of gazetted forests.
4.
Execution of forestry works in gazetted forests.
 
5.
Buffer Zone Pilot Project: preparation of land-use and agricultural development 
plans for the buffer zone of one gazetted forest for execution under a follow-up 
project.
Part B:
Industrial Plantations
 
Maintenance and protection of approximately 55,000 ha of existing industrial 
plantations, and planting of 9,000 ha to complete the blocks established under the 
First and the Second Projects.
Part C:
National Parks
 
Completion of infrastructure works in the Comoe Park.
Part D:
Research And Studies
 
1.
Research into natural forest silviculture and management, industrial plantation 
technique, and agroforestry,.
2.
Studies on the evolution of the vegetative cover, the incidence of bush fires, 
the effects of deforestation on the climate, minor forest products and the marketing 
of plantation products under the management of SODEFOR.
Part E:
Forestry Schools
 
Construction of additional infrastructure and acquisition of equipment for the 
forestry training schools at Bouafle and Banco.
Part F:
Institutional Strengthening
 
1.
Strengthening of MINAGREF's capability in forest planning, agroforestry and 
village replanting projects, forestry dataprocessing, and project management and 
supervision.
2.
(a)
Strengthening of SODEFOR's capability in technical (including forest 
inventory, management plans and dataprocessing), financial and commercial management, 
and in forest ecosystems supervision; and
(b)
Incremental operating costs of SODEFOR's headquarters.
 
3.
Carrying out of a management audit of SODEFOR. 
 
4.
Strengthening of DCGTx capability in project control and evaluation.
 
*   *   *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1994.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due
(expressed in Dollars)*
 
August 1, 1995                                
1,455,000
February 1, 1996                              
1,515,000
August 1, 1996                                
1,570,000
February 1,1997                               
1,630,000
August 1, 1997                                
1,695,000
February 1, 1998                              
1,760,000
August 1, 1998                                
1,830,000
Page  11
February 1, 1999                              
1,900,000
August 1, 1999                                
1,975,000
February 1, 2000                              
2,050,000
August 1, 2000                                
2,130,000
February 1, 2001                              
2,215,000
August 1, 2001                                
2,300,000
February 1, 2002                              
2,385,000
August 1, 2002                                
2,480,000
February 1, 2003                              
2,575,000
August 1, 2003                                
2,675,000
February 1, 2004                              
2,780,000
August 1, 2004                                
2,885,000
February 1, 2005                              
3,000,000
August 1, 2005                                
3,115,000
February 1, 2006                              
3,235,000
August 1, 2006                                
3,360,000
February 1, 2007                              
3,490,000
August 1, 2007                                
3,625,000
February 1, 2008                              
3,770,000
August 1, 2008                                
3,915,000
February 1, 2009                              
4,065,000
August 1, 2009                                
4,225,000
February 1, 2010                              
4,395,000
 
_________________________
*
The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents determined as of the 
respective 
dates of withdrawal. See General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 
4.03.
Premiums Prepayment
Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the premium payable on 
the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan to be prepaid shall be the percentage 
specified for the applicable time of prepayment below:
Time of Prepayment
Premium
 
The interest rate (expressed as a
percentage per annum) applicable to the
Loan on the day of prepayment multiplied
by:
Not more than three years                     
0.15
before maturity
More than three years but                     
0.30
not more than six years
before maturity
More than six years but                       
0.55
not more than 11 years
before maturity
More than 11 years but not                    
0.80
more than 16 years
before maturity
More than 16 years but not                    
0.90
more than 18 years
before maturity
More than 18 years before                     
1.00
maturity
SCHEDULE 4
Page  12
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
 
Part A:
International Competitive Bidding
 
1.
Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the procedures consistent with those set forth in Sections 
I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" 
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods and materials shall be grouped in 
bid packages to permit bulk procurement.
Part B:
Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
 
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described in Part 
A hereof, goods manufactured in Cote d'Ivoire may be granted a margin of preference in 
accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraph 2.55 and 2.56 of the 
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
1.
Civil works, field and office equipment, and fuel and spare parts for vehicles 
may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of local competitive bidding, in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.3 of the Guidelines, with local 
advertising for contracts for goods and, in addition, notification of diplomatic 
missions in Cote d'Ivoire in the case of contracts for works, all in accordance with 
procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
2.
Contracts for vehicles, estimated to cost less than the equivalent of CFAF 
20,000,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount of the equivalent of CFAF 
300,000,000, may be procured after obtaining price quotations from at least three 
suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to 
the Bank. 
3.
Specialized equipment, estimated to cost less than the equivalent of CFAF 
20,000,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount of the equivalent of CFAF 
300,000,000, may be procured after obtaining price quotations from at least three 
suppliers from two different countries eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance 
with procedures acceptable to the Bank.
4.
Supplies estimated to cost less than the equivalent of CFAF 10,000,000 per 
contract, up to an aggregate amount of the equivalent of CFAF 150,000,000, may be 
procured in accordance with the Borrower's normal procedures for such goods.
5.
Demarcation works for gazatted forests and industrial forestry works and 
maintenance may be carried out by SODEFOR under force account. 
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts: 
 
(a)
With respect to each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of CFAF 
60,000,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to 
the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the 
Special Accounts, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed 
copies of the contract required to be furnished to the Bank prior to the of the first 
payment out of the Special Accounts in respect of such contract.
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Accounts, 
said procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the 
contract together with the other information required to be furnished to the Bank as 
part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 6 to this 
Agreement.
Page  13
(c)
The provisions of the preceding subparagraphs (a) and (b) shall not apply 
to contracts on account of which the Bank has authorized withdrawals from the Loan 
Account on the basis of statements of expenditure. Such contracts shall be retained in 
accordance with Section 4.01 (c) (ii) of this Agreement.
2.
The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
 
In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project, the Borrower shall 
employ, or cause to be employed, the following consultants or experts whose 
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be 
satisfactory, to the Bank:
(i)
for MINAGREF: a forestry planner economist, and a specialist in 
project auditing;
 
(ii)
for SODEFOR: two forestry management and inventory specialists, a 
biometrician/data-processing specialist, a systems 
specialist, a resources 
specialist, a marketing specialist, and 
an ecology/ecosystems specialist; and
(iii)
for DCGTx: an expert for the control and evaluation of the 
Project.
Such consultants or experts shall be selected in accordance with principles and 
procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" 
published by the Bank in August 1981.
SCHEDULE 5
Action Plan for Forestry Exploitation
As of the date of this Agreement, the Borrower shall no longer grant temporary 
exploitation permits to non-professional loggers and shall progressively replace 
existing permits by long-term concessions, as follows:
(a)
for the five gazetted forests already identified (Haut-Sassandra, Scio, 
Debe, Cavally and Niegre) that the Borrower contemplates to entrust to industrial 
forestry companies for permits shall be cancelled or repealed, at the latest during 
the year preceding the beginning of the inventory, and replacement by short-term 
contracts with said companies.
The Borrower shall endeavor to enter into such contracts before June 30, 1990.
Such contracts shall include, inter alia, provisions for said companies to: (i) 
be granted exclusive felling licenses for a period of up to three years; (ii) be able 
to participate in the execution of inventories with qualified and experienced staff; 
(iii) exploit the forests in accordance with their respective annual work programs as 
agreed by MINAGREF; and (iv) pay to the Borrower an annual fee whose amount shall 
reflect, in particular, the advantages derived from the exclusive exploitation rights.
Upon completion of the management plan, the short-term contracts may be replaced 
by a long-term contract requiring, inter alia, the contracting party to conform to its 
management plan. In the absence of agreement with said companies, the procedures set 
forth under the following paragraph (c) shall apply;
(b)
for other gazetted forests for which management plans will be prepared in 
the framework of Part A.3 of the Project, temporary exploitation permits shall not be 
renewed on expiry and shall be replaced by annual cutting permits; any temporary 
exploitation permits not expiring before the end of the year preceding the 
commencement of the inventory shall be cancelled or repealed before the end of such 
year. As soon as the management plan is prepared, a long-term concession for the 
forest or cutting permits shall be opened to bidding through public auctions; and
Page  14
(c)
for other forests, the current system of allocation will be in effect 
until the year preceding the beginning of inventories for the relevant forests.
SCHEDULE 6
Special Accounts
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (13) set 
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for Parts A through F of the Project 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the 
eligible Categories in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means: (i) an amount equivalent to 
$500,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account 
opened in the name of the Borrower for MINAGREF; (ii) an amount equivalent to $500,000 
to be withdrawn from the Loan Account  and deposited into the Special Account opened 
in the name of DCGTx; and (iii) an amount equivalent to $5,000,000 to be withdrawn 
from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account opened in the name of 
SODEFOR, pursuant to paragraph 3 (a:) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of any Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that a Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish it shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation. the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the 
aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into said Special Account such 
amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of a Special Account, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank 
requests for deposits into the relevant Special Account at 
such intervals as 
the Bank shall specify.
 
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this 
Schedule for the payment or payments in 
respect of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of 
each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdrawal 
from the Loan Account and deposit into the relevant 
Special 
Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and as shall
have been shown by said documents and other evidence to have been 
made out of 
such Special Account for eligible expenditures.
 
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under the 
respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of a Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into any Special Account: 
Page  15
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(b)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories for Parts A through F of the Project, less the amount of any outstanding 
special commitment entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions with respect to Parts A through F of the Project, shall equal the 
equivalent of twice the amount of the relevant Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, 
withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Loan 
allocated to the eligible Categories for Parts A through F of the Project shall follow 
such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further 
withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been 
satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in a Special Account as of the 
date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of a 
Special Account:
(i)
was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 
2 of this Schedule; or  
(ii)
was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the 
Borrower shall, 
promptly upon notice from the Bank:
 
(A)
provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or 
 
(B)
deposit into the relevant Special Account (or, if the Bank 
shall so 
request, refund to the Bank an amount equal to 
the amount of such 
payment or the portion thereof not so 
eligible or justified. Unless the 
Bank shall otherwise 
agree, no further deposit by the Bank into a 
Special 
Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such 
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be. 
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in a Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the relevant Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraph 6 (a), (b) and (c) of this 
Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.
