Document of
The World Banik
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 9495
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
POLLUTION CONTROL PROJECT
(LOAN 2154-ME)
APRIL 12, 1991
Infrastructure and Energy Operations Division
Country Department II
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



POLLUTION CONTROL PROJECT
(Loan 2154-ME)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
CUR.RENCY EQUIVALENT
Currency Unit - Mexican Pesos
(Values as of June 30th)
1982  US$1   PM       47.75
1983                 119.96
1984                 176.41
1985                 227.49
1986                 571.40
1987               1,348.50
Average Exchance Rate for the Project
1982 - 1987   US$1 - PM    413.75
Exchange Rate for the Project
1982 - 1987   US$1 - PM    721.1
ABBREVIATIONS
FONEI                   Fondo de Equipamento Industrial
GMCA                    Greater Mexico City Metropolitan Area
NAFIN                   Nacional Financiera, S.N.C.
PEMEX                   Petroleos Mexicanos
PED                     Project Execution Document
SARE                    Secretaria de Agricultura y Recursos Hidraulicos
SSA                     Secretaria de Salubridud y Asistencia
SEDUE                   Secretaria de Desarrollo Urbano y Ecologia



THE WOILO BANK                FrOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Washingion. DC. 20433
U.S A.
Oke i Ovgcgv.CgqwwaI
0*Wat  lVatwi"o
April 12. 1991
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:     Project Completion Report on Mexico
Pollution Control Project (Loan 2154-ME)
Attached, for information. is a copy of a report entitled "Project
Completion Report on Mexico - Pollution Control Project (Loan 2143-ME)" prepared
by the Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office with Part II of the report
contributed by the Borrower. No audit of this project has been made by the
Operations Evaluation Department at this time.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by rmcipients only in the perfomnance
of their oficial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authoriation.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MEXICO
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
POLLUTION CONTROL PROJECT
(LOAN 2154-ME
Table of Contents
Page No.
PREFACE ..............................................................         i
EVALUATION SUMKARY ...................................................        ii
PART I:  PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE           .      .         1
1.1 Project Identity                          ..                              1
1.2  Project Background .............................................         1
1.3 Project Objectives and Description                 ..                     3
1.4 Project Preparation and Design                   ..                       5
1.5 Project Implementation                       ..                           6
1.6  Results and Lessons Learned for Future Environmental
Projects .......................................................       10
PART II:  PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROW4ERS' PERSPECTIVE .............       iS
2.1 Introduction                          .....   13
2.2  Project Execution ............................................ . .      15
2.3  Performance of the Borrower .     .    ..................................  16
2.4 Performance of the Bank                     .....   17
2.5 Lessons Learned                         .....   17
2.6  Economic-Financial Analysis .......................... ..........       19
PART III: STATISTICAL DATA ...........................................        21
Annex 1, Table 1 - Distribution of Loans by Size of Loan .............        24
Annex 1, Table 2 - Industrial Sector, Distribution of Projects .......        25
Annex 1, Table 3 - Location of Pollution Control Projects ............        26
Annex 1, Table 4 - Financial Impact of Projects on Participants ......        27
Annex 1, Table 5 - Cost of Total Project as a Percentage of
Operating Profits .........     ...... ..........         28
Annex 2, Table 1 - Estimated and Actual Project Financing Plan .......    29
Annex 3, Table 1-6 - Summary of Project Outcome ......................    30
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
POLLUTION CONTROL PROJECT
(Loan 2154-ME)
PREFACE
This report presents a review of the Pollution Control Project
(Loan 2154-ME), the Bank's first loan fully dedicated to supporting
environmental improvement in Mexico. The US$60 million loan was approved in
July 1982, became effective in February 1983, was substantially amended in
February 1984 and was closed in December 1988. Total disbursements were
US$8.7 million, and US$51.3 million was cancelled.
The Project Completion Report (PCR) was prepared by the Latin
American and Caribbean Country Department II, with the assistance of the
Environment Department and in coordination with NAFIN, who prepared Part II of
this document. The PCR is based upon a review of the Staff Appraisal and
President's Reports, loan documents, supervision reports, project files and on
recent Bank reports on environmental sector policy and strategy in Mexico. A
PCR mission visited Mexico in November 1989 and conducted field investigations
of a sample of industries that had subprojects financed under each subloan.
It also conducted a detailed review of the project files for each one of the
subprojects financed, including records of the administrative actions taken by
environmental authorities, of the pollution control problems that were
addressed under the loan, and of the motivations for the investments made, the
environmental standards applied for each investment program and the financial
costs involved.



- li -
MEXICO
POLLUTION CONTROIL PROJECT
(Loan 2154-ME)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Evaluation Summary
Introduction
1.        The Bank's first experience with pollution control financing in
Mexico was under the Fourth Industrial Equipment Fund (FONEI) Project (Loan
1712-ME) approved in June 1979. This loan included an experimental pollution
control component of US$10 million of which about US$7 million was disbursed
mainly for water treatment equipment.
2.        The Government and the Bank initiated the preparation of a
comprehensive pollution control project in 1980 and by July 1982 the Bank
approved a US$60 million loan aimed at helping Mexico finance its efforts to
deal with mounting pollution problems. The Project was expected to mobilize
US$131 million in local resources to help finance 80 to 100 industrial
pollution control subprojects, 300 to 400 private emission t'-lng facilities
and the purchase of air pollution monitoring equipment.
Proiect Obiectives
3.        The principal obiective3 of the proiect were to support:
(1) The development anid introduction of more effective pollution
control strategies;
(2) More effective enforcement procedures;
(3) The formulation and implementation of long term strategies to
address priority environmental problems on a national scale;
(4) Industrial investments aimed at reducing atmospheric and water
pollution and dealing with solid wa3te pollution; and
(5) Financial system funding of pollution control investments.
To achieve these objectives the loan would help finance: (i) investment in
industrial pollution control equipment and civil works in the greater Mexico
City Metropolitan Area (GMCA) and improved solid waste management; (ii)
equipment to measure and control automotive exhaust emissions; and (iii) the
establishment of a network of automatic air quality monitoring stations in the
GMCA.



- iii -
Implemantation Experience
4.        A Maior Change in Institutional Arrangements. During appraisal,
responsibility for the technical and enforcement aspects of pollution control
was vested with the line ministries (paras 1.26 to 1.28). A detailed Project
Execution Document (PED) entitled, Program For Polluticn Control in Mexico was
furnished by the Government on July 3, 1982 and the loan was signed on July
16, 1982. Shortly after loan signature, to demonstrate progress in the face
of mounting criticism about environmental deterioration, the new Government
created a new ministry, the Secretariate of Urban Development and Ecology
(SEDUE), that absorbed the coordinating and policy functions of the
Secretariate of Health and Welfare (SAM), and the personnel and environmental
tesponsibilities from the line secretariates. Thus, the institutional
framework that was carefully prepared for the project had ceased to exist in
early 1983 before the Loan became effective.
5.        The New Policy for Environmental Control and Enforcement.  The
original strategy for environmental control called for the adoption of
acceptable standards and their vigorous enforcement. This policy was
abandoned when SEDUE was created and a new model for the management of
environmental issues was put in place. The new policy called for the
resolution cf industrial environmental problems by the negotiation of 'social
contracts" between industrial associations and SEDUE which would define the
environmental standards for the industry and set the time frame for their
adoption (para 1.5.5). The negotiation process did not affectively begin
until 1985 and in the absence of environmental standards and firm pressures
for legal compliance, the project came to a standstill. The standards that
emerged from the negotiations process (mainly during 1987-1990) were never
discussed with or reviewed by the Bank, and the limited number of standards to
which the PCR mission had access appeared to fall short of Bank recommended
standards.
6.        The Pollution Control Project was prepared and appraised during a
period of mounting economic difficulties. Mexico's industrial sector and Bank
assisted projects in various sub-sectors had been affected, by a change of
Government and government priorities, rising inflation, successive
devaluations and the financial crisis that erupted in 1982. The peso cost in
real terms of imported machinery and equipment underwent major increases of
some 450 percent under successsive devaluations in an 18 month period starting
in January 1982, and enterprises cash flow deteriorated because of higher
inventory and debt service costs. Investment in industry contracted in 1982
as GDP declined sharply (i.e. 5Z in real terms) from its high in 1981. The
Government's economic stabilization program of December 1982 sharply trimmed
budgets and parastatal investment capability.
7.        In the absence of the political priorities t, pursue pollution
control aggressively (in line with the PED) SEDUE was reorganized in 1983 and
again in 1985, and its management, professional and inspection staffs were
reduced and its capacity to plan, establish technical standards and enforce
regulations, was annually eroded. By the close of the Project in 1988, SEDUE
had been reduced to about half the manpower that it had ir 1983 with only 10
GMCA inspectors to cover all inspection and enforcement acivity and only
about 80 inspectors to cover the balance of the country. In the end, despite
agreements reached with the Bank the standards, regulations and enforcement



- iv -
capacity required for the success of the Project were never established (para
1.5.5 - 1.5.7).
8.        Bank Response to ChanRinR Prolect Conditions and Policy Direction.
A Bank mis8ion reviewed the new institutional structure in early 1983 and
optimistically reported that the institutional changes wero fortuitous. It
predicted an initial delay of several months for SEDUE to sort things out and
prepare the required environmental standards and regulations that would become
the basis for a firm 'command and controln form of regulations, which are
recognized as the precondition for successful pollution control efforts and
ultimate disbursement of Loan funds (para 1.6.5). The Bank made special
efforts to get the project back on track by establishing a special project
account, expanding the basis for loan disbursements and retaining an expert on
air pollution control to undertake two major project supervision efforts
designed to help SEDUE.
9.        These efforts did not succeed. By 1985, it had become clear that
the Loan was in substantial difficulty primarily due to the inability of SEDUE
to take the measures required. v The project was rated as a problem
project and the Bank agreed, in July 1985, to cancel US$35 million of the
Loan. In effect, policy toward the reduction of air and water pollution had
been altered and priorities on environmental enforcement had changed,
resulting from a political decision to switch from a 'command and control'
basis of enforcement of objectively determined standards to an environmental
program based upon negotiated agreements with industry (para 1.5.5). In fact,
the administrative, technical, and professional basis for environmental
planning and enforcement was not created in SEDUE during the implementation
period of the Loan. These major issues were gen-.rally not fully reflected in
Bank supervision reports or fully addressed with the Borrower by management.
Achievement of Objectives
10.       Investment.   Total investment in pollution control, originally
estimated at US$190.9 million, was only US$18.2 million equivalent. This
amount helped to finance 20 subprojects, which was less than 10 percent of the
number of investment cubprojects originally expected.
11.       Environmental Impact.  The project did not have any measurable
impact on Government policy, strategy or institutional development nor in the
final analysis did it impact the environment of the GMCA, whose air and water
pollution continued to worsen significantly over the life of the project. The
project also had no impact on seriously deteriarating conditions of the Middle
Lerma River Basin and it did not advance any solid waste management programs.
12.       Attainment of Project Objectives. The project did not succeed in
fostering the introduction of effective pollution control strategies or
effective enforcement procedures in the GMAC, nor did it advance the
implementation of comprehensive longer term national strategies or significant
industrial pollution control investment related to air water or waste
1/ Note: From Borrowers' perspective main constraints to project
performance were related to the unfavorable economic climate and the
Bank's high fixed interest rate (Part II Paras 4.01 and 4.02).



- v -
management. The project did succeed in financing a well functioning automatic
air pollution measurement system in the GMCA.
13.       Institutional ImDact.  Except in the area of establishing systems
for measuring air pollution, the Bank has had no measurable impact on
strengthening SEDUE or improving its capability to administrate air, water and
solid waste pollution control programs.



MEXICO
POLLUTION CONTROL PROJECT
(Loan 2154-ME)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PART Is PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1.1 Project Identity
Project Names                  Pollution Control Project
Loan No:                       Loan 2154-ME
Loan Amount:                   US$60 million (equivalent)
Project Cost at Appraisals    US$190.9 million (equivalent)
Actual:                        US$18.2 million (equivalent)
RVP Unit:                      Latin America and Caribbean
Country:                       MEXICO
1.2 Project Background
1.2.1           The Environmental Problem.  By 1980, the Greater Mexico City
Area (GMCA) has become the third most populous urban center in the world.
With an estimated population of nearly 15 million, the area was projected to
reach a population of at least 25 million in the 19909. / The GMCA
accounted for almost twenty percent of the country's total population, and
about thirty five percent of its industrial production and motor vehicles.
While rapid and essentially environmentally uncontrolled industrial, urban and
vehicular growth had created high levels of air, water and land pollution in
the GMCA, similar forces were at work and similar degraded environmental
conditions prevailed in Mexico's other major urban centers such as
Guadalajara, Monterrey and Coatzacoalcos - Minatitlan.
1.2.2          Air Pollution.  According to the air quality measurements
available in 1979/80, the daily concentration levels of the four major
contaminants associated with air pollution in the GMCA substantially exceeded
World Health Organization (WHO) standards. The contamination level was 600
percent of the WHO standard for ozone, 230 percent for carbon monoxide, 130
percent for sulphur dioxide and 490 percent for total suspended solids.
Industrial activities and high sulphur content fuel oil combustion wa said to
account for almost all of the particulates, and about two-thirds of nitrogen
2/ In fact, with the new 1990 census which indicated that the GMCA had
a population of 16 million, the population projections have been
reduced.



2-
oxides. Motor vehicles accounted for most carbon monoxide and about seventy
five percent of hydrocarbon emissions, with inzastry accounting for the
balance. Adverse air quality conditions albc prevailed in the other major
industrial areas of the coantry. The Government had initiated a program to
control emissions from new motor vehicles, and these were to be strengthened
and augmented by a program of mandatory annual inspections.
1.2.3           The adverse effects of uncontrolled emission of pollutants
into the air are intensified in the GMCA by its location in a high (over 2,200
meters), sheltered valley with high solar radiation, poor combustion
conditions and poor ventilation. The impact of air pollution upon the general
health of the population is observable and measurable and threaten to become
worse in the years to come unless vigorous corrective actions are taken.
Respiratory illness, especially among children, increased cardiovascular
diseases, and adverse effects on the human nervous system are among the
serj.ous consequences of long term exposure. On a daily level, irritation of
throat, nose and eyes, and increased asthmatic problems all make for reduced
health standards. Because cf the danger to children, foreign embassies
curtailed family living within the GMCA and wealthy families leave the GMCA
during weekends and the winter months.
1.2.4          Water Pollution.  Municipal wastes and industrial effluents
were judged to be a major source of the Mexico's water pollution. In addition
much of the domestic sewage was discharged into streams without any treatment.
The water bodies connected to the GMCA, the Toluca-Lerma urban industrial
area, Guadalajara and Monterrey metropolitan areas, the Cuernavaca valley and
Coatzacoalcos-Minatitlan were given highest priorities for industrial
pollution control. The harmful effects of polluted waters, i.e. spread of
water-borne diseases and adverse impacts on aquatic life in these areas, had a
negative impact on about half of Mexico's population. The Lerma River Basin
was cited for a rigorous program of enforcement across different source
categories based upon setting of individual standards for discharge.
1.2.5           Solid Waste Disposal.  Rapid urbanization and industrial
growth had led to vast increases in the amounts of solid waste generated. Of
these, the industrial component included large quantities of toxic and
hazardous waste materials which were discarded as part of municipal refuse or
in several hundred unauthorized wayside landfill sites. Such wastes
percolated into the groundwater or formed the basis for airborne, bacterial
laden dust. The net effect on numan health was known to be highly negative.
1.2.6           The Legal and Institutional Platform for Urban Environment
Control. The first comprehensive legislation for environmental protection was
embodied in the 1971 Federal Law for Prevention and Control of Environmenta)
Pollution. The Law covered all types and sources of environmental pollution
(including air, water, land, solid wastes and noise pollution), provided the
framewoLk for control measures, and vested enforcement authority in the
concerned ministries. In general, the legislation provided a basis to plan
and implement an effective environmental protection program. The Law became
partially operational during 1972-73 when detailed regulations were issued for
control of dust and smoke particulates into the air (1972) and for control of
water pollution (1973). Major gaps were the lack of prescribed standards for
gaseous emissions from stationary sources and specific discharge standards for
industry. The 1971 Law was superseded by a Federal Law for Environmental



-:3-
Protection in February lS82. The new law provided for some needed
streamlining in the diviston of responsibilities among ministries and for
higher non-compliance penalties to facilitate effective enforcement, but
otherwise preserved the basic concepts and approach of the 1971 Law. The
regulations issued in 1971 and 1973 continued to remain in effect under the
new Law. Complementary legislation was provided under the Sanitary Code of
Mexico, specifying the responsibiliti6s of individuals, industrial and other
establishments and federal and local agencies in maintenance of health and
sanitation conditions.
1.2.7           Under the 1982 law, SSA was assigned the overall
responsibility for cuordinating the efforts of various government agencies in
implementing the environmental protection and control regulations for all
environmentai media. In addition, SSA had the direct responsibility for
monitoring air and land pollution, and formulating and implementing protection
and control measures for these media. The direct responsibility for
monitoring and implementing water pollution control lay mostly with SARH,
whicli was expected to consult and closely coordinate with SSA on all issues
involving public health, formulation of standards and sanctions against
violation of the standards. The Secretariat of Public Works assisted states
and local agencies in public works execution, including the construction of
local water supply and sewerage systems. The above actions were to be closely
coordinated with the respective state and local government authorities to take
account of particular regional considerations and to obtain their assistance
in implementation.
1.2.8           The Regulations to the 1982 Law did not establish specific
emission standards, and :equirements for control of liquid discharges awaited
comprehensive studies of ...e carrying capacity of each major stream or water
body to set final standards, which would be a major research program. The
responsibilities of the different .ainistries remained largely unchar%ed, but
clarifications were provided to assign the overall responsibility for
environmental protection to SSA and to remove some of the earlier ambiguities
and duplications in responsibilities, particularly with respect to water
pollution control in which both SSA and SARH are involved. The SSA was also
to serve as the coordinating body that would ensure that all agencies
implemented environmental programs. Because SAA's role was essentially one of
coordination, what was missing was an efficient, forceful, central Secretariat
with the professional capability to perform the normative, monitoring, policy
setting, coordinating and enforcement roles. It was within this legal and
organizational framework that the Loan was approved.
1.3 Project Obiectives and Description
1.3.1          Project Objectives and Scope.  Loan 2154-ME was envisaged as
the first phase of a multi-phased, long range, pollution control program that
would address the health and other consequences of the high levels of
environmental pollution in several areas of Mexico. The loan was an
expression of the high priority that the Government placed upon dealing with
mounting pollution control issues.



- 4 -
1.3.2 The Principal Oblectives of the Project:
(1) Help in the development and introductton of more effective
pollution control strategies.
(2) Support the introduction of more effective enforcement
procedures.
(3) Formulation and implementation of appropriate longer term
strategies for the resolution of pollution problems on a
national scale.
(4) Encouragement of industrial investment aimed at reducing
atmospheric and water pollution, and initiation of steps to
deal with solid waste pollution.
(5) Provision of resources to help industry finance pollution
control investment.
1.3.3          Major Project Activities.  To achieve the above stated
pollution related objectives the project intended to: (i) address the most
serious industrial and vehicular air pollution problems; (ii) reduce water
pollution in high priority river basins; (iii) begin to deal with land fill
pollution; (iv) improve monitoring and enforcement in these areas; (v) train
technical staff; and (vi) advance studies and modeling work to determine long-
term strategies for air pollution control. Under the air pollution component,
the project expected to finance industrial and vehicular control; programs and
a monitoring system in the GMCA and other industrial centers based upon
improved monitoring of new standards and enforcement by better trained and
expanded staff. To achieve the water pollution abatement related objectives,
the project intended to focus on enforcement initiatives to reduce contaminant
discharges into selected high priority water basins, in particular the Middle
Lerma River basin where it intended to address simultaneously the problem of
muniLipal and industrial water pollution. The project would also focus on
high priority industrial polluters. The Loan was intended to support
increased staff training, improvements in methodology, and studies of water
basin characteristics. It was also expected that the Loan would support
studies to identify the industrial solid waste disposal problem and propose
possible solutions. Altogether this constituted a very comprehensive and
ambitious program, all the more so because the successful outcome of the
project depended upon the existence of a large amo-nt of technical and
planning work that had to be rapidly completed.
1.3.4          Project Financing Plan.  To help achieve the major objectives
and implement specific functional project activities, a Bank loan of US$60
million was expected to finance 28Z of a total prog.-am with a total project
cost of US$190.9 million (equivalent).   US$171 million would fi..ance
industrial pollution investments (of which the Bank would finance 31.4Z) by 80
to 100 major industrial polluters. About US$13 million was to be lent to 300
to 400 private automobile garages for the purchase of automobile emission
testing and diagnostic equipment, and about US$6 million was to be provided
for technical assistance and the purchase of laboratory and measurement
equipment.



- 5
1.4  Proiect Preparation and DesiE
1.4.1           Proiect Identification and Preparation.  In the autumn of
1978, the Bank conducted an exploratory mission to discuss with the Mexican
Government the possibilities of the Bank financing a pollution control
project. In September 1980, a mission visited Mexico to gather information
necessary for the preparation of a pollution control project. A detailed
technical report with respect to the air pollution control component was
prepared in October, 1980. In June 1981, an appraisal mission further defined
the project and a post appraisal mission in December 1981 completed appraisal
of the Pollution Control Project (Loan 2154-ME). The mission estimated that
the regulatory basis for the project would be rapidly established. The
actions that the environmental authorities were expected to take in about 18
months included, inter alia; making appropriate detailed measurements of
pollution levels and sources, preparing a strategy for the implementation of
the project including the setting of appropriate, detailed standards for
permissible levels of discharges of industrial pollutants into the air and
water from alternative industrial sources, setting standards and a strategy
for the management of solid waste disposal and establishing and training an
expanded inspection and enforcement capabilities. In hindsight it would seem
obvious that these judgements would have been optimistic even in a highly
developed country with ample technical, administrative and financial resources
available. However, they were not challenged during the preparation and
appraisal cycle.
1.4.2           In May 1982 the Bank's Board approved a US$60 milli3n Bank
loan with the following componer4ts: (i) US$39.3 million for air pollution
control. Of thi. amount, US$35.2 million was allocated to industrial
pollution control and the balance for automobile testing equipment, a new air
monitoring system, studies and training; (ii) US$18.0 million for water
pollution control facilities; (iii) US$1.9 for studiej relating to industrial
solid waste and (iv) US$0.9 to cover the Bank's front end fee. A major
condition of effectiveness was that the Borrower submit a satisfactory PED
which would detail Mexico's program for control of pollution. The PED was
furnished to the Bank in July 1982 and upon review was found to be
satisfactory.
1.4.3           Project Design.  Overall the air pollution control loan
component was designed to address the most serious sources of industrial and
vehicular pollution. It included proposa's for improvements in pollution
monitoring and enforcement, the training and expansion of technical staff,
developing approaches to control new sources of pollution and the completion
of several studies and modeling tasks to aid in determining opti.lm long term
strategies. It was expected that financial support under the loan would be
provided to 80-100 major industrial sources of air pollution in the Mexico
City and other major cities in their efforts to control pollution and that the
auto inspection/maintenance program in the Mexico City area would be
substantially strengthened. In December 1982, a new Government assumed power
and shortly thereafter changed dramatically the basic framework for
environmental policy formulation and enforcement by creating a new ministry,
SEDUE, which was staffed by professional and administrative staffs taken from
the environmental departments of the line ministries that had been responsible
for such activity (e.g. SEDUE assumed the responsibility for water pollution



- 6 -
abatement programs that had been the responsibility of SARH, except in rural
areas where SARH retained control).
1.5 Project Im}lementation
1.5.1           Background.  Project preparation through appraisal was
expeditiously managed, a detailed Project Execution Document (PED), entitled
'Programa para el Control de la Contamination en Mexico" (Program for
Pollution Control in Mexico), wee curnished by the Government on July 3, 1982
and the loan was signed on Jul"'      1982.  Under the PED, it was expected that
the environmental agencies hotusr  ai the line ministries and operating with
the assistance of an environn-,-''   roordinating group would rapidly produce
effective standards for indu..       ard vehicular pollution control and plans
and strategies for enforcement    a propriate standards for air and water
quality and solid waste management, It was expected that the menu of
technical, legal and administrative tasks defined in the PED would be promptly
completed and that the first US$15 million in loan fund would be disbursed in
18 months (para 1.4.1).
1.5.2           Institutional Performance.  The institutional framework for
environmental management and protection that Mexico had in place when Loan
2154-ME was approved by the Board in May 1982 had been dramatically altered by
the time the loan became effective in February 1983. However, the Bank did
not undertake a formal reappraisal of the project, the new environmental
agency or its new mandate. It relied instead upon a detailed review of the
new institutional set-up for the project.
1.5.3          A Bank supervision mission visited the field in early 1983 to
assess SEDUE and the new administrative arrangements for environmental policy
setting, development of regulations and implementation of enforcement
strategies. It reported that the creation of SEDUE would substantially
simplify and strengthen operations in the environmental field and that the
project would be delayed in its start-up by only several months. It was
further expected that once SEDUE had assumed the legal obligations previously
held by SSA under the project, it would initiate the specific actions that
were to be taken under the PED including the development of specific
standards, strengthening of the regulatory framework, and increasing the
number of inspections and technical capability of its staff; all of which were
preconditions to successful loan implementation. Concurrently, it was
expected that SEDUE would: (a) take m3asures to increase availability and
consumption of less polluting natural gas in urban areas; (b) reach agreement
with major public enterprises on the pollution control measures to be achieved
by them; (c) strengthen collection capability and methodology for standard
setting; (d) rigorously apply a unified water quality control strategy in high
priority basins; and (e) rapidly implement mandatory inspection of motor
vehicles operating in the GMCA. These constituted an ambitious menu of
essential actions, and were included under the PED.
1.5.4           In September 198,, a Bank supervision mission evaluated the
prospects for the full implementation of Loan 2154-ME.   A mission report
dated November 18, 1983 noted that progress had been slow in implementation of
the project due to the country's serious economic problems and substantial
reorganization of environmental programs into a new Ministry. Investment
credit demand for air pollution control component of the project was reduced



to an estimated US$14.8 million with US$7.1 million projected for industrial
pollution control and the remaining US$7.7 million projected for air
monitoring and vehicle testing equipment. Water pollution control investments
estimates were similarly revised and the groundwork laid for the ultimate
reduction in loan size to US$25 million in mid-1985, when US$35 million of the
loan was canceled.
1.5.5           The expected project implementation actions spelled out in the
PED were never undertaken,. and SEDUE's professional, technical and supervisory
capabilities were sharply reduced by budget cuts and three major changes in
senior management and related organizational restructuring. Underlying the
dramatic changes in SEDUE's institutional capability to perform under the PED
were two major factors: First, the new Government adopted a new industrial
pollution control strategy for the nation and abandoned the then existing
strategy of enforcing compliance with national emission standards through firm
and consistent on-site inspection and enforcement programs. It replaced this
"command and control" system with a new policy of negotiating subsectoral
standards for emissions with each of the industrial associations along with a
corresponding plan for compliance with the negotiated standards. The
agreements negotiated by SEDUE would form the basis for "social contracts"
between the government and industry which when ratified would assume the force
of law. Second, the new Government was striving to reduce budgetary (para. 6)
expenditures and made SEDUE's activities a m&jor reduction target. While
there were subsequently many coordinating meetings to get Loan 2154-ME back on
track, little progress was made. The Pollution Control Project was never
linked to SEDUE's new operational objectives and it had little impact on its
institutional performance, except that the air pollution measurement equipment
financed under the project did provide SEDUE with an improved data base for
setting monitoring strategies and measuring outcomes of pollution control
programs.
1.5.6           Compliance with Loan Conditions.  During the almost six years
of project operations, SEDUE essentially failed to comply with the PED
agreement requiring them to establish and begin to implement the strategic,
informational or operptional basis for dealing with the nation's broad ranging
pollution control problems. In some cases SEDUE failed to establish standards
for control of air pollutants when technically adequate standards, developed
in 1981 by their predecessor agencies, already existed in draft form. It was
the impression of the Bank's expert consultants during two reviews, in 1984
and again in 1986, that SEDUE's performance and its failure to adhere to the
PED, was not a lack of professional capability and that, with some assistance
that was offered by the Bank, SEDUE had an adequate background of studies and
of professional skills to complete the tasks of preparing acceptable standards
for emissions and to undertake strategic plarning tasks. What appeared to be
lacking was the willingness to sustain the prior Government's aggressive
approach toward environmental clean up that was embodied in the PED agreement.
It is clear that SEDUE was slow to establish firm pollution control programs
because the policy in force after 1983 was to move slowly and because SEDUE's
enforcement capability was substantially reduced during the next half decade.
1.5.7           SEDUE's capacity to undertake the expected environmental
control actions continued to deteriorate as its staffing declined from about
5,000 to 2,500 employees by the end of 1988. Also, SEDUE's low salary
structure did not allow it to easily attract or retain qualified staff. SEDUE



-8-
had about 100 inspectors available on a country-wide basis of which about 10
to 15 were available to handle the 4,000 priority industrial installaticris
that required inspection, supervision and technical assistance. Clearly, on
that basis a pollution control program of national scope, which was the
objective of Loan 2154-ME, could not advance.
1.5.8           Enforcement Strategies.  It was assumed that a strategy for
pollution control enforcement would be rapidly developed under the PED, and
that the strategy would be based upon some simple form of roll-back model,
with improved inventory information and enforcement activity wherein highest
pollution sources would be addressed first. Neither the models nor the
strategies were ever developed. The Bank was never officially advised that
the Government's policy regarding pollution control reduction had been changed
and that the PED was no longer relevant. Supervision reports continued to
correctly point to slow economic growth and lack of enforcement activity as
reasons why the Loan had no_. been disbursed, but the main reason for non-
enforcement of existing regulations, the change in policy away from
enforcement of pollution control laws at national levels and toward negotiated
agreements as a subsectoral level was not adequately addressed.
1.5.9          Enforcement Results.  Based upon a review of the files of each
of the 20 subproject financed under the loan and field visits to a sample of
firms, the following information was obtained on the reasons why projects were
advanceds
Nature of Intervention              Number of Projects        Percent
1. ComRany Initiative                      8                    40
Cost Reduction                      (4)                  (20)
Same Cost Recovery                  (4)                  (20)
2. Social Contract Signed                  2                    10
3. Other Aaency Enforcement                3                    15
4. SEDUE Enforcement                       6                    30
5. Other Reasons                           1                     5
TOTAL            20                   100
Forty percent of the subprojects resulted from voluntary actions taken by
industry.  These voluntary initietives were taken in cases where the projects
applied technologies that reduced costs and/or provided some cost recovery in
the form of reusable production materials or water. Two companies undertook
investments in line with signed industrial pollution control agreements, three
projects with water pollution problems had been inspects by SARH. In the six
year period of project implementation only six investments, of the 20
financed, resulted directly from SEDUE enforcement of existing standards and
regulations.
1.5.10          Investment for Control of Pollution.  The appraisal estimated
that about 622 of total resources would be directed toward the resolution of
air pollution problems and 282 to water pollution problems, created by
industry. It was expected that some 80 to 100 industrial pollution control
investments would be generated. Ultimately, only 20 subloans were financed,
of which about one-half were for water and one-half for air pollution. (Annex



- 9 -
1 Page 1). Most subloans were for less than US$100,000 equivalent, and four
large subprojects accounted for 20? of subproject financing. In terms of
industrial sectors in which investment occurred, 252 were petroleum based, 25?
in non-metallic minerals, 15? in paper products, 152 in textiles and leather,
5? each for four other inc Astries (Annex 1 Table 2). There were 10 air
pollution, 11 water pollution and 2 solid waste problems treated under the 20
projects financed. Three projects treated multiple environmental issues.
1.5.11         Location of Proiects.  In terms of subproject location, it was
expected that the GMCA would be the focus of efforts and investments, in fact
only 35? of the subprojects were located in the GMCA with 65Z broadly
distributed around the country (Annex I, Table 3). This finding is consistent
with SEDUE's lack of inspection/enforcement capability in the GMCA. It is
interesting to note that most subprojects were approved in 1986 (40Z of
total), the year in which Mexico City suffered a major air pollution event
that generated substantial efforts by PEMEX and others to improve the quality
of fuels burned and transport equipment in the GMCA. However, all but one of
the projects approved in 1986 were outside of the GMCA, indicating that there
was no build-up of enforcement of industrial pollution in the GMCA even in
1986.
1.5.12         Financial aspects.  The financial costs of pollution control
investment were high for many firms. The cost exceeded annual profits in the
year of investment for 502 of the investing companies, and it was a relatively
small percentage of annual profits (less than 25Z) for only 35Z of companies.
The smaller companies tended to have higher costs relative to profitability.
Although the financial consequences of such investments were understood to be
high, little attention was paid to the issue of fiscal or other incentives as
a feature of the project. In other projects financed by the Bank, incentives
have been an element in stimulating demand for pollution control investment
(para. 1.5.14-16).
1.5.13         Other Proiects.  For the balance of the program, no requests
were received from automobile garages to finance equipment for emissions
testing and diagnostics, to reduce vehicular air pollution in the GMCA. While
two of the subprojects financed under the loan had funding components for
solid waste facilities, these investments did not result from regulatory
action. Essentially nothing happened in the field of solid waste management
as SEDUE never came to grips with the policy and regulatory issues involved.
The Government did procure an automatic air monitoring network and did
undertake a variety of priority studies. No technical assistance was
financed.
1.5.14         Commitment and Disbursement Performance.  The reason why
demand for investment under Loan 2154-ME was low (i.e., US$5.9 million actual
versus UTS$57.2 million estimated), has been variously attributed to two main
factors: (1) Mexico's economic recession, starting in 1982, which reduced
demand for productive credit and non-productive investments like pollution
control were postponed even further; and (2) in the absence of vigorous
enforcement of pollution control standards, investment was low. Both were
true, although it has been found in other projects that with vigorous policing
of environmental regulations, investment rises even in the midst of a
recession. A third element was that there was nio incentives to promote
participation in the program. These had played an important role in
stimulating environmental investment in other parts of the world.



- 10 -
1.5.15          The Impact of Incentives.  When this pioneering project was
appraised, there was only limited experience with the effects of incentive
mechanisms on investment decisions by industry. Since then, a large body of
experience and literature has emerged (paras 1.6.7 - 1.6.8). Mexico
experimented with incentives for environmental investment for one year (August
1987 to August 1988) when SEDUE was authorized to administer a program of
investment in pollution control equipment. The fiscal incentives in the form
of a tax credit was equal to 20Z of the cost of pollution control equipment.
The program was reported to be an immediate success, as about 100 firms
applied for pollution control investments under the incentive program, more
that five times the number of projects that Loan 2154-ME was able to attract
in six years. While the fiscal impact of this incentive program wp never
determined, a rough approximation can be made. If the average coL of a
project financed under the SEDUE incentive program was equal to US$700,000
(i.e. the average cost of a project financed under Loan 2154-ME) then the cost
to the Government of tax revenues forgone under the incentive program would be
about US$14 million for the 100 pollution control projects. In terms of
potential benefits, if this program had focussed on the worst case polluters,
it could have eliminated something close to one-half of industrial based
environmental problems and associated health and welfare issues. a
1.5.16          Experience with environmental incentive programs in Europe has
shown that incentives of about 52 to 62, granted for limited periods of time
to advance clean-up, can be very effective, if supported by well functioning
"command and control" operations. Based on this experience, it is possible
that a smaller, limited term incentive program (costing as little as US$3.5 to
US$5 million per 100 projects) could have generated a large volume of projects
for Loan 2154-ME. If, as a result of such incentives, the Loan had been fast
disbursing, then, the real cost of incentives, net of commitment fees paid for
the slow disbursing loan, could be as low as US$1.5 to US$3 million and less,
netting out some of SEDUE's costs of operations. Moreover, the direct and
indirect benefits achieved as a result of a more rapid clean up of air or
water in the GMCA can be substantial given negative impacts of Mexico's high
levels of environmental pollution on public health.
1.6   Results and Lessons Learned for Future Environmental Proiects
1.6.1           Project Results.  The Bank had made its impact during Loan
preparation in 1979-1982 as it worked with the Government to structure an
approach to overall pollution control. Thereafter, the Bank's impact on the
environmental policy was small as the institutional development purposes and
strategy underlying the Loan did not correspond with the new Government's
concept of supporting slower change through negotiated agreements (i.e.,
"social contracts") with industrial associations over the peried from 1984
through 1990. In 1989 the new Government determined that environmental
planning and enforcement be decentralized and that communities play a larger
role in determining the quality of their environment. Tin human and
institutional infrastructure for this line of action has not been prepared
which will both complicate and offer opportunities for any future programs
that the Bank may consider.
1.6.2           There is no clear evidence that the small number of 20
projects financed under Loan 2154-ME made a positive measurable contribution
3/ SEDUE had estimated that some 225 industrial plants accounted for
about 85% of the sector's pollution problems in the GMCA.



- 11 -
to the improvement of air, water or land fill site quality in Mexico. The
amounts involved in investment by industry (US$5.9 million) was far too small
over the five year disbursement to have a measurable impact. Indeed, in the
Mexican context such small amounts could have been available from other credit
sources.
1.6.3           Precondition for Project Success.  Projects designed to
support industrial and vehicular pollution abatement programs are hard to
implement under the best circumstances. For such projects to have a
reasonable prospect for achieving these objectives and rapid disbursement, the
following conditions would have to be in place at project start-up;
(a) Adequate institutional structure, including trained
professional staffs, operating under a policy mandate to
plan and to establish program priorities and plans of
action;
(b) Laws and operating regulations that clearly set
appropriate national environmental standards and
provision of regulatory oversight, adequate manpower and
budget allocations to support firm monitoring and
enforcement of standards;
(c) Adequate scientific and laboratory capability to: (i)
prepare base line data including measures of
environmental quality, and types, volumes and sources of
pollution; (ii) prescribe the measures that would need to
be taken to achieve needed improvements and (iii) assess
the results of enforcement activity on environmental
quality;
(d)  The administrative mechanisms and/or economic incentives
for encouraging society to clean up its pollution mess
should be fully confirmed and the system operationally in
place;
(e) The potential benefits vs. costs of time-dated "incentive
approach" to stimulate firms to take early, voluntary
measures for pollution abatement should be calculated and
the program, established and in place;
(f) The availability of loan funds at appropriate close to
market terms; and
(g)  A sound economic environment, and a profitable and
growing industrial sector.
1.6.4          At the start-up of Loan 2154-ME in 1983, only Condition (f)
was in place.  The situation did not improve as the new government sharply
reduced SEDUE staff and enforcement activities in 1983-85 and SEDUE moved away
from a policy of 'command and control" enforcement toward a series of
negotiated agreements with each industrial association, which were not
completed until 1989. Evidence available in Bank supervision reports
indicated that the loan was in fact ready for cancellation in late 1984. At
that time, it had become clear that SEDUE was not implementing the PED, and
prospects for project success had virtually disappeared. Meanwhile,
commitment fee costs were mounting on a large uncommitted balance.



- 12 -
Performance ratings in supervision reports did not fully reflect the
deteriorating situation and the continued non-compliance with major loan
conditions until 1985. The increasing seriousness of the situation underlying
the loan appeared not to be recognized.
ComEpliar.ce and Incentives, Alternative Approaches
1.6.5           Compliance.  Loan 2154-ME was advanced on the assumption that
centralized command and control regulations would enforce a uniform rollback
from all sources of Fpllution to ensure that required pollution reduction was
achieved and ambient standards would be reached. The Bank's environmental
experts considered the command and control approach to be administratively and
technologically the simplest form to administer with highest prospects for
public acceptance, as it appears to be fair. It was then and continues to be
the most commonly used system worldwide.
1.6.6           Recent advances in the administration of environmental policy
need to be considered in the future. These include administrative mechanisms
that (i) maximize the degree of influence of market forces in giving
enterprise the choice to pollute or pay and (ii) minimize the aggregate cost
to industry of achieving a predetermined level of environmental quality.
There is also a new body of economic literature and some experience with a
variety of penalties, incentives, certificate and taxing schemes which is
relevant to structuring future programs.
1.6.7           In line with the above incentive based approaches to inducing
a rapid pace of industrial investment for environmental clean-up should be
adequately explored during loan preparation. Systematic efforts should be
made to approximate the economic and social costs of the high levels of
pollution including: medical costs of pollution related illness, shortened
lives and reduced quality of health of the human population, high costs of
inspection, enforcement, negotiation and adjudication of environmental
enforcement efforts and finally, in the case of a Bank loan, the excess costs
of commitment fees on a slow disbursing loan. The economic and social costs
of slow action would need to be offset against the budgetary cost of an
incentive scheme that would reduce the industrial sector's objections to the
adoption of appropriate standards and speed up the pace of investment in
environmental clean up.



13 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ENVIRONMENTAL POLLUTION CONTROL PROJECT
LOAN_2154-ME
PART IO.  PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
2*1  INTRODUCTION
2.1.1       In July 1982, the loan agreements for Loan 2154-ME were signed by
the World Bank and Nacional Financiera, the latter the financial agent for the
Federal Government, and Fondo Nacional de Equipamiento Industrial (FONEI), the
executing agency of the Project. It should be noted that in view of the
progress in modernization made by the Mexican Financial System, FONEI was
integrated into the organizational structure of Nacional Financiera (NAFIN) in
1989, enabling NAFIN to take advantage of and to complement the experience of
FONEI. From then on, regional financial coverage has come from the Mexican
Banking System, promoted by state agencies. Moreover, the fusion of various
development funds in the institutional structure has made global financing for
economic activity possible.
2.1.2       Loan 2154-ME comprised three components:  Part (A) was the
installation of pollution control equipment, the change in production
processes or in the technology to reduce air and water pollution, the
relocation of industrial plants, the conversion of facilities to use natural
gas as energy, and the investigation of ways to contribute to environmental
pollution control; Part (B) was to finance the purchase of mechanical
automotive workshop equipment and diagnostic equipment for automotive revision
workshops designed to reduce the level of gaseous pollutants thrown into the
atmosphere by the combustion of automotors; and Part (C) financed staff
training from the Secretariat of Health and Welfare, private companies, and
intermediary banking institutions in matters of emissions control of air, and
water pollutants, studies and programs related to pollution control, and
laboratory and monitoring equipment for large urban environments. Since 1982
actions related to pollution control in all its aspects were to be carried out
by the Secretariat of Urban Development and ecology; it is important to note
that with Part (C) the pollution control measures applied in 1987 by this
Secretariat were to be identified.
2.1.3       The objective of the project was to support the activities
oriented toward reducing the environmental pollution indices through financing
the purchase and installation of air and water pollution control equipment, so
as to prevent the increase of pollutants brought about by industrial plants
I This is a translation of the Borrower's Report which is available in
Spanish in the project files.



- 14 -
and to reduce the levels of environmental poisoning observed at the end of the
1970s and the beginning of the 19809.
2.1.4       The loan was identified in a favorable economic environment but
was formalized at the beginning of a serious economic crisis affecting the
country. Between 1982 and 1987 we can locate the serious point of the crisis
and the rupture of the development model followed up to then. The national
and international financial and economic happenings of tlLs decade led to the
stoppage of productive investment, capital flight, constant increases in
domestic and foreign interest rates, the depression of real salaries, high
unemployment, and a critical shortage of capital. Formation of capital
decreased as a result of the sudden economic upset.
2.1.5       The project was ident :'ed in 1978, when the domestic economy was
in full upsurge, with annual growth rates measured in terms of gross domestic
product very close to those of developed countries.       However, the economic
environment, marked by an apparent economic strength whose availability of
resources was based on projections of income derived from exports of
hydrocarbons and foreign credits, suddenly changed. The economic imbalances
that have taken place since 1982 in the world economy, have had a negative
impact on the Mexican economy and Loan 2154-ME was affected by it. It should
be enough to remember that the loan was contracted at a fixed rate of 11%,
which was financially negative to the situation the country was living in.
Similar to this example, a great number of external conditions influenced the
taking of drastic adjustment measures to the economy by the national
authorities.
2.1.6       One of the first measures, and probably one of greater impact on
the project, was the reduction in the country's expense and investment budget,
which, due to the development model, marked the tendency of the economic
activity in general. Faced with the reduction of investment demands by public
entities, companies doing business with them, directly or indirectly, put the
brakes on their productive processes: this had a negative impact on the
investment demand for equipment or activities related to the Pollution Control
Project. On the other hand, the reduction of structures in gover.ment
agencies prevented the Secretariat of Urban Development and Ecology, created
in 1982, from obtaining the expected results from its supervision,
monitoring, control, and sanction activities as well as those oriented toward
the regulation of pollution emissions from industry and automotor vehicles.
2.1.7       At the same time, alternatives for placing the funds for feasible
projects identified with the objectives of the Project were sought, such as:
Waste water Treatment Systems in the cities of Quer6taro, Qro. and MinatitlAn
and Coatzacoalcos, Ver., in the amount of Mex$16.1 million; equipment for
2/ Note: See Part I, Evaluation Summary Paras 1, 2 and 5 for details on
timing of the project cycle.   The Project identified in 1978 was the Fourth
industrial Equipment Fund Project (Loan 1712-ME) approved in June 1979 which
included a small pollution equipment component. Preparation for this project was
begun in 1981.
F"



- 15 -
environmental quality laboratories in the cities of Altamira, Tamps., and
Ldzaro CArdenas, Mich., and atmospheric monitoring networks in Guadalajara,
Jal., and Monterrey, N.L., for a total investment of US$3.8 million. For
others of lesser importance, the unfavorable economic situation for the
recuperation of this type of investments was hampered, and formalization was
not carried out within this project.
2.2   PROJECT EXECUTION
2.2.1       Within this recessive environment and great economic
disadjustments, project objectives were truncated. The lack of resources made
it impossible for a large number of companies to meet their credit
commitments. At the same time, the public sector faced budget cuts for
current expenses and investment like never before, such that PONEI and SEDUE
were unable to take actions that would meet, at a minimum, the proposed
objectives, especially because of the elimination of public sector structures.
This had a negative impact on the project as it could not hire enough staff
for project evaluation, promotion, and control activities (para. 4.02).
2.2.2       The situation described above forced companies to earmark their
resources for productive processes in view of the inability to invest in
assets for pollution control, the development of technology, or training for
the same purpose. In spite of this, efforts by SEDUE to carry out the Project
efficiently continued, even if results were to be seen only in the medium
term, as in the case of the Mandatory Vehicle Revision Program, the
installation of the Environmental Monitoring Network, and the legal framework
structured in accordance with the reality of the country with respect to
environmental pollution control -- the creation of SEDUE itself is proof of
the effortr made and of the priority given to the environmental pollution
problem, not only in cities of greater urban and industrial concentration, but
also in areas as those already mentioned (para. 4.03).
2.2.3       Since the rest.ictions imposed on public expenditures prevented
strengthening the organizational and financial structures of the agencies
involved in the Project, thus, in the absence of fiscal credit mechanisms
during the execution of the same, greater emphasis was placed on the
formalization and strengthening of the legal and institutional framework in
the medium term -- the strategy was identified more in terms of agreement with
industrial chambers than in coercive aspects and direct fiscal support. The
idea was to induce investment in pollution emission control equipment without
losing sight of public and private finances in the middle of a serious
economic crisis. In this regard, it is important to note that during the
identification and appraisal of the project fiscal expenses that could have
been generated with this type of support were not clearly quantified.
However, when the loan was approved, the economic conditions were already very
different from when the project was identified. It should be mentioned that
the process of identification, appraisal, approval, and effectiveness of the
loan took five years.



- 16 -
2.3 PERFORMANCE OF THE BORROWER
2.3.1       The project was developed at the end of a stage in which it was
estimated that (a) economic growth during the 19809 would be sustained, and
(b) industrial modernization would follow the stage of growth consolidation.
This process would allow for the necessary resources to fight the harmful
effects of industrial growth.
2.3.2       With respect to the environment, the levels of air and water
pollution that affected almost 30% of the population directly, were beginning
to reach alarming levels, especially in the large urban concentrations, even
higher than those registered a decade earlier in the industrial cities of
developed countries.
2.3.3       Because of the above, Mexico requested the financial assistance of
the World Bank for the Industrial Pollution Control Project, designating FONEI
as the executing agency (para. 1). FONEI, historically a promoter of
industrial development in the country, had a small structure compared to the
size the pollution problem had reached and with the level it would reach by
the mid 1980s. Howevor, FONEI, with its characteristic efficiency and with
the use of its vast experience in second-level operations, was able to promote
the Project before the Industrial Chambers, but because the economic recession
undermined the financial situation of the domestic companies, credit to
control polluting emissions fell into second place.
2.3.4       In 1982, the new Administration, upgraded to State Secretariat
level the measures developed to make up and strengthen the legal and
institutional framework to control the emission of solid, liquid, and gaseous
pollutants into the environment, as well as atmospheric pollution produced by
noise or by new or existing sources as well as that generated by motor
vehicles. However, the scarcity of human resources in SEDUE for surveillance
activities (paras. 4.02 and 6) prevented the success of the strategy
formulated for such end. The idea was that with the surveillance activity to
check compliance with the pollution emissions norms, the Secretariat's
coercive power would be supported by the promotion and coordination activities
of FONEI and SEDUE, respectively.
2.3.5       Notwithstanding the above, direct promotion with the industrial
associations in the areas identified by SEDUE as highly polluting continued,
as did correspondence with those companies catalogued by SEDUE as polluters.
In view of the impact of the economic crisis of the 1980s, these measures
found little support from the companies (para. 4.03).
2.3.6       In view of the facts, in July 1985, it was requested that US$35
million be cancelled from tha originally approved US$60 million loan. This
was as a result of the vertical fall in the demand for investments. One year
later an additional US$11.4 million was cancelled for the same reason.



- 17 -
2.4 PERFORMANCE OF THE BANK
2.4.1       During project implementation the Bank maintained a close
relationship and dialogue with the Borrower and the executing agency, which
allowed a better understanding of the graveness of the crisis that began in
1982. This relationship contributed to the understanding of the efforts
undertaken to execute the Project within the environment described in the
previous paragraphs, so much so that the Bank proposed the design and
development of alternative projects to invest the resources in activities
related to the Project.
2.4.2       It should be noted that from project identification in 1978 to its
loan approval in 1982, four important years passed by -- in the year the
project was identified economic activity registered a high growth rate and
toward the year of loan effectiveness, in 1983, economic conditions had
radically changed.
2.4.3       On the other hand, the interest rate agreed to with the Bank
became a negative factor for the performance of the project, too, fixed at
11%. The economic environment in which it was immersed prevented the
executing agency from having a sufficient enough intermediation margin to
offer available resources to investors.
2.5 LESSONS LEARNED
2.5.1.      Implementation of this type of project within distorted economic
scenarios requires a more profound analysis and the adoption of immediate
measures to avoid assigning resources under conditions unfavorable to the
country; a profound evaluation of these situations might have suggested a
review of the Bank's systems since within recessive frameworks it would have
more economic and financial merit for the subprojects to offer the same
resources of the loan in execution to attend to contingent programs, which
should be included in loan agreements in order to give continuity to these
projects.
2.5.2       In preparation of this project, the lack of an adequate legal and
institutional framework was underestimated. Therefore, similar projects
should emphasize, condition, or financially support maintenance and
strengthening of the same, ensuring, in all cases, that a positive impact on
public health could be obtained in the long term with projects to control the
levels of environmental pollution.
2.5.3       With respect to the lapse of time from when the loan was
ident!.fied and approved, the lack of opportunity and the imbalance presented
by such in the implementation of the project is undeniable. It would be
convenient to review the priorities of projects that would benefit directly,
and in the shortest possible time, public health and which at the same time
would oe less profitable to investors; in such cases fiscal credit could
complement support of the global scheme to this type of project. In this
regard it is important to quantify the weight on public finances that a tax



- 18 -
exemption program or fiscal credit for investment in assets to control
environmental pollution would havo.
2.5.4       The establishment and revision of interest rates for this type of
loan :;iould be updated in accordance with the internal and external economic
conditions. Likewise, the resources of these projects should be offered at
more attractive rates with respect to other projects, in view of the benefit
to public health and the low profitability of this type of investment.
2.5.5       Projects related to pollution control should emphaoize aspects of
intangible benefits and complex quantifirition (public health, environmental
cleanup, cleanup of aquiferous layers, reduction of expenses and specialized
medical care, improvement in life quality, increase in productivity levels by
employment factors, etc.), whereas the financial merits could take secondary
or reference positions, based, above all, on the magnitude of the problem and
the long-term effects it would have on the population.
2.5.6       Promotion of this type of project and its acceptance will be
achieved in the measure that the resources are offered at preferential costs
attractive to the manufacturers. The present economic conditions of the
country, as well as the existence of a greate'r ecological awareness and a
strengthened legal and institutional framework, favor the implementation of
this type of investment. Within this context, the manufacturer would be in a
position to alternate these actions with thone carried out to solve his
problems in the production process, which are .f greater priority to him.
2.5.7       Training, as a tool without which the implementation of projects
becomes difficult, should be given greater importance and priority by the Bank
within its training and information systemz, an well as in the loan agreements
themselves.
2.5.8       On the other hand, the present scheme of credit offering
contemplates the financing of projects, through t.'s Environmental Improvement
Program, that have as their objectives controllirn; .he generation and emission
of atmospheric pollutants.  In this respect, it i: interesting to note that
there are no restrictions for awarding financial supoyirt in the industrial
zone denominated as III-A (controlled growth), which joins the greater number
of industries in the country. Indeed, the present legal framework (and the
economic upsurge registered in 1989) foretells an increase in the demand of
these resources.



- 19 -
2.6  ECONOMIC-FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
2.6.1       The achievements of the Environmental Pollution Control Project
were analyzed by a group of companies that received assistance from the
executing agency, FONEI. The study encompassed 18 of 20 companies that
received financing, and these are as follows:
NAtMEOTE COMPANY                                         AMOUNT OF FINANCING
(Mex$ million)
Papeles Ponderosa, S.A.                                        294.0
Sociedad Cooperativa Industrial Cementos Hidalgo, S.C.L.    286.3
Negro de Humo Negromex, S.A. de C.V.                         1,248.0
Triturados El Roble, S.A.                                       44.8
Fundidora M6xico. S.A. de C.V.                                  25.0
Unicab Industrial, S.A. de C.V.                                 34.8
Fundiciones Altzairu, S.A. de C.V.                               7.1
San Ildefonso. FAbrica de Tejidos de Lana, S.A. de C.V.         13.7
Cementos Anahuac, S.A. de C.V.                                 881.0
Ingenio La Margarita. S.A. de C.V.                              14.5
Quimica Potosi, S.A. de C.V.                                    79.9
Productos Lince> S.A.                                           37.0
Celulosa de Fibras Mexicanas, S.A. de C.V.                      55.0
Cementos Portland Moctezuma, S.A. de C.V.                      380.0
Pitsa San Juan, S.A. de C.V.                                   700.0
Esquim, S.A. de C.V.                                            32.0
Vidriera M6xico, S.A.                                           44.1
Protexa, S.A. de C.V.                                           31.1
Note:  The detailed case history of each of the companies in the sample is
available in the project file. The case studies include technical details on
the equipment procured, standards set by SEDUE and company compliance with
environmental regulations.
2.6.2       Of the projects financed, 12 were to improve the environment
(decrease dust and smoke) and 6 to rationalize water consumption.
Financial support was mainly channelled to companies located in highly
polluted areas because 11 of the companies studied are in Zone III; of the
rest, 5 are located in Zone I and 2 in Zone II.
2.6.3       In the environment of economic crisis registered between 1982 and
1987, the majority of the companies analyzed were able to carry out their
investment projects. Of the 18 cases studied, 16 concluded their projects in
accordance with their Investment Programs. The two missing projects belonged
to Unicab Industrial, S.A. de C.V. and Productos Lince, S.A., which did not
carry out their projects because, in the case of Unicab Industrial, the
cempany closed down in January 1990 due to lack of markets for its products.
The financial assistance awarded to this company was cancelled. In the case
of Productos Lince, the project was suspended due to problems with the
manufacturer of anti-pollution equipment (TEISA, S.A. de C.V.) who did not
comply with the specifications of the equipment to be manufactured; the
project was suspended until the equipment adequately met specifications.



- 20 -
2.6.4       As a consequence of the same economic situation that brought about
a reduction in the government's Expense and Investment Budget and prevented
SEDUE from having the necessary resources to supervise and sanction the
established norms to the polluting companies, it is noted that most of the
cases studied did not have the certificates issued by this agency regarding
compliance with the established norms for each case. The controls of the
companies are of an internal nature and were developed by their own technical
staff, and these controls are also used for submission to SEDUE to prove that
they comply with the norms established by it.
2.6.5       According to the reports submitted, 16 of the companies studied
are carrying out their projects and functioning under normal conditions.
Results obtained with respect to reduction of pollution levels and cost
savings are satisfactory as to the established goals and SEDUE's request.
Of the credits awarded, seven have been paid off up to now.
2.6.6       Based on the above and considering the results obtained, it should
be noted that even though the projects were carried out within an environment
of economic crisis, the original objectives were reached 90S and 1OOZ of the
time, which indicates that this type of project should be continued, with
positive results foreseen, especially since there is more and more ecological
awareness in the country.



- 21 -
PART III
STATISTICAL DATA



- 22 -
IXI-CO
POLLUTION CONTROL PROJECT
(Loan 2154-ME)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PART- III
1. Proiect Cost and Outeome
Item                Actual          Actual       Actual as Z of
Expectations                       Appraisal
Estimate
Total Project Costs             190.9            17.4             9.1%
(US$ million)
Loan Amount                     60.0             8.7              13.7%
(US$ million)
Date Physical Components         n/a             n/a               n/a
Completed
Proportion by that Date          n/a             n/a               n/a
Economic Rate of Return          n/a             n/a               n/a
Institutional Performance   Satisfactory  Unsatisfactory           n/a
2. Proiect Timetable
Item             Date Planned       Date Revised      Date Actual
- Identification               06/80                -               06/80
(Executive Project
Summary)
- Preparation                  06/80                -               06/80
- Appraisal Mission            06/81                -               06/81
- Loan/Credit                  04/82                -               04/82
Negotiations
- Board Approval               05/82                -               05/82
- Loan/Signature               07/82                -               07/82
- Loan/Effectiveness           02/83                -               02/83
- Loan/Closing                  12/88               -               12j88
- Loan/Completion               12/85             08/85             12/87



- 23 -
3.   Disbursement
Cummulative Estimate and Actual Disburgement
(US$ million)
FY83     PY84    PY85    PY86    FY87       FY88      FY89
Appraisal Estimate       2.4    12.9    28.4   43.5        53.7    58.5       60.0
(Cunmulative)
Actual                   .89    3.89    6.23    .34         1.74    -       (-4.4)b/
Disbursements           /
Actual                   .89    4.78   11.01   11.35    13.09   13.09          8.69
Disbursements
(Cuizulative)
Actual as S of      372       37Z     39Z      262     242       222      14.42
Estimate
Al   Front end fee, actual disbursement for project purpose was US$7.8 million.
b/    Repayment of unutilized balance in Special Account.
Date of Final Disbursement (final loan account adjustment) April 1989.
4.   Use of Bank Resources
A. Staff InDuts
(Staff Weeksj
State of Prolect          Planned         Revi6ed           Final
Ccnle
Through Appraisal              n.a.            n.a.                30.5
Appraisal through              n.a*            n.a.                36.0
Board Approval
Board Approval                 n.ea            n.s.                14.7
Through
Effectiveness
Supervision                    n.a.            n.a.               43.7
TOTAL                            -               -               124.9



- 24 -
5.   Sups mision Mission
Month/Year       Number of     Dave in Field       Saecial-       Performance
Persons                          ization          Ratinei
06/82                  1                     .1         H               n.a.
02/83                  1                    .2          H                3
09/83                  2                   9,0         H,C               2
06/84                  3                  20.0         H,C               2
03/85                n.a.                  n.a.         H                2
09/85                  1                   5.0          H                2
01/86                  2                  11.0          C                3
11/86             Desk Update              0            H                4
12/86                  1                  10.0          H                3
TOTAL                  11                 55.3



6.        Estimated and Actual Project Financing Plan
Actual Project
Industrial Polution      Equipment for       Lab Equipment &                                  as a Percentage
Prolect6             Auto Garages      Technical Assistence   Front   Total Project        of Estimated
Estimated    Actual   Estimated   Actual  Estimated        Actual    End   Estimated  Actual  Total Prolect
(US million & 2)
World Bank         53.2        5.9         4.4       -0-      1.5           1.9       .9  $60.  31.42 $8.7  47.82   14.52 Z
FONEI              79.8        -0-         -0-       -0-      4.5           -0-       -   84.3 44.22  -0-  -0-         -0-  t
Beneficiaries      38.0        7.3         -0-       -0-      -0-           -0-       -   38.0 19.92  7.3  40.1       19.2
Intermediary       -0-          .1         -0-      -0-       -0-           -0-       -   -0-      02   .1    .5       nla
Government         -0-         -0-         8.6       -0-      -0-           1.2       -    8.6  4.52  1.2   6.6       13.9
Other              -0-           .9        -0-       -0-      -0-           -0-       -   -0-            9   4.9       ;Ra
Total      171.0         15.1        13.0      -0-       6.0          3.1       .9  190.9 100.0 18.2  100.0       9.5



26 -nnex 1
Table 1
MEXICO
POLLUT1ON CONTROL PROJECT
(Loan 2154-ME)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Distribution of Loans by Size of Loan
(US$)
Amount of Loan             Number of Loans      Percentage
Less than 100,000                12                60
100,000 to 500,000                4                20
500,000 to 1,000,000              1                 5
More than 1,000,000               3                15
Total                      20               100
Distribution of Loans By Prolect Size
(USS)
Proiect Size               Number of Loans        Percentage
Less than 100,000                11                  55
100 000 to 500,000                4                  20
500,000 to 1,000,000              1                   5
1,000,000 to 2,000,000            1                  .5
More than 2,000,000               3                  1
Total                      20                  100
Type of Environmental Issues Treated
8Y Investament Projects
Air           Water       Solid Waste
10           11               2
Notes Three projects treated multiple environmental issues.



-27                                   ex I
Table 2
MExICo
POLLUTION CONTROL PROJECT
(Loan 2154-HE)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Industrial Sector, Distribution of Proiects
Sector                               Percentage of Projects
Machinery & Equipment, Metal Prod.                           5
Basic Metals Industries                                     5
Non-Metalic Minerals (mainly cement)                       25
Chemicals & Plastics (petro based)                         25
Paper & Paper Products                                     1S
Textile & Leather Products                                 15
Food Products                                               S
Mining and Petrol Extraction                                 S
100



28                               Annez 1
Table 3
POLLUTION CONTROL PROJECT
(Loan 2154-ME)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Location of Pollution Control Proiects
State (or Mexico City)       Number of Proleqts      Percentage of Projects
Mex.co City (D.P.)                    2                      10
Mexico                                5                      25
Nuevo Leon                            3                      15
Queretaro                             2                      10
Guansquato                            1                       5
Oaxaca                                1                       5
San Luis Potosi                       1                       S
Tamaulipas                            1                       S
Puebla                                2                      10
Tlaxcala                              1                       5
Morelos                               1                       5
2o                    100



- 29 -
Table 4
POLLU-TioN CONTROL PROJECT
(Loan 2154-2E)
PROJECT COKPLETION REPORT
Xinancial Impact of Proiects on Particiiants.-2/
1.  Cost of Total Proiect As a Percentage of Pre-Tax Proilts
Number           Percentage
A. Cost of Project
- Greater than annual profit S                  10                  50
3. Cost of Project
- Equal to 502 or more of annual profits         1                   5
C. Cost of Project
- Equal to 252 to 492 of annual profits          2                  10
D. Cost of Project
- Equal to 1OX to 242 of annual profits          2                  10
E. Cost of Project
_ Eqtl to 92 or less of annual profits          S                 25
20                1002
Based upon the audit financial statements for the year in which loan
application was approved.



- 30 -
JAnnex 1
Table 5
HEXICO
POLLUTION CONTROL PROJECT
(Loan 2154-ME)
PROJECT COMPLET12N BEPORT
1I. Cost of Total Project As a Percentage of Og'erating Profits-&/
11.gber          Percentage
A. Cost or Project
- Greater than annual profit                     9                 45?
B. Cost of Project
- Equal to 502 or more of annual prcfits         2                 10
C. Cost of Project
- Equal to 252 to 492 of annual profits          1                  5
D. Cost of Project
- Equal to 10? to 24? of annual profits          2                 10
S. Cost of Project
- Equal to 92 or less of annual profits         6                 30
20                100t
ai  Used as an indicator of each flow from operations.  Operating profits do
not include profits (losses) from foreign exchange transactions which
account for the profits or (losses) of a number of participating fims.
V.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
POLLUTION CONTROL PROJECT
(LOAN 2154-HI)
ESTIMHTED AND ACTUAL PROJECT FINANCING PLAN
Actual Project
Industrial Polution     Equipment for       Lab Equipment &                                as a Percentage
Proiects            Auto CaraRes      Technical Assistance   Front   Total Project      of Estimated   w
Estimated    Actual   Estimated   Actual  Estimated      Actual    End   Estimated Actual  Total Prolect  '
(US iAlion & t)
Vorld Bank        53.2         5.9        4.4      -0-       1.5          1.i      .9  $60.  31.4? $8.7  47.8Z   14.5Z
FONEI             79.8         -0-        -0-      -0-      4.5           -0-       -   84.3 44.22  -0-  -0-        -0-
Bcneficinries     38.0         7.3        -0-      -0-      -0-           -0-       -   38.0 19.92  7.3  40.1      19.2
Intermediary      -0-           .1        -0-      -0-      -0-           -0-       -   -0-     0?   .1    .5       nla
Governmeat        -0-         -0-         8.6      -0-      -0-           1.2       -    8.6  4.5?  1.2   6.6      13.9
Other             -0-           .9        -0-      -0-      -0-           -0-       -   -0-           .9   4.9      nla
Total      171.0        15.1        13.0      -0-      6.0           1.1      .9  190.9 100.0 18.2  100.0      9.5



HEXICO
ENVIROIMENTAL POLLUTION CO TROL PROJECT                         hit      3
(LOAN 2154-tEa Page 1 of 6
Sumary of Proiect Outcome
cW0uAw        C .A1         P o LL  1 *    I 0            E               W I I t    SEM  rDI
vgziwzw    em Acrnagvr                     (Wx.) WE. 0Me       VAuAIT CE      ami? m       r m             ut
w"AP              ZCArT         ?uncm oncarmtn    fra               or OirECFIm  SUAlEU             s                           m mjw  W          I-W   1m . -   waruf
JAuis    noss       OrAw         mr7AnZet 07t             sorn ow       PR         DIOS           so mtl    01 VIeS$    * m     ZWAUAZW Of A   M WtsES    13 n
S.A.  Cn#w                              na  To                                     St. Smjns    to .$I    ao .sip    .n I       sfL1FlAD A       C INAR *eSu
Pn2.J5 tl UArMAL                 orns aum ast                        #to   ofn *jit    4 10    INtO ffl0  Zm1    co= TMQ
,usW  syrmTV                                      3nnaiu          o        ilk        t toa                      aEMw a
aIu=swrA m PAM.                                    012            Joe W.    13 v.     . is                      Cmamsm
SON. s1u10    4 will    0.n1 aiil   - to                      ham A
flA 7 or.       r        a            a                       Earn. am
02U103        10.000 c    1.1CC tv    . St                    1*8210207
s.en18 019381       amtO   113    IIALAEON OJA 07 4DM0-    lont         0m                           no tIe. S0Woim        So                       ut W      in 1
eussafSa aruzz;O.       w        nm    c flMus                                                                                                   4. War0o
5...                            St533 fltClmUh                                                                                                   aa    Vr
nme nTAmh .  04                                                                                                  Et  tm g
5AW. DM  cowcm                                                                                                   10Sr.
AM 5121 a 0 oAID
M  8U5513 co 50m)1
SW -t.
to  W gm               11USD C oawur  o 7150J Or AW.      1001          1003                                                                      UV 7  * t        mS low
ITCaw,  n.1. 8                        fl  E                                                                                                      n.n a.
C.,.                            COMM= ?AIIIYnM                                                                                                   lam eas 
Sf31  CAS3C00.1            .mm  m
Vh1UIPIU 513*                                                                                                    or r 9291u4
AA  m        m Svrt                                                                                                     r 3n
StaMI so mumt am.                                                                                                IN mmt.
arTn   wAin em u                                                                                                 ma. In
R1ODI107I 381                                              t                                                     uMsaft  D
M ton u cor  o .muaFf                                                                                            SmemW AI
a .Aw n=2 5 m
wmm.



Annex 3
Page 2 of 6
CLEAWEI         CUOSJAWE        P O   L   u T  I O N            L J V e L S         IASES rTAK
VIEN VESMNT   IN ACutEVtEN                      (CE.) EST. PSULTS    VARIATION    ro crcUL  vzrI         BENEFTS OllIr
OMPANV               LATIO           POJETr DESOm apTON         PROCRN       OF OBJECrTSS      SAMPLE              Mut    OSTAIPE         I        ESTALISME  K1Ns    OBTAIN           SIUATION
IN100  EL JWs    MmUW LEON Q tRlCON OP INSTRUL                    sODI             9                                           *                                       *1        PRO=?  PAID OJT
S.A.                                 PLAmT 1R( xUtWoLITrAN                                                                                                             QUALMI,
ARA OF EDEEr I    o 10 mr                                                                                                         u21mi    972
CEO DI   O cocai AREA                                                                                                            PU         Ftdt
10 sOLvE DoSw 1ItSsC1                                                                                                            THE PUGOUS
OJLDEI INSTALUATI  O?                                                                                                             781.
E*T7 SP1INMES.                                                                                                                   DECRuSE Is
WT EmISSIONS
AND ITS (SE
IN A EZMLI E
SOWD AS 1R1N
FILLIN.
FMIVWII01WA            WTIC00 STATE    STALLATION or SM0U AMD    soo0              902     4     11 AD DMST        15 ag z                                             EITICTINt       PAID 0F
S.A. Ds C.v.                         DoSM PAInC     DOLLITON             .AITcCLEs                                                                                     CO7N   01
EqVIVRT 20 ELD(IRATE                                                                                                             POLLOTION
POLLI EmISSIONS                                                                          'VEOtrT 01
Pr00v   ST sEL1IU  at                                                                                                            ULV PROOD=T
SF1  1WI AND SU?W HIAL.                                                                                                          ro    D
SUM AND DUST
NWC4  IESsrIut.,         ICDo STASrAT  SAUATZON Or  rEAIMr    Ion                 Ion0                                         *                                       IN JAN          PAD 0n
S.A. DS C.V.                         PLAtr ro MMSc  FOLWTCIO                                                                                                           *990 ItS
Vis      o? AmSILVA     (P.M..,                                                                                                  CWAear CIO=
GREASS, OeIs ETC.) urnr                                                                                                           DM  WE 1
DISCRO  iN   IN Dan.                                                                                                              LACe OF UAITS.
FUWECIONES ALTEAI,  lMRU C1 STrA    INSTALnON O? A DST AND   l002                 100ion                                       *                    at111 5im vrr                      PAID 01
S.A. DE C. T.                        Ss  ABSORTIN  CYcON                                                                                           VErI ESTABUsR        EnEYIoN IN
JWR TE R.TEWJ AtRAg A                                                                                        NOMS ACWRDl          ITS PrtoDDUTE
C_SSIPY  AND A UAW                                                                                           TO INTsNAL          PROCESS.
DODEix  ASMAIDE  to LDCaTE                                                                                   IESURUONTS.
POLLDYtI ItSSEON.



Annex 3
Page 3 of 6
MUflAWW        CCILU           P O  LL   OTLO            a r  L o V     rL  S     IWM=rTAJM
v1lmvrsrwr   SE {auWD0                          04.) Ur. USSLI        VA"ION    To COL7 151x         31177          Cr11
01eAMw              i~427W          PEOII  rnumtaw            1102.5       or 08.IMV        uArz               W Nrs_AI               2       JMAJISrED mugs 0M141A51            SEIVTN
s nimo,               wci Cun  unasruri w Or    i Bo nu 10                                                                *                           gmn
ruua  n1r St                        I fllDA    AUt kT AMWO                                                                                    5TA USD
n U. Si. a C.9.                     I01Ua1Wt  M53..                                                                                           SOt     3 012
20 iNExmTZ
dIDSAUNEaC       IME0 S111   ZUSYAUAIEW AND,0* fMf11-  O0N                JRUSf    0am1 a               J2 api.13  35 asimh a    73      N0lEui Wml          5100w o         InSIA07 E 503
S.A. n C.Vr.                        EU? Oil *ll1-02OT Or                        F STAGES    OVmD?            2R.13 kg  1.24 &glbr   - go     ESUSrAUIS           A1707 JO
Msme (10  Mr, *mVui                        2 CAMUM   OMa a               33.74 kg  2.3 kSjhr    - to      1395 A02RDiW       ?UI PI
Jl  ASs CrCA., PILIW.                      2 918517.                                                      20 IETZvuL         MUTF OF
JI1309IM1M FtMPUMM,to                      6 Ion                                                          WSlES.             f 017595
St CA8W 01 MT ZS O JSUNS
ZE8WI  Li mrA3frA,  0171            CAE Ogf A SIM0 TO           102s                                                                                             &Es353&=  or   Pam off
5..     C.V.                      MT== 511   SW 7W! of               *                                                                                         9  5101?
5231~~~~~~~~W  WEK01AL                                                                        a~~~~~~~~~~~rmsmrsa
A PDL= ID
EWIALL A
T4aa.namY 12
a#nm Isuc    rcosr1 tsrnEl0/esF   I.n cAR.
CAn, JOW=
Jr  egr rJ JO ns~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~*32



Annex 3
Page 4 of 6
O8WAW          cunUW          * oLL  U 1 r s  o                  V t  I 7 I  L 5  S5I TAM
WiNtsim'   L ACWitW                           of".) tSr. mtum       RAItU ViC    ID CiOL vrm      WrnSV          cm
aWAl               1M8012ealsirmW                           P2003 D     OP 0xtvZS        SAI               mm    01MU            2       tSTAZLIS    30    OIi
QuCA Mt &.L. tun    mIX, uAzuarmnu nAO                       inOt            loot                                                         Wtrl vim          nXhliE oil  is Po=
5.A. K 0.1.                        stvIZrnN eNSAAM                                                                                       ZSVUS5KD           soIL. 50-
tlPr soum     0 xru                                                                                   21=09 COMM aDZ AND VA
50 WUxLm          Tic. ii"C
t sDmUz .         AG= Wmam
WA3L1M
P0tU  ull,S.A.  tnaU1LPAS 5          SVNAUJVL CY $pl          PROJECT   VA S           55P   Z XD Si  FP5IDD                                         s 
ID COOT   AND SWCUM                                                                                   SU5P50 Dow ID
895.13 31UW, 051. AID                                                                                 IzIRCAL   LLASIJ
oIn cIswinmsw.                                                                                        Dovm FEn ssi
irwr - mu.
S.A. Ds c.r.  m
AN APmAP*UM
srTmw vm in
CVLUIZSA SEf fEIS     lLCAWAU      5*5 AUd VM OF A LNOITA    LaS            1013         03             13" Atli   200 mpI     * 54      IMIDWIVA IM       KCREAN zN    PAID 0ON
inLOANS, S.A. DsSLIPUCUL SW.15- PZSAViN                                                  5.5.1.          so mphl    92 usI     * 33      OFer7 WAT.        345 1OLL02IM
C.V.                              tSISIM ID Mol   Il                                      .I.A.          J0 mphs    Id ughs      40      50W.205 10 A&V   LATUS AND
tIUrn re7 COMw  -O St                                 3.5.1.0.         I ashl    2 migi     4100      KfiZZln   flDoViUS  *100153OF
WUAIREN ST FiLUWRM HUM.                               P.R.                -9      1            0      CLAsSmCAIMO OF   rLUm iM
TEN.           S000.      toe         - 17      NATIUALI. Aml     Um-USE L
S.A.A.E.        3 slit    1.2 m#fi    - 40     DhvszMN13 of       lviM=
SD?r.          low0 p    730 sell     - 2s      i7mIIL Simt       it PBX,
.0N8 OUS       *50 msph    so pall     30 to     415W to          AND P00075W
cows           t00 U.     n 0.        - in         mDSU.          or



Annex 3
Page 5 of 6
C 0VPLUH        CWOLAWCS        P O  L L U J I O              L     V  1  L S          UESTA
UlINVW?IUT   IN ACrIE VEW                        (Mr.) W. RSULTS    VARIATION    To acmr Vin          SEEIT.         CwrE
*  NPANr            LOCATON         FROICr  CRIPTION           PROCUN       OP oDliVE  S      SAI8PLE           NON      OSrTAIN        t       NASLISHD POVU    OBTANME            sIfIUNI
C1oS PORTLAN          WROSr O         UALIATION 0DM DT           1001            100           YS 2           J3.85 &S    5.82 kg/h   - 5                           DUST COLECTORI Zs Io
* CIUL, S.A. DI                     C1ZEGS, DWS, AN                                           OM 3            27.59 kg    6.52 kgIh   - 6                           DECREAS  in
C. O.                                cEImc OsTOma                                                                                                                   ESaSSIzO or
RtOWE Or ANf 8171-                                                                                                             PVULLS ANT INI
rn.1  ID WADAI DUlST                                                                                                                A2' nsPB
PARTICaS MM A  CASES,                                                                                                          AND ALW ITS
to Rwa= DTM cEilU-                                                                                                             MS in i  PRO-
7108 Ug ME AIIOSPUZ.                                                                                                           OXTIO  pFx=S.
PM  SN JU.            qUIRTARO       ZSTALLATION 0oJ AIOLOCECAL  1003             on          raIORE           300C       0c                 07 Anssw O rEo,        USm  Or SU-    m Io=
S.. DR C.r.                          TI3W     PAN ro AVOID                                    P.m.            *.5 - U.5   5.2            0      SES6pIID  SOLIDS'   MAER CEZERD
C4JmANIIO# o0  TVATR                                     SUM. SOLIVS    5  pp.    104.75 ppM       4.75    SPIUMArS AID        ST YeT CaOAST
DRAINED DTlD    sN JON                                   SIJDl.  SOIDS   UN  i    UN  JDEPR         0   oRr     oY or 0FO AR2XVCTURL                     I
RIM   IN STW$AT OF                                      n127INIeIT.   ABSEr         AuSS            0      0WID  OILS in       PURSES.                  W
qORTAM.                                                  IISiNA7          s pp       2. 12 MP     - 58      f SFJNIW AOD
GarS   oIs   lo Fp.        *2 pm.       4392        A VII AREA.
,cam            100 Pt-CO    NA
D50S            IOD  5il   2. 11       .1t
ISQUl. S.A. DR C.V.   RosS           ENrAUATION OF EW Tos 1002                    M           MNW Srr.  CARUED OUTr 7n=0  AGtIUNr.              INERNaL KSRE-   COWL or             pa FS
MI ABSRS 33W A *OS ro                                                                                      aEn IDICATE         POLLmInO
sWNATma W POLLUON                                                                                          58.9 - 9.9          OSRCGLNA7ED
SOL=  ZR NS NSMUranl                                                                                       ABSORTION ON       Tof onSSIO
MOT.                                                                                                        mrTum oXES.    Or NITA=
VAPOUS I
TEE AUESPDUI.
VWIEA OCSDI, S.A.  HUCOR Cm    WnTAUATON OF A  AtE=              1001           lOOt                                                                               CWuLS VI    PATI 0W
fstlUwU  STSTMIID                                                                                                              UStASIW
Ns   or svs iLI                                                                                                                To ZIIRIU
SOLM. OIlS. GRAK                                                                                                               U4SI*1
AN                                                                   'S sms or in
a   MMTE
MU ATr.



AnneX 3
Page 6 of 6
W5aWi         GAA s            LL    r I O           L IV L S   t  rUUt5 rAm
VIINSJU   ZN A(UVDW                      (Ka.) ssT. uLts    VAIU2ZW    to ro ar mn I        S       aW
cMAIN            LOAr2W    n AaM DcarmoR             FROMx      or OsinzS  csAI                NM                  2 OrIUJ            g                 spm
nAM=. S.A. o       m ar LaW    IWAUION aOF apenar   AOtt             toot                                                                  agmms .wf
C.v.                           TD MSg  ISSM9S zRtl                                             IYU
Il ATXSMSAnt or LiSTSm                                                                                      MM hO.
SW  AjuwnZc   mr,                                                                                           I: ID ZUW*
svwmn aw~   os,
ACDS, AiD onnR l   oIL.                                                                                     am= OIP __
I
Z 11  S NO Off CISL C132IflCSTO SWIN 131 WARMA$IM MM AOD MN RAS OF SLOTMN 2WsSIZOVS MD71 13 U MWIU.



