Documient or
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
L~~-         J  5t-1
Report No. P-3302-ME
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
NACIONAL FINANCIERA, S.A.
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
UNITED MEXICAN STATES
FOR A
POLLUTION CONTROL PROJECT
I.ay :, 1982
This durment has a restrited distributiona and may be used by rec,ipients ovity in the peifonnance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be dsclosed without World Darik authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
The Central Bank withdrew from the exchange market on February 18,
i982. Prior to that date, the rate of exchange was 26.9 pe',os to the US
dollar.  In recent weeks the Peso is being traded around 46 to the dollar.
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 co December 31
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
ACF             Index of Average Cost of Funds to Multipurpose Banks
FONEI           Industrial Equipment Trust Fund
(Fondo de Equipamiento Industrial)
GMCA            Greater Mexico City Area
NAFINSA         Nacional Financiera, S.A.
PEMEEX    =     Mexican Petroleum Company
(Petroleos Mexicanos)
PPAR      =    Project Performance Audit Report
SA1HOP          Secretariat of Human Settiemenes and Public Works
(Secretaria de Asentamientos Humanos y Obras Publicas)
SAPFH           Secretariat of Agricuture and Water Resources
(Secretaria de Agricultura y Recursos Hidraulicos)
SMA             Subsecretariat for Environmental Improvement
(Subsecretaria de Me;Aoramiento del Ambiente)
SSA             Secretariat of Health and Public Welfare
(Secretaria del Salubridad y Asistencia)
WHO             Woild Health Organization
WQCD            Water Quality Control District



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MEXICO
POLLUTION CONTROL PROJECT
Loan and Project Sulamary
Borrower:       Nacional Finan.iciera, S.A.
Guarantor:      United Mexican States
Beneficiary:   Industrial Equipment Trust Fund (FONEI)
Amount:         US$60 m .' on equivalent, including capitalized front.-end
fee.
Terms:          Fifteen years, including 3 years of grace, at an interest
rate of 11.6 percent per annum.
Onlending
Terms:        FONEI would receive loan funds at an interest rate equal to
that of the Bank loan. FONEI would retain the proceeds of the
loan as additional government equity.
Project
Description: The project would:
(a) finance industrial enterprises' acquisition and installaticn
of pollution control equipment, process changes or plant
relocation;
(b)  finince private automobile garages' acquisition of vehicular
t-mission testing and diagnostic equipment;
(c:) finance local and federal authorities' acquisition and
installation of pollution monitoring equipment, laboratory
facilities, and emission testing and diagnostic equipment for
automobile inspection stations;
(d) train technical staff of implementing agencies, financial
institutions and industries, and automobile mechanics;
(e) support studies and technical assistance to help develop
long-term contro' strategies and emissions standards.
Project
Risk:         The most important risk is inadequate monitoring and enforce-
Ftent of pollution control regulations.  Th-te high priority
attached by the government to this program and its commitment
on a project execution paper, with a detailed action program,
suggest that this risk is not high.
This document has a restricted distritution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii 
Estimated Cost:
Local    Coreign       Total
-----  US$ millions------
Air Pollution Control                          91.0       39.3        130.3
Industrial Source Control                    82.8      35.2        118.0
Automobile Inspection                         5.8        2.0          7.8
Air Quality Monitoring *                      0.2        1.8          2.0
Trai;ning and Studies *                       2.2        0.3         2.5
Water Pollution Control                        35.9       18.3         54.2
Industrial Source Control                    35.0       18.0        53.0
Training, Studies, and
Monitoring Equipment *                       0.9        0.3          1.2
Salid Waste Control *                           Z.2        0.           2.5
Industrial Solid Waste Inventory              1.8       0.2          2.0
Feasibility Studies                           0.4        0.1         0.I
Health Impact Studies *                         1.8        1.2          3.0
Front-End Fee                                    -         0.9          0.9
TOTAL                                   130.9       60.0         190.9
Financing Plan:
Local    Foreign   Total
-------US$ millions
FONET.                                 84.3          -        84.3
Industries and Banks                   38.0          -        38.0
Government                              8.6          -          8.6
Bank                                     -          60.0      60.0
TOTAL                           130.9         60.0      190.9
Estimated Disbursements:
-----------------US$ millions-----------
Bank FY      1983  1984   1985  1986  1987   1988  1989
Annual            2.4   10.5  15.5  :5.1  10.0   5.0    1.5
Cumulative        2.4   12.9  28.-;  43.5  53.5  58.5  60.0
Rate of Return:  Not applicable.
Staff Appraisal Report:  Report No. 38165-ME dated April 28, 1982.
*    Costs of these items include physical contingencies of 5 percent and
price contingencies of 8 percent for 1982 and 1983, 7.5 percent for 1984
and 7 percent for 1985.



INTERNAIIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED LOAN TO NACIONAL FINANCIERA, S.A. WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
UNITED MEXICAN STATES FOR A POLLUTION CONTROL PROJECT
l.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed lcan
to Nacional Financicra, S.A. with the Guarantee of United Mexican States for
the equivalent of US$60 million to help finance a pollution control project.
The loan includes a capitalized front-end fee of US$0.9 million.
Approximately US$55 million of the loan would be onlent through the
Industrial Equipment Trust Fund (FONEI) for the purchase of pollution control
equipment by industrial enterprises and for purchase of automobile emissions
testing equipmeat by private garages. FONEI would receive these funds at an
interest rate equal to that of the Bank loan, and would retain them as
additional government equity.  The final borrowers would receive loan funds
at a variable interest rate not lower than three points below the cost of
funds to multipurpose banks (ACF). Subloans would have a maximum
amortization period of 13 years including 3 years of grace.  The government
would assume the foreign exchange risk and the responsibility to repay tne
Bank loan.  The loan would be repaid over 15 years, including 3 years of
grace, with interest at 11.6 percent per annum.
PART I: THE ECONOMY 1
2.        The Mexican economic situation and major issues of economic policy
were analyzed in "Mexico:  Development Strategy - Prospects and Problems"
(3605-ME), distributed to the Executive Directors on August 31, 1981.
Country data sheets are attached as Annex I.
Background
3.        For the last thirty years, the Mexican economy recorded a high rate
of growth:  on average, GDP grew at 6 percent per year, in real terms,
between 1950 and 1980, allowing output per capita to increase by 3 percent
per year over the same period. Sustained growth brought about rapid
industrialization:  especially after 1955, industry has been the most dynamic
sector of the economy, growing at an average rate of 7.5 percent per year,
while agricultural output grew at 3.5 percent per year; thus, the share of
the industrial sector in GDP went up from 26 percent in 1950 to 38 percent in
1980.  A similar change took place in the structure of foreign trade, with
manufactured products accounting for an increasing share of total exports
between 1950 and 1975.  Finally, the last thirty years w'tnessed the passage
from a rural tc , lar&gely urban society:  in 1980, the fraction of total
population living in urban areas was estimated to exceed 60 percent, while it
was less than 30 percent in 1950.
1/   This section is substanti-Lly unchanged from the President's Report
for the Capital Goods Industries Development Project (P-3284-ME of
April 22, 1982).  Hlowever  some minor changes have been introduced in
paras. 10-15.



5~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
4.         Successful exploitation of profitable opportunities by a dynamic
private sector has been the main engine of growth in the Mexican economy; but
the market mechanism, left to itself, would have done little to correct the
effects of an uneven distribution of resources on the relative position of
the poorer segments of the population and of the less favored areas of the
country; hence the government na3 had to play a critical role in balancing
the neod to provide resources and 'ncentives for growth against the demands
for a fair distribution of its benefits.
5.         In the early seventies, the government sought to build up
infrastructure, expand basic industries, stimulate agricultural output and
implement massive social programs. The difficulties it encountered in
mobilizing enough resources to attain all these aims simultaneously led to
excessive public sector deficits, while domestic supply rigidities caused a
large part of aggregate demand to spill over into imports. Efforts to
redress financial imbalances by strengthening public revenues fell short of
their goal, and, in Septamber , 1976, the hitherto fixed parity of the peso
was abandoned, while the government imposed a strict stabilization program on
the economy.
Economic Performance, 1976-1981
6.         The Administration of President Lopez Portillo, whict took office
in December, 1976, saw the c^ntrol of inflation and the improvement of the
current account balance as its most urgent tasks; it succeeded in reducing
the rate of increase of domesti: prices by half bet~ween 1977 and 1978 while,
at the same time, the current account deficit decreased by over 40 percent.
In 1978, the economy resumed its path of rapid growth.  One of the major
constraints on economic growth - the availability of foreign exchange - had
been greatly relaxed by the successful exploitation of Mexico's oil reserves;
these, which at the end of 1981 stood at 72 billion barrels (with potential
reserves estimated at 200 billion brarrels), enabled the economy to finance
the purchases of raw materials and eapital goods needed to sustain high GDP
growth, while the revenues from federal taxes on oil exports prov'ded the
Government with resouices, on a hitherto unprecedented scale, to pursue some
of its long-standing policy goals.
7.         In 1978-1981, output grew at an annual rate exceeding 7 percent,
above what would have been needed to absorb the new entrants into the labor
force; open unemployment is estimated to have fallen to 4-5 percent of the
labor force in the modern sector although under2mployment is likely to remain
I ~          high in the medium run.  The Administratior. succeeded in achieving investment
growth of over 16 percent per year, strengthen'.ng its support to agriculture,
reversing the trend towards a worsening trade balance on basic foods,
containing to some extent rural migration and providing small farmers with
access to more efficient production methods.  Finally, a combination of
fiscal incentives and administrative regulations 'together wfth the increas-
Lng costs of congestion) had a positive effect on spatial decentralization,
one of the major policy objectives of the Administration.
8.         A marked increase in the size of the budget has been the first
result of the government's new commitments:   the expenditure budget grew, in
real terms, 20 percent per year between 1979 and 1981; furthermore, actual
expenditures exceeded budget figures by, significant amounts (by as much as
12 percen. in 1981). Revenues have gTown more sLowly, and, as a result, the
public sector deficit amounted to over 14 percent of GDP in 1981.  DesDite a



3-
high rate of mobilization of private savings into the financial system - made
possible by a scheme of adjustable rates on peso deposits - the government
had to resort increasingly to foreign borrowing. By 1980, moreover, the
side-effects of rapid CDP growth were making themselves felt; aggregate
demand - with total investment growing at over 16 percent per year, in real
terms, since 1979 - was exerting pressure on prices, and domestic inflation
reached 26 percent, while the nominal exchange rate had remained practically
stable since 1977; as a result, non-oil exports were decreasing in real
terms, while imports - encouraged to some extent by a more lioeral trade
policy - had grown by 30 percent per year since 1979. At the end of 1980,
the current account deficit amounted to 4 percent of GDP, as it had in 1976.
Recent Developments
9.         In 1981, the need to bring dcmestic inflation under control and to
help restore the competitiveness of non-oil exports became obvious.  The
Administration opted for a policy of gradual adjustment, counting on slower
demand growth in 1982 - brought about partly by a deceleration of public
expenditures - to moderate inflation, and allowing a faster rate of float of
the peso to reduce the gap between domestic and foreign prices over a two-
year period. With a favorable outlook for oil exports, no major problems
were expected in the external sector, and a path of gradual adjustment to a
rate of growth of 6-7 percent appeared sustainable in the long run and was
considered to be less costly in terms of inflation and unemployment than more
drastic stabilization measures. Thus, the Administration attempted to reduce
the extent of public overspending, while at the same time reintroducing
import licenses on 80 percent of imports, tightening public procurement
procedures and allowing the float to proceed at a faster pace.
10.        This program suffered a setback when, in the second half of 1981,
it became apparent that oil sales would not reach their target:  actual oil
revenues, at US$14 billion, turned out to be 25 percent below what had been
forecast. The public sector had to increase its foreign borrowing by US$4
billion, and the current account deficit reached an estimated US$11.3 bil-
lion, or 8 percent of GDP, at the end of the year.  The exchange markets
reacted by increasing the downward pressure on the peso, and, in early 1982,
two events combined to make a guided float increasingly costly to maintain:
on the one hand, it seemed likely that oil sales for the year would again
fall short of expectations; on the other, the 5 percent increase in domestic
prices in January - due in part to the rise in domEstic fuel prices decreed
in December, 1981, and in part to a 34 percent raise in the minimimum wage
for 1982 - suggested that inflation, which had reached 28.7 percent in 1981,
might well. accelerate further in 1982.  OrLce more, the exchange markets
reacted unfavourably, and, in order to stop the steady drain on reserves
required for maintaining the float, the authorities withdrew their suppc;-t of
the peso on February 18. Since then, the exchange rate has stabilized at
about Mex$46 to the dollar, amounting to an adjujtment OL 70 percent
(40 percent in dollar terms).  Simultaneously, the Administration announced a
stabilization program whose main components are a 3 percent cut in the 1982
budget - which, at the current rate of inflation, shows a decrease in real
terms with respect to 1981 - the imposition of temporary price controls, the
liberalization of certain necessary imports (basic foodstuffs, raw materials
and capital goods) and the granting of financial support to firms affected by
the parity change. Finally, a wage raise of 30 percent for the lower



-4-
echelons of the Administration was announced, with higher employees receiving
increases of the order of 10 percent; labor has been urged to limit its
demands So what would be necessary to restore the pre-devaluation real
purchasing power of wages.
Prospects
11.       The rate of inflation for 1982 has been forecast at 40 to 45 per-
cent, while output is expected to grow at 4-4.5 percent.  Both figures are
plausible, but sensitive to unpredictable circumstances.  A 45 percent rate
of inflation can be expected under a wage adjustment aimed at restoring the
pre-devaluation purchasing power of wage incorne since, given the low import
coefficient and *he still lower share of imports in consumption, such an
adjustaent could be significantly lower than the parity change.  A 4.5 per-
cent rate of GDP growth is compatible with a slight fall in imports of around
5 percent which would bring about a substantial improvement in the current
account balance. But a larger wage increase may result in higher domestic
prices, and, if oil revenues fall short of their expected target of about
US$17 billion, an improvement in the current balance might require a sharper
fall in Imports which would, in turn, force a lower rate of GDP growth.
12.       The Mexican Administration has sought to minimize the disruption
caused by the stabilization measures so as not to jeopardize the remarkable
growth of the past years.  In doing so, it has opted for a policy of gradual
adjustment whose effects will be apparent only in the medium run.  Inflation
may well exceed 40 percent in 1982, and this will offset pa:c of the effects
of the devaluation on the competitiveness of non-oil exports.  OrL the other
hand, the external sector can improve, in the short run, only to the extent
that imports show a substantial deceleration, since, even though the adoption
of a more realistic parity has removed a major obstacle to non-oil exports,
the stimulus to foreign sales is unlikely to have a significant effect on
aggregate exports in the next few months since oil accounts for three-fourths
of total export revenues.  Finally, the Administration has little margin to
reduce its expenditures during this fiscal year.  The only item in which
substantial cuts can !)e effected in the short run is public investment:
general expenses (38 percent of the expe.iditure budget), debt service (21
percent) or transfers and subsidies are virtually fixed for the duration of
the budget. But if the Administration adheres to a strict budgetary policy,
thereby contributing to moderate the rate of domestic inflation, significant
improvements are likely to appear by the end of 1983:  non-oil exports, led
by tourism and certain consumer goods such as clothing, footwear and
appliances, will probably grow substantially.  A reduced public sector
borrowing requirement (new net foreign financing is scheduled at US$11
billion for 1982, down from US$15-17 billion in 1981) will reduce the
pressure on the pcso, and, by 1984, Mfexico could reach a sustainable rate of
GDP growth of abort 6 percent on averagc, while mainiLainirg the current
account deficit within manageable limits.  Lastly, the Administration has an
opportunity to overhaul the entire system of transfers and subsidies,
reducing their levels and improving their cost-effectiveness.
13.       The country still faces structural problems in the years to come,
related mainly to poverty and unequal interpersonal and inter-regional
distribution of income.  Efforts were made in the past to improve the living



-5-
conditions of tie poorer segments of the population.  A family planning
program startea in 1972 brought the growth rate of the population to an
estimated annual averaze of 2.6 percent, down from 3.5 percent in the 1970s.
To tackle the problems of malnutrition and increasing dependence on foreign
food, the present Administration launched the SAM (Mexican Food System)
Program, aimed at increasing self-sufficiency in basic foods, providing for
minimum nutritional needs of the poor and increasing rural employment. The
Administration also placea greater emphasis on the promotion of small scale
irrigation, rehabilitation of underutilized existing irrigation works and
provision of credit and technical assistance for the development of rainfed
agriculture.
14.       The main urban-regional problems are:  growing congestion, pollu-
tion, high cost of services (especially water) and other management problems
that stem from the continued growth of Mexico City (already the third most
popalous metropolitan area in the world and moving rapidly to become the
first) and Monterrey and Guadalajara, located in the dry, densely popul]ted
central plateau; and retarded development, poverLy and great difficulty in
providing better jobs or adequate public services to the one-third of all
Mexicans who live in small, scattered centers in rural areas.  The present
government took many positive steps to confront these problems, including an
administrative reorganization and the elaboration of a comprehensive National
Urban Plan in 1978 and of a National Industrial Development Plan in 1979
which reLlected the preoccupation of the present Administration with the
long-term prospects of the industrial sector and their implications for the
correction of the employment and regional imbalances probleas.
15.       The high rate of growth experienced by the Mexican economy in
recent years has provided the strongest weapon to tackle the long-term
problems mentioned above.  At the present time, Mexico is in the midst of an
adjustment process which may bring about higher unemployment, albeit from
relatively low starting levels, thanks to the recent record of high GDP
growth.  Lower growth, on the other hand, will afford an opportunity to
reappraise many of the past years' goals and policy instrunments, in
particular the level and structure of subsidies, and there is evidence that
the Administration  after having adopted unpopular decisions ia a politically
difficult year, intends to carry out such a reappraisal.
16.       Mexico's public and publicly guaranteed debt service ratio has been
increasing over the recent past and peaked at 69 percent in 1979.  This high
ratio reflected the still relatively low level of exports to GNP and the high
proportion of Mexican borrowing from commercial banks. The public debt
service ratio declined to around 30 percent in 1980, not only as a result of
rapid increases in petroleum exports,but also because some of the debt con-
tracted on the least favorable terms had been prepaid; but it had risen again
to an estimated 43 percent by the end of  M81.  Debt service on Bank loans
amounted to about 3.2 percent of public debt service in 1980  this ratio is
projected to remain about the same during the mid-1980s.  The Bank currently
holds about 5.7 percent of Mexico's total medium and long-term public debt,
and this ratio is not likely to change significantly over the next few
years. Mexico is creditworthy for borrowing on conventional terms.



-6-
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MEXICO 2|
Bank Operations
17.       As of March 31, 1982, Mexico had received 72 loans from the Bank
amounting to US$5,218.1 millio:- net of cancellations and terminations; of
these, 44 loans totalling US$2,438.6 million were fully disbursed.  The Bank
held US$4405.3 million, of which US$1,942.9 million had not yet been
disbursed. 3/ Some 46 percent of Bank lending has been for agriculture and
rural development, 14 percent for industry, 13 percert for power, and 15
percent for transportation; the remaining 12 percent has been for water
supply, tourism, urban development and vocational training projects.  tnnex
II contains a summary statement of Bank loans as of March 31, 1982 and r.tes
on the execution of ongoing projects.
18.       Of the US$5.2 billion total lending, about US$2.5 billion was for
establishing or strengthening institutions for channeling credit to areas
where credit supply wa, deficient or -non-existent, and setting up in the
commercial banking system the ability to carry out project-related appraisai
of investments in agricilture, industry and tourism.  These credit programs
have facilita-ed lendirgr to low-income farmers and small-  and medium-scale
industrial enterprisaE based on productive investment plans rather than
collateralized credit.,
19.        Implementation of most Bank-financed projects was delayed during
the period of economic difficulties in the mid-1970s and during the period of
stabilization that followed the September 1976 devaluation of the peso.
Since then, the government has arranged adequate budget financing and has
significantly improved project implementation. Four projects which had
important structural constraints were modified and rephased to acconlnt for
the changed circum.stances.  Government and Bank officials have met periodi-
cally to review project implementation, and greater attention has been
focused in Mexico on project monitoring.  As a result of these m.easures, -ost
of the Bank-assisted projects are be-ing implemented sat!.sfactorily and dis-
bursements have risen from US$91 million in FY78 to US$413 million in FY81.
IFC Operations
20.        As of March 31, 1982, IFC had made investment corn .tments in 23
companies in Mexico, for a total of US$551.2 million, of whic  US$404.1
million had been sold, repaid or cancelled.  A summary .,tatenent of IFC
investments is presented in Annex II.
2/   This section is subst.,ntialiy uncha.nged from rile ?resident 's Report for
the Capital Goods Industries Development Project (P-3284-ME of April 22,
1982). However, some minor changes have been introduced in para. 23.
3/   These totals do not include a $180 million lcan for agricultural
development approved in Ma-rch 1982, but not yet signed.



-7-
Bank Strategy
21.       The main ob <        ives of recent Baik lending in Mexico have been to:
(a) support policies and  > rams leading to a wider dl;stribution of the
benefits of economic growth; :) help finance projects that make, directly or
indirectly, significant contrib u  ons to output and employment; (c) help
reduce Mexico's urban-regional imb a  nces; and (d) help break bottlenecks
preventing rapid growth.
22.        Because of the difficult structural problems of agriculture and the
sector's crucial impoihtance foi- tne one-third of the national population
living in the rural avdeas, the Bank has made agricultuLe the leading sector
for its lending. The 1Bank's agriculturai lending program in Mexico has four
goals:  first, to inciXease productivity of presently cultivated lands;
second, to improve the| productivity of small farmers; third, to complem,ent
infrastructire investT nts with suDport services, such as extension,
mark2ting prograns an(, credit; and fourth, to promote eiaployment generating
investments In rural  ceas.  The Bank has made eleven loans in FYs76-81
totalling IJS$1,466 mi lion for irrigation, rural development and agricul-
tural, agro-indastrial  and livestock credit programs.  A US$175 million loan
for a rural develupmen: project and a US$180 million loan for an irrigation
rehabilitation project hIave been apprc 7ed by the Executive Directors in
EY827  Several proje.:ts for rainfed agr'culture, rural development, irriga-
tion, fisheries, and support services are irn preparation.
23.        Bank lending for industry has aimed at:  (a) reduiction of  the
balance of payments dzficit; (b) promoting greater employment; ana (c) decen-
tralizing industrial activities away from the major and increasingly con-
gested urban areas.  A steel project which the Bank helped structure and
finance is now operating in a previously underdeveloped area on the west
coast of Mexico, and the city in which it is located, Lazaro Cardenas, is
developing into a new growth pole. Four loans for industrial projects to
pronote the development of small- and miedium-scale industrial enterprises, to
finance expansion of smaii- and medium-scale mining, and to support an indus-
trial equipment fund (FONEI) were approved by the Executive Directors in
FYs78-80D  They offer support to the private sector at a time of rapid expan-
s'on and are directed at all three goals m- itioned above.  A loan for a voca-
tional training project was appr ved by tll Executive Directors in July 1981;
it is assisting a program to incrcase the supply of skilled workers and tech-
nicians.  A loan for a capital gooOs industries development projecr is under
consideration of the Executive Dire tors.
24.        Bank lending for physical J\nfrastructure has been focused on
regional development and strengthening of institutions  and sector policies.
A highway sector oroject (FY79) and    he fourth railway project (FY81)
support these goals.  The first and sec- nd medium sizc cli,ies water supply
and sewerage projects (FY76 and 81) rai i orce the planning, management and
firance of specialized water supply and ' werage institutions at the federal
ani municipal levels and contribute to th\ establishment of tariffs more
closely related to costs; a third project ;as been appraised and is expected
to be presented -ro the Executive Directors in the coming raonths.



O ~~~~~~~8
25.       The government has adopted a National 'urban Development Plan that
spells (ut its regional development priorities in operational terms.  A
project to assist in the development of the Lazaro Cardenas coniurbation area
was approved by the Executive Directors in FY78, and a second project for
oil-prcducing soGutiieastern Mexico was approved by the Executive Directors in
FY81 .
26.       Tie Economic Development Institute (EDT) is assisting CECADE (a
sliilar institute under the Ministry of Programming and Budget) in training
Government staff in project preparation, monitoring and evaluation.  EDT
assistance is directed at urban and regional development, agriculture, rural
development and agro-industries courses.  The Bank has also assisted the
Mexican authorities in training personnel for managing water supply and
industrial credit projects.
27.       The  nter-American Development BanK (IDB) is the second largest
source of multilateral aid to Mexico. The IDB has made loans to Mexico
totalling US$2,697.1 million as of March 31, 1982.  Over 60 percent of the
total has gone for agricultural and rural development projects, and the
balance for transportation, industry, water supply, and tourism infrastruc-
ture. The IDB and the Bank have coordinated their assistance on several
projects.  Each has made loans for the nationol integrated rural development
program (PIDER), agricultural anl livestock credit, small- and medium-scale
industries development, and hotel development projects.  The International
Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD) has approved a loan of US$22 million
for a rural development project in the state of Oaxaca which was appraised by
the Bank's staff and for which the Bank is acting as cooperating institution
for auministaring the loan.
28.       Bank-supported po-wer, steel, fertilizer and tourism projects in
Mexico have been co-financed by several bilateral export credit agencies and
commercial banks.  The capital goods credit project, which will be presen-ted
to the Executive Directors shortly, will be co-financed with commercial banks
and export credit agencies.  In January 1982, Mexico borrowed US$500 million
to provide complementary financing for Bank-assisted projects whrore project
specific co-financing would be difficult.
PART III. ENVIRONMENTAl POLLUTION ANL ITS CONTROL
Background
29,       Mexico's industrial growth has averaged over eight percenit per year
for the past three decades.  Industrial growth, larger employment and market
opportunities and superior infrastructure facilities available in the urban
centers, have led to high -oncentrations of populations.  The Creater Mexficc
City Area (CEiCA) accounts Lor nearly one quarter of the country's total
population, more than one-third of the industrial production, and about one
half of the country's estimated seven million motor vehicles.  With estimated
populatioii of nearly 15 million, CMCA stands among the three or four most
highiv por-" aced LmtropolitaA  areas in the world.  Rapid industrial anid urban



growth have create,l high levels of pollution of the air, water and land in
GMCA and some otner urban areas.  Corrective measures have assumed critical
importance.  The Government has issued legislation tc regulate levels cf
contaminants from industrial, vehicular, and other sources and is now irn the
process of implementing a comprehensive en-ironmental protection program.
Nature of the Pollution Problem
"0.        Air Pollution.  1ndustrial activities and combustion of high sulfur
fuel oil account for nearly all of the particulate end sulfur dioYide
emissions in GMCA, abol,t one quarter of the hydrocarbon emissions, and
two-thirds of the nitrogen oxides.  Motor vehicles account for most of the
carbon monoxide emissions and three quarters of the hydrocarbon emissions.
Very high levels of these pollutants have been observed in GMCA's atmosphere
in recent years.  GI4CA's air pollution problems are intensified by its loca-
tion in a sheltered valley at a high altitude (over 2,200 meters), with high
solar radiation, poor ventilation, and noor combustion conditions. The maxi-
mum daily concentration. levels of the four major contaminants substantially
exceed World Health Organization (WHO) standards, 4/
31.        Other areas of the country with significant air pollution problems
`nclude Guadalajara and Monterrey, the next two largest urban and industr-,al
centers in thie country, and the Coatzacoalcos-Minatitlan area which is tht
home of the country's rapidlv growing petroleum industry.  Particulates and
sulfur dioxide emissions, predominantly frou industrial sources, represent
the major air quality problem in these areas. Air pollution levels for sus-
pended particulates at some locations in these areas exceeded even the
highest daily averages recorded 4n GMCA.
32.        The daily emission rates of the various air pollutants will
increase in the coming years unless rigorous corrective actions are taken.
Installation of pollution control equipment, changes in industrial processes,
use of natural gas (instead of oil) as fuel, and strict motor vehicle inspec-
tion and maintenance programs are being contemplated as corrective measures.
33.        Studies in GMCA have indicated adverse health effects, including
signifiant increases in the incidence of respiratory iilnesses (with
childrern showing a two-fold increase), and increased carboxyhemoglobin levels
in the blood (which could cause ad-verse systemic effects, reduced maximum
work capacity and visual impairments).  Poor visibility conditions occur
frequently in GMCA, mainly due to the htigh levels of ozone and particulates.
Ozone is known to produce irritiation of tharoat, nose and eyes, and could
increase asthmatic attacks and pulmonary dysfunctions.  Lacreases in respira-
tory ard cardiovascular diseases, adverse effects on the human nervous
system, loss in visibility and aesthetics, as well as damage to structures
and local vegetation due to atmospheric pollutants have been documented at
lower concentrations than .nose found is Mexico City.
4/   The contamination levels as a percentage of WHO prescribed limits
are: 600 percent for ozone, 490 percent for total suspended particu-
lates, 230 percent for carbon monoxide and 130 percent for sulfur
dioxide.



-10-
34.       Water Pollution.  Industrial effluents are a major source Df the
country's water pollution; discharges of organic matter, ceic chemicals,
detergents, heated liquids and other matter are recognized to have had
harmful effects, including contamination of drinking and other waters, spread
of water-borne diseases, and adverse impact on aquatic life. Such contamin-
ation can be particularly crippling in a water-short country such as Mexico.
Water pollution problems are made more acute by the fact that much of the
domestic and waste indiustrial waters are discnarged without any treatment.
35.       In 1973, the Secretariat of Agriculture and Water Resources (SARH)
began a study of the couatry's hydrological basins, with a view to establish-
ing priorities for water pollution control.   The results of the study were
used to group the 218 water basins according to their priority for pollution
control action.  The top priority group contains 11 basins containing 54
percent of the population and producing 77 percent of Mexico's GDP. These
include the water bodies connected to GMCA, the Toluca-Lerma urban industrial
corridor, the Guadalajara and Monterrey metropolitan areas, the Cuernavaca
valley, and the Coatzacoalcos-Minatitlan petroleum producing zone.
36.       Solid Wastes Polltution.  Mexico's rapid urbanization and Industrial
growth has led to vast increases in the amounts of solid wastes generated by
its population and industry, as well as to significant changes in the charac-
teristics of such wastes.   More importantly, the rapid industrialization has
led to generation of large quantities of toxic and hazardous industrial eolid
wastes, which at present are simply discarded as part of municipal refuse.
Sdch wastes if inadequately treated threaten to cause long-lasting damage to
the environment, primarily through the percolation of rain waters which carry
contaminants into the groundwater table.  At present no reliable information
is available on the amount of toxic and hazardous wastes generated by Mexican
industry, their physical and chemical characteristics, location of sources
and disposal sites, treatment and disposal practices being followed, and the
environmental and public health consequences, To correct this and provide
the basis for systematic monitoring and formulation of strategies to control
industrial solid wastes, comprehensive studies would be undertaken under the
project.
Institutions
37.       The Secretariat of Health and Public Welfare (SSA) has the overall
responsibility for coordinating the environmental protection and regulatory
efforts of various government agencies. SSA has direct responsibility for
monitoring air and land pollution and formulating and implementing protection
and control measures for these media. Direct responsibility for water
pollution monitoring and control to a large extent lies with the Secretariat
of Agriculture and Water Resources (SARH). SARH collaborates with SSA on
issues involving public health formulation of standards and sanctions against
violation of the standards. The Secretariat of Public Works assists state
and local agencies in public works execution, including in executing or
supervising the construction of local water supply and sewerage systems.
38.       A Subsecretariat for Envllronmental Improvement (SMA) was estab-
lished within SSA in 1972 to be in cGi;irge of its environmental protection
responsibilities.  SARH's iat-r poll.tion monitoring and control activities
are organized under its Directorate General for Ecology Protection and



'sS                                   ~~~~~~~~- 11 -
Management (DGEP).  In August 1978, the government also created, through a
Presidential decree, an Interministerial Commission   i Environmental Improve-
zent to facilitate coordination at a high level of   2  country's overall
pollution control strategies.  Coordination at the operational level among
the a;.,Rncies would need to be strengthened in the future to overcome some
existing gaps and ambiguities.
Pollution Control Legislation
*           39.        The Federal EnvironmenCal Protectior Law became effective in
February  1982, superseding a 1971 law.  The new law retains emission
standards set in 1972-1973 under the former law, but substantially increases
the penalties for non-compliance and streamlines the enforcement process.  It
;s an important first step in the strengthening of Mexico's pollution control
efforts.
Pollution Control Standards and Enforcement
40.        Induitrial Air Emissions.  Air pollution regulations issued in 1972
specify limits on particulate emissions. from stationary sources such as
industrial and electric power plants. While these emission standards have
served to address some of the most critical dust and smoke emission problems
in Mexico they need to be refined to take accotunt of the degree of congestion
in the respective areas, fraction of respirable particulates, and the toxic
content of particula'as emitted.  Also at present there are no prescribed
standards for gaseous emissions from stationary sources--a critical gap since
some of the most important pollutants from industrial sources are gaseous.
As part of the pollution control activities undertaken to complement the
proposed project, the government is expected to issue modified emission
standards to correct the above gaps.  Enforcement efforts have also becn
hindered bv lack of adequate air monitoring equipment and by deficiencies in
knowledge of the sources of emissions.  In connection with the proposed
project, SMA would take steps to upgrade its air emissions inventory, develop
its air pollution modelling capabilities and carry out a number of studies to
be able to refine standards and emission control strategies in the medium
term.
41.        Starting in 1977-78, SMA's staff has been carrying out an inspec-
tion program for particulate emissions from the major stationary sources,
particularly in GMCA.  While a reasonably intensive program of inspection
visits has been carried out, effectiveness of the enforcement effort has been
severely hampered by low limits on penalties for non-compliance. To help
correct this, the 1982 law raised the ceiling to 10,000 times the minimum
daily wage rate in Mexico City (corresponding to about US$80,000 equivalent
presenLly) per offense, with doubling or further increases for repeated
non-compliance.
42.       Vehicular Emissions.  Starting in 1971, the government has been
implementing a program to control emissions from new motor vehicles which
has resu-lted in a 60 to 70 percent reduction in hydrocarbon and carbon
monoxide cnissions for the latest model cars in comparison with the pre-1971
uncontrolled vehicles.



-12 -
43.        The legislation provides adequate control authority for vehicles in
circulation, as well as new ones.  The government has announced a mandatory
vehicle inspection and maintenance program for GMCA.  implementation of this
program would be undertaken by the government in connection with the proposed
project which woould provide financing and technical assistance to private
automobile garages and the governmentt's inspection stations for the purchase
of emissions testing equipment.
44.        Water Effluent Control.  The law requires all industries to
register with SARH all liquid discharges.  SARH has the responsibility for
setting discharge standards for each registered source so that overall
quality for a body of water can be maintained.  Such discharge standards
apply to iniustries, municipalities, and agricultural users of water.
45.        The regulations provide for discharge inspections and for fines and
other penalities, including plant closure, for violators.  However, plant
inspections nave averaged only about 350 per year in the last 3-4 years.
Individual discharge conditions have been established only for about 3,000
discharge outlets out of about 93,n00 registered with SARH. To date SARH''s
strategy has been to focus on the largest water polluting sources or cn
situations where there is a strong public pressure for prescribing discharge
conditions. While this has been an effective initial scrategy, a more
systematic priority setting in terms of the water basins and type of dis-
charges (e.g., toxic substances), and an accelerated and consistent setting
ef individual discharge conditions in the selected areas for priority action
i, now needed.
46.        The main reasons why enforcement of standards has not been very
effective are: (a) entities discharging into municipal sewer systems are not
supervised by SARH nor are municipalities enforcing water quality standards;
(b) effluent standards for rmunicipal discharges have not been adequately
enforced by SARH; (c) maximum fines for pollution offenses were too low under
tihe old law (maximum of US$2,000 equivalent); (d) control effort was con-
strained by limited staff and budget resources for inspection and enforce-
ment; and (e) a medium term strategy in water pollution control was not
clearly defined.
47.        Water Quality Control Districts.  SAPH is establishing Water
Quality Control Districts (WQCDs) to facilitate the reductioTL of water pollu-
tion in priority zones.  Comnmon wastewater treatmernt plants would be con-
structed for groups of industries and ml nicipalities wfthin a given WQCD.
While SARH's proposal to establish WQCDs seems attractive, further experience
with the technical, organizational and cost recovery problems involved in
operating common wastewater treatment Dlants is needed.  To facilitate  a
decision on a national WQCD program which involves large investment costs,
the Goveramenu is considering construction of pilot common wastewater
treatment plants in one or two selected high priority basins and has sought
the Bank's assistance for this experimental program. A pilot project is
being studied for possible Bank assistance.
Incentives for Pollution Control Related Investments
48.        As part of its strategy to reduce urban and industrial rencentra-
tion, the Government is providing fiscal incentives to encourage location of
industry away from  the most congested and polluted urban areas.  The
incentives include 10 to 20 percent tax credits on investment- plus



I IF
-13-
additionel credit proportional to the number of incremental jobs created by
the investments.  Similar tax and employment incentives are available for
industrial enterprises relocating out of the GMCA to other parts of Mexico.
Th le Government has also established fiscal incentives equivalent to 20
percent of the investment cost plus additional employment incentives for
companies purchasing pollution control equipment, as well as those
manufacturing such equipment in Mexico.  Pn' lution control equipment is also
eligible for accelerated depreciation.
Finance for Pollution Cont-ol Investments
49.       The main source of fir-.ncing for Mexican industry is its banking
system comprising private and -xed public-private banks which offer a combi-
nation of commercial bankinp  investment banking and other financial
services.  The Mexican government has established trust funds to channel
additional finance through the commercial banking system for investment in
priority areas.  The Industrial Equipment Trust Fund (FONEI) established in
the Bank of Mexico is the most important fund providing finance for pollution
control investment by private industries.
50.       FONEI has had considerable experience in appraising and financing
i3dustrial investments.  It has maintained high standards and has developed
sound relationships with majot commercial banking chains in Mexico.  In 1981,
FONEI approved loans totaling about US$300 million for 110 projects.  Under
the Bank-supported FourTh Industrial Equipment Fund Project, FONEI began e.
finance pollution control investments.  FONET has gained useful experience in
pollution control finance, and its performance has been satisfactory.  So
far, about US$23 million (representing some 54 percent of total investment
costs of the projects) have been loaned to projects for control of emissions
from metallurgical, cement, textile and chemical industries.  Industrial
enterprises have shown considerable demand for credit for pollution control
investments.  In 1981, FONEI financed 12 projects totalling about US$18
million rquivalent as compared to 4 in 1980 and l in 1979.  Pollution control
projects now account for 6 percent of FONEI's total lending.  Most of the
projects are in the GMCA, Monterrey, Guadalajara and Toluca.  This growth in
demand is expected to continue as a result of the greater enforcement of the
law being undertaken by SSA and SARH.
Experience under Previous Projects
51.       The Fourth Industrial Equipment Fund (FONEI) project, assisted by
Bank Loan 1712-ME of July 30, 1979, includes an experimental pollution
control component of US$6 million (para. 50).  The majority of the funds
provided to FONFI under the four Bank loans has financed investments in
export-oriented or import substituting industries.  Execution of these four
projects has progressively improved (para 53): sibprojects have been well
prepared and properly appraised.  Most subprojects have been carried out
successfully with actual output, exports, and employment exceeding anpraisal
projections. Appraisal estimates of economic rates of return for
subprojects, mostly in the range of 20 to 40 percent, appear to have been met
in practice in the majority of cases.
52.       A Project Perfor-mance Audit Report (PPAR) of the First and Second
Industrial Equipment Fund (FONEI) Projects (SecM79-535) of June 1979
commented on two important aspects of FONEI's early operations:
I 



- 14 -
(a)  FONEI's londing mostly benefitted large and well-established
borrowers; and
(b)  FONEI made little progress towards achieving its objective, set
under the second Bank loan, of encouraging the intermediaries to
use project appraisals as a major input to their lending decisions,
rather than lending primarily on the basis of loan collateral.
At the same time, the report acknowledged that FONEI financed sound
investments that resulted in substantial foreign exchange savings.
53.       The difficulties noted in the PPAR are in large part due to the
fat  that FONEI, in the period covered by the PPAR, was a new institution.
Ea   of these difficulties has been addressed in the Third and Fourth
pr(jects subsequently approved by the Bank. FONEI's onlending rates have
sirt e been increased and are nov on a floating basis linked to the ACF index
(para. 61).  Interest rate spreads to participating banks have been increased
to reasonable levels to provide an incentive for banks to assume greater
lending risks in the utilization of FONEI rediscounts and to participate more
actively in the appraisal and supervision of investment projects.  Recent
evidence indicates that these measures, together with changes in the banking
law. have helped to reduce banks' collateral requirements and to increase
appraisal-based lending.  PONEIT's lending is also becoming increasingly
diversified, with a lower prcportion of the subloans going to th.: largest
clients. FONEI's loan portfolio at year-end 1981 was distributed among 270
companies of which 86 borrowed from FONEI for the first time in 1981.
PART IV.  THE PROJECT
54.       A report entitled "Pollution Control Proje t" (No. 3816b-ME dated
April 28, 1982) is being distributed separately.  Neg tiations for the Loan
took place in Washington, D.C. on April 15-23, 1982. The Mexican delegation
was led by Mr. Luis Nava of NAFINSA.
Objectives and Project Description
55.       The proposed project is part of Mexico's long run program to reduce
pollution levels.  The principal objectives of the project are to:
(i)  introduce more effective pollution control strategies and
enforcement procedures; and
(ii) encourage and help finance investments by industrial firms
aimed at reducing amospheric ar.d water poliution.
56.       To help achieve these objectives, the project would:
(a)  provide cred4t to industrial enterprises undertaking
investments involving: (i) installation of equipment to
control air or water pollution from stationary sources; (ii)
changes in production process or technology to re.duce such
pollution; (iji) relocation of plants from congested areas to
more decentralized locations; and (iv) conversion of fuel oil
combustion facilities to natural gas;



- 15 -
(b)  provide credit to private automobile garages for th purchase of
vehicle emissions testing and diagnostic equipment;
(c) finance local or federal authorities for the purchase of
emissions testing and diagnostic equipment for the automobile
inspection stations mostly in GMCA, pollution monitoring
equipment for the major urban areas, and related laboratory
facilities;
(d)  provide training for the technical staff of SSA, SARH, local
agencies, industrial enterprises and participating financial
institutions on air and water pollution, and for auto-
mechanics and automobile inspection staff in testing and
diagnosis of vehicular emissions;
(e) support studies, pilot programs, and technical assistance for
developing long term control strategies and refinement of
pollution standards, including: (i) on air pollution control:
research and pilot testing programs to examine the technical
and economic feasibility of conversion of motor vehicles to
alternative, less polluting, fuels (e.g., LPG, gasoline-
methanol mixtures); (ii) on water pollution control special
studies to analyze water pollution problems and ways to
address them in selected high priority water basins; (iii) on
industrial solid wastes disposal: a comprehensive study for
characterization, quantification and identification of dis-
posal technologies for hazardous wastes which are being dis-
charged by industries;(iv) on health impact of pollution:
strengthening of the data base, and carrying out studies of
the effect of air and water pollution on public health and
productivity; and (v) other technical assistance as needed to
implement the overall program.
Complementary Control and Other Initiatives
57.       In order to coGplement the specific actions to be taken under the
proposed project, measures are needed to strengthen the regulatory framework
and the staffing and technical capabilities of the concerned agencies. The
specific initiatives that the government intends to take during the course of
the project are detailed it the project execution paper being prepared in
connection with the proposed project (para. 68). The more important of these
initiatives are: (a) development and adoption of modified particulate and
gaseous emission standards for major stationary sources; (b) speedy
implementation of the mandatory annual inspection for all motor vehicles
circulating in GMCA; (c) rigorous application of the unified water quality
control strategy in high priority basins to ensure consistent enforcement
across different source categories; (d) systematic gathering and updating of
emissions inventories in the major industrial--irban centers, and strengthen-
ing of methodology for standards setting; (e) agreements with the major
public sector enterprises on major pollution control actions to be achieved
by them; (f) measures encouraging the use of natural gas in new burning
facilities in congested areas, and conversion of selected large fuel



- 16 -
oil burning facilities (particularly in GMCA) to natural gas; and (g) expan-
sions in staff and budgets of the key agencies involved in standard setting
and enforcement.
Project Cost
58.       The total cost of the project (including the portions financed by
the participating banks, the own resources of the sponsoring industries, and
the front-end fee on the Bank loan but net of all taxes and duties), is esti-
mated to be US$190.9 nillion.   The project is expected to support 80 to 100
industrial investments for pollution control, equipping of 300 to 400 private
automobile-garages fcr emissions testing and diagnosis, and the purchase of
monitoring and laboratoty equipment. This reflects the expected demand indi-
cated by SSA and SARH surTeys taking into account the impact of new enforce-
ment initiatives. About 62 percent of the total project cost is expected to
support air pollution control investments by industries and 28 percent would
finance industrial water pollution control investments. Equipment for
private auto-garages and automobile inspection stations, studies, training,
techrnical assistance and improvement of monitoring and laboratory facilities
account for the remaining 10 percent.
Project Finance
59.       The proposed US$60 million Bank loan would cover the estimated
foreign exchange cost of the project (including the front-end fee on the Bank
Loan). The loan would be channeled to private industries and automobile
garages through FONEI (US$55 million), or used directly by SSA and SARH for
the purchase of equipment (US$5 million).
60.       Of the US$131 million of local resources required to finance the
project, FONEI would provide about US$84 million and the Gcvernment about
US$9 million. The balance (approximately US$38 million) would be provided by
the beneficiary industries and their banks.
Onlending Interest Rates
61.        Sublcans to final beneficiaries would bear variable interest rates
adjustable every six months. FONEI charges an interest rate equal to the ACF
for pollution control loans. This practice is expected to prevail un3er the
proposed project.   However, because of the significant externalities and
social benefits involved in pollution control investments and their generally
non-productive nature, FONEI would have the flexibility to make subloans at
an interest rate not lower than three points below the ACF index (Section
2.02(b) of Project Agreement). The ACF tends to move in parallel with the
inflation rate and typically is above the inflation rate.
62.        Bank funds would be provided to FONEI at an Interest rate equal to
that of the Bank loan. The government would assume responsibility for repay-
ment of the loan as weli as for the foreign exchange risk.
Eligible Investments
63.        Since a major rationale fcr providing preferential financing is to
assist erterprises which made investments prior to the enforcement of
stringent polluticn control standards, subloans to industries would be
limited to the financing of investments for controlling pollution from



- 17 -
facilities installed at least one year prior to the submission of the
financing request to the Bank (Loan Agreemei.c, Section 2.02(d)).
64.       The final beneficiaries would be required to finance at least 10
percent of the investment costs. In case of investments to achieve pollution
control which are carried out in conjunction with expansions of productive
capacity, total financing provided under the proposed project would be
limited to the estimated cost of achieving the target pollution reductions
through an efficient control method.  Similarly, financing of relocation
would be limited to the estimated cost of establishing a plant of similar
size and characteristics as the plant to be relocated.  FONEI would require
subproject appraisals accompanying financing requests to demonstrate
compliance with these criteria.
65.       Appraisals of subprojects would also present a full financing plan
for the investments being supported and an adequate economic and financial
analysis justifying the proposed investment following FONEI's guidelines.
It would be a condil:ion of loan effectiveness that FONEI's guidelines for
evaluation of pollu,ion control projects, reflecting the pointb listed above,
had been issued (Loan Agreement, Section 7.01(b)). In addition, to avoid
undue concentration of Bank loan funds, Bank financing for a si.gle
subproject would be limited to US$5 million in the case of industrial
subloans and US$20,000 in the case of subloans for diagnostic equipment for
automobile garages (Loan Agreement, Section 2.02(d)).
Project Implementacion and Coordination
66.      The main implementing agencies of the project would be SSA, SARH,
and FONEI.  The project components involving strengthening of monitoring and
laboratory facilities, and studies training and technical assistance would
be implemented by SSA for air pollution control and solid wastes control
programs and by SSA and SARH for water pollution control programs, in
accordance with programs or terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank
(Guarantee Agreement, Section 3.01(b), Loan Agreetient Section 2.02(d)).  The
credit component ri: the proposed project would be executed by FONEI.
67.       The project would be coordinated by a steering committee chaired by
the Subsecretary for Environmental Improvemenr of SSA with representation
from other concerned agencies and financial institutions. This committee
would set the overall strategies and would periodically review the progress
achieved on each of the project elements and complementary initiatives.
This committee is a sub-group Df the government's Intersectoral Commission
for Pollution Control which ac-s as a high-level national body for establish-
ing and implementing pollution control policiec and initiatives.
68.       To help ensure thAt the various elements of the proposed project
are implemented in a timely and coordinated manner, a project execution paper
is being prepared by the government. The paper would iaclude schedules for
implementing each of the project elements and would describe the complemen-
tary *nitiatives to be carried out by the government agencies and other
implc,nentation details. The government has provided assurances that it will
undertake the complementary measures for pollution control described in the
paper (Guarantee Agreement, Section 3.06). Submission of the paper, satis-
factory to the Bank, by the government is a special condition for loan effec-
tiveness (Loan Agreement, Section 7.01(b)). Changes in the paper would have



- 18 -
to be satisfactory to the Bank (Loan Agreement, Section 6.01(b)).  In vflew of
the complexity of the project and the need to monitor the progress in
implementing its various components on a continuing basis, the government,
the Bank, and the participating institutions would together carry out annual
reviews of the progress achieved in implementing each of the project elements
and of the complemenLary measures.
Disbursement Procedures
69.        Disbursements under the Bank loan for poliution control subloans
and for expenditures of SSA and SARH for g-ods and services (except
consultants) for carrying out proposed studies, training and technical
assistance activities would be made for:  (a) 100 percent of foreign expendi-
tuires for di.ectly imported equipment and related services; (b) 70 percent of
total expenditures for imported equipment purchased off-the-shelf in Mexico;
(c) 45 percent of the ex-factory costs of  Jmestically manufactured equip-
ment;  and (d) 25 percent: of the costs of industrial construction and
installation.
70.       Prior Bank approval would be sought for the first FONEI subloans
for industrial relocation, for change of production process, for equipping
automotive garages, and for all FONET subloans involving more than US$750,000
equivalent in Bank financing (Loan Agreement, Section 2.02(c). These limits
are expected to result in the Bank reviewing between one-fourth and one-third
of subloans, corresponding to about half of the loan amount.
71.        The loan is expected to be fully committed by December 1985 and
fully disbursed by December 1988.
Procurement
72.       Procurement procedures for goods and services financed under the
subaloans channeled to the private sector though FONEI would follow the
standard practice for FONEI's industrial credit operations. FONEI would be
responsible for ensuring the competitiveness of items procured in terms of
price and quality, and their suitability for the purposEs intended.    Items
purchased by the executing agencies for their own use, which would mostly
consist of packages of goods and services estimated to cost less than
US$500,000 equivalent, would have to comply with the government's normal
procurement procedures, which have been reviewed by the Bank and include
comparative price and quality evaluation of at least three bids. In the case
of the automatic air monitoring network to be used by SSA which is expected
to cost about US$2.0 million equivalent in total, limited international
tendering with evaluations based on quotations from at least three foreign
suppliers would be required.
Project Benefits
73.        The proposed project represents an effort to tackle Mexico's most
urgent pollution control needs and to lay the basis for formulating more
comprehensive pollution control strategies. Such strategies would help
Mexico achieve its ambitious targets for industrialization without serious
adverse effect on health, environment and ecology.



-19-
74.        The project would help in controlling 80-100 critical sources of
industrial pollution and in implementing an automobile inspection and mainte--
nance program which would cover a significant part of GMCA's 3.5 mili: on
motor vehicles.  The project's direct economic and social benefits are not
readilv quantifiable, but are nevertheless considered to be substantiaL, as
evidenced by prior studies on the impact of pollution on public health and
the physical environment. Other benefits are also expected, including
aesthetic improvements through cleaner air and waterways, associated
increases in tourism revenues, and reductions in structural damage attribut-
able to contaminated air or water. Recycling of inputs, byproducts and waste
heat, which is likely to take place in conjunction with some of the indus-
trial pollution control investments, offers potential financial benefits to
the individual firms.
75.        The project would have a substantial institution building impact.
It would strengthen the ongoing programs of the concerned agencies by helping
to train staff, to develop and to provide important physical facilities.  The
project would also promote coordination within and between the various
agencies involved in pollution control activities.
Project Risks
76.        Inadequate monitoring and enforcement of pollution control regula-
tions and the complex coordination required between agencies are the main
risks associated with the project. However, the government hias shown a
strong commitment to reducing pollution by establishing a new law and a
vehicular emissions testing program for Mexico City.  The complementary
actions planned under the project, as described In the project executior:
paper, and the joint annual reviews suggest that the risks are not high.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
77.        The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and Nacional Finaniciera,
S.A., the draft Guarantee Agreement between United Mexican States and the
Bank, the draft Project Agreemnent between the Bank and Banco de Mexico, S.A.
and the Repo-t of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4(iii)
of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive Directors
separately.
78.        The following additional conditions of loar effectiveness referred
to in the text and listed in Section III of Annex III are of special
interest:
(a)  appraval of the project execution paper in a form satisfactory to
tle Ban., and
(b)  approval of FONEI's Guidelines for Evaluation and Financing of
Pollution Control Proiects in a form satisfactory to the Bank.
79.        I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.



- 20) -
PART VI - RECOI4ENDATION
80.        I recommend that the Ex'ecutive Directors approve the propos6J loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachmeats
May 4, 1982



-21 -                                                     ANNEX I
Page 1 of 5
TABLE 3A
MEXICO - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
H'XICO                        REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVE6AGES
LASD AREA (TEOUSASD SQ. lO4.)                                                         - HOST RECENT ESTIMtATE)-
TOTAL            1972.5                                 MOST RECENT              MIDDLE INYCOME           MIDDLE INCOlE
AGRICULTURAL      977.2               1960  /b   i970 /b ESTIMATE lb    LATIN AMERICA & CA;B!IEEAN             EUROPE
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)                   400.0       750.0    1640.0                 1616.2                     2609.1
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOCRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)       769.2      [[41.0    1672.7                 1324.1                    2368.4
POPUILATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, NID-YEAR (THOUSANDS) 36369.0       50313.0   65509.0 *
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 50.8          59.0       65.9                  64.2                       53.2
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPUIL :ION IN YEkR 2000 (MILLIONS)                      108.9
STt.TIC IARY POPULATION (KILLIONS)                       138.0
YEAR S 'ATIONARY POPULATION IS REACIED                  2075
POPULArION DENS ITY
PER SQ. KM.                         18.4        25.5      33.2                   34.3                      30.6
PER SQ. IM. AGRICULTURAL  AMD       36.0        52.0      65.1                   94.5                     133.9
POPULATIOS AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                          45.6         46.5      45.3                   40.7                      30.1
15-64 YRS.                          51.0         50.0      51.2                  55.3                       61.5
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                     3.4         3.5       3.5                    4.0                       8.3
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                3.1         3.2        2.9                   2.4                        1.5
URBAN                               4.9          4.8       4.2                    3.7                       3.1
CRUDE BIRTS RATE (PER THOUiSAND)      45.0        42.3       36.0                  31.4                       22.9
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)       12.0         9.0        7.3                   8.4                        9.1
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                3.4         3.'        2.6                   2.3                        1.6
FAHMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)         ..        25.1     842.0
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..            ..      40.0
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)           97.0        100.0     101.0                  108.3                     119.8
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENTf OF
REQUIREMENTS)                   110.0        112.',    '14.0                 107.6                      125.7
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)           65.0         63-       66.0                   65.8                      92.5
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE        27.0         '..a      27.0                  34.0                       39.7
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE       13.0         668        5.7                   7.6                        3.4
FHALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    58.3          o2.24     66.0                   64.1                      68.9
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                             78.0        74.0       60.0                  70.9                      25.2
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PNRCENT OF
PCPULATION)
TOTAL                               23.5        54.0       62.0                  65.7
URBAN                                           71.0      70.0                  79.7
RURAL                                 ..        29.0      49.U                   43.9
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..           ..         ..                  59.9
LRBAN                                ..           ..        ..                   75.7
RURAL                                           1 13.0     14.0                 30.*
POPULATION PER PHYSICLAN            1798.0      1480.6    1815.0                 1723.2                     973.3
POPULATION PER NURSINC PERSON           ..      1612.2    1398.0                 1288.2                     896.6
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED                           **
TOTAL                              577.6       628.1     8,1.0                 471.2                      262.3
URBAN                                ..       1151.2     758.0                  558.0                     191.8
RURAL                                ..       1350.9    1077.0
A3MISSIONS PER HCSPITAL SED             ..          ..         ..                    ..                       18.2
HOUSING
AVEF AUE SUz  0:C ;CUS.:C
TOTAL                                5.4         5.7
URSAN                                5.7         5. 7
RURAL                                5.2         5.8
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                2.9         2.5
ULRBAN                               2.6         2. 2
RURAL                                3.4         3.2
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                 ..        58.9
URBAN                                 ..        80. 7
R URAL                                ..        27.8



- 22 -                                                      ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5
TABLE 3A
NEXfCO - SOCIAI INDICATORS DATA SHEET
MEXICO                         REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)  -
MOST RECENT               HIDDLE INCOME            MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b    LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN               EUROPE
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:      TOTAL                  S0.0        104.3      116.0                  101.1                     105.9
HALE                   82.0        107.0      119.0                  103.0                      109.6
FEM.HALE               77.0        102.0      114.0                  101.5                     102.2
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                   11.0         22.0       39.0                   35.3                      S6.3
MALE                   14.0         27.0       42.0                   34.9                       73.2
FEMALE                  8.0         17.0       36.0                   35.6                      59.5
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (X OF SECONDARY) 24.0             27.0        9,0                   30.1                       28.4
PUPIL-TEA..4ER RATIO
PRIMARY                              44.0         46.0       41.0                   29.6                      26.8
SECONDARY                            13.0         14.0       17.0                   15.7                      23.6
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)          65.0         74.2       82.4                   80.0                       75.4
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           14.0         24.5       42.4                   42.6                      83.9
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           90.7        278.4      306.0                  215.0                     181.6
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           17.9         59.1       88.7                   89.0                     131.1
NEWSPAPER (-DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAUi) POPULATION                   79.0           . .      66.6                   62.8                      123 8
rINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA 10.0             5.0        4.2                    3.2                        5.7
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)    10990.9        14488.8   18965.4
FEMA'E (FERCENT)                     15.2         17.4       19.3                   22.6                      32.9
AGRICU.TURE (PERCENT)                55.1         45.0       36.8                   35.0                      34.0
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                   19.5         23.0       25.7                   23.7                      28.7
PARTICIPATION RATE (PER(ENh)
TOTAL                                  30.2         28.8       29.0                   31.8                      42.3
MALE                                  5S.1          47.4       46.5                   49.0                       56.5
FEMALE                                  9.2         10.1       11.2                   14.6                      28.5
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                 1.6          1.7        1.7                    1.4                        0.9
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS        ..           ..
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  61.1/c          60.7       57.7
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLD,   3.477            3.3        2.9 
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHO1I'S    9.87-          9.9        9.9
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLVER POH'RTY INC:HE
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                  ..           ..      270.0
RURAL                                  ..           ..      216.0                  187.6
ESTIMATED RELATIVE PO,VERTY _w.H ME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URRAN                                  ..           ..      471.0                  513.9
RURAL                                  ..           ..      471.0                  362.2                     385.1
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVFRTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                  ..           ..         ..
RURAL                                  ..           ..
Not avaIlable
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group aVeraRes for each indicator are populatiorr-weighted arithmetic means.  -nverae of countries
among the indicators depen-Z  on ava-lability of data and is not unIform.
/b   Unless otherwUia  noted, data for 1960 refer to any year bet-een 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and l71; a-d for Most Accent Esti-ate, between 1976 and 1979.
Ic   1963.
May, 1981
* - The updated 1980 GNP per capita and population estimates shown in the
the 1981 World Bank Atlas are $2,130.0 (at 1978-80 prices) and 67,458
thousand.
** - Total includes specialized hospitals not included in urban/rural figFures.



-23 -                                                                           ANNEX I
Page 3 of 5
lE90991TID99 CF 991.1  0-0099
9..9998,11800,.EcF1a8.9..9999891a8899a-909..1..9tt9Eto...99   9co9.r9oa.-- Fyo9-.4 9b,  : dIfa--9  119-gt9.o.t,   IF
oFal.ac...at..190d.aoo9FeoE999ocof99,998o9c.FolFoooaEo.E4.   c   o919a19.E9.9o.99.99  .0CooO--:Ch- .oo                               ...o..
ma 99.9.0 gEoO.9a  hO99caac9 9918090!h..Fcotooooyaol099*oo.99y  90Op99F9COO~9  89F.Poer.,d-                            .otcF.- o.oo.Ery-90,
9o99-9o       P9  -o.  -a9o     Coo.99s.90a.          1 8.C 1                                                                d        l9a  9,9  99..   lool'oEeoo:9.~8oto99.ol
1910. Cod 199  I.E.                                                                             a.Co. -a999. d              .1.7,  90o:9              9.  F.o9.9aoo
toFolty) 9989150.99.9! 99a1  9019.1.99 9999-09.:  11960, 1970,t-O 1979              1990.    99.FLSF.19I                ,  997.  01   999toI
9.1.                                                       ________                  9,0-1   .1   90.9 99 .0.9a.iooa  90 09 19.OF.EgE.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~h.b _1 .1L    _tb,   C4  I 
Coa   oo.  9.90Yar9cao9-K  911 t                  . 199- -- 971, aol IFOF, 9018190
1960, :910. ..d 1919                                    1~~~9o99aF I     9.. o.aIfo9 a99.    rFoo-t9l.oc0171otl-
-i--9Pooo1.OiooCtaaoof-o-aOb-949o7a-990.                          0-.t0.1                      C-f9a9109,8,9. 9F9999Ci.08a                                    9999.9c
I99.99  1   by99o9999.8     a, -ad7.9   :..9F19 9.,    9,9.9F99aao9.a                                           Fa0991999.99,                             ol l9
a9.01 9   FoFas9 1990  1970..99 :99 7.~.                                    999 89aa89119.99 aa91a9Pa                                    ..8..9a...
9990.199.0  9.o...9.r.Foo.099.l99y7a9..9oo990.a999Frac1ar.1.       9990999.9991 9a99           I "     I    -1. 
,,g!-,9.  -..999.  FrF99ae99o'I...9   aptooFa099.                                         188.9 99  1989.999-   9.90.9 of1 9,19 9.-9 9h- 90f8t.1loFo  99t
99..I  aol         - 9..1  19 -98.9.8  .d.-19- ..1, . . 9   y.ar. C.h   ..ta               0          l9r.1   .11_ 999.9998  91a9r99    99 99909.9               a
9.999 9899 .089911895 09 Coo.. 9.9.9 .9191.92.1819  99I                               II ..... .a                          .....9. 9--I.
-.1 9       196099999999     1909 9990 - 8O99 9I-toaaa-   ,99Icoal 7I I1.999    000
F9ct99.90999a919-9t.ao.989.9  11091.1I. -Fly.o    t.9    98                            99 .t .8981   f9.                  ~9..1-d91f9.o-9a999 d_1. aol 9.0.1
oF. F990F9999.99.0.1o9F91a.18   a9.a01a9a999.9..999990ta9a-      e.9o11a9990919119.a9079- p99..o990.999- 9a0...            9.Ie9 - f9c.9ao999
9.99.09.9.09   989.  . .cFa,al 919.09.  0.091 999  .9.. lollEa  0  991.ry 90901-.9  9.999.d-   09: 9-ra.lly 99109.  oF-b-     co age  F-tI
9F   .1 oao   0999  .99a  tloorOadt.  89aoFa999F99aa   9%1o9    9  9t9c9  99F  9   9.ty.9a 99   o
C .999- 8.t.Fa  t-aho....                                                                       ..oaly-9199...aaa  9  a..  99Id-,..,                  09ca  h       990.9
199    900, 99  a9  197   ..aa.                                                            M991-9.h9   9.9   909.9l99    tha...ctO  Pil I'll9I9.1  Iola9   ooF19
69999.9  aolreooal969  aaraol99.9  ..1a9.99*.a   9.9199. 9P.                                                   ..999a....99  laa_a
9.9999: 9990. 9998. aEl 1979 91.9..-                                                 4,-  l9aao  ae099               l - L.Y-.F.11- 9.F1c..d          l.    9a
yaar 909919 09099 90, 1990-90. 19F0-tF. .91 1990-99.~~~~~~~~~~~~~......                       .....          -                t
9a99.99195-0-Fl. 196070  aol                                       :   ..7-..            .a.e b. Iar 1    pr99a9rrlrol-9..aa ,.0-9                                99
99999.99091 1990. 1970. .90 9099 1.0..                                               999901709-9199'2'
-90ea.F9. .7o.999                                                                                  -b9.o..9a9.999l..l   99,-;9 .999.999   799960, 19 190.1909019909909aa99
FoolEot:  90,990  atl 1979IE.Fr.oaa9.a.1o99    EF999  999190:.9l
Ito. a991o8 to  . a  0a9.~   99.0990.999.  a9a  o19F.r  E                                99..90   a9FE0~99F90999. .19r.e-..99 .a.E.F90  o  919
FaEEot99.99ap991..90 b9  I.9198cr.99o.II.9aaa.Ff990 Ia.aaF9Ea.  otoa9.a  aEE9099.*1a00
99   Z itr9.;9.tal 9' Eo-9  a.aaga  aooo   9IE    90  9    99                            oa   9909  01..919919
Fa.919F1.9oloa-F90,999. 9990.1 OtFooa.o'.-19.lO --o9099.a                         1199999  999-9.9199...                  E090r...9 ...90doa.
.11 aaEoF~~~~~.0 I9999... I9       . 50-2.90999099~'-   .9.9-1  99..a99.9t,l9.aapr 19l
7910 9190 9-.1800989                                                                  to 8. 4-.d9b Y~ 1  t. n,dUc-m_1"2_19 91   9  ap- r.a    fca  -dr9 .  .a. 65aF.
Z9..0  9o-d 991-909.--9,           .019-0.1961610 l I,   -94,orroFEana                      CEo .a  t..   Eal99   .099..   .9-9*l99.99.
d09.91 .9-9afa . 9900099 990  9.9599..  W'9-9  9979..1  1994E.TtlId0   00    Foall- 9.09al   a9a   aa9.Fo.79
9., r9: I.t9.o..  9ft   00aa95  99 o..a t  1.9989 Coc Far-                                 A9I,a_19.98    19   0o   .  ..r.,9r. .89959
.ao9a.t..t..919y009991t99a9o8a9.lt.lao909..tl-.Oet995a 990.9.5   9900.9.99999.;99C199.94999.ta
aEoy .94 8aa198 009a9199995 999o99o9o0 99.19.a9.9.999., foly 09959... ~~~~99  to1~atty Oo.roa.9!1 -91909 foro. 99 a1r999. 099c99999999. ...a09.t-EthEE9a
T9.99.999999p9-   09re da19E59C                          a-09Foa.a---49oriEr.9.999-9..  a0.9.a999.F6999a999
.1109.roa     fFlat...o - o.I    899 - ~  t l.t a ..l 90.    o .9.!a-19.190    49791*    8 .                                         .4or90   9999999



- 24 -
19730       1 975         19 77         19 79        7983-         1997           29-83          719983  -       9 15        9 70-23   1973-840    390.s          977     7900
987TIOAA. ACC70007                               C0X- 0  .-3192 Prices  003 millio-
430                    36,971.2,   493508.4      53,906.7      58,336.1    63,1193        67,'21.         4201            2707          7,3.
OaXsssn  terms     ~~~~~~      ~~~~~127.1  489.5  752.2     '92.8      2,149.5        .441.1         I,7.            ,4.            ,7.         6.s.343o 
u.if                                                                                                                                               0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-- 73  3.7
073                    37 .097 7 49,196.9        51,378.7      59,623.7    65,119.9       68,970.0            1,          112,           111158                                     .        0.       0.
Imprt   Iccl,NFS.  ,41.             6,6071.3      4,779.6       7,677.8      111, 13,2876 87.74           7773.35.       13,076.4       15,733.9  .11.3            9.9            4.3        11.9    13.5
Exrt                    1i3,213.9   3.7I2-I       4.419 3        9,37.4       7.029 -     7,79.    .  7,397.1:5          z7,773.3       15,7124.7      7.9        73.6            8.5         8.6    77.8
Ro--.rc  Cop            7,383         82998.2       400.        7,745.4      3,058.-        7392           79.5             16.9            73.2    29.7           1.7          -24.7         3.1      1,
tocsomp.lon     ~~33,935.2   4,77          41,_999.5     47.803.       57,:358.3     37,431.9       37,690.9       53,3313.8      32,796.6       6.7         .8.             0.3       83.4    18.
loses tc,esX  7,179.8   17,327.9     9,56~1 17.0  13,770.6    74819.7         77503.2         18,390.0      29,239.9       73,677,7       9.4         755.9                     19.7    22.7
Cros   So. Saio9        6,756 .6    I9.19I        9327.90       782.        13,9134        17,373.1       19,99.4        20,649.4       27413.7        6.9        73.4            3.3       16.6    ;1.2
Cross Nat. OS-iIgs    5,927.4    7,507.7          9,478.4      10,391.9    77,745.2        11,033.8       17,996.4       79,373.2       21,397.        6.2        70.0            7.9        13.:7    79.9
2003E 19 GOlOOS AND 7.F0                              corr-t Piroes. 057 l111es                                                                                                             As 0 of -Vtl
.570RT7, r73TAL        3l,416.9     0,630.7       1,6855. 0    17,072.9    25,396.3       32,71  4.9     304.            3779           5195         2.           23.            103       10.       0.
..os  -to            472.,4       549.7        319.2        7,3.         4,391.6       3,246.9        3,293.8        3,231.0        9,270.7      22.2        36.983.                   13.9       3.
ol ehIoN:  Food  (77.931   499.3           475.1        1,36.3       2956-1.2      3,654.3           ~           4390           3726          -          2.               10        23      7.
PottsIeee 4 Orodool  33.7  269,1  107.5       239.7        299.4         -                 5.         ,38.0           ,24.6                   217            1.4 
P.1-1-   & Fl.d.ct 3 211.1   111.1  -259.2       29--                                                                  39.         25.              -         13       1.
No-Facto  So-i-or    7,064.7        2,079         1934.3        4955          6,963.       9,494.1         9  474.3       9,493.3       77,859.9      13.7        29.0             9.       372       72
Other Goods              ,9.1       5.3975.0      5,934.7      77,033.4    74,249.1    177983.9           19, 438,7      18,992.1       74,390.0      17.9        17.2             9,4      14.0    33.7
XXPOXTS.  07TA.         2,743.4     6,017.7       7,95.1        13,293.      235697       29,149.5        27,,946.5      33,263.2      46,14641       19.98        091.                     3.        0.
to-lGoods              212         817.9      1,491          2153.14      1:,941.6      1,786 1        23027.3        2,339.9        2,963.9       6.3         77.2           10.2       22.8      8.2
etoem5Pr-d-o        31.1        46.7       1,29.4        3,97I.7      17,42.1      74,653.9        72330.70      75,030.0        79,528.6      61.0        87.8            11.3        7.4    44,
Mlrerals           ~~~~~244.3   42 3 .4       445.9         825.2      1.346,5      17,197.9         7,367.3       1,363.9        7,987.3      186.9        25.0            9.1        89       3.9
9lacofactoees      ~~~443.9    1,186.9      1610          23,7          ,7.9          ,3.9          2,917.3        3,352.9        4,325.       28.          89.5           148         62      7.
Other Goods                             1.            79.            7.2          3.2           4.9             .            11,            24.5        1395                         
No-F,cc  Oemce    739.7             3,072   .   ,193.            5,9 93.7     7,419.6      9.2293         1,4.           13,329.       1,3.           193         20.5            19.7      50.9    37.5
78084 1331045 77972-1731                           6-g517022-18O
Cr700  pece lodes         692        147.4         1731.2         262.4        367.0O        392.4          399.3         476.3           469.3      16.6        25.5            4.9
Impors PrIce Irdes  nl.:o        48.3        16.            097.9        737           229,1           2203          237.3          2737       1. .1           5.1
Terms oX Trade      9~~6.9      10.7         176.           34.          177.          1771.3         312.3          725.4          171.9       75         12.             -03
90AL00 ADDED BY 3ECTO1                             Coos-tart U727 PrIces,  78 Milllio
leSser714,139.1    4434                           4.371.6        4,953.       5.227,9      6,547.3 .       6.629,6       6,893.7         7,456.2       1.7         3.4             7.1       11.2      8.3
Orcedar                 2,41.3   18948.7         10.245,7      32,0846       2 3.978,9.    25,920.9      29,469.2       27,1f7.9       28.3885         7.1         743.4                     336      3.9
Teroay                 204153        7,0743      37.949,9       31.795.8    34,813.6    35,044.7          36,773,1       38,059.1      4 2,953.        3.9          4.8            5.8       53.      53.9
Tota  008CD            36,971.7          8 493.4 50.966.2       38,856.1    63,179.3      62,372.9       09 877.4        72,110.2      78,3 95. 4      6.0          5.6            4.3      188.0'   103'.0
C053SOL1DATFD PUBLIC 8447081238N043                   FljiXte_ 1972 72S1
C-rree  R-io -  rt      593:3.9     9,919.9      10,605.        13,671.9    15,6.          1.7,
Osreest  -o I,d         4,340.      9,316.4       9,237.9       12,95'3.3    124614        73.97S.
~ohllc Soolegs    7,333.1       50 3.6      1,402.7        29,3         3,39.5        2,2403,
lorosemess       ~~2,277.7    4688 3.7      4,426.3        .8,823.     8.893,2        2,996.1 
-rtfli  Ice-)             669.1    43, 998        2,927.9        3 992        4,37.7        5.256,1
Generl Pr-Icelden         93.4         739.7       232.4          331.1        418,2         5339.2
(1972-1307
Ec-lI_sge Rat            72.19         72.49       2 2. 59        22.97        22.93           26.27 77
00LL0007749 OF G8057
ITURES                                                                                                                                                         .1
nee-.,                  3,349.7    6,424,2        7,736.9       77,349.35        a            00                                     18.,s33
Tranpot and Cos-
-cin"i-ols            1,751.1    1,575.3        7,537.4        1,432         ea             n.-5.4                                                            14,4
Eoll7,o,-07i--O  0,227.9    4,632,            4,771.9        53 39,3       n..            c,601.9
lcd.,stry   7,640.3   1,433.9       1,392~~ ~~~~~~.4  1,26.      cs              o                                       .                          .
A,,Ie6 R-ore       - Dec  7,927   1 ,61.5         732.7          7,4.          no             n,                                       ,77
4-  D2etnoss: 3,10.                31636          ,92.           9,8 .2     n a               .0                                    99                        29.6
Coesetor  ~~~~~51,67.         7,36.9       1,75.           1,644,0       c.                                                      8                        5 .22
T ortse                    63.2         73.5         33.9           60.0        Io             O                                     -.                           .
Tota                  719,843.9    27132 3.7    24.397,25       37,609.8-       n.100                                                 2.4                       70.
78-3  1975-87o
7409                        2.62         760          094             2501      4.91           3.37             3 . 98     3.66
lepoct XI.,s-c19            2.63         7,43        -5,              3,99      4.6            4,30             1.64       2.8
Mtoeio-l Oaoicgs   ol    1.67.            02 3         3.77           2.1       7.77           0.76             8.26       0.3
7560  -       91           !9 78     19013          1970            19-19          964-7          D  0137-7 8
ogesc.Irorr           5~~    ~~.4   4.7          4.9      38.             34.9            79,2         -76.               8.9
Isd,,stsy             2~~ ~      ~~.1  27        3.2      19.8           77.9              22.0         38.             31,3
3.      .7          8.2      299             44.2           46.            701             49
001.00 .4007 PE8 W008029                97o Prior                          s   of Total'                           Groos  R-c
TAT          150 T'O              7963)            1973             197           96-7D77  S7
A,, i- Itoo679.                           979.8       7I1.7 5.                   37.1            31.6            4 
Icdoscrj  2,069.9        4,3c8,3        3~~~~~~~~~O,42.   lO3.r  7450.            16.0            5.2.
Srrn7ors          ~~~~3,222.98    7,582.5       3,60.    9.                2.              2.               3-6
- Src!i 7e761o



0          -        ft      ft  Ofto.  .0  O*  ft fOflOftO   00   00      N Oflfl001fff
ft       0       0  OftOOC               0'' Oft  ON   00    ....NOof       g
7a   0<000               N        ON   OOo.- 00000
Vt  0< *fOf0  0  N N     oft  ONOOft OONOfO
fOtNot      Oftf   *t"ON   Oft tOO   0.    -, N        Oft  ft
'OftOftON 0 ON ft  000       ftftN          0rt                ft Cf ft N Oft  NOft ft  ft
ftO'N ff0   ...0ftOtONNfN                               0V0C.f.tft
ft  0000 NONOfti  tt.ON           ft  tO        DON'-.
fNffON   N    Nft  tOO           ft Oft-ft  ft      off'
P                                          N  0000   ONNftO Of-Off  ff
ft  00   ONffft    OfOfO   0000   0    N    0          ft   ftftOOftONO  f-f-0Ooo  ft
00)    000.                 ftOONO   0    0                Cf  N  .ftNf.Nfog   NON
ft  .    *0  00   N ftONOft0.NNN                       fN
0000   QOOft".  Nft0    00'  ft  N    N    N              ft  N    000   NON   fto-  ft
Oft- N. ft o,-oO.foft 0 H ft '-NNO 00ff NO
N  ft       010  0ft fft  00000   0    ft  ft        *0   0      0<0.0          OfO   0
ON   nOON     0000           ft           Oo,            -          .ftft.
ONft.  00    0  Oft  0  ftN         N  ft  0.              0           O-.  Oft
ftoO                   NN        oN.                                  -CONNON       Oft
NOb-ft  0.   00'  N.NN       o?Oft                      g                              0
<ft  ft                 f"    OftO..        N            ON
ft                               0            o-                       0                  ft
0               O                  -ft       0
II  ft   0  Oft  0   .0                    0                 0      0
o o                                           ft                N
NON                               0                 ft
O                     00.OOftO                 000-f ft          Oft ftOOfNft.00 ftftft.ft   ft
ft ft ft   0  ft      0  0    0000             OfftfttN   0        ft00000ftft.-00            0
ft  0    0  0      ff  0    0000            ooNfo  ft         ftftftftfftft 00o000.O0
0        --    ..tftftftftN'f'fO 00    1000
O                     OfOftOf.00-              ft-ft-            ftOftftNOftOftO;fNV.fftfo
N00        .00        Of.f    Of-0             OCoft             OotNftOft...OftN     Of...  ft
0  ft    0000           OfO  0  N          -oN OftOfto 000000
ft        OoOOf.fO.                  OOft IN        OftOOftOOOftOfOftftft
0000           OftOfto            A ftof-fftftftftf-Cftft f Oft
Oft       00       CO-DO           OfNOt.f              ftOfNftfNftftft-.<Of0jft
ft   f  <f        0    ff.fft         foOftO                0.Ofto0O000.-             r
ft000          0                     OOftO.ONfOOOftO
OfttNft        -                     oftO   0      ff000
ft          0  0      ft ft   0000
0  Of N  ft  ft      -  0    ftOfftft         0000                  f.Of.Oftft..ff.f 000ft.ft.,   ft.
0    -  0       0  .    COfoft          0000                  oOftOftftOftfftOfOfO
-    .   .    -                                             I ft
0  00                ftft00.000ft0fN0         0
ft          -  ft              OOftft          0000'                 0 N00.00-,ft.-ft00    I ft
0    0  0       0  0    OftOft          oftOft  ft         OftOftft00000NN'Nf.DIO
Of                                             .    .   .   .                                           r
0  ft   0  0       00       0ft           0000                  0<00N000 000<.
0000        ff10
'ft ft
ftOftO       6o-o                  ..f..0.ftOOftftftftOONfft
ft 00 0                ft ft.-.0000000ft 0   lot,,
0  0    0000            0000                  -00 OoftooooOo    1.41,
ft     00       00.0ft         . . .                                            ft It
0  0    0  ft          0    NfNffto        00  ft                oftOftff00000-00           ft
k-oO-0        ft-oft
0000000 ft 0000   Lw
H      0  0      10
0  K
o         0           0                                       I .   -  -   -  I ft
O         H                                    0  ff...00000 000ft0
0                           00 ft00'O  CO.ofNft   0
O0   0
00      V                                       ftftOftftOoO 0f-0N
O    0  0  ft   1    010
00000  -                                                 f-f  -00
ft                     00                                ftOOOftOft 0                            Nr
a    o                  K.



26 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 8
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MEXICO
A,   Statement of Bank Loans (as of March 31, 1982) 1/
- 2  Loan                                                     Amount less    Jtndis-
No.       Year   Borrower                   Purpose          Cancellations    bursed
44 loans fully disbursed                   2,438.6
970-5    1974  NAFINSA                     Irrigation              47.0          4.2
1022      1974  NAFINSA                     Airports                25.0         0.2
1053-5    1974  NAFINSA                     Integrated Rural
Development           38.0        15.2
1111-5    1975  NAFINSA                     Irrigation              50.0        21.3
1186      1975  BANOBRAS                    Water Supply            40.0        11.8
1420-5    1977  NAFINSA                     Tourism                 42.0          3.0
1462-5    1977  NAFINSA                     Integrated Rural
Development         120.0         25.1
1552-5    1978  NAFINSA                     Industry                47.0         1.0
1553-5    1978  NAFINSA                     Agriculture             56.0        36.8
1554      1978  BANOBRAS                    Urban Development       16.5         9.2
1560-5    1978  NAFINSA                     Industry               100.0         4.9
969-6    1979  NAFINSA                     Irrigation              25.0         1.2
1643-5    1979  NAFINSA                     Small-scale Agri.       60.0        51.7
1671      1979  BANOBRAS                    Highways               120.0        80.8
1686-5    1979  FERTIMEX and NAFINSA        Industry                80.0        36.6
1706-5    1979  NAFINSA                     irrigation              92.0        82.7
1712-5    1979  NAFINSA                     Industry               175.0        97.4
1820-5    1980  NAFINSA                     Small and Medium
Scale Mining         40.0         36.1
1858-5    1980  NAFINSA                     Irrigation             160.0       159.2
1881      1980  NAFINSA                     Small and Medium
Scale Industry       100.0        54.7
1891-5    1980  NAFINSA                     Agricultural Credit  325.0         262.1
1908      1981  NAFINSA                     Irrigation              23.0        21.0
1913      1981  BANOBRAS                    Water Supply           125.0       117.4
1929      1981  BANOBRAS                    Railways               150.0       118.3
1945      1981  NAFINSA                     Rainfed Agri.          280.0       249.3
1964      1981  EANPESCA                    Port Development        14.0         14.0
1990      1981  BANOBRAS                    Urban Development II 164.0         164.0
2042       1982  NAFINSA                    Technical Training    90.0           88.7
2043       1982  riAFINSA 2/                Integrated Rural
Development          175.0    _175.0
TOTAL                                             5,218.1 3/
Of which has been repaid to the Bank                812.8
Total now outstanding                             4,405.3
Amount sold                     92.3
of which has been repa'd        92.3                  0.0
Total now held by Bank 3/                         4,405.3
Total undisbursed                                             1,942.9
|  1/   Loan 2100, for $180 million, made in FY1982 to NAFINSA for an Irrigation
Project, was approved by the Executive Directors on March 16, 1982, but
has not yet been signed.
2/   Loan not yet effective.
i  3/   Prior to exchange adjustments.



- 27 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 8
B.   STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of March 31, i982)
Fiscal                                                                US$ Million
Year           Obligor                    Type of Business       Loan   Equity  Total
1958/59  Industrias Perfect
Circle, S.A. 1/               Industrial Equipment    0.8        --      0.8
1958     Bristol de Mexico, S.A. 1/    A.C. Engine Overhaul    0.5           --      3.5
1961     Acero Solar, S.A. 1/             Twist Drills              0.3      --      0.3
1962/65/ Compania Fundidora
66/68    Fierro y Acero de
Monterrey, S.A.               Steel                     2.3    21.4   23.7
1963     Tubos de Acero de
Mexico, S.A. 1/               Steel                     0.9      0,.1    1.0
1963     Quimica del Rey, S.A. l/         Sodium Sulphate           0.?      --      0.7
1964/66  Industria del Hierro, S.A.1/  Construction Equipment  --            2.0    2.0
1970     Minera del Norte, S.A, 1/        Iron Ore Mining           1.5      --      1.5
1971     Celanese Mexicana, S.A.          Textiles                 12.0      --    12.0
1972     Promotora de Papel
Periodico, S.A. de C.V.1/   Pulp and Paper               2/       2/      2/
1973/79  Cemento Veracruz, S.A.           Cement                   15.9      --    15.9
1974/81  Cancun Aristos Hotel             Tourism                   1.0      0.3    1.3
1975/78  Mexinox, S.A.                    Steel                    12.0      3.2   15.2
1978/81  Papeles Ponderosa, S.A.          Pulp and Paper            9.0      3.5   12.5
1978     Tereftalatos Mexicanos, S.A.  Petrochemicals              19.0      --    19.0
1979     Cementos Tolteca, S.A. 3/        Cement                  100.0      --   100.0
1979/81  Hotel Camino Real
Ixtapa, S.A.                  Tourism                   --       3 1    3.1
1979     Conductores Monterrey,           Electrical Wire
S.A. 3/                         and Cable            18.0             18.0
1980     Industrias Resistol, S.A. 3/  ?articleboard               25.0      --    25.0
1980     Vidrio Piano de Mexico S.A.3/ Flat Glass                 114.9      -    114.9
1980     Minera Real de Angeles,
S.A. de C.V. 3/               Mining                  110.0      --   110.0
1981     Celulosicos Centauro S.A. 3/  Pulp and Paper              59.5      --    59.5
1981     Corporacion Agroindustrial,
S.A.                          Agri-Business            11.3      3.0   14.3
Total Gross Commitments                                 514.6    36.6  551.2
Less Cancellations, Terminations, Repayment
and Sales                                             382.0    22.1  404.1
Total Commitments Now Held by IFC                        132.6    14.j  147.1
Total undisbursed (including participants)                35.4      1.'   36.9
1/   Investments which have been fully cancelled, terminated, written off,
sold, redeemed or repaid.
2/   US$25,000.
3/   Gross commitment including amounts sold to participants.



-28 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 8
C.   Status of Projects in Execution (as of March 31, 1982). I/
Ln. No. 970    Rio Sinaloa Irrigation Project:  US$47 Million Loan of
March 1, 1974; Effectiveness Date: May 29, 1974.
Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
Project authorities have rephased construction; a substantial
reduction in project scope was approved by the Executive
Directors (R79-51 of March 13, 1979).  Progress is now
satisfactory and the project will be completed on schedule.
Ln. No. 1022   Airport Development Project:  US$25 Million Loan of June 28,
1974; Effectiveness Date:  September 16, 1974.  Closing
Date: June 30, 1982.
Although behind schedule, this project is proceeding satis-
factorily. Project components that have been completed are
achiieving higher rates of utilization than envisaged at time
of appraisal because of greatly increased air traffic in
Mexico. Four of the six project airports are completed, and
the other two will be finished by mid-1982.
Ln. No. 1053   Papaloapan Integrated Rural Development Project:  US$50 Million
Loan of November 15, 1974; Subsequently reduced to US$38 million;
Effectiveness Date:  January 27, 1975.  Closing Date:
December 30, 1982.
Project implementation experienced delays mostly due to management
difficulties and inadequate budget support.  At the borrower's
request US$12 million of the loan were cancelled on March 5, 1981.
A reprogramming of the project and extension of the closing
date to December 30, 1982 were approved by the Executive Directors
on January 4, 1982 to allow completion of the modified project.
Ln. No. 1111   Seventh Irrigation Project - Bajo Rio Bravo and Bajo Rio
San Juan: US$150 Million Loan of May 8, 1975; Subsequently
reduced to US$50 Million; Effectiveness Date:  July 30, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
In view of the project's size, complexity and high cost, the
Covernment and the Bank agreed to phase project developme2nt
over a longer period of time and substantially reduce the scope
of the project to be financed under the Bank loan (R77-305 of
December 13, 1977 and R79-56 of March 19, 1979).  Progress cn
most components of the revised project is now satisfactory.
The project is expected to be completed abead of schedule.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regardiig the
progress of projects in execution and, in particular, to report any
problems which are being encountered and the action being taken to remedy
them.  They should be read in that sense, and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.



- 29 -
ANNEX II
P'age ' of 8
Ln. No. 1186   Medium-Size Cities Water Supply a_nd Sewerage Project:  US$40 million
Loan of January 13, 1976; Effectiveness Date: April 26, 1976.
Closing Date: January 14, 1984.
Subloan agreements have been signed with all cities included
in the project, fully committing ehe loan. Five out of seven
subprojects have been completed and works are progressing
satisfactorily.
Ln. No. 1420   Baja California Tourism Project:  US$42 Million Loa- of
July 5, 1977; Effectiveness Date: June 28, 1978;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
After extension of the closing date by one year, due to
difficulties in internal coordination, the project is
progressing satisfactorily.
Ln. No. 1462   Integrated Rural Development Project - PIDER II:  US$120 million
Loan of July 5, 1977; Effectiveness Date: October 28, 1977;
Closing Date: July 31, 1982,
The project is proceeding satisfactorily; major efforts to
decentralize project planning and execution have been made.
The result is increased beneficiary participation and
better coordination between executing agencies at the field
level. However, decentralization, reprogramming of micro-
region investment plans, and several changes in management
have resulted in delay in project execution; the closing
date will have to be extended.
Ln. No. 1552   Small- and Mediun-Scale Industrial Development Project;
US$47 million Loan of May 4, 1978; Effectiveness Date:
JanuarNy 12, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
After some initial delays, the integrated program to assist
industrial enterprises is making rapid progress. Forty-eight
extension agents have now received full training and have been
assigned to 14 regional offices. The loan has been fully
committed,
Ln. No. 1553   Tropical Agricultural Development Project:  US$56 Million Loan
of September 27, 1978; Effectiveness Date: January 12, 1979;
Closing Date:  December 31, 1983.
The six pilot projects have been approved by the Bank. Project
authorities are making good progress in th) agricultural
development program of each pilot project   The applied
research programs are proceeding on sch,2ale. Disbursements
are improving.



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 8
Ln. No. 1554   Lazaro Cardenas Conurbation Development Project:  US$16.5
Million Loan of September 27, 1978; Fffectiveness Date:
February 14, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
The shelter-related component and the training centers are
progressing satisfactorily.  Progress has also been made in the
production credit component, but delays still remain in the
implementation of the industrial premises and river control
components and the studies.  A request from the Borrower for
r-allocating funds to the shelter-related components is
expected soon.
Ln. No. 1560   FONEI III:  US$100 Million Loan of September 27, 1978;
Effectiveness Date: January 12, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
The loan has been fully committed.
Ln. No. 969-6  Rio Pai,uco Irrigation Project;  US$25 Million Loan of
September 27, 1978; Effectiveness Date: January 12, 1979.
Closing Date:  June 30, 1982.
Major project civil works are on schedule and expected to
be completed by the closing date.  Progress in agricultural
development has been slower than infrastructure construction.
The technical assistance program has been strengthened to
emphasize better water utilization and intensive agriculture.
Ln. No. 1643   Small Scale Agricultural Infrastructure Project:  US$60 Million
Loan of February 6, 1979; Effectiveness Date: April 13, 1979;
Closing Date:  June 30, 1983.
Most livestock and irrigation subprojects to be included in
the Project have been approved by the Bank, and the Government
is accelerating preparation of withdrawal applications.
Ln. No. 1671   Highway Sector Pr ject:  US$120 Million Loan of August 23,
1979; Effectiveness Date: October 12, 1979; Closing Date:
June 30, 1984.
Commitments are ahead of schedule but disbursements are behind
schedule because of budget cuts in 1979 and because of delays
in submitting reimbursement applications to the Bank.  The
authorities have agreed to increase budget allocations and
speed up disbursement requests.



-31 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 8
Ln. No. 1686   Sc ond Fertilizer Project - Lazaro Cardenas:  US$80 Million
Loan of May 18, 1979; Effectiveness Date: September 21, 1979;
Closing Date: October 31, 1982.
Orders for most of the equipment have been placed and about
30 percent of the construction work is committed with about
22 percent completed. The project is now about 17 months
behind schedule and runs the risk of further delays unless
implementation arrangements are improved. FERTIMEX's manage-
ment is considering steps to improve implementation.
Ln. No. 1706   Rio Fuerte/Rio Sinaloa Irrigation Project:  US$92 Million Loan
of July 30, 1979; Effectiveness Date: October 5, 1979;
Closing Date: july 31, 1986.
Project implementation is on schedule.
Ln. No. 1712   FONEI IV:  US$175 Million Loan of July 30, 1979; Effectiveress
Date: October 5, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1984.
Demand for industrial financing continues to be strong, and
most of the loan has been committed.
Ln. No. 1820   Small and Medium Scale Mining Development Project:  US$40
Million Loan of August 18, 1980; Effectiveness Date:
December 4, 1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1984.
Project execution is being initiated. Demand for credit
has been less than originally anticipated due to softening
of mineral prices.
Ln. No. 1858   Apatzingan Irrigation Project; US$160 Million Loan of
September 29, 1980; Effectiveness Date: December 19, 1980;
Closing Date: June 30, 1987.
Contracting for the main civil works is progressing satisfactorily
and a strengthened technical assistance program is underway. How-
ever, disbursements are lagging behind due to deiays in processing.
T.n. No. 1881   Second Small and Medium-Scale Industry Development Project;
US$100 Million Loan of September 29, 1980; Effectiveness Date:
December 22, 1980; Closing Date: December 31, 1984.
About one-third of the loan has been committed. The program
is making satisfactory progress.
Ln. No. 1891   Seventh Agricultural Credit Project:  US$325 Million
Loan of August 15, 1980; Effectiveness Date: November 17, 1980:
Closing Date: March 31, 1984.
No major problems in implementation are foreseen. The review
panels in the regional offices for speedy loan processing have
been established.



- 32 -                         ANNEX II
Page 7 of 8
Ln. No. 1908   Ocoroni Irrigation Project:  US$23 Million Loan of March 2, 1981;
Effectiveness Date: July 1, 1981; Closing Date: June 309 1986.
Project implementation is on schedule.
Ln. No. 1913   Second Medium-Size Cities Water Supply and Sewerage Project:
US$125 Million Loan o. January 23, 1981; Effectiveness Date:
June 23, 198i; Closing Date:  Deember 31, 1984.
Subloan agreements have been signed between BANOBRAS and seven
cities, and investment proposals amounting to 88 percent of
project costs have been submitted to the Bank. Completio-z of
works is ahead of schedule in Toluca and Queretaro, but overall
the project is one and a half years behind schedule due to
delays in completion of final designs.
Ln. No. 1929   Fourth Railway Project:  US$150 Million Loan of February 12, 1981;
Effectiveness Date: June 9, 1981; Closing Date: June 30, 1984.
Project execution is proceeding on schedule.
Ln, No. 1945   Rainfed Agricultural Development Project:  US$280 Million Loan
of March 2, 1981; Effectiveness Date: July 1, 1981; Closing
Date:  J;,ne 30, 1986.
Project implementation has begun on schedule. Staffing of the
ten nroipct daitrirtq ic nenr romnletion. and district onerational
committees have been establishled.
Ln. No. 1964   Ports Devalopment Preparation Project:  US$14.0 Million Loan
of May 7, 1981- Efrectiveness Date:  August 247 1981; Closi.a
Daf': December 31, 1984.
Project implementation is on schedule; about 40 percent of the
loan has been committed.
Ln. No. 1990   Second Urban and Regional Development Project:  US$164 million
Loan of August 13, 1981; Effective Date: January 12, 1982i
Closing Date: December 31, 1986.
Signing of subsidiary loan agreements is still proceeding.  Good
progress is taking place in the shelter-related component in
Tabasco, but the remaining components are suffering delays.
Ln. No. 2042   Technical Train'Lng Project:  US$90 Million Loan of July 3L
1981 Effectiveness Date: November 25, 1981 Closing
Date: June 30, 1984.
Project implementation is p:oceeding rapidly.
Ln. No. 2043   Integrated Rural Development (PIDER ITl):  US$175 Miltlion
Loan of November 6, 1981; Effectiveness Date:   _
C1ing Date:  September  1  985&.
The lo- n is no' yet effective.



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Page 8 of 8
Ln. No. 2i00   Bajo Rio Bravo/Bajo Rio San Juan Irrigation Rehabilitation
Project II:  US$180 million Loan of
Effectiveness Date:                 ; Closing Date:  December 31, 1984.
This loan, approved by the Executive Directors on March 16, 1982,
has not yet been signed.



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Page 8 of 8
Ln. No. 2100   Bajo Rio Bravo/Bajo Rio San Juan Irrigation Rehnbilitation
Project II:  US$180 million Loan of
Effectiveness Date:                ; Closing Date:  December 31, 1984.
This loan, approved by the Executive Directors on March 16, 1982,
has not vet been signed.



- 34 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
MEXICO
POLLUTION CONTROL PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time to prepare project               About 2 years
(b)  Project prepared by:                  SSA/SARH
(c)  First presentation to Bank:           April 1981
(d)  Departure of Appraisal Mission:       June 1981
(e)  Completion of Negotiations:           April 1982
(f)  Planned date cf effectiveness:        August 1982
Section II:  Special Bank Implementation Actions
S  tln '-  I. Jecial Conditions
J;rnc'itii.ns of Loan Effectiveness
(a)  ,atisfacCory onerating guidelines for FONEI1s pollution cort;:ol
loanrs bad been s1sued (pars 65);
,j) '.prova1 of t,e project implementation pa-:er in a form satisaiactory
-. t!e- Ran L (para 69);
(c)  rti st. rates to beneficiaries would range from ACF-3 to ACF
2a:~ 3 na-ice foi  a single subproject would be limited to U5$5 mil-
. ,n ,'n ?   nu ,ef lognc   to industries and I1S$20,000 in t;.e case
r 'f s'   to automobile garages (para 65);



- 35 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(e) Prior Bank approval would be required for:
(i)  the first FOYEI subloans for industrial relocation, for
change of production p-rocess, and for equipping automotive
garages; and
(ii)  all FONEI subloans involving more than US$750,000 in Bank
finance (para 70); and
(f) The project components involving strengthening of monitoring and
laboratory facilities, and implementation of studies, training, and
technical assistance would be done in accordance with programs or
terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank (para 66).



t ~~~                                                        4&        -        y Q    , 
~*                  .-'     -      4  
~~~~~~~A                                                 I
...~~~~~~f                                   ...  ,* >} .... ;a   
k . ' se2~4                                            6   
ti t1 es *q i 2 ~~~~~~~~~~~~ + < S; H $~~~~~C
4' ,                                                                                    -)v 



