Document of                 go%
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 3816b-ME
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
MEXICO
POLLUTION CONTROL PROJECT
April 28, 1982
Projects Department
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
bTU doeument has a restrted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfernnWe of
their official dutie. Io entents may net otherwise be disclosed witot World Bsak   dosriatls.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Peso (Mex$)
The Mexican peso is adjusted on a floating basis. the Central Bank
withdrew from the exchange market on February 18, 1982. Immediately prior
to that date, the exchange rate was 26.9 pesos US dollar. In recent weeks,
the peso has traded around 46 pesos per dollar.
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
ACF             Index of Average Cost of Funds to Multipurpose Banks
CANACINTRA      Camara Nacional de la Industria de Transformacion
CFEI            Comision Federal de Electricidad (National Electricity
Commission)
CO              Carbon Monoxide
CONALEP         Colegio Nacional de Educacion Profesional y Tecnica
DGEP            Directorate General for Ecology Protection and Management
of SARH
DGHS            Directorate General for Health Impact Studies
DGSA            Directorate General for Sanitary Air of SSA
DGSW            Directorate General for Sanitary Water of SSA
DGSWC           Directorate General for Solid Wastes Control and
Special Programs
FIDEIN          Fideomiso de Conjuntos, Parques, Ciudades Industriales
y Centros Comerciales
FOGAIN          Fondo de Garantia y Fomento a la Industria Mediana y Pequena
FONEI           Fondo de Equipamiento Industrial (Industrial Equipment Fund)
FONAPRECA       Fondo Nacional Para Prevenir y Controlar la Contamination
Ambiental (National Fund for Prevention and Control of
Environmental Pollution)
HC              Hydrocarbons
IMEXCA          Indice Mexicana de la Calidad del Aire (Mexican Air Quality
Index)
NAFINSA         Nacional Financiera, S.A.
NIDP            National Industrial Development Plan
PEMEX           Petroleos Mexicanos
ppm             parts per million
SAHOP           Secretaria de Asentamientos Humanos y Obras Publicas
(Ministry of Human Settlements and Public Works)
SARH            Secretaria de Agricultura y Recursos Hidraulicos
(Ministry of Agriculture and Hydraulic Resources)
SECOM           Secretaria de Comercio (Ministry of Commerce)
SEPAFIT±        Secretaria de Patrimonio Nacional y Fomento Industrial
(Ministry of National Patrimony an Industrial Development)
SHCP   .        Secretaria de Hacienda y Credito Publico
(Ministry of Finance and Public Credit)
SMA             Subsecretaria de Mejoramiento del Ambiente
(Subsecretariat for Environmental Improvement of SSA)
SO2             Sulfur Dioxide
SSA             Secretaria del Salubridad y Asistencia Publica
(Ministry of Health and Public Welfare)
TSP             Total Suspended Particulates
ug              Micrograms
WHO             World Health Organization
WQCD            Water Quality Control District
1/   The Mexican Peso is adjusted on a crawling peg basis.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MEXICO
PROPOSED POLLUTION CONTROL PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
I.   THE ENVIRONMENTAL POLLUTION PROBLEM IN MEXICO  1...... 
General               ........ ................       1
Status of the Air Pollution ....     ...............  2
Status of Water Pollution ....      ................  6
Solid Wastes Pollution ........................       8
II.  PAST POLLUTION CONTROL EFFORTS .....     ................  9
A.   Overall Legislative and Institutional Framework       9
B.   Regulations, Enforcement and Other Initiatives       11
Air Pollution Control .....    ...............    11
Water Pollution Control ..................      15
Regulations for Solid Wastes Control .....      20
C.   Incentives for Pollution Control and Industrial
Deconcentration .. ........... ..............    21
Fiscal Incentives for Pollution Control         21
Fiscal Incentives for Industrial
Decentralization ............. .........    21
D.   Financing Mechanisms ......... ............. ...     23
Industrial Financing .....    ................    23
Financing of Pollution Control Investments      24
III. MAIN INSTITUTIONS ..................................      25
A.   Secretaria de Salubridad y Asistencia (SSA) ...      25
B.   Secretaria de Agricultura y Recursos
Hidraulicos (SARH) ......      ....................    26
C.   Fondo de Equipamiento Industrial (FONEI) .....       28
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which
visited Mexico in June 1981. The mission comprised Messrs. Challa,
Kanchuger, Voljc and Lopez-Lopez (LCPI2), Castagnino and Kowalczyk
(Consultants). Messrs. Challa and Faillace (LCPI2) also visited Mexico in
December 1981 for a post-appraisal mission.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)
Page No.
IV.  THE PROPOSED PROJECT AND BANK LOAN  ....... .. ........                      31
A.    The Project  ....... ...........................                     31
Background ..........                                                31
Project Objectives and Scope  ....               ..............     32
Activities  to be Financed  .... ...... ..........                  33
Complementary Initiatives  .....               ................     35
Implementing Agencies .................... .....    37
Project Cost and Financing Plan  ....               ...........     38
Onlending Interest Rates  ..... ..... ...........                   41
Eligible Investments  ..........................                    42
Project Coordination  . ........... ... ... ....                    42
Project Execution Paper  .......................                    43
Annual Reviews ........................                             43
B.    The Proposed Bank   Loan  .....          ......... ........          44
Loan Features ........................                              44
Disbursement Procedures  .......................                    44
Procurement ........... - ..... ......                              45
Accounts and Auditing  ......................                       45
Prior Approval Limits ....... ................                      46
C.    Project Benefits and Costs ............. ......                      46
Project Benefits  ..............................                    46
Project Risks ............                                          47
V.    RECOMMENDATIONS  ....................................                      47
LIST OF ANNEXES
Annex 1 - Estimated Semi-Annual Disbursement Schedule
Annex 2 - Summary of Principal Fiscal Incentives for Industrial
Investment Offerred Under the 1979 Decrees Issued
with NIDP
Annex 3 - Operating Regulations of the Industrial Equipment Fund
Annex 4 - Indicative Outline of the Project Execution Paper



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)
Annex 5 - Supplementary Tables
T-1       Past and Projected Population of the Greater Mexico City Area
(GMCA).
T-2       Distribution of Manufacturing Employment and Value added by
Principal States.
T-3       Past and Projected Growth of Motor Vehicles in GMCA.
T-4       Distribution of Air Pollutants by Source of Emission.
T-5       Frequencies of Dust Storms (Mexico City International Airport).
T-6       Estimated Distribution of Air Pollutants from Major Stationary
Sources in GMCA by Type of Activity.
T-7       Past and Projected Demand for Fuel in GMCA.
T-8       Suspended Particles (Respirable Fraction) in GMCA.
T-9       Maximum Air Contaminant Levels in GMCA.
T-10      "Unsatisfactory" or "Bad" Air Quality Days in GMCA.
T-ll      Principal Characteristics of the First Priority Water Basins.
T-12      Water Classification of Surface Receiving Bodies by Use and
Quality Characteristics.
T-13      Maximum Permissible Values of Toxic Substances in Receiving
Bodies of Surface Water.
T-14      SARH Issuance of Water Discharge Standards by Sector.
T-15      SARH Personnel Assigned to Water Discharge Inspection Duties.
T-16      Summary of Past FONEI Lending for Pollution Control
T-17      Representative Sample of Subprojects Requesting Financing Through
FONEI Loans.
Annex 6 - Supplementary Charts
C-1       Location of Major Industries in GMCA.
C-2       Indicative Organization Chart of the Subsecretariat of
Environmental Improvement.
C-3       Indicative Organization Structure of the Directorate General for
Sanitary Air.
C-4       Organization Structure of the Directorate General for Ecological
Protection and Management of SARH.
C-5       Organization Structure of FONEI.
Annex 7 - Nature of Proposed Training Courses and Studies to be Carried out
Annex 8 - Documents Available in Project File
MAP






I. THE ENVIRONMENTAL POLLUTION PROBLEM IN MEXICO
General
1.01      Mexico has witnessed a rapid industrial and urban growth over the
past three decades. Industrial growth averaged over 8% per year during
this period, and in recent years has been stimulated by the major discov-
eries of hydrocarbon reserves in the 1970s and the associated oil export
earnings. The industrial growth, together with the larger employment and
market opportunities and superior infrastructure facilities available in
the urban centers, had led to high concentrations of populations in the
urban areas. The largest industrial and urban concentrations occur in the
Greater Mexico City Area (GMCA), which accounts for nearly one quarter of
the country's total population, more than one-third of the industrial pro-
duction, and about one half of the country's estimated 7 million motor
vehicles. GMCA has been the driving force in the country's industrial
growth over the past decades. With estimated total population of nearly 15
million, it stands among the three or four most highly populated metro-
politan areas in the world and is projected to have a population of 27 to
33 million by the year 2000, probably to become the world's largest urban
center by then. 1/ Other areas of major urban and industrial concentration
include Guadalajara and Monterrey, the country's second and third largest
cities, the industrial corridor of the Bajio area (including the cities of
Queretero, Celaya, Irapuato, Salamanca, and Leon), the Toluca-Cuernavaca
industrial area, the Coatzoacoalcos-Minatitlan area near the petroleum
producing region of the Gulf of Mexico, and the newly developing industrial
ports near Tampico and Lazaro Cardenas. Annex 5, T-2 presents a summary of
the geographic distribution of manufacturing activity and employment by
state.
1.02      Rapid industrial and urban growth have created unprecedented
levels of pollution of the air, water and other environmental media in
these regions. Many public health and other effects of such environmental
deterioration have already been observed. With the rapid expansion of
population, industrial activity and urbanization expected to continue, 2/
substantial further deterioration of the environment is inevitable unless
timely corrective measures are taken.
1/   Estimated annual growth rate of the population of GMCA averaged
close to 5% during the 1970s. The above projection is based on an
anticipated moderation in the annual growth rate during 1980-2000
to about 3-4%, on the basis of an expected drop in the birth rates
and the de-concentration measures which the government is taking
(paras. 2.32 and 2.33). See also Annex 5, T-1.
2/   The percentage of the population in the urban centers has increased
from 51% in 1960 to about 65% in 1980 and is projected to increase
to 77% by 2000. Total urban population more than doubled during
1960-80 (with average annual growth rate of about 4.7%), and is
projected to nearly double again by year 2000.



-2-
Status of Air Pollution
1.03      Greater Mexico City Area (GMCA). 3/  As may be expected, the
greatest air pollution problems in Mexico occur in GMCA. GMCA's air pollu-
tion problems are intensified by its location in a valley with restricted
ventilation. Mountains rise over 1,000 meters around the city, acting as a
barrier to air flow. Two valley channels in the northeast and northwest
funnel highly concentrated industrial emissions towards the city center
(see Annex 6, C-1). Moreover, combustion efficiency in GMCA is substan-
tially lowered because of low oxygen supply at its high altitude (2,240
meters above sea level), giving rise to high levels of unburnt carbon
monoxide and hydrocarbons in emissions from stationary sources as well as
motor vehicles. 4/ Also, Mexico City's latitude (about 200) exposes it to
high solar radiation, creating great potential for photochemical activity
and formation of ozone. Temperature inversions are observed to occur on
nearly half of the days, trapping air pollutants close to the ground, and
further intensifying the pollutant concentrations in the air. GMCA's
present motor vehicle population of about 3.5 million is projected to rise
at an annual rate of at least 4-5%, and could increase at a much higher
rate if the nation's economic growth continues at its current momentum
(Annex 5, T-3). 5/
1.04      It is estimated that nearly 10,000 tons of pollutants were
emitted per day into the air-shed of GMCA during 1980, excluding partic-
ulates from natural sources. This estimate includes about 7,100 tons/day
carbon monoxide, 1,100 tons/day of hydrocarbons, 1,000 tons/day of sulfur
dioxide, and about 350 tons/day each of particulates and nitrogen oxide
(Annex 5, T-4). The main sources of these pollutants are the automotive
traffic (cars, buses and trucks), stationary fuel combustion units (includ-
ing power generating plants) and industrial and processing activities.
Industrial activities and electric power generation account for nearly all
of these particulate and sulfur dioxide emissions, about one quarter of the
hydrocarbon emissions, and two-thirds of the nitrogen oxides. Motor
vehicles account for most of the carbon monoxide emissions and three-
quarters of the hydrocarbon emissions. In addition, dust storms occur
frequently in GMCA during the dry season, bringing substantial amounts of
additional particulate matter into the air from natural sources such as dry
lake beds (particularly the Texcoco Lake bed in the east), non-irrigated
3/ GMCA is defined to include the Federal District, and several sur-
rounding counties ("municipios") belonging to the state of Mexico
which are located in the Mexico valley.
4/ A near doubling of HC and CO emissions can be expected due to the
high altitude, in the absence of suitable adjustments to combustion
sources designed for sea level operations.
5/   It is estimated that the average life of motor vehicles in the Mexico
City Metropolitan Area is about 12 years. The number of vehicles has
been growing at annual rates exceeding 10% in recent years.



- 3 -
agricultural land and unpaved roads (Annex 5, T-10).  Annex 6, C-1 shows
the locations of major conglomerations of stationary sources (industries
and thermo-electric power plants) in GMCA.  The most important sources of
air pollution within industry are cement plants, petroleum refineries,
thermo-electric power plants, pulp and paper mills, foundries and metallur-
gical industries, chemical and fertilizer industries, and fuel oil combus-
tion facilities, Cement plants and combustion sources are the largest con-
tributors of particulate emissions, while the largest sulfur dioxide
emissions are from fuel oil combustion units of industries and power plants
(Annex 5, T-6). Paint industries, petroleum refineries and fuel transpor-
tation account for most of the hydrocarbon emissions. The single most
important cause of sulfur dioxide emissions is the combustion of high
sulfur (3.5% sulfur content) residual oil, widely used for power generation
and industrial application. Mexican diesel fuel used by buses and heavy
vehicles is also very high in sulfur content (0.4 - 1.1%); while the
absolute amounts of sulfur dioxide emissions from these vehicles is small
compared to that from industry, their public health impact is likely to be
significant because of proximity to people on streets (Annex 5, T-7).
1.05      As a result of the above high emissions rates, very high concen-
tration levels of pollutants have been observed in GMCA's atmosphere in
recent years. The average concentration levels of the pollutants vary
depending on the specific location within GMCA and the time of the year
(see for example, the respirable particulate data in Annex 5, T-8), but in
most areas of the city the concentrations reach unacceptably high levels.
Observed average pollutant concentrations in the air-shed of the Mexico
valley over different 1-month periods during 1977-79 ranged from 50 to 350
micrograms/m3 of respirable particulate matter, 0.02 to 0.14 parts per
million (ppm) of sulfur dioxide, 3 to 12 ppm of carbon monoxide, 0.03 to
0.21 ppm of ozone (formed by a photochemical reaction between hydrocarbons
and nitrogen oxides). The observed maximum daily concentration levels in
the valley were considerably higher, and substantially exceeded World
Health Organization (WHO) standards for all four major air contaminants,
with recorded levels of nearly 600% of WHO standards in the case of ozone,
490% in the case of total suspended particulates (TSP), 230% in the case of
carbon monoxide and 130% in the case of sulfur dioxide (SO2) (Annex 5,
T-9) 6/. Observed air contaminant concentration levels in GMCA exceeded
the reference "100" levels suggested under the IMEXCA air quality index
developed specifically for Mexico on 65% of the days in the case of ozone
concentration, 55% of the days in the case of carbon monoxide and 50%
of the days with respect to combined sulfur dioxide and total suspended
6/   Estimates of ambient levels of unburnt hydrocarbons (HC) and nitrogen
oxides are not available, but it is known that their most important
effect on the ambient air quality is through formation of ozone by
petrochemical reactions.



-4-
particulate levels. 7/ Reliable data are not available on the respirable
fraction of the suspended particulates which represents the component of
particulate matter most likely to affect public health; however, some prior
measurements and the substantial visibility losses experienced in the
air-shed point to high fine particle concentrations. There is no WHO
standard for lead; measured annual levels slightly exceed the U.S. standard
which is based on a three-month average. Overall, air pollution levels are
comparable to, if not worse than, those observed in Sao Paulo, Brazil,
which has one of the highest air pollution levels among the urban centers
of the world.
1.06      The daily emission rates of the various air pollutants are
expected to show substantial further increases in the coming years, unless
rigorous corrective actions, including the installation of industrial
pollution control equipment and process changes, increasing use of natural
gas (instead of oil) as the fuel for combustion, strict motor vehicles
inspection and maintenance programs, and strict controls of industrial
emissions of toxic and hazardous substances and emissions from the major
new industrial sources, are taken over the next few years.
1.07      Other areas with air pollution problems.  Other areas of the
country with significant air pollution problems include Guadalajara and
Monterrey, the next two largest cities and industrial centers in the
country, and the Coatzacoalcos-Minatitlan area which is the home of the
country's rapidly growing petroleum industry. Particulates and sulfur
dioxide emissions represent the most important sources of air quality
problems in these areas. Foundries, chemical plants, cement plants, food
processing, textiles, steel mills and electric power generation plants are
the major sources of pollution in Guadalajara and Monterrey, while the
petroleum and petrochemical industries and sulfuric acid plants are the
major sources in the Coatzacoalcos-Minatitlan area. Measured ambient TSP
levels at some locations in the above three areas exceeded the highest
daily averages recorded in GMCA.  Air pollution problems outside the above
areas are not considered critical because the industrial and population
densities are much smaller, and because the pollution levels can often be
brought down to satisfactory levels by controlling and/or correcting a
7/   The IMEXCA index, which has been in use since December 1977 as a means
to inform the public of air pollution levels, is constructed following
the lines of international air quality indices such as PST (Pollution
Standard Index) and UNIPEX.  It is a composite index of the ambient
concentrations of total suspended particulates, ozone, sulfur oxides
and carbon monoxide. The reference "100" level of pollutant concen-
trations under the IMEXCA index are 20%-50% higher than the WHO recom-
mended ambient standards, even without considering the additional
burden on the human physiological system at high altitudes. Annex 5,
T-10 presents a summary distribution of days with "unsatisfactory"
(i.e. IMEXCA Index exceeding 150) or "bad" (IMEXCA exceeding 200) air
quality in GMCA for each of the five major contaminants during 1976-
78. Reliable more recent data is not available as a result of the
breakdown of the air monitoring network (para. 2.10), but the propor-
tion of "bad" or "unsatisfactory" days is likely to have increased
since 1978.



limited number of dominant industrial or urban sources. However, localized
areas of suspected significant air quality problems exist, most
importantly, sources of toxic and hazardous emissions such as asbestos,
lead and other heavy metals, acids, and coke oven emissions, all of which
originate primarily from industrial sources.
1.08      Effects of air pollution.  Studies in GMCA have indicated adverse
health effects including significant increases in the incidence of
respiratory illnesses (with children showing a two-fold increase), 8/ and
increased carboxyhemoglobin levels in the blood (which could cause adverse
systemic effects, reduce maximum work capacity and lead to visual
impairments) 9/ among people living in the high pollution areas. The high
altitude of Mexico City puts excess stress and intensifies the respiratory
and systemic effects, particularly on visitors and tourists unaccustomed to
the thinner air. Frequent poor visibility conditions have been observed in
GMCA (with visibility becoming progressively worse since 1940), mainly due
to the high levels of ozone and fine particulates. Ozone is known to
produce irritiation of throat, nose and, particularly eyes, and could
increase damages to local vegetation from air pollution. Increases in
respiratory and cardiovascular diseases, adverse effects on the human
nervous system, loss in visibility and aesthetics, as well as damages to
vegetation, structures, and other physical property as a result of air
pollution have also been documented in studies carried out in other
countries.
1.09      Despite strong indications of adverse health and other
consequences of air pollution, the available data base to study these
effects systematically is very limited and fragmented. In the future, it
would be highly desirable to consolidate air monitoring and a public health
information available from various sources, and to carry out some addi-
tional operationally oriented health impact studies. The relationship
between ambient air concentrations and emission levels from the different
sources would also have to be defined more precisely. For example, the
high surfur dioxide levels suggest existence of large amounts of sulfates
in respirable particulates, which contribute to respiratory ailments and
visibility loss. However, almost no data are available on the chemical
constituency and size distribution of the particulates in the ambient air,
making it difficult to assess the potential health effects and to establish
appropriate ambient air quality standards. Measures would be included in
the proposed pollution control project to address these and to help the
formulation of a suitable medium term air pollution control strategy
(paras 4.05 and 4.07).
8/   Respiratory illnesses attributable to ambient air primarily stem
from respirable particulates and sulfur dioxide emissions.
9/   The study of carboxyhemoglobin (COHb) levels, which involved
blood measurements on some 2,500 persons subjected to high levels
of carbon monoxide, indicated fairly uniform levels of from 3 to
4% COHb. Such levels would suggest exposure to 8-hour ambient
carbon monoxide leves of 18-30 ppm, which are at least twice the
values obtained from ambient air monitoring. The discrepancy
might be explained by the fact that monitoring sites are not
located at peak exposure points.



- 6-
Status of Water Pollution
1.10      Nature of the problem and effects.  Mexico's growing industrial
sector is the major source of the country's water pollution. Industrial
wastewater discharges of organic matter, toxic chemicals, detergents,
heated liquids and other matter into receiving water bodies or directly on
to land are recognized to have had important harmful effects. While resi-
dential sewage also contributes to the organic load in the wastewaters,
practically all of the toxic wastes in the effluent water are of industrial
origin. By acting as carriers of toxic substances and pathogenic organisms
(bacteria, viruses and parasite organisms), the effluents cause contamin-
ation of drinking water, the spread of water-borne dieseases, adverse
impact on aquatic life, and malodorous waterways. Limitations in the use
of water bodies caused by contamination can be particularly crippling in a
water-short country such as Mexico, where the demand for scarce water
resources limits urban development, industrial expansion and irrigation of
arid land.
1.11      Water pollution problems are made more acute by the fact that the
domestic and industrial waters originating in many parts of Mexico, includ-
ing GMCA, are discharged without any treatment, into municipal sewers,
natural collectors and water basins. In many cases, these waters are in
turn used to cultivate agricultural lands in the surrounding valleys. The
health hazards and sanitation problems that may arise from such uses have
not been studied systematically.
1.12      Major problem areas.  The masses of untreated residual waters
from the urban-industrial complex of GMCA are carried by a system of
natural and man-made collectors 10/ into the Panuco river basin, making it
the recipient of the largest organic and toxic load of all water basins in
Mexico.  Residual waters from industrial and residential uses with an
estimated total biochemical oxygen demand (BOD) of 650,000 tons are
discharged annually into the waters of the Panuco basin. More than three-
quarters of this organic load originates from industries and population of
GMCA, and an additional 5-10% from the petroleum producing zone near the
lower panuco estuary (including Tampico and Ciudad Madero). About half of
the total organic load flowing into the basin is of industrial origin, most
importantly, from chemical, petrochemical, alcoholic beverage, petroleum,
pulp and paper, sugar industries. Part of the residual water from GMCA is
used to irrigate about 20,000 hectares of agricultural land in the
Mezquital valley for crops like corn and sorghum.
1.13      There are several other regions in Mexico which also face
critical water pollution problems. Most importantly, the water bodies
receiving residual waters from the Toluca-Lerma urban/industrial corridor
(including the "Bajio" area) are highly polluted and need quick corrective
action. The Lerma river is the recipient of the residual waters of the
Toluca industrial area in its upper stretches, substantial municipal and
industrial wastes from the Bajio area in the Middle Lerma basin (including
effluents from Queretero, Celaya, Salamanca, Irapuato and Leon) and,
10/ Including the man-made Gran Canal and Emisor del Poniente channels;
the Churubusco, Los Remedios, La Compania, Teotihuacan and other small
rivers; and the Texcoco lake.



- 7 -
further downstream, also residual waters from the Guadalajara metropolitan
region and surrounding areas. In total, the Lerma river basin receives
organic load of an estimated 260,000 tons of BOD per year, placing it
behind only the Panuco river basin in BOD load. Monitoring and control of
water pollution in the Lerma basin assumes added importance because waters
from the lower Lerma feed into lake Chapala which is the major source of
drinking water for the Guadalajara area. The Monterrey region also
requires a major effort for cleaning up its industrial and municipal waste-
waters, which feed into the San Juan river basin. About two-thirds of
Monterrey's residual water load is from the chemical, paper, beverage and
steel industries, and one-third from the urban sewage. Monterrey's severe
shortage of water supplies for drinking and other purposes makes it
critical to control pollution and promote recycling of water in that area.
Other areas facing large water pollution problems include: the Cuernavaca
valley, whose wastewaters of predominantly industrial origin feed into the
Balsas river basin; the Coatzacoalcos-Minatitlan area, a major center for
petroleum and petrochemical industries, whose wastewaters feed into the
Coatzacoalcos river and estuary; and several coastal areas with large
industrial fishing and tourist activities such as Veracruz, Mazatlan and
Acapulco.
1.14      Water basins study.  In 1973, the Ministry of Agriculture
and Hydraulic Resources (SARH) 11/ began a study of the country's
hydrological basins, with a view to help establish priorities in water
pollution control. Based on the physical, social, economic and pollution
characteristics in the country's 320 hydrological basins and the regions
served by them, SARH selected for detailed study 218 major basins which
together cover territories containing 98% of the population of the country
and accounting for 95% of the GDP of Mexico. For each of these basins, the
study analyzed the organic and other load relative to the volume of water
flow, water available per inhabitant served by the system, dillution
characteristics, population densities and magnitude of industrial and
agricultural activities in the regions served, to provide an indication of
the respective priorities for water pollution control action. On this
basis, the basins were classified into three groups. The top priority
group contains 11 basins considered to require immediate water pollution
control action; the second group contains 43 basins with moderate pollution
problems, probably unlikely to interfere with the use and benefits of the
water for up to ten years; and the third group contains the remaining 163
basins which are not considered to require pollution control action until
the end of the century. The eleven basins identified for top priority
action together receive 54% of the organic discharges of the country, serve
about 54% of the country population, and support activities accounting for
77% of the GDP. The salient features of these priority basins are
summarized in Annex 5, T-ll. 12/
11/ Organized as a separate Ministry of Hydraulic Resources at that time.
12/ Based on a separate study, SARH also identified Acapulco, Veracruz,
Mazatlan, Manzanillo and Puerto Vallarta as the five priority loca-
tions among coastal tourist areas with water pollution problems.



-8-
Solid Wastes Pollution
1.15      Solid waste disposal, particularly near the urban areas, also has
a number of public health and environmental consequences. As in most other
countries, land serves as the major repository for solid wastes from the
urban and industrial sources of Mexico. The problems of land pollution
differ from those of water or air pollution in that the polluting material,
once deposited, remains in place for relatively long periods of time unless
removed, burned, washed away, or otherwise destroyed. Mexico's rapid
urbanization and industrial growth has led to vast increases in the amounts
of solid wastes generated by its population and industry, as well as to
significant changes in the characteristics of such wastes (e.g. the type of
industrial chemicals and the nature of consumable goods). It is estimated
that more than 100,000 tons of industrial wastes are produced each day in
Mexico. Inadequate or unsanitary disposal of solid wastes can cause
unsightliness, bad odors and growth of pathogenic bacteria and protozoa.
An increasing proportion of wastes from consumer goods are found to be
'persistent" substances (those that are not easily biodegradeable), which
compounds the disposal problem. More importantly, the rapid
industrialization has led to generation of large quantities of toxic and
hazardous industrial solid wastes, some with severe public health
consequences, which have been insufficiently monitored and controlled.
13/ At present, a large fraction of the toxic and hazardous material is
simply discarded as part of municipal refuse. Some soil contamination is
also caused by the use of chemical pesticides and herbicides on farmlands
and orchards or their irrigation with water containing synthetic organic
chemicals. Chemical and hazardous wastes which are inadequately disposed
of or buried inside land can cause long-lasting (sometimes near permanent)
damage to the physical environment. For instance, percolation of rain
waters carrying such contaminants into the groundwater table can cause
damage which is virtually impossible to correct in a generation's
life-span. They can also have adverse public health consequences through
direct contact, inhalation or simply by proximity (e.g. radioactive
materials).
1.16      In general  the disposal of wastes of residential or commercial
origin does not appear to present serious problems, and can be handled by
the respective municipalities or other local government authorities with
relative ease provided that the required funding for burial in sanitary
landfills or other disposal methods is available. 14/ Also, preliminary
indications are that damage to soil through chemical deposition resulting
from agricultural activities is not a major problem area at this time. On
the other hand, industrial solid wastes with chemical or hazardous
components not only have the most serious environmental and public health
damage potential, but are also the most difficult to treat and/or dispose
of satisfactorily. However, no reliable information is available at
present on the amounts of industrial toxic and hazardous wastes generated
'3/ Based on a study in U.K., at least about 15% of all industrial solid
waste would likely be of toxic or hazardous (e.g. flammable, acid or
caustic) nature.
14/ However, shortage of funding has been mentioned as an important
constraint facing many local governments in this context.



- 9 -
by Mexican industry, their physical and chemical characteristics, location
of their sources and disposal sites, treatment and disposal practices being
followed (e.g. discarding into municipal refuse dumps or into the sewage
system, sanitary or chemical landfills, pyrolisis, etc.), and their
observed environmental and public health consequences. To correct this and
provide the basis for systematic monitoring and formulation of strategies
to control industrial solid wastes, comprehensive studies would be
initiated under the proposed project to characterize the industrial solid
wastes problem in Mexico and study alternative ways of disposing the wastes
(para 4.05).
1.17      It is worth noting that careful attention would have to be paid
to the interrelationship among the pollution problems of the different
environmental media in formulating suitable control strategies. For
instance, with the increasing utilization of land for urban development,
pressures to dispose of solid wastes by methods other than land disposal
have contributed to increasing pollution problems in other environmental
media. Improper incineration of toxic chemicals can lead to severe air
pollution problems, while discharges into sewerage systems or directly into
natural water bodies exacerbate water pollution.
II. PAST POLLUTION CONTROL EFFORTS
2.01      The Mexican Government has shown increasing concern about
environmental pollution problems of the country, by passing several
legislative actions since the early 1970's, creation of agencies and plans
to help environmental protection, and control of some of the major sources
of pollution. Complementary fiscal incentives were also introduced over
the last few years to encourage industrial decentralization and pollution
control investments by industry, and a limited amount of official financing
has been made available for pollution control activities.
A. Overall Legislative and Institutional Framework
2.02      The first comprehensive legislation for environmental protection
was embodied in the 1971 Federal Law for Prevention and Control of
Environmental Pollution. The Law covered all types and sources of environ-
mental pollution (including air, water, land, solid wastes and noise pollu-
tion), provided the framework for control measures, and vested enforcement
authority in the concerned ministries. In general, the legislation pro-
vided an adequate basis to plan and implement effective environmental pro-
tection programs. The Law began to become operational during 1972/73 when
detailed regulations were issued for control of dust and smoke (particul-
ates) into air (1972) and for control of water pollution (1973). The 1971
Law has recently been superseded by a new 'Federal Law for Environmental
Protection' enacted in February 1982. The new law provides for some needed
streamlining in the division of responsibilities among ministries and for
higher non-compliance penalties to facilitate effective enforcement, but



- 10 -
otherwise would preserve the basic concepts and approach of the 1971 Law.
The regulations issued in 1972 and 1973 would continue to remain in effect
under the new law, unless explicitly modified by future regulations.
Complementary legislation is provided under the Sanitary Code of Mexico,
specifying the responsibilities of individuals, industrial and other
establishments and federal and local agencies in maintenance of health and
sanitation conditions.
2.03      Under the law, the Ministry of Health and Welfare (Secretaria de
Salubridad y Asistencia - SSA) is assigned the overall responsibility for
coordinating the efforts of various government agencies in implementing the
environmental protection and control regulations for all environmental
media. In addition, SSA has the direct responsibility for monitoring air
and land pollution, and formulating and implementing protection and control
measures for these media. The direct responsibility for monitoring and
implementing water pollution control lies mostly with the Ministry of
Agriculture and Hydraulic Resources (SARH); SARH is, however, to consult
and closely coordinate with SSA all issues involving public health
considerations, formulation of standards and sanctions against violation of
the standards. The Ministry of Public Works (Secretaria de Asentamiento y
Obras Publicas - SAHOP) assists states and local agencies in public works
execution, including the construction of local water supply and sewerage
systems. The above actions are to be closely coordinated with the
respective state and local government authorities to take account of the
particular regional considerations and to assist in their implementa-
tion. 15/
2.04      A Subsecretariat for Environmental Improvement (Subsecretaria del
Mejoramiento del Ambiente - SMA) was established in 1972 within SSA to be
in charge of its environmental protection responsibilities. SARH's water
pollution monitoring and control activities are organized under its
Directorate General for Ecology Protection and Management (DGEP). Chapter
III provides a full description of the organization and activities of these
agencies. In August 1978, the government also created, through a
presidential decree, an Interministerial Commission on Environmental
Protection to facilitate coordination at a high level of the pollution
control strategies of the different agencies. The Commission is headed by
the Minister for Health and Welfare and includes top level representatives
from SARH, SAHOP, SEPAFIN, and the Ministries of Programming and Budgeting
(SPP), Fisheries, Marine Activities, Education and Labor, and the
Department of the Federal District (the governing authority of Mexico
City). While this Commission has provided some overall coordination in
helping to identify the priorities for environmental protection at the
15/  Under the new law, the responsibilities of the different ministries
remain largely unchanged, but clarifications are provided to assign
the overall responsibility for environmental protection to SSA and
to remove some of the earlier ambiguities and duplications in
responsibilities, particularly with respect to water pollution
control in which both SSA and SARH are involved.



- 11 -
national policy level, planning and coordination at the operational level
among the agencies would need to be strengthened in the future (paras. 4.15
and 4.16).
B. Regulations, Enforcement and Other Initiatives
Air Pollution Control
2.05      Industrial emissions standards and enforcement. 16/  The 1972
air pollution regulations specify limits on particulate emissions (smoke
and dust) from stationary sources, that is, industrial and electric power
plants and stationary fuel combustion units. Particulate emission
standards specified by the regulations vary depending on the type of activ-
ity, and are generally 3 - 4 times higher than the comparable prevailing
emission standards in the United States. While these emission standards
have served to address some of the most critical dust and smoke emission
problems in Mexico, there is now a need to provide for higher standards in
more congested areas (particularly GMCA), to define limits on amounts of
respirable particulates, and to take account of any toxic content of
particulates emitted. Also, at present there are no emission standards for
gaseous emissions from stationary sources, a critical gap since some of the
most important pollutants from industrial sources are gaseous. As part of
the action program contemplated in connection with the proposed project,
the government expects to issue additional and/or modified emission
standards for particulates, sulfur dioxide, carbon monoxide, hydrocarbon,
nitrogen oxides, and toxic emissions such as asbestos and lead (para.
4.07).
2.06      Starting in 1977/78 SMA's inspection and enforcement staff have
been carrying out a program of inspection visits for particulate emissions
from the major stationary sources, particularly in GMCA. The number of
inspections increased from about 1,000 in 1977 to about 3,000 per year
during 1979-80 of which more than 80% were inspections of establishments in
GMCA.  Rough estimates are that more than 1000 fines per year were imposed
during 1979-80 (compared to about 300 fines in 1978), but the average
amount of fines was very low due to a highly restrictive maximum penalty
limits which were specified in nominal terms by the 1971 Law. 17/ At
present there is no reliable and comprehensive inventory of air emissions
16/ The terms 'industries' and 'industrial emissions' as used in the
remaining part of this chapter are inclusive electric power generation
plants, combustion units and other stationary sources of pollution.
17/ The 1971 law specified that fines for non-compliance were to be
Mex$100 to Mex$50,000 (currently about US$2 to US$2,000 equivalent)
per violation; these limits became increasingly restrictive with high
rates of inflation during the 1970's. In a few instances of grave and
continuing violations, SMA has resorted to temporary or permanent
closing of industrial operations by mandate, but this is considered by
SMA to be a severe measure suitable for application only under truly
exceptional circumstances.



- 12 -
from stationary sources, a maajor deficiency which hampers systematic stand-
ards setting process.
2.07       While a reasonably intensive program of inspection visits has
been carried out over the past 2-3 years in case of major private indus-
trial sources of air pollution, the effectiveness of the enforcement effort
for stationary sources has been severely hampered by the restrictive ceil-
ings on fines for non-compliance, protracted procedures for penalty assess-
ment, slackness in inspection and compliance of public sector industries
and power generation plants lack of an adequate emissions inventory and
substantial understaffing. These factors would become even more severe
constraints under the broader range of emissions regulations contemplated
for the future, unless corrective step are taken. To help correct this,
the 1982 Law allows fines of up to 10,000 times the minimum daily wage rate
in Mexico City (which currently amounts to fines of up to about US$80,000
equivalent) per offense, with doubling or further increases allowed for
repeated offenses.  SMA is also seeking formal understandings with major
public sector enterprises such as PEMEX (the Mexican Petroleum Company),
FERTIMEX (fertilizer manufacture), SIDERMEX (steel) and CFE (electric power
generation and distribution) incorporating control actions and target
emission reductions by these enterprises. These and other complementary
measures to address the above gaps would be implemented in connection with
the proposed project (para. 4.07).
2.08       Vehicular emission standards and enforcement.  Recognizing the
predominant role of vehicular emissions in determining air quality in
metropolitan areas (para. 1.04), starting in 1971, SSA has implemented
an effective program to control emissions from new motor vehicles manufac-
tured in or imported to Mexico. Positive crank case ventilation controls
and evaporative loss controls were introduced during 1971-1972, followed by
progressively tighter carbon monoxide (CO) and hydrocarbon (HC) emission
standards for new vehicles. While stopping short of catalyst and computer
control technology (which are required in the U.S.), the government has
achieved 60-70% reductions in HC and CO emissions for the latest model cars
in comparison with the pre-1971 uncontrolled vehicles. 18/ Slightly
tighter CO and HC standards are proposed for future years and limits on
nitrogen oxides emissions are expected to be introduced. 19/ While signif-
icantly milder than the corresponding limits in the U.S  and other devel-
oped countries, the proposed new vehicle standards appear well suited for
Mexico.
2.09       Although the legislation provides adequate control authority on
new vehicles as well as vehicles in circulation, efforts to introduce a
mandatory inspection and maintenance program for vehicles in use are still
only at an initial stage. Older motor vehicles contribute to the bulk of
emissions from vehicular sources. Moreover, inadequate engine adjustment
and maintenance can cause substantial worsening of emissions even on
vehicles originally designed to comply tight standards.  To address the
problem of growing automobile emissions, the government has placed high
18/ These compare with reductions of more than 90% implied by the corres-
ponding U.S. new car emission standards.
19/ SSA runs a modern new vehicle certification facility and generally
follows U.S. Federal Test cycle procedures, modified to correct for
the high altitude of the major Mexican cities.



- 13 -
priority on the early implementation of a mandatory vehicle inspection and
maintenance program for GMCA and other areas of major urban congestion.
The Federal District Department (the governing authority of Mexican City)
is collaborating closely with SMA in the design and implementation of a
mandatory inspection program. The planned introduction of this program,
involving requirement of annual inspection stickers for all vehicles
circulating in the Federal District, has recently been officially
announced. 20/ The preliminary proposals for the regulations under the
inspection program appear satisfactory. 21/
2.10      Ambient air quality monitoring and standards.  SMA's air monitor-
ing system in GMCA consists of a 14-station manual network of high volume
particulate samplers and sulfur dioxide (SO2) bubblers operating every
third day, and a 16-station automatic continuous monitoring network (which
includes 5 complete stations for analysis of total and respirable
particles, S02, CO, ozone, nitrogen. oxides and meteorology). Both the
manual and automatic monitoring stations are distributed uniformly through-
out the urban area, with a spatial siting which appears satisfactory.
However, the automatic network has all but broken down because of the
failure of the computer system, non-availability of spare parts and other
operating problems. The only valid data available from the automatic
network were from 1976 and 1978. After detailed reviews and a determin-
ation that spare parts are unlikely to be available in the future (because
of the original manufacturer going out of business). SMA has now opted to
replace the entire automatic network with more reliable equipment. The
proposal appears fully justified in view of the accuracy, precision and
reliability requirements in air monitoring. The manual station network
would continue to be operated as a back-up system. Manual particulate
monitoring through high volume samplers is also being carried out for
Monterrey (10 stations), Guadalajara (10 stations), Ciudad Juarez (6 sta-
tions), and Tijuana (5 stations). There are also plans to install 3-5
manual stations each at several other medium size cities in Mexico. 22/
2.11      At present Mexico does not use ambient air quality standards as
the basis for specifying individual emission limits for stationary
sources.  Before ambient air quality standards can be specified and used as
a basis for fixing discharge standards and the needed refinements in the
medium term air pollution control strategies can be incorporated, substan-
tial strengthening would be required in SMA's air elmissions inventory
20/  The Department of the Federal District has already initiated a
pilot motor vehicles inspection program, based on voluntary compliance
combined with random inspections by local policing staff of noticeably
bad emissions of circulating vehicles.
21/  The preliminary proposals for vehicles in use vary with the model
year; for example, in the case of HC, proposed maximum emission
concentrations allowed are 1,000 ppm for cars of model year 1974 or
earlier, 800 ppm for model years 1975-78 and 400 ppm for model years
1979-1982.
22/  Under consideration are Coatzacoalcos, Minatitlan, Saltillo, Monclova,
Cuernavaca, Puebla, Leon, Queretero and Tampico. Subject to further
Bank review, these could also be eligible to receive Bank funds under
the proposed loan, but the resource requirements involved are small.



- 14 -
data base, data on costs of achieving reductions in the respective
emissions, and the air pollution modelling capabilities of its technical
staff to provide the linkage between ambient and emission standards.
2.12      Other initiatives.  In December 1979, the government declared
open a Coordinated Program for Improvement of Air Quality in the Mexico
Valley under the auspices of the Interministerial Commission on
Environmental Health. This program contemplates a variety of actions to be
undertaken with the medium term objective of fully eliminating occurrences
of "bad" air quality in the Mexico Valley and limiting the occurrences of
"unsatisfactory" air quality to a maximum of 10% of the days; the stated
longer term objective is to achieve air quality levels which are always
"good" or "satisfactory". 23/  Mentioned as possible actions towards this
goal are controls of emissions into air from industrial, vehicular and
natural sources, improved transportation planning, relocation and/or
modernization of industries, use of alternative fuels, and promotion and
research activities. The program is set out at a general level and leaves
the elaboration of concrete action programs to be carried out through other
initiatives. It is, however, a useful indication of the concern and
priority attached to the air pollution problem in GMCA. In a separate
measure, SMA is also studying the possibility of requiring preparation of
"environmental impact statements" as a pre-requisite for authorization of
large industrial investments.
2.13      Overall assessment of air pollution control initiatives.  The
government has clearly shown its commitment to tackle the critical air
pollution problems, and has taken several of the prerequisite legislative
and other measures to control some of the largest sources of air pollu-
tion. Clearly, the greatest problems lie in GMCA, where further strong
measures are needed to avoid a devastating air pollution problem in the
future. Additional control initiatives are also needed in some other areas
such as Guadalajara, Monterrey and Coatzacoalcos-Minatitlan, which are
already facing substantial air pollution problems. Despite an impressive
effort in this initial stage of the control program, actions to date have
been fragmented. Important deficiencies are evident in the existing data
gathering and inspection systems, measurement of the impact of air
pollution, and strategy setting and planning for pollution control
programs. The absence of adopted ambient air quality standards, problems
in operation the automatic air monitoring equipment, lack of information on
the chemical and physical composition of the suspended particulates in the
air and on sources of the respirable particulates, inadequate staff for
carrying out plant inspections, stack sampling and emission inventories,
and lack of modelling to establish the link between the levels of emissions
from individual sources and the ambient air quality in the air-shed, are
hindering the development of adequate and timely standards setting and
control strategies. Weaknesses are also evident in SMA's new source impact
analysis, and insufficient attention appears to have been paid in the past
to controlling new sources to reflect the up-to-date available control
23/ The definitions of "bad" and "unsatisfactory" air quality according to
the IMEXCA air quality index (para. 1.05).



- 15 -
technology.  Particularly promising areas of action to achieve significant
and relatively quick air pollution reductions in the major urban areas are
the establishment of mandatory automobile inspection and maintenance
programs, switching of some of the major stationary combustion sources from
fuel oil to natural gas, and conversion of buses and heavy motor vehicles
from diesel fuel to LPG. Finally, the work of the health effects research
division of SSA has not been sufficiently oriented towards aspects which
are operationally relevant for the air pollution control program; this
would need to be corrected in the future. The proposed project would
support a comprehensive program of activities to address the various needs
described above.
Water Pollution Control
2.14      Regulations.  The 1973 Federal Regulation for Prevention and
Control of Water Pollution is quite comprehensive in its coverage of the
formulation and implementation of water pollution control measures. It
establishes a system for collection of data on water pollution, effluent
standards for individual sources (including municipalities), quality
standards for different classes of streams and water bodies, and procedures
for inspection and enforcement. Policy making, standards setting and
enforcement responsibilities are shared between SARH and SSA, with SARH
taking the lead on most operational matters and SSA focussing particularly
on public health related issues. Other ministries, particularly SAHOP and
the concerned local governent authorities also participate in the implemen-
tation of water pollution control programs (para. 2.04). The regulations
rely essentially on the concept that entities discharging water are respon-
sible for ensuring that the quality of the discharge is acceptable.
2.15      Discharge registration and maintenance of ambient water quality.
The 1973 federal regulation requires that all new discharges of or addi-
tions to residual waters into national water bodies in Mexico be registered
with SARH. Thus far, about 93,000 of the estimated 300,000 discharges have
been registered with SARH. About one-third of those registered are indus-
trial discharges, the remaining being from municipalities, commercial enti-
ties, hospitals, public institutions and other entities. New entities and
expanded older operations are required to register water discharge informa-
tion with SARH within four months of the initiation of operations. The
information provided in the registrations is comprehensive, and identifies
the point of water discharge, the physical, chemical and bacteriological
characteristics of the residual waters, an the methods being used to treat
the wastewater. The registration program appears to have been quite
successful, with coverage of a substantial fraction of Mexico's largest
residual water discharges.
2.16      SARH has also been monitoring the quality of water bodies through
a network of 310 monitoring stations located around the country. Data on
up to 30 physical, chemical and bacteriological parameters of the water
(including the five basic parameters referred to in para. 2.17) required
for determining the needs for primary treatment are gathered approximately
once every two weeks at each of the monitoring stations. The data are
processed through a computerized information system to analyze the salient
characteristics of the principal water receptor bodies in Mexico.



- 16 -
Together with the discharge registration data referred to above, this
information is used as a basis for setting individual discharge limits (so as
to maintain the desired ambient water body standards), and to analyze the
characteristics of the most important contributors to water pollution in the
different regions.
2.17      Water body and effluent standards.  The regulations establish
quality standards to be satisfied by water bodies depending on the type of
water body and use category (public water supply, industrial, fishing and
agricultural activities, recreation, etc.). These ambient standards, which
appear generally satisfactory, 24/ are used by SARH to determine the
classification of the major national water bodies. The regulations also
provide for maximum limits to be satisfied by all residual water discharges
with respect to five basic parameters (settlable solids fats and oils,
floating matter, temperature and pH value), 25/ as well as additional
individual discharge conditions/limits to be set by SARH in consultation with
SSA. The individual discharge conditions are to specify limits on the
physical, chemical and bacteriological characteristics for each major
discharge into a given water body, taking into account the use classification
and assimilation capacity of the water body and other discharges flowing into
it. Since 1975, individual discharge standards/conditions have been issued
for about 3,000 entities, or about 3% of the discharges registered with
SARH. Annex 5, T-14 contains a summary analysis of the number of discharge
standards issued during 1979-81. Slightly over 50% of the discharge
standards issued over this period were to industrial entities, the remaining
being to municipalities service establishments and agricultural entities.
2.18      Considerable water pollution modelling capabilities are required
for the determination of appropriate individual discharge limitations as
above on the basis of the desired ambient water quality. SARH has made
significant progress in developing such capabilities, and has also access to
assistance from private consulting companies in modelling. Facilities for
further strengthening of these capabilities (e.g. in modelling the maximum
discharge and recuperability of the water bodies under low flow conditions)
through training programs would be available under the proposed project
(paras. 3.08 and 4.05).
2.19   Enforcement experience.  The regulations provide for inspections
by "ARH, SSA and/or the local government agencies to check compliance of
entities with the general as well as individual discharge conditions
(para. 2.17).  They also provide for fines and other penalties, including
24/ Annex 5, T-12 and T-13 provide an example of the quality
requirements (for the case of surface water bodies). Some minor
suggestions to improve consistency of standards across different
types of water bodies and to take account of the concentrations of
pesticides (and other toxic substances) in classifying the waters have
been conveyed to the authorities.
25/  The specific limits are:  maximums of 1.0 ml of settlable solids and
70 mg of fats and oil per liter of discharge; discharges are to
contain no floating matter that can be retained by a 3 mm x 3mm
sieve; maximum temperature of the discharge of 35°C; and pH value
(hydrogenian concentration) to lie between 4.5 and 10.0 (to control
acidity and alkalinity).



- 17 -
closures of plants, for violations of effluent standards.  Water discharging
entities may comply with the applicable effluent standards either by treating
the residual waters themselves, or by discharging into a municipal sewer
system and paying a fee to the municipality for the treatment. The
enforcement of effluent standards for entities discharging into a municipal
sewer system is the responsibility of the municipal authorities, while SARH
has the final responsibility for the maintenance of effluent standards on all
direct discharges (including discharges from municipal sewer systems) into
receptor water bodies (rivers, streams, coastal waters, lakes, etc.).
Despite an adequate enforcement authority given to the responsible agencies,
the enforcement program has generally not been very effective, except in the
case of a few very large point sources of water pollution and some specific
instances where there was a strong public concern. The number of discharge
inspections have been small in relation to the dimension of the problem and
relatively few individual discharge conditions have been issued to date.
2.20      Over the last 3-4 years, SARH conducted an average of about 350
inspections of waste water discharges per year (or about 4% of the total
discharges retistered), with a slight increase over time in the number of
inspections 2
1978     1979      1980      1981       Total
(Jan./May)
304      363       406        155       1,228
The number of fines issued in the above period was 885, indicating a high
violations-to-inspections ratio. The average assessed fine was about US$350
equivalent, an insignificant amount in monetary terms for most industries.
Since the issuance of the 1973 regulation, two industrial firms causing
serious water pollution problems were temporarily closed with the joint
intervention of SARH and SSA. 27/
2.21       Five main factors contributed to the limited effectiveness of the
enforcement effort to date: (a) entities discharging into municipal sewer
systems are not supervised by SARH, nor are municipalities enforcing water
quality standards L8/; (b) effluent standards have not been adequately
enforced by SARH for manicipal discharges, because of political sensitivities
and because the municipalities are not considered to have the required
financial resources to comply, unless some long term federal financing is
provided and an appropriately phased implementation program is agreed upon;
(c) maximum fines for pollution offenses were too low under the old law (para
26/  In total, only about 2,000 fines have been imposed since the issuance
of the 1973 regulations.
27/  SSA must enter all actions involving closure of industries.
28/  The problem is particularly serious in the highly industrialized
Mexico Valley area, where virtually all wastewater is discharged into
the sewer system with no evident program for municipal inspection and
enforcement.



- 18 -
2.06); (d) control effort was constrained by limited staff and budget
resources for inspection and enforcement (para. 3.07); and (e) at a more
general level, neither the discharging entities (industries, municipalities
and others) nor the enforcing authorities (federal and local government
agencies) were clear about priorities and strategy for water pollution
control or how strictly and consistently regulations are to be enforced.
2.22      As in the case of air pollution control, the proposed new
Environmental Protection Law enables larger fines of up to 10,000 times the
minimum daily wage in the Federal District (currently equivalent to US$80,000
per offense) for non-compliance with the general or individual water
discharge limitations, which should help to strengthen enforcement. Within
the above limits, SARH intends to increase significantly the fines for
violations which could amount to a multiple of the cost of efficient
treatment.
2.23      Water Quality Control Districts.  Using the analysis and priorities
indicated by the water basins study referred to in para. 1.14, together with
the stated priorities under the National Urban Development Plan (which takes
account of infrastructure availability and needs, industrial and urban growth
patterns, etc.) and the National Hydraulic Plan (which takes account of the
water balance and competing uses in the principal hydrological basins), SARH
established a list of 46 priority districts, where it advocates the formation
of "Water Quality Control Districts" (WQCD). 29/ The basic precept in the
proposed establishment of WQCD is that wastewater treatment can be made much
more economical by building common treatment facilities for groups of indus-
tries and municipalities in a contiguous area served by the same water basin,
rather than on an individual treatment basis. SARH estimates that if the
entire program of on 46 districts proceeds, the required investment for
common treatment plant construction would exceed US$1.5 billion at current
costs. To date, one common wastewater treatment plant has been built
following the establishment of a WQCD in Cuernavaca, and plants at one other
location (Toluca) are in the construction stage. 30/
2.24      The term "Water Quality Control District" denotes an entity which
is responsible for collecting and providing common treatment to wastewater.
It operates in all or part of a water basin where it is convenient to collect
29/ All the 46 priority WQCDs identified are located in the 11 highest
priority water basins (para. 1.14 and Annex 5, T-11).
30/ The Department of the Federal District constructed some common
treatment facilities in its industrial areas, but the main motivation
for this initiative appears to have been possible water reuse to help
solve the water supply problem.



- 19 -
wastewater discharges from various sources - municipal, industrial, commer-
cial and service establishments. A WQCD would typically be established and
coordinated at the state level, with the close cooperation of the state
government involved and advice from SARH. It would be governed by an
Administrative Council headed by the State Governor (or his designee) with
other representatives from SARH, the municipalities, industries and other
potential users of the system. The Administrative Council would hire a
general manager and other staff as required to operate the common plant (or
plants) for the WQCD. User charges are to be established on the basis of the
volume and characteristics of the discharges, following the principle that
the WQCD should cover its full capital and administrative costs over the
medium term.  In the initial stages, the WQCDs can be expected to obtain the
required technical assistance from SARH in the design, organization, legal
establishment, supervision of civil work construction and plant operations.
As in the case of municipalities, discharges from common wastewater treatment
plants into public water bodies would be regulated by SARH, in collaboration
with SSA (para. 2.19).
2.25      SARH considers WQCDs to be an essential element of Mexico's
national water pollution control strategy, since it is uneconomical for muni-
cipalities or other establishments to provide adequate wastewater treatment
individually. Common treatment plants help to achieve economies of scale by
covering several municipalities as well as dischargers outside the municipal
systems. WQCDs would also facilitate systematic control by SARH (since
discharges are consolidated) and an efficient and professional operation and
maintenance of treatment facilities. Nevertheless, it is recognized that
there will continue to be a need for some individual treatment by municipali-
ties and industries which are not located sufficiently close to the common
plants. Moreover, effluents of some industrial users of the common plants
are likely to require individual pre-treatment, since these may otherwise
interfere with the common treatment process.
2.26      While SARH's proposal seems attractive, not enough is known yet
regarding the technical, organizational and cost recovery problems involved
in operating common wastewater treatment plants as proposed under the WQCD
scheme. In view of the very large investment costs involved in mounting a
national WQCDs program, and some diversity of views among the concerned agen-
cies on the potential and ways of organizing WQCDs, the appraisal mission
discussed the possibility of the government undertaking an experimental
program (a "demonstration project") of common wastewater treatment plants in
a selected high priority basin. The government expressed strong interest in
trying out such an experimental approach for the Middle Lerma river basin,
and is seeking Bank assistance through a separate loan for a pilot component
along the above lines (para 4.09).
2.27      Assessment of overall control and enforcement strategy.  On
the whole, water pollution control efforts in the past have been beset by
ambiguities and gaps in priority setting and enforcement strategy. Neither
the priorities nor the enforcement programs were clearly defined by the



- 20 -
concerned ministries, and penalties were not meaningful.  The government
would have to apply more consistently and accelerate its program of fixing
individual discharge standards within the chosen priority water basins. The
lack of clearly defined strategy accepted by all concerned government
agencies with respect to common wastewater treatmet plants (organized under
WQCDs) also hampered industry compliance, because industries are
understandably reluctant to consider installation of individual treatment
facilities until the strategy is clearly defined. 31/ Also, to date, no
systematic studies have been carried out on the health impact of existing
water pollution in Mexico. To lay the basis for a rational long term water
pollution control strategy and implementation of refinements in effluent
standards, operationally oriented health impact studies would need to be
planned and carried out in the future.
2.28      The appraisal mission has had extensive discussions with SARH and
SSA officials on the future priorities and enforcement strategies, and on the
need for close coordination between the two ministries and with local govern-
ment agencies in formulating and implementing them. To help correct existing
deficiencies in these respects, the concerned agencies have identified the
priorities and strategy in enforcement., coordination arrangements, and a
series of specific control initiatives to be taken over the next three years;
these are being incorporated in a 'project execution paper' which would be
submitted to the Bank in connection with the proposed loan (para. 4.08 and
4.17).
Regulations for Solid Wastes Control
2.29      SMA is currently preparing draft regulations on solid wastes
management and disposal covering both municipal and industrial wastes. The
draft regulations, which the appraisal mission has had an opportunity to
review, require entities producing solid wastes to ensure practices which
would avoid potential damage to public health. They also cover the
recommended types of disposal practices, criteria and procedures for
obtaining permission to dispose of solid wastes (in sanitary landfills,
chemical landfills, open areas, etc.), inspection procedures and penalties
for non-compliance.  The key control problem in this area relates to the
disposal of chemical and hazardous wastes (para. 1.16). However, given the
limited knowledge on the amounts and characteristics of such wastes produced
in Mexico, and their potential environmental impact, the regulations are
likely to be set out only in general terms at this initial stage. The
information gathered from the proposed solid wastes characterization study
(para. 4.05) would provide the basis for defining more specific standards in
this respect as may be needed in the future.
31/ This is because the type of pre-treatment or treatment facilities
needed by individual entities would depend on the availability of
common treatment facilities and the specifications of residual waters
accepted by them.



- 21 -
2.30      In a complementary effort, DGSWC is also attempting to establish,
with the assistance of SEPAFIN, an "industrial solid wastes and byproducts
exchange", following the examples of similar schemes set up by industry asso-
ciations (particularly chemical industries) in countries such as Holland and
West Germany. Under the proposal, industries would register available solid
wastes and byproducts in the exchange so that prospective buyers of such
products can bid a price (or possibly a "charge" for accepting them). One
such exchange has been formally constituted for Mexico City in 1981 which is
still at an incipient stage. If this effort is successful, consideration
would be given to initiating similar exchanges for Monterrey and
Guadalajara. Although the Mexico City exchange is initially to be operated
by SEPAFIN, it is hoped that an industry association (e.g. CANACINTRA) can
eventually take over responsibility for operating the exchange.
C. Incentives for Pollution Control and Industrial Deconcentration
Fiscal Incentives for Pollution Control
2.31      To complement the above control and enforcement measures, the
government established, through a decree in March 1981, a system of fiscal
incentives in the form of tax payment certificates (CEPROFIs) for companies
purchasing pollution control equipment as well as those manufacturing such
equipment in Mexico. Individuals or companies anywhere in Mexico (irrespec-
tive of percentage Mexican ownership) purchasing Mexican manufactured pollu-
tion control equipment related to control of air, water, solid wastes or
noise pollution would receive CEPROFIs equivalent to 20% of the acquisition
cost. Purchases of imported anti-contamination equipment could also obtain
the same incentive, subject to SSA's prior authorization, if suitable control
equipment is not manufactured locally or is not of adequate quality. 32/
Investments in pollution control equipment are also eligible for accelerated
depreciation (over three years) for tax purposes. In addition, majority
Mexican-owned firms manufacturing pollution control equipment, except those
located in Zone III-A (which essentially covers GMCA), would be eligible for
CEPROFIs equal to 20% of their investment costs plus 20% of the incremental
wage bill computed as the incremental number of jobs multiplied by the
minimum wage.
Fiscal Incentives for Industrial Decentralization
2.32      As part of the strategy to reduce urban and industrial
concentration, the government has also been providing in recent years strong
fiscal incentives to encourage location of Mexican industry away from the
most congested urban areas, particularly from the Mexico City area. The
present incentives have been in effect since 1979, when the National
32/ This represents one of the few CEPROFI benefits which are available to
firms located in the metropolitan Mexico City.



- 22 -
Industrial Development Plan (NIDP) was announced. 33/  Under the Plan, top
priority is given to the development of four "industrial ports" (Lazaro
Cardenas, Salinas Cruz, Coatzacoalcos and Tampico--classified as Zone IA),
and selected other areas (Zone IB). The second group of areas (Zone II)
represent state priorities specified in agreements reached between the
federal and state governments. The Federal District and its immediate
environs is designated as the "Zone of Controlled Growth" (Zone IITA), and
other nearby regions as a "Zone of Consolidation" (Zone IIIB); investments in
these areas is practically excluded from receiving any incentives, except for
expansions of existing enterprises in Zone IIIB. Finally, in areas not
specifically designated as part of a Zone, incentives somewhat lower than for
the two priority areas (Zones I and II) are offered. The specific incentives
are designed to encourage and facilitate both regional decentralization and
other objectives of NIDP, namely, the development of priority industries and
employment opportunities, and include 10%-20% tax credits on investments,
depending on the priority of the product category and geographic zone (with
no incentives offered in Zone IIIA), plus an additional incentive
proportional to the number of incremental jobs created by the investments.
Annex 2 provides a summary of the main characteristics of the fiscal
incentives. 34/
2.33      In November 1981, a set of special fiscal incentives ranging from
5% to 20% of the investment costs plus employment incentives have been
announced for enterprises relocating from Zone IIIA to other parts of the
country (except to Zone IIIB). A new "Committee to Control Industrial
Growth in Zone IIIA," comprising representatives of SSP' SHCP, SEPAFIN,
SSA, SAHOP and the Federal District Department, 5/ was also created at
the same time to consider and implement specific actions to reduce
industrial growth in Zone IIIA. Any new plants expansion of existing
plants in Zone IIIA in the future would need the specific authorization
of the above committee.
33/  A stated goal of NIDP is to channel 70% of new industrial investment
away from the area of concentration which currently accounts for
nearly 50% of manufacturing output.
34/  Some additional incentives are also offered for investments in Zone
IA, the four industrial ports, in form of a 30% discount in the prices
of energy and basic petrochemicals inputs. As an additional measure,
onlending interest rates of FOGAIN (para. 2.35) are differentiated
according to the priority of the geographic zone of the industrial
plants.
35/ SSA would appoint the Technical Secretary of the Committee.



- 23 -
D. Financing Mechanisms
Industrial Financing
2.34      The main source of financing for Mexican industry is the banking
system, which is now predominantly made up of private and mixed
public-private sector multi-purpose banks ("multibanks") offering a
combination of commercial banking, investment banking and other financial
services. The banks have an extensive branch networks which provide good
geographical coverage of the country. In response to the high levels and
volatility of inflation and interest rates experienced in recent years and
the consequent strong preference towards short term deposit instruments
which has become evident among savers, Mexican banks, with the
encouragement of Banco de Mexico, have increasingly moved in recent years
towards a system floating interest rates in investment financing operations
using an index of deposit rates as a base. The most common index used for
this purpose is the Average Cost of Funds (ACF) Index, which represents the
weighted average cost of savings and time deposits of Mexican private and
mixed banks with maturities between 3 days and 2 years (prevailing maximum
term of deposits). The ACF index is computed monthly by Banco de Mexico
and announced publicly. In line with Mexico's open financial system,
domestic deposit and lending interest rates can be expected to maintain an
approximate parity with interest rates in international markets and to
move with the domestic inflation rate, although with same lags. The ACF
index rose from about 18% in December 1979 to 34% in March 1982, reflecting
the periodic adjustments of all deposit rate ceilings to maintain domestic
financial savings and preserve party with foreign markets 36/.  The steady
upward creep of interest rates has caused substantial difficulties to
industries in obtaining adequate long-term financing for undertaking
investment projects, especially those with long payback periods.
2.35      To improve the availability of long-term financing and to
facilitate channeling of financial resources to sectors considered as
priority, the government has set up several trust funds, using budgetary
and other resources. The most important trust funds providing financing to
the industrial sector are among those managed by the Banco de Mexico (the
central bank) and National Financiera. S.A. (NAFINSA), the government's
premier industrial development bank. The principal trust fund administered
by Banco de Mexico of relevance to pollution control financing is FONEI,
which provides term financing to relatively large export and efficient
import substitution projects in the industrial sector. The main
NAFINSA-administered trust funds providing credit to support industrial
activities, including to help industrial deconcentration, are FOGAIN (term
36/ During 1980-81, the level of interest rates on loans as well as term
deposits of banks not only exceeded the rate of inflation in Mexico
(about 28% for 1981), but also made peso deposits competitive with
those denominated in foreign currencies.



- 24 -
credit to small and medium scale industry) and FIDEIN (promotion and devel-
opment of industrial estates). FONEI and FOGAIN operate through the entire
banking system by rediscounting loans made by individual banks, while
FIDEIN provides direct financing for purchase of industrial buildings on
its industrial estates situated at decentralized locations through credits
and leasing operations.
Financing of Pollution Control Investments
2.36      Investments made by industry specifically for pollution control
are distinguished from other industrial investments in some important
respects. Pollution control investments are by their nature largelynon-
productive, although in some instances a partial or full cost recovery is
possible (e.g. through recovery of raw materials by use of bag filters,
from wastewaters, waste heat regeneration or other recycling of products).
Thus most pollution control projects cannot pay for themselves, except in
the sense of avoiding non-compliance penalties, and hence require longer
terms in financing (say, 5 years or more to permit smoothing of costs) than
other investments. Moreover, the equipment involved may not be considered
valuable as a collateral because of specificity of use.  Also, pollution
control projects typically involve mostly equipment financing. These
factors together imply a proportionately much greater need for medium and
longer term financing in case of pollution control investments than in
projects involving productivity increases, and a greater sensitivity of the
investments to shortage of term financing.
2.37      In recognition of the above, starting in 1980 with Bank support
(under Loan 1712-ME), FONEI has been offering term financing specially
oriented towards encouraging pollution control investments, at interest
rates somewhat lower than its rates on regular subloans. Chapter III
includes a fuller description of the FONEI mechanism, which would be the
primary channel for financing industrial pollution control investments
under the proposed project. In July 1981, the government also established
the National Fund to Prevent and Control Environmental Pollution
(FONAPRECA) as an additional mechanism to help finance pollution control
investments and related activities. FONAPRECA is a trust fund administered
on behalf of the government by NAFINSA (para. 2.35). Its Technical
Committee (highest policy making body) is to be headed by the Subsecretary
of SMA or his designee, with other members from HCP, SEPAFIN, NAFINSA and
chambers of private industry. In principle, the new fund can finance a
wide variety of pollution control oriented investments by government
agencies as well as by private establishments, either directly or through
other financial intermediaries. However, as yet the fund has neither the
staff nor the expertise for undertaking evaluations of sophisticated indus-
trial pollution control projects nor has it established relations with the
nation's network of banks. The government proposes to gradually build the
capabilities of FONAPRECA, so that at some future date it may be possible
to consolidate under it all officially sponsored pollution control
financing. In this initial stage of the proposed pollution control
program, however, the government would rely on FONEI as the main channel
for financing individual pollution control investments by industries and
auto-garages (para. 4.10).



- 25 -
III. MAIN INSTITUTIONS
3.01      The main agencies responsible for formulating and implementing
national pollution control strategies are SSA and SARH (para. 2.03). These
two agencies would oversee the design and execution of the various pollu-
tion control initiatives contemplated in connection with the proposed
project, and provide needed technical advice to the state and local
agencies and to the participating financial institutions (e.g., FONEI).
They would also be directly responsible for implementing some of the
project components (e.g., official automobile inspections, studies,
training, etc.). FONEI would be the main financing channel under the
proposed project to support pollution control investments by individual
industries. The institutional characteristics of the above three main
agencies responsible for implementing the proposed project are discussed
below.
A. Secretaria de Salubridad y Asistencia (SSA)
3.02      SSA's environmental protection activities are organized under its
Subsecretariat for Environmental Improvement (Subsecretaria del
Mejoramiento del Ambiente - SMA). SMA is functionally divided into four
Directorate Generals responsible, respectively, for Sanitary Air, Sanitary
Water, Solid Wastes Control and Special Programs, and Health Impact Studies
Related to Environment 37/ (see indicative organization chart in Annex 6,
C-2). SMA is currently in the process of streamlining its organization
to improve performance in critical areas. As of mid-1981, SMA had total
professional staff of about 300, including about 160 in the Directorate
General for Sanitary Air (DGSA), 50 in the Directorate General for Sanitary
Water (DGSW), 20 in the Directorate General for Solid Wastes Control and
Special Programs (DGSWC), 50 in the Directorate General for Health Impact
Studies (DGHS) including laboratory and computer systems personnel , and
the remaining in administrative, legal and other support services. The
professional staff are generally well qualified, with most having prior
training in engineering, public health or a related technical field 38/.
Physical facilities for SMA's laboratory testing of samples of air, water
and foods are provided as part of the laboratories complex of the Health
Ministry. In order to enable the expanded activities contemplated under
the proposed pollution program (paras. 4.03 and 4.04), SMA expects
substantial increases in its budget and staff resources overthe next 1-2
year period, including in its field staff stationed at theHealth Ministry's
30 regional offices.
37/  The Health Impact Studies Directorate is also responsible for
operating SMA's internal computer information system.
38/  Within DGSA, which is the largest group, there are three main
divisions - one each for stationary sources (about 80 professionals),
mobile sources (25 professionals), and monitoring and analysis (50
professionals). (See Annex 6, C-3).



- 26 -
3.03      The most critical staff shortages at present lie in the sections
responsible in SMA for developing new air emissions regulations (including
development and use of required air pollution modelling), maintenance of
air emission inventories and carrying out plant inspections for air pollu-
tion control, all of which are in the Stationary Sources Division of DGSA.
These would need to be filled in the context of the expanded enforcement
program envisaged for the future (para. 4.07). Also, training programs are
needed to strengthen staff capabilities in several areas, (particularly
with respect to air pollution), including: emission characteristics of
different industrial and other processes; systematic standards setting for
emissions from stationary and vehicular sources; control techniques for
new sources; air pollution modelling including ways to establish the link-
age between emissions and ambient air concentrations; air and water
sampling and monitoring methods; emissions testing and laboratory
analysis; and evaluation of health impacts.
3.04      Some improvements are also needed in the internal information
system of SMA. There has been inadequate coordination between the health
impact studies group and the departments having operational responsibility
for air and water pollution control. Moreover, there is a need to stream-
line and consolidate information available from different sources within
and outside SMA on: (a) prevailing pollution levels (including monitoring
data gathered by DGSA, DGSW, DGEP, DGHS); and (b) the health impact of
environmental pollution, including the limited number of internal studies
carried out by SMA, disease incidence information from local hospitals,
Mexican Social Security Institute, local authorities, etc., and relevant
health studies information available from other countries (para. 2.13).
At a more general level, there appear to be some deficiencies in the
knowledge of SMA's working level staff on the government's overall
pollution control strategies, priorities and ongoing pollution control
programs. Fuller staff briefings and orientation sessions are needed to
help improve staff motivation and effectiveness. As part of the actions
contemplated by the government in connection with the proposed project,
remedial measures are expected to be taken to correct the existing gaps and
to strengthen the SMA's internal information system (para. 4.05).
B. Secretaria de Agricultura y Recursos Hidraulicos (SARH)
3.05      SARH fulfills its responsibilities for water quality control
matters through its Directorate General for Ecological Protection and
Management (DGEP) within its Subsecretariat of Planning. DGEP develops and
helps the implementation of plans and programs to: (i) determine the
quality of water bodies; (ii) control water pollution; (iii) reuse water;
and (iv) maintain a national inventory of water uses. DGEP's general
orientation is one of planning, engineering and design. Together with DGSW
Of SSA, it is responsible for establishing standards for residual water
discharges into national waters and the supervision of those standards.
SARH's work is complemented by other federal and local government agencies
concerned with water quality, including SSA, SAHOP, and the municipalities
and state governments involved in collecting and treating wastewater
discharges (para. 2.03).



- 27 -
3.06      DGEP has approximately 1,200 employees, about half of whom are in
its Mexico city headquarters offices; the remaining are dispersed in field
offices, laboratories and water monitoring stations in 32 states. About
200 of the DGEP's employees have college degrees, including about 50 with
post-graduate qualifications. DGEP's program is carried out through its
Subdirectorates for Investigation and Training, Uses of Water, Engineering,
Environmental Impact, Standards and Supervision and Technological Support
and International Matters. Laboratory support is provided through 6
central laboratories, 15 regional laboratories and 9 mobile labora-
tories. 39/ An indicative organization chart of DGEP is included in
Annex 6, C-4.
3.07      SARH has 81 employees assigned to inspection duties at 35 offices
spread throughout the country (Annex 5, T-15). These field staff serve
only as part-time inspectors, having to also perform other technical
functions for SARH, principally in water measurement and monitoring. SARH
would need to expand the technical staff available for inspection and
enforcement, and provide for full time inspectors to meet the needs of the
expanded enforcement program envisaged for the future (para. 4.08).
Complementary inspections are also conducted by the Directorate General for
Sanitary Water of SSA to deal with the public health aspects of water
discharges, whenever needed. While in principle there is a functional
division of inspection responsibilities between SARH and SSA, there has
been some duplication and deficiency in coordination in the past between
the two ministries with respect to inspection and enforcement efforts.
This would need to be corrected in the future. It is expected that a
closer coordination would be facilitated by the streamlining of functions
reflected in the 1981 Law (para. 2.02), and the specific coordination
arrangements being proposed to implement the proposed project (para. 4.16).
3.08      DGEP conducts an active training program to help the profes-
sional development of its staff.  During 1973-1980 DGEP conducted about 180
internal professional and technical level training courses, and sent about
160 staff for other training in Mexican and foreign institutions. Some
further strengthening of DGEP's training program is nevertheless needed to
fill existing gaps and to expand staff capabilities in connection with the
expected increases in water pollution control and enforcement efforts
(para. 4.08). The proposed project would support training programs for
technical staff of SARH as well as the local government agencies in areas
such as water pollution modelling, criteria and procedures for fixing
individual discharge conditions (para. 2.18), inspection procedures, and
planning and implementation of common wastewater treatment plants (para.
2.26).
39/  The largest central laboratory (CIECCA) is located in Mexico City and
provides the fu:Ll range of water analysis services to SARH s
monitoring stations and to discharging entities. It has a total
professional staff of about 60. The other five central laborator-ies
specialize by type of studies, and together have about 80 profes-
sionals. They are located at Guadalajara (limnological studies),
Monterrey (water use), La Paz (litoral waters), Acapulco (bay studies)
and Puebla (natural resources management).



- 28 -
C. Fondo de Equipamiento Industrial (FONEI)
3.09       FONEI was established in 1971, following extensive discussions
between Mexican authorities and the Bank, as a trust fund of Banco de
Mexico, to help improve industrial efficiency, the structure of industrial
financing, and the country's balance of payments position. FONFI provides,
through the entire network of Mexican investment and multi-purpose banks,
term financing for industrial projects which would have a positive impact
on the balance of paymens through higher exports or efficient import sub-
stitution. As FONEI became a more mature institution, it has sought to
bring about a more efficient allocation of resources by encouraging banks
to make their lending decisions increasingly on the basis of comprehensive
project appraisal, and enterprises to prepare detailed feasibility
studies. More recently FONEI has also been promoting lending for high
priority activities such as pollution control and technology development.
To help achieve these objectives, the Bank has made four loans to FONEI
totalling US$360 million for general industrial financing 40/. Overall,
FONEI has had reasonable success in meeting its objectives. It has also
established good working relationships with a large number of banks distri-
buted throughout Mexico, and is highly regarded as an effective industrial
financing agency. A full institutional appraisal of FONEI is available in
the Staff Appraisal Report prepared and circulated to the Executive
Directors in connection with the latest FONEI loan (Report No. 2478b-ME of
May 10, 1979). The following is a summary description of the main features
relevant to FONEI's industrial pollution control financing activities.
3.10       FONEI's Technical Committee (its highest decision-making body) is
composed of high level government officials. Its chairman is the Director
General of Public Credit of the Ministry of Finance, and other members
include representatives of SEPAFIN, SECOM, Banco de Mexico and NAFINSA, and
two representatives of the private sector nominated by the chambers of
commerce and industry. The Committee meets once a month to decide on all
proposals for FONEI financing above Mex$15 million. Decisions for credits
below this amount are delegated to FONEI's Director. An organization chart
of FONEI is included in Annex 6, C-5. The policies and procedures govern-
ing FONEI's operations are set forth in its Operating Regulations (see
Annex 3), which may be modified by FONEI's Technical Committee in consulta-
tion with the Bank. They define the types of projects that may be financed
by FONEI, terms and limits of subloans, interest rates, criteria for
project selection, responsibilities of the intermediaries and final benefi-
ciaries, and procedures for FONEI's authorization of financing. The
maximum amount of financing FONEI can normally provide to a single invest-
ment project is Mex$200 million. However, to facilitate significant parti-
cipation in relatively large high priority projects, FONEI can approve
larger financing provided prior authorization of the Ministry of Finance is
obtained. FONEI's subloans have maximum maturities of 13 years, including
up to 3 years of grace. 41/
40/  Loans 824-ME of June 1972, 1205-ME of April 1976, 1560-ME of
September 1978 and 1712-ME of July 1979.
41/  FONEI recently also initiated a pre-investment financing scheme and
risk-sharing program to provide a special stimulus to technology
research, development and adaptation activities of industries.



- 29 -
3.11      Onlending interest rates on FONEI's loans for productive invest-
ment projects are set on a floating rate basis (adjustable every quarter)
at two percentage points above the ACF index (para. 2.34), including a
spread of two percentage points for the intermediary bank, which assumes
the full credit risk. Loans granted for pollution control, preinvestment
studies and technology improvement are eligible for interest rates which
are 2%-5% lower than its regular rates to help stimulate these activities
(para. 4.13).
3.12      FONEI's project appraisal and supervision capabilities have
developed well over the years. It has been reasonably successful in its
efforts to encourage the intermediary banks to take over the responsibility
for carrying out full project appraisals and to undertake regular and
systematic supervision of the projects. This was partly achieved by offer-
ing additional spreads of 0.25% - 0.5% to intermediary banks willing
to assume project appraisal responsibility, and a further 0.25% if the bank
also agrees to undertake full project supervision following FONEI's guide-
lines. FONEI is currently considering steps to further improve its project
monitoring and supervision procedures.
3.13      At present, FONEI uses internal guidelines for evaluating
pollution control subprojects which specify that all subproject appraisals
must include:
(i)  a full description of the firm's pollution problem;
(ii)  a detailed analysis and justification of the equipment and/or
technical assistance required, including evidence that the
proposed solution would approximate the least cost solution
for addressing the pollution problem and that it would ensure
compliance with the government requirements; 42/
(iii) a full financing plan for the proposal investment; and
(iv) an analysis of the repayment capacity of the firm.
These guidelines would be strengthened to reflect the eligibility and
evaluation criteria to be applied under the proposed project (para. 4.14).
They would be formally issued prior to loan effectiveness (para. 5.02), and
applied for all industrial pollution control subprojects financed under the
proposed loan.
3.14      FONEI's lending operations and loan portfolio have grown rapidly
over the past five years (with an almost 10-fold increase in portfolio
since 1976), as a result of vigorous domestic demand, promotional efforts
and expanding contacts of FONEI with private sector industries and banks.
42/ An official opinion of SSA or SARH would be requested in this respect,
whenever deemed desirable.



- 30 -
New loan approvals in 1981 were about US$300 million equivalent for 110
projects (compared to about US$200 million equivalent in 1980 distributed
among 80 projects). Total loan portfolio of FONEI at year-end 1981 stood
at about US$415 million equivalent. The income picture and overall
financial condition are satisfactory, with a substantial growth in net
income from during 1979-81 and good prospects for continued growth.
3.15       FONEI's involvement in financing industrial pollution control
investments began in 1980 in connection with the implementation of the
Fourth FONEI Project (Loan 1712-ME approved in FY79) which included a
US$5.0 million component of Bank financing for pollution control invest-
ments. So far, about US$23 million (representing some 54 percent of total
investment costs of the projects) have been loaned for control of emissions
from metallurgical, cement, textile and chemical industries. Industrial
enterprises have shown considerable demand for credit for pollution control
invesetments. In 1981, FONEI financed 12 projects totalling about US$18
million equivalent as compared to 4 in 1980 and 1 in 1979 (Annex 5, T-16).
Pollution control projects now account for 6 percent of FONEI's total
lending. Most of the projects are in the GMCA, Monterrey, Guadalajara and
Toluca.  FONEI has more than fully committed the pollution control
component of Loan 1712-ME (with total commitments to date of about US$6
million), and has several more pollution control projects at a relatively
advanced stage of processing (Annex 5, T-17). Most of FONEI's pollution
control financing to date has been for controlling air emissions. Overall,
FONEI has gained useful experience in pollution control financing, and its
performance has been satisfactory.
3.16       FONEI expects a significant expansion and diversity in the demand
of industrial pollution control financing as a result of more stringent
enforcement of regulations by SSA and SARH, and expected more intensive
promotion efforts on the part of FONEI. To handle these expanding needs,
FONEI intends to create a new divisionspecialized in evaluation of pollu-
tion control subprojects and increase from 2 to 4 the number of credit
analysts specializing in pollution control financing. It would also have
access to support from SSA and SARH, particularly on matters related to the
technical suitability of the equipment financed (para. 4.16). FONEI has
recently signed a collaboration agreement with SSA, under which SSA would
provide FONEI lists of companies likely to need pollution control finan-
cing, as well as assistance in technical evaluation of project proposals as
requested by FONEI.
3.17       A Project Performance Audit Report (PPAR) of the First and Second
Industrial Equipment Fund (FONEI) Projects (SecM79-535 of June 1979)
acknowledged that FONEI financed sound investments, whose foreign exchange
savings performance has been substantial. However, it commented on two
important aspects of FONEI's early operations:



- 31 -
(a) Given FONEI's attractive onlending interest rates, the relatively
small spreads allowed for FONEI's participating intermediaries,
and the prevailing conditions of credit rationing, the inter-
mediary banks (which assume the full credit risks) tended to
allocate loans preferentially to their 'prime' borrowers; this
led to a disproportionately high concentration of FONEI's lending
in large and well-established borrowers; and
(b) FONEI made little progress towards achieving its objective, set
under the Second Bank loan, of encouraging the participating
intermediaries to use project appraisal as a major input to their
lending decisions, rather than lend primarily on the basis of
loan collaterals.
The difficulties noted are in large part due to the fact that FONEI, in the
period covered by the PPAR, was a new institution. Each of these diffi-
culties has been addressed in the Third and Fourth projects which have sub-
sequently been approved by the Bank. FONEI's onlending rates have since
been increased and are now on a floating basis linked to the ACF index
(para. 2.34). Interest rate spreads to participating banks have been
increased to reasonable levels to provide them an incentive to assume
greater lending risks in the utilization of FONEI rediscounts and to parti-
cipate more actively in the appraisal and supervision of investment
projects. Recent evidence indicates that these measures, together with
changes in the banking law, have helped to reduce banks' collateral
requirements and to increase appraisal-based lending. FONEI's lending is
also becoming increasingly diversified, with a lower proportion of the
subloans going to the larger clients.  FONEI's loan portfolio at year-end
1981 was distributed among 270 companies, of which 96 companies borrowed
for the first time from FONEI in 1981.
IV. THE PROPOSED PROJECT AND BANK LOAN
A. The Project
Background
4.01      In recognition of the high levels of environmental pollution in
several areas of Mexico and their potential health and other consequences,
the government has accorded high priority to the development and implemen-
tation of a comprehensive pollution control program. This program would
encompass legislative measures, control strategies,priority setting,
enforcement, incentives and financing for investments to reduce pollution.
Bank missions have participated actively with the Mexican agencies over the
last 2-3 years in preparing the program proposals. The proposed project
would form the first phase of the longer range pollution control program,
and would approximately cover the next three years.



- 32 -
Project Objectives and Scope
4.02      The principal objectives of the proposed project would be to:
(i)  introduce more effective pollution control strategies and
enforcement procedures to address some of the most critical
pollution problems which require immediate attention;
(ii)  lay the basis for formulating and implementing appropriate longer
term strategies; and
(iii)  encourage and help finance investments by industrial firms aimed
at reducing atmospheric and water pollution.
The project would focus mainly on air and water pollution problems, but
but would make a start in addressing the problem of land pollution by
industrial solid wastes.
4.03      In the case of air pollution, the project would address the most
serious sources of industrial and vehicular pollution. It would include
improved monitoring and enforcement, training and expansion of technical
staff, approaches to control new sources, and several studies and modelling
work aimed at determining optimal long-term strategies for air pollution
control. While GMCA would be the single most important focus of the air
pollution control efforts, support would also be provided to other areas
experiencing serious pollution problems such as Monterrey, Guadalajara and
Coatzacoalcos-Minatitlan.
4.04      A major focus of the water pollution control and enforcement
initiatives under the project would be reduction of contaminant discharges
into selected high priority water basins which are facing the most pressing
water pollution problems, in particular the Middle Lerma River basin. In
these basins it would address simultaneously the problems of municipal and
industrial water pollution (para. 4.08). The project would also help
reduce discharges from some of the most critical industrial sources (e.g.
those containing highly toxic substances) in other areas. In addition, it
would support staff increases, training and methodological improvements,
and operationally oriented studies of water basin characteristics and of
the impact of water pollution on public health to help identify rational
long term water pollution control strategies. 43/
43/ The project would also support suitable studies to characterize the
industrial solid wastes disposal and management problem and possible
solutions for the same.



- 33 -
Activities to be Financed
4.05      The project would provide financing and other support for the
following components:
(a) Industrial investments. 44/ Provision of term loans through
banks to industrial enterprises for undertaking investments for
air or water pollution control involving: (i) installation of
equipment to control air or water pollution from stationary
sources; (ii) changes in production process or technology to
reduce such pollution; (iii) relocation of plants from congested
areas to more decentralized location undertaken specifically in
order to comply with pollution control regulations; or (iv)
conversion of fuel oil burning combustion facilities to natural
gas, including the installation of the required natural gas
pipeline connections. Other industrial pollution control
investments, such as those involving industrial solid wastes
disposal, may also be supported, on a case by case basis
(including the Bank's prior review and approval if Bank financing
is involved).
(b)  Equipment for automobile garages.  Provision of loans to private
automobile service stations ("garages") for purchase of vehicle
emissions testing and diagnostic equipment, mainly in GMCA.
(c) Equipment for monitoring and automobile inspection stations.
Purchase and installation of air and water monitoring equipment
for the major urban areas (involving mainly the acquisition of an
automatic air monitoring network for GMCA--para. 2.10), related
laboratory facilities, and emissions testing and diagnostic
equipment for the automobile inspection stations operated by the
local or federal authorities (mostly in GMCA--para. 2.09).
(d) Training. Establishment of a comprehensive training program for
the technical staff of SSA, SARH, local agencies and, where
applicable, industrial enterprises and participating financial
44/ The terms 'industries' and 'industrial investments' as used
in this Chapter are inclusive of combustion units and other
stationary sources of pollution.



- 34 -
institutions. Training in respect of air pollution from vehi-
cular sources would also be provided for auto-mechanics and auto-
mobiles inspection staff 45/.
(e) Studies. Carrying out studies and pilot programs to help develop
long term control strategies and better    pollution standards,
including: (i) on air pollution control: research and pilot
testing programs to examine the technical and economic feasi-
bility of converting motor vehicles to alternative less polluting
fuels (e.g., LPG for diesel vehicles and gasoline-methanol mix-
tures for other cars), and to determine the chemical and physical
characteristics of suspended particulates (para. 1.09) and ozone
formation in GMCA; (ii) on water pollution control: special
water basin and groundwater studies to analyze water pollution
problems in selected high priority basins; (iii) on industrial
solid wastes disposal: a comprehensive study for characterization
and quantification of chemical and hazardous industrial wastes,
and feasibility studies, if appropriate, for construction of a
limited number of industrial waste treatment plants or disposal
sites; (iv) on health impact of pollution: strengthening of the
data base, and carrying out operationally oriented studies to
evaluate the effect of air and water pollution on public health
and the implications to long term pollution control strategies
(paras. 1.09 and 1.11), 46/
(f) Other technical assistance: Other technical assistance: (i) to
help the respective agencies in implementing the required comple-
mentary initiatives (para. 4.06); and (ii) to strengthen SMA's
internal information system and provide better briefings to staff
on ongoing programs and priorities (para. 3.04).
45/  See Annex 7 for a fuller description of the proposed training
programs. The training programs would draw upon existing training
facilities available from other institutional sources such as CONALEP
(the national vocational school system), but would provide for
specialized courses which fall outside the scope of the general
training institutions.
46/  Annex 7 provides more details of the proposed studies.  The reports of
the Bank's consultants on air and water pollution include suggestions
on specific elements of the above studies.



- 35 -
Complementary Initiatives
4.06      Clearly the incentives for pollution control investments would be
governed by the existence of a suitable regulatory framework and the
strictness with which the existing and the proposed new control actions are
enforced. Some of the actions required to initiate the project have
already been taken, most importantly, passing of the new Federal Law for
Environmental Protection in February 1982, which streamlines the responsi-
bilities and functions of the various agencies involved and substantially
raises the ceilings on penalties for non-compliance with environmental
regulations (paras. 2.02 and 2.22). A mandatory automobile inspection and
maintenance program for the Federal District has also been announced by the
government recently. The Mexican Government intends to take several addi-
tional measures to strengthen enforcement of existing regulations, issue
regulations necessary to make existing pollution control legislation opera-
tional, improve the capabilities and facilities of the agencies for formu-
lation and implementation of control strategies, and encourage or facili-
tate compliance with standards. These complementary measures, and the
expected time schedules for their implementation have been discussed by the
appraisal mission with the Mexican Authorities, and would be incorporated
in a "project execution paper" being prepared in connection with the propo-
sed project, which would be formally submitted to the Bank (para. 4.17).
4.07      In the case of air pollution control, the government has
expressed its intention to pursue the following initiatives:
(a) development and adoption of modified particulate emission
standards and new standards on sulfur dioxide and carbon monoxide
emissions from major industries within the next 1-2 years, to be
later followed by development and adoption of hydrocarbon and
nitrogen oxide emission standards for stationary sources (para.
2.05);
(b) speedy implementation of the mandatory annual inspection require-
ment which has recently been announced for all motor vehicles
circulating in the Federal District and a review of the need for
similar programs in other major centers (para. 2.09);
(c) application of stringent emission standards for new vehicles
(para. 2.08);
(d) systematic gathering and updating of air emissions inventories
in the worst affected industrial-urban centers (including GMCA,
Monterrey, Guadalajara and Coatzacoalcos-Minatitlan) and data on
the cost of achieving emissions reductions in different indus-
tries, strengthening of methodology for standards setting, adop-
tion of appropriate ambient air quality standards, and develop-
ment of air modelling to facilitate the prediction of the effect
of individual emission sources on the ambient air quality
(paras. 2.06, 2.07 and 2.11);



- 36 -
(e) agreements to be arrived at with the major public sector enter-
prises such as PEMEX, CFE, FERTIMEX, SIDERMEX and the national-
ized sugar mills, on major pollution control actions to be
achieved by them, specifying time schedules and targets for
emission reductions (para. 2.07) 47/; and
(f) measures encouraging the use of natural gas in new burning
facilities in congested areas, and conversion of selected
large fuel oil burning facilities (particularly in GMCA) to
natural gas (paras. 1.04 and 2.13).
In addition, several other program improvements to facilitate the long run
air pollution control would be undertaken. These include: significant
increases in the staff devoted to the elaboration of control strategies,
development of standards and enforcement (para. 3.03); streamlining of the
enforcement procedures to increase the number of plant inspections and to
reduce time lags in penalty assessment; and encouraging PEMEX to make
available adequate quantities of natural gas and LPG (for industry and
motor vehicles respectively) for expected fuel conversions
(para. 2.13). 48/
4.08      Effective formulation and enforcement of standards would also
determine the amount of investments undertaken by industry towards water
pollution control. The initiatives envisaged by the authorities in this
respect include:
(a)  rigorous application of a "unified control strategy  for the
Middle Lerma River Basin to help achieve consistent enforcement
across different source categories (municipalities, private
sector industries, public sector industries and commercial
establishments), an accelerated setting of individual discharge
conditions, and adequate enforcement on discharges into public
water bodies as well as into the municipal sewer systems;
47/ SSA is also in the initial stages of discussing possible "sector
agreements" with industry groups incorporating voluntary plans of
action, which industries of each subsector would take in order to
facilitate timely compliance with the current or modified regulations.
48/ Current plans of PEMEX are to expand its production and pipeline capa-
city to enable, by the end of 1982, an increase of 1.0 to 1.5 billion
cubic feet in the amount of natural gas supplied to the Mexico valley
and surrounding areas.  PEMEX also projects increases in the produc-
tion of LPG from the current level of 150,000 barrels per day (of
which 40,000 barrels per day is being exported) to about 300,000
barrels per day by the end of 1982.  These levels of supply would be
sufficient to meet the projected increases in industrial and other
demand in GMCA in the next 2-3 years.



- 37 -
(b) and accelerated setting of individual discharge limits in
selected other high priority areas and for industries known to be
discharging large quantities of toxic or hazardous substances
(with at least 1,000 new individual discharge limits expected to
be issued per year in the near future), and more frequent
inspection visits;
(c) reaching agreements with major public sector enterprises on their
emissions control measures and targets as in the case of air
pollution control; and
(d) expansions in full-time staff devoted to enforcement to enable
more frequent inspection visits and a larger coverage of dis-
charge points than earlier (para. 3.07).
4.09      SSA staff also expect to complete preparation of draft regula-
tions for solid wastes management and disposal in the near future and
submit them for formal government approval (para. 2.29). In addition, as a
complement to the financing of water pollution control investments contem-
plated under the proposed project for individual industries, the government
proposes to undertake an experimental program of common wastewater treat-
ment plants for the Middle Lerma river basin (para. 2.26). While this
component would not be a part of the proposed project, the government
considers it to be part of the overall pollution control program being
supported by the proposed project, and has requested Bank consideration of
support to it through a separate loan. 49/ Such a "pilot" component could
provide valuable experience in the organizational, cost recovery and other
aspects of operating common wastewater treatment plants, and thus help in
the formulation of suitable overall water pollution control strategies and
planning of a possible more comprehensive WQCDs program for the future. It
would also enable the government to try out the unified control strategy
referred to earlier (para. 4.08) for the Middle Lerma River basin.
Implementing Agencies
4.10      The main implementing agencies of the project would be SSA, SARH
and FONEI, which would operate under the overall direction of a project
steering committee chaired by the Subsecretary for SMA. The project compo-
nents involving strengthening of monitoring and laboratory facilities,
equipping of government motor vehicle inspection stations, and carrying out
studies, training and technical assistance would be implemented by SSA in
the case of air pollution control and solid wastes control programs, and by
SSA and/or SARH (depending on the particular activity--see paras. 2.14 and
3.05) in the case of water pollution control programs.  Term credits for
industries and private auto-garages would be channeled through FONEI taking
advantage of FONEI's considerable experience in the appraisal and super-
vision of industrial investment projects and its close relations with the
49/  Bank preparation missions have reviewed this possibility, and an
appraisal of such a separate loan is planned for FY83.



- 38 -
network of participating banks (paras 3.12 to 3.16). 50/ The collabora-
tion of the Federal District Department and other local government authori-
ties would be required for implementing some of the complementary
initiatives (para. 2.03).
Project Cost and Financing Plan
4.11       Total Bank and official financing of about US$150 million equiva-
lent is estimated to be required over the next 3 years for implementing a
project along the above lines, after taking into account expected contribu-
tions of the individual industries and participating banks, and the pro-
posed eligibility conditions (para. 4.14). Total project cost, including
the portions financed by the participating banks and the own resources of
the sponsoring industries, is estimated at about US$190 million equiva-
lent. The project is expected to support 80 - ]00 industrial investments
for pollution control, equip some 300 - 400 private auto-garages for
emissions testing and diagnosis, and the other proposed complementary faci-
lities. About 62% of the total project cost is expected to be to support
air pollution control investments by industries (including stationary
combustion units), and 28% for industrial water pollution control
investments. Equipment for private auto-garages and automobile inspection
stations, studies, training, technical assistance and improvements to
monitoring and laboratory facilities together account for the remaining 10%
of the project cost. The estimated costs of studies and technical
assistance, and costs of monitoring and other equipment to be procured by
the concerned government agencies under the project are based on
preliminary price quotations obtained by the agencies (in some cases) and
price contingency allowance of 8% for 1982 and 1983, 7.5% for 1984 and 7%
for 1985, and a 5% physical contingency.
4.12       A Bank loan of US$60.0 million is proposed, which would cover the
estimated foreign exchange costs involved in the investments undertaken by
industries and auto-garages (estimated at US$54.7 million equivalent),
expenditures by SSA and SARH on the components to be implemented by them
directly except for consultant expenditures (about US$4.4 million), and the
capitalized front end fee (about US$900,000) on the loan. Local resources
provided by Banco de Mexico or the government through FONEI of the order of
US$84 million equivalent would be needed to complement Bank resources for
subloans to industries. About US$38 million is expected to be provided
from own resources of the sponsoring industries or by the participating
banks (under the FONEI system) to finance the remaining costs of the
industrial investments 51|. About US$9 million equivalent, required to
50/ The government intends to build gradually the capabilities of the
newly established FONAPRECA (para. 2.37) for financial and economic
evaluation of pollution control investments including, possibly,
capabilities to act as a second-tier agency to channel pollution
control financing through the banking system. During loan
negotiations the government indicated that in the future (once
FONAPRECA becomes fully operational and has acquired the necessary
experience) it may request Bank authorization for FONAPRECA to
participate in channeling the Bank loan resources. The Bank indicated
its willingness to consider such a request subject to an analysis of
the institution and its proposed responsibilities under the project.
51/ Including a limited amount of resources expected to be raised by them
in external capital markets.



- 39 -
Table 4.1: Estimated Proiect Costs and Bank Financine
(US$ million ecuivalent)
Total Investment             Bank Financing       a/
Oost                (Forcign exchange cost)
I. AIR POLLUTION CONTROL PROGRAM
1.  Industrial pollution control
(including stationary combustion units)
- Control ecuioment &                              85.0                    30.0
process changes (including
conversions to natural gas)
- Industry relocations                             33.0                      5.2    __
1i8.0                     35.2
2.  Automobile inspection & maintenance
- Diagnostic equipment for inspection
centers and laboratory                             1.8                               0.5
Diagnostic and service equipment
for private auto-garages                           6.0                               1.5
7.8                      2.0
3.  Training and technical assistance for
industrial pollution control staff &
automobile mechanics  b/                                      0.5                      0.1
4.  Installation of air monitoring network
(mainly for GMCA) b/                                          2.0                      1.8
5.  Studies and program improvements, including
aerosol study, feasibility of using
gasoline-methanol mixtures, and LPG
conversions of heavy vehicles  b/                             2.0                      0.2
Subtotal                                    130.3                     39.3
II. WATER POLLUTION CONTROL PROGRAM
1.  Investments by  Industries Discharging Into
priority water bodies and other major
industrial tources wiich require individual
treatment -,r Dre-treatment facilities,
process changes or relocation                                53.0                     18.0
Water monitoring and laboratory equipment,
studies, training and technical assistance  b/                1.2                     0.3
Subtotal                                     54.2                     lb.3
III. INDUSTRIAL SOLID WASTES CONTROL PROGRAM
Quantification and characterization of
industrial solid wastes (Chemical and/or
'hazardous wuastes) b/                               2.0                    0.2
Feasibility studies for industrial waste
treatment plants and disposal sites   b/            0.5                     0.1
Subtotal                                      2.5
IV.  FIEALTH IMPACT STUDIES, RELATED EQUIPMENT AND
INFORMATION AND CONTROL SYSTEM IMPROVEMENTS b/                    3.0                      1.2
TOTAL  PROJECT                              190.0 c/                 59.1
Capitalized frontand fee for the Bank loan                         0.9                      0.9
TOTAL                                       190.9                     60.0
a/ Figures represent conservative estimates of the foreign exchange costs excluding
consultant expenditures.
b/ These cost items, which correspond to project components to be implemented directly
by SSA and SARH, include a 5% physical contingency allowance and price contingency
allowances of 8% for 1982 and 1983, 7.5% for 1984 and 7% for 1985. Also, all cost
estimates are net of import and sales taxes.
c/ This estimate excludes the cost of a pilot program for construction of common
wastewater treatment plants in the Middle Lerma River, estimated at about $50 million
equivalent (including foreign exchange cost of the order of $20 million), which is
also considered by the government to be an integral part of the pollution control
program being supported. A separate Bank loan is being considered to finance part
of the costs of this 'pilot" component (para. 4.09).



- 40 -
Table 4.2: Project Financing Plan
(US$ million equivalent)
Sponsoring Industries
World Bank    FONEI   & Participating Banks   Government          Total
(SSA & SARH)
Industrial pollution
control investments              53.2        79.8            38.0                               171.0
Equipment for private
auto-garages                      1.5         4.5                                                 6.0
Equipment for monitoring,
laboratories and
government automobile
inspection stations,
related physical
facilities, studies,
training and technical
assistance.                       4.4                                             8.6            ]3.C
Fronit end fee on Bank loan        0.9                                                             0.9
TOTAL                             60.0        84.3           38.0                  8.6           190.9



- 41 -
implementing complementary improvements, studies and the automobiles
inspection and maintenance program, would have to be provided to the
project from the budgetary resources of SSA and SARH. 52/ Tables 4.1 and
4.2 provide the estimated distribution of the project costs among the
varius components, the respective Bank shares of financing, and the total
financing plan. The government provided assurances that adequate amounts
of complementary local resources along the above lines would be made
available through FONEI, FONAPRECA and budgetary funds (of SSA and SARH) to
implement the project.
Onlending Interest Rates
4.13      In view of the significant positive externalities and social
benefits involved in pollution control investments and the generally non-
productive nature of such investments (para. 2.36), there is in principle a
case to offer financing at concessional interest rates to industries under-
taking such investments. Moreover, most of the plants generating unaccept-
able emissions were installed in an earlier period, assuming a considerably
less stringent regime of controls. Keeping these considerations in mind,
in connection with the US$5 million component for pollution control financ-
ing under the Fourth Industrial Equipment Fund Project (Loan 1712-ME signed
in July 1979), it was agreed that FONEI could offer onlending rates to the
final beneficiary industries of up to three percentage points below the
index of the average cost of funds (ACF index) published monthly by Banco
de Mexico, that is, up to five percentage points below the onlending rates
for FONEI's regular subloans (para. 3.11). In actual practice, however,
FONEI has been charging onlending interest rates equal to ACF in this pilot
component, in order to assess the demand in the absence of significant
financing subsidies. The ACF index tends to move in parallell with infla-
tion and is typically above the inflation rate (para. 2.34). FONEI is
expected to continue its practice of charging interest rates equal to ACF
on its pollution control subloans under the proposed project. In view of
the possible need for stronger financial incentives in the context of the
greatly expanded pollution control program contemplated, 53/ FONEI would,
however, be provided continued flexibility to offer subloans to industries
and auto-garages at lower interest rates, with rates (adjustable once every
quarter) in no case being lower than ACF-3. 54/
52/ Part of this amount, which is required for equipment for GMCA's
automobile inspection stations, could be provided by the Federal
District Department from its budgetary resources (para. 4.05).
53/ It should also be noted that the traditional concern about the impact
of interest rates lower than the market rates on technology choice
does not apply in the case of pollution control investments, which
generally have little direct employment impact.
54/ The spreads to participating intermediaries under FONEI's loans would
continue at their present levels of 2.0 - 2.75% depending on the
enterprise size and intermediaryts participation in subproject
appraisal and supervision (para. 3.12).



- 42 -
Eligible Investments
4.14      Since a major rationale for providing preferential financing is
to assist enterprises which have made investments prior to the enforcement
of stringent pollution control standards, subloans to industries would be
limited to the financing of investments for controlling pollution from
facilities installed at least one year prior to the submission of the
financing request to the Bank. Eligible investments would include those
helping to bring emissions into compliance with the prevailing standards.
The final beneficiaries would be required to finance at least 10% of the
investment costs involved using their own resources.  In case of invest-
ments to achieve pollution control which are carried out in conjunction
with expansions of productive capacity, total financing provided under the
proposed project would be limited to the estimated cost of achieving the
target emission reductions through an efficient control method. 55/
Similarly, financing of relocation would be limited to the estimated cost
of establishing a plant of similar size and characteristics as the plant to
be relocated. All subprojects financed for industries would be required to
present a full financing plan for the investments being supported, and an
adequate economic and financial analysis, including a demonstration that
the proposed technical solution for controlling pollution is efficient
(para 3.13). Detailed 'guidelines' for evaluating and financing pollution
control projects reflecting the above points are being prepared by FONEI.
Formal approval by FONEI of satisfactory guidelines would be a condition of
effectiveness of the proposed loan. Any changes in the guidelines would
have to be acceptable to the Bank. The project components involving
strengthening of monitoring and laboratory facilities, studies, training
and technical assistance would have to be implemented according to programs
of and/or terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank.
Project Coordination
4.15      In view of the complexities involved in implementing the various
project elements and complementary initiatives, close coordination at
different levels is essential among the concerned federal government agen-
cies, between federal and local agencies (e.g. with respect to the oper-
ation of the automobile inspection and maintenance program and municipal
enforcement of water pollution regulations) and between the technical
agencies and financing entities.
55/ This would avoid subsidized financing of normal expansions in
production capacity. The remaining parts of the investments would, of
course, be eligible for financing under FONEI's normal investment
financing operations (outside the proposed project) bearing interest
rates of ACF+2.



- 43 -
4.16      At the top level, the project would be coordinated by a steering
committee chaired by the Subsecretary for Environmental Improvement of SSA,
whose other members would include high level representatives from SARH,
FONEI, the Federal District Department and other concerned agencies. This
committee would function as a 'subcommission' of the government's Inter-
ministerial Commission for Environmental Protection (para. 2.04). The
steering committee would set the overall control strategies, and would
periodically review the progress achieved on each of the project elements
and complementary initiatives.  In order to ensure adequate coordination
between the concerned technical and financing/administering agencies at the
operational level, small technical groups would be established within each
of the Directorate Generals of SMA (one group each in the air pollution,
water pollution, solid waste disposal and health impact studies areas of
SSA), and in DGEP of SARH. The technical groups, which would each be
composed of 3 - 5 operational level staff, would liaise on a continuing
basis with FONEI, the Federal District Department, and other local govern-
ment authorities, to provide them required technical advisory servicesin
evaluating and implementing pollution control projects. They would also
offer certain advisory services to industries and auto-garages requesting
financing under the project, e.g. through provision of information on
alternative types of pollution control equipment available, lists of
equipment suppliers, etc. 56/
Project Execution Paper
4.17      To help ensure that the various elements of the proposed project
and the complementary initiatives described above are implemented in a
timely and coordinated manner, a "project execution paper is being
prepared by the government. A draft of this paper was discussed and agreed
upon during loan negotiations. The paper would include arrangements for
project coordination and monitoring (para. 4.16), a description and time
schedule for the project elements and complementary initiatives expected to
be carried out by the government agencies, and other implementation
details. An outline of such a document is included in Annex 4. Formal
approval of a satisfactory project execution paper by the government would
be a special condition for loan effectiveness. Any subsequent change in
the paper would have to be acceptable to the Bank.
Annual Reviews
4.18      In view of the complexity of the project and the need for close
monitoring, the progress in implementing its various components on a
continuing basis, the government, the Bank and the participating
institutions would together carry out annual reviews of the progress
56/ SSA and SARH are also expected to form a joint middle-level committee
to facilitate full coordination of activities between the two minis-
tries on matters such as priorities, standards, and enforcement
strategies for water pollution control throughout Mexico (paras. 2.27
and 3.07).



- 44 -
achieved in implementing each of the project elements and complementary
initiatives. The reviews would be oriented towards identifying any needed
adjustments in the design of the various project elements and complementary
initiatives. Adjustments mutually agreed between the government, the
Borrower and the Bank would be incorporated in the project.
B. The Proposed Bank Loan
Loan Features
4.19      The proposed US$60.0 million loan (including US$0.9 million for
capitalized front end fee on the loan) would provide about 31% of the total
project cost, and would be channeled through FONEI to industries (about
US$53 million) and private auto-garages (US$1.5 million), or used directly
by the government agencies (about US$4 million). The loan amount
represents a conservative estimate of the foreign exchange costs involved,
and would finance an estimated 80-100 industrial investments for air and
water pollution control, in addition to financing of equipment for private
auto-garages and the government's automobile inspection stations, monitor-
ing and laboratory facilities, training, studies and other technical
assistance. In order to avoid undue concentration of Bank loan funds, Bank
financing for any single subproject would be limited to a maximum of US$5
million equivalent in the case of industrial investments and US$20,000
equivalent in the case of equipment for auto-garages. The Borrower of the
loan would be NAFINSA, which has been designated by the government as its
agent for this purpose. Following the arrangements agreed under previous
FONEI loans, the government would assume the repayment responsibility
for the Bank loan, including the associated foreign exchange risk, while
FONEI would bear the responsibility for interest payments on the loan. The
loan would be repaid according to a 15-year equal principal payment
amortization schedule including 3 years of grace. Funds accruing to FONEI
from subloan repayments would have to be used for purposes similar to those
of the proposed project. The last date for submission of subprojects for
Bank financing would be December 31, 1985 and the loan closing date would
be December 31, 1988.
Disbursement Procedures
4.20      Disbursements under the Bank loan for items financed through
FONEI's fixed assets subloans for industries, acquisition of the air moni-
toring network and laboratory facilities, would be made for:
(a) 100% of foreign expenditures for directly imported equipment and
related services;
(b) 70% of total expenditures for imported equipment purchased
off-the-shelf in Mexico;
(c) 45% of the ex-factory costs of domestically manufactured equip-
ment; and
(d) 25% of the costs of industrial construction and installation.



- 45 -
The above percentages represent the best available estimates of the respec-
tive foreign exchange contents. Disbursements following the above percent-
ages would also be made for expenditures by SSA and SARH for goods and
services for carrying out proposed studies, training and technical
assistance activities excluding expenditures for consultants. Only expen-
ditures made no more than 180 days prior to the date of receipt by the Bank
of the corresponding financing requests would be eligible for reimbursement
in the case of subloans. The proposed extension of the Bank's normal
90-day limit under DFC-type projects represents a continuation of the
practice under the ongoing loans through FONEI, which involve a multi-stage
review process. Annex 1 includes the estimated disbursement schedule under
the proposed loan which is based on the average disbursement profile for
IDF projects in the LAC Region approved during 1970-80.
Procurement
4.21      Procurement procedures for goods and services financed under the
subloans channeled to the private sector though FONEI would follow the pro-
cedures customary in the Bank's DFC-type projects, with FONEI and the
participating banks having the responsibility for ensuring competitiveness
of items procured in price and quality. These provisions would be
reflected in the subloan contracts signed by FONEI. FONEI pays particular
attention to procurement aspects in case of its larger subloans. Items
purchased by the executing agencies for their own account (e.g. for
acquisition of the proposed air monitoring network and laboratory equipment
for use of SSA and SARH), which would mostly consist of packages of goods
and services estimated to cost less than US$500,000 equivalent, would have
to comply with the government's normal procurement procedures, which have
been reviewed by the Bank and include comparative price and quality
evaluation of at least three bids.  In the case of one item, the automatic
air monitoring network to be used by SSA which is expected to cost about
US$2.0 million equivalent in total, limited international tendering
involving quotations of at least three international suppliers would be
applied.
Accounts and Auditing
4.22      SSA, SARH and FONEI would keep accounts showing all the financial
flows and expenditures associated with the project. The accounts kept by
SSA and SARH would be subject to their internal checks and controls and the
verification procedures of the Ministry of Programming and Budgeting
(SPP). A summary statement of such accounts would be prepared annually and
submitted to the Bank after verification following SPP's normal procedures
which have been found acceptable to the Bank. The full accounts and
financial statements of FONEI would be audited at least annually by
reputable auditors following accounting principles satisfactory to the
Bank.



- 46 -
Prior Approval Limits
4.23      Prior Bank approval would be required for the first FONEI sub-
loan for industry relocation, the first subloan involving change in produc-
tion process, the first subloan for an auto-garage submitted for Bank
financing, and for all FONEI subloans involving more than US$750,000 equi-
valent in Bank financing 57/. These limits are expected to result in the
Bank reviewing between one-fourth and one-third of the subloans,
corresponding to about half of the loan amount.
C. Project Benefits and Costs
Project Benefits
4.24      The proposed project represents an initial effort to tackle
Mexico's most urgent pollution control needs and to lay the basis forformu-
lating more comprehensive and longer-term pollution control strategies.
Such strategies are essential to help in achieving Mexico's ambitious
industrialization programs without serious adverse public health and
environmental consequences.  The costs of correcting environmental pollu-
tion are far higher than the costs of prevention and tend to increase
rapidly if corrective actions are delayed.  Thus the project's role in
fostering the timely development of sound strategies for controlling
emissions into the atmosphere and major water bodies should have important
positive effects going much beyond the impact of the immediate investments
supported.
4.25      Many of the project's direct economic and social benefits are not
readily quantifiable, but are substantial, as evidenced by prior studies on
the impact of pollution on public health and the physical environment, and
as reflected by the high priority attached by the government to pollution
control activities.  The project is expected to help directly in controll-
ing about 80-100 sources of critical industrial pollution, and in implemen-
ting a vehicular emissions inspection and maintenance program which is
expected to cover a significant fraction of GMCA's 3.5 million motor
vehicles over the next 3 years. The project would also lay the basis for
future reductions in air, water and solid wastes pollution. The expected
immediate and longer term reductions in the contamination of air, surface
waters and groundwaters should help to achieve reductions in the incidence
of respiratory, cardio-vascular and water-borne diseases among large
segments of the population, particularly in the congested urban and indus-
trialized areas. Improvements in visibility and reductions in eye, nose
and throat discomfort can also be expected as a result of controlling the
fine particulates and photochemical oxidants in the air sheds concerned,
57/ This compares with the free-limit of US$2.0 million equivalent appli-
cable for investment subloans under ongoing Bank loan to FONEI for
general industrial financing.



- 47 -
particularly that of the Mexico valley. Other benefits are also expected,
including aesthetic improvements through cleaner air and waterways, asso-
ciated increases in tourism revenues, and reductions in structural damage
attributable to contaminated air or water. Recycling of inputs, byproducts
and waste heat, which is likely to take place in conjunction with some of
the industrial pollution control investments, could provide significant
positive financial rates of return.
4.26      The project would have a substantial institution building impact,
by helping to strengthen the ongoing programs, staff capabilities, data
base, information systems and physical facilities of the concerned
agencies.  The proposed studies and strengthening of the standards setting
process would facilitate the development of appropriate long term control
strategies.  The project would also help coordination of strategies and
operational activities of the different agencies and departments concerned,
and would thus facilitate achieving the desired long-lasting impact of
pollution control programs.
Project Risks
4.27      Inadequate government performance in enforcing pollution control
regulations and in implementing the other required actions is a major
project risk. Another potential risk is related to the required complex
coordination arrangements which involve several federal and local
government entities and other institutions. Achieving adequate coordina-
tion may be difficult but is essential for effective implementation of
pollution control programs.
4.28      The government has shown its strong commitment to reducing
pollution by establishing a new law and initiating other needed actions.
The detailed action plans provided in the project execution paper on
enforcement and other complementary initiatives, the proposed joint annual
reviews, and the high priority being attached by the government to the
proposed programs suggest that the above risks are not high.
V. RECOMMENDATIONS
5.01      During loan negotations agreements and/or understandings
were reached with the Mexican government, NAFINSA (in its capacity as the
Borrower) and FONEI, on:
(a) the project scope and content (paras. 4.02 to 4.05);
(b) the proposed loan amount, terms and conditions (para. 4.19);
(c) availability of the required amounts of complementary local
resources through FONEI, SSA and SARH (para. 4.12);
(d) subproject eligibility conditions and limits and criteria for
subproject evaluation (para. 4.14);



- 48 -
(e) complementary control and other initiatives to be taken by the
implementing agencies and the likely time schedules
(paras. 4.07 to 4.09);
(f) project implementation and coordination arrangements (paras. 4.10
and 4.16);
(g) arrangements for repayment of and interest payments on the Bank
loan (para. 4.19);
(h) onlending interest rates (para. 4.13);
(i) proposed annual reviews of progress (para. 4.18);
(j) procurement and disbursement procedures (paras. 4.20 and 4.21);
(k) accounting and auditing arrangements (para. 4.22); and
(1) prior approval limits (para. 4.23).
5.02      Formal approval by the government of the project execution paper
in a form satisfactory to the Bank (para. 4.17), and approval by FONEI of
satisfactory guidelines for evaluation and financing of pollution control
projects (para. 4.14) would be special conditions of effectiveness of the
proposed loan.



- 49 -
ANNEX 1
MEXICO: PROPOSED POLLUTION CONTROL PROJECT
Estimated Semi-Annual Disbursement Schedule a/
(US$ million)
Disbursement During the         Cumulative
Six-month Period Ending              6-month period               Disbursements
1982
December 31, 1982                      0.9                           0.9
1983
June 30, 1983                          1.5                           2.4
December 31, 1983                      4.0                           6.4
1984
June 30, 1984                          6.5                          12.9
December 31, 1984                      7.5                          20.4
1985
June 30, 1985                          8.0                          28.4
December 31, 1985 b/                   8.0                          36.4
1986
June 30, 1986                          7.1                          43.5
December 31, 1986                      5.5                          49.0
1987
June 30, 1987                          4.5                          53.5
December 31, 1987                      3.0                          56.5
1988
June 30, 1988                          2.0                          58.5
December 31, 1988 cI                   1.5                          60.0
a/ Based on the average historical disbursement profile for IDF projects in the
Latin America and the Caribbean Region during 1970-80.
b/ Last date for submission of subprojects.
c/ Closing date.



MEXICO: PROPOSED POLLUTION CONTROL PROJECT
Summary of Principal Fiscal Incentives for Industrial Investment
Offered Under the 1979 Decrees Issued with NIDP
Priority Sectors                                       All Industrial Activities
Geographic Location                                                                                   Other        Purchase of    Employment Generated
of Investment         Small Enterprises b/  Activity Category 1 c/  Activity Category 2 d/  Industries  Local Equipment by Additional Shifts
Zone I
Preferential             25% Investment         20% Investment            15% Investment               -             5%         20%  Additional
20% Employment           20% Employment                -                             Employment
Zone II
State Priorities         25% Investment        20% Investment            10% Investment                -             5%         20% Additional
20% Employment           20% Employment                -                            Employment
U'
Rest of the Country        25% Investment e/    20% Investment              10% Investment e/            -             52         20Z Additional          0
20Z Employment           20% Employment e/                                          Employment
Zone III
A. Controlled growth            -                                                                      -             5X
B. Consolidated growth 25% Investment e/    20% Investment e/             10% Investment e/            -             5%         202 Additional
20% Employment e,/       20% Employment e                                           Employment
a/ Geographic zones are defined in the decree published in Diario Oficial, February 2, 1979. Fiscal credits can be used for the
payment of any federal tax which is not imposed for a specific use. The percentages shown in the table for investment are applied
to the total value of construction and installations and the purchase of new machinery and equipment directly related to the
production process; it is granted at the time of undertaking of the expenditure. In the case of employment, the percentage is
applied for a period of two years on the new employment valued at the annual minimum wage.
b/ Enterprises with fixed assets not exceeding 200 times the annual minimum salary in the Federal District.
c/ Includes agroindustries, capital goods producing industries and strategic inputs for the industrial sector (e.g., steel, cement).
d/ Includes non-durable consumer goods, durable consumer goods and intermediate products specified in decree published in
Dinrio Oficiil, March 9, 1979.
0/ Appliod only to expansions of productive capacity in the some industrial activity.
Source:  Secretaria de Patrimonio y Fomento Industrial, Plan Nacional de Denarrollo lndwutrial, 1979-1982 (Maxico, 1979) p. 181.



- 51 -                             ANNEX 3
Page 1
MEXICO - PROPOSED POLLUTION CONTROL PROJECT
OPERATING REGULATIONS OF THE INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT FUND
(FONEI)
I.  OBJECTIVES
1.         Objectives.  The objectives of the Industrial Equipment Fund (FONEI)
are:
(a) to promote the efficient production of industrial goods
and services;
(b) to ensure that the auxiliary lending institutions and
organizations (financial intermediaries) of the country
take the viability of investment projects into account
in their lending decisions.
II. GENERAL PROVISIONS
2.         Operations.  FONEI may undertake the following operations:
(a) to provide funds to the financial intermediaries for loans
that they grant for: (i) the acquisition of fixed assets;
(ii) the preparation of preinvestment studies, and (iii) the
adaptation, production, integration and development of
technology;
(b) to carry out financing operations related to those mentioned
in (a) above;
(c) to provide guarantees to protect the financial intermediaries
against the risks of default;
(d) to make grants to enterprises to assist technological
development.
3.         Currency.  The  lending operations of FONEI shall be denominated in
Mexican currency.
4.         Credit Limits.  The maximum amount of financing granted by FONEI for
each project or program shall be Mex$200 million. The Committee may make larger
loans for high-priority projects subject to ratification by the entity
establishing the trust.



- 52 -                              ANNEX 3
Page 2
5.         Maximum loan period.  FONEI shall establish the loan period and
other conditions of financing according to the nature of each project. The
maximum period shall be thirteen years, including a grace period of not more
than three years.
6.         Interest rate.  The annual net interest rate used in the various
FONEI programs shall be charged on unpaid balances and based on the average
percentage cost (CPP) of interest rate charges and if applicable, surcharges,
on borrowing operations in Mexican currency by the whole range of private
and mixed banking institutions, including loans by enterprises and individuals
term deposits (except savings accounts), and also, where applicable, bank gonds,
based on monthly estimates prepared by the Banco de Mexico. The CPP shall be
rounded off to the nearest one-tenth of one percent.
The initial rate applied shall be that in effect fot the month
imnmediately preceding that of the contracting of the loan between the institution
and its borrower and shall be modified every quarter if necessary, even though
the amortization payments may be monthly or quarterly, as stipulated in the
prececing paragraph.
7.         Discount differential.  The discount in favor of the intermediary
institutions shall in all cases be 2% on unpaid balances. However, FONEI may
increase this differential in the following casest
(a) up to 0.5% when the intermediaries undertake the appraisal
of the projects, if the total assets before the project
investment in an existing enterprise, or estimated assets
in a new enterprise, are less than Mex$100 million, and by
up to 0.25% when the assets exceed this amount;
(b) by up to 0.25% annually after presentation to FONEI of the
supervision report or reports.
In both cases the intermediaries may carry out these tasks with their
own technical staff or through outside consultants, with FONEI's prior agreement
and in accordance with the terms of reference established by it.
8.         Guidelines for the intermediaries.  The lending institutions acting
as financial intermediary in loans made by FONEI shall be subject to the
following basic requirements:
(a) in programs where FONEI finances only the acquisition of
fixed assets, they must ensure that the borrowing enterprise
will have sufficient resources to meet its working capital
needs;
(b)  the costs of appraising and supervising the project shall
not be passed on to the borrower;
(c) except for any subordinate portion of the discount, the
intermediary shall be obliged to service its debt punctually
and in full, regardless of whether it has received payment
from its borrower. In addition it shall immediately pay
to FONEI any sums received as advance repayment of principal.



- 53.-
ANNEX q
Page 3
9.         Complementary financing.  In the financing of projects supported by
FONEI, other lending institutions, equipment suppliers, and in general any
other sources of funds, may participate in addition to the financial intermediary.
10.        Borrower's contributions.  The contribution of the final borrower shall
be made in the form of increases in capital stock, or through internal generation
of funds during the execution phase of the project in the case of established
enterprises.
11.        Commitment charge.  FONEI shall charge the financial intermediaries
a commitment fee of 1% per annum on the undisbursed balances in accordance
with the disbursement schedule approved by FONEI. The financial intermediaries
may in turn pass this charge on to the final borrowers.
12.        Rights of FONEI.  The contracts signed by FONEI with the financial
intermediaries, and those signed by the latter with the final borrowers, shall
stipulate that FONEI is at all times entitled, without prejudice to those
assisting the intermediaries, to obtain the information it considers necessary
regarding the execution of projects or programs, to inspect and supervise their
implementation and operation, and to require the final borrowers to submit
financial statements certified by external auditors.
13.        Coordination agreements.  FONEI may enter into coordination
agreements with other trust funds or entities in order to assist enterprises,
under the terms of its Operating Regulations.
14.        Portfolio limit. FONEI shall limit its loans to any one enterprise
to 5% of its total assets.
15.        Alternative sources.  FONEI shall not make loans for projects or
programs for which adequate alternative sources of financing are available.
III. EQUIPMENT FINANCING PROGRAM
16.        Objectives.  FONEI may finance:
(a) the equipping of new industrial plants or the expansion,
modernization or relocation of existing plants which
effectively promote national objectives for industrial
development, or whose products have reasonable prospects
of competing in foreign markets;
(b) the equipping, extension or modernization of enterprises
whose purpose is to provide services that generate or
save foreign exchange efficiently.
"Efficiency" is understood to mean that production costs enable the
products or services to compete now or in the foreseeable future, in terms of
quality and price, with identical or similar products from overseas.
17.        Use of resources.  FONEI resources in this program musr be used only
for the acquisition of machinery, equipment and installations, their assembly



-54 -
ANNEX 3
Page 4
and conditioning, the construction of premises to contain them, and pre-
operating costs.
18.        General guidelines.  In selecting projects for FONEI financing
under this program, the following factors among others shall be taken into
account: the priority of the activity, the generation or saving of foreign
exchange, industrial decentralization, regional development, employment
creation, value added, and the economic and financial rates of return.
19.        Credit shares.  With a minimum of Mex$4.5 million, FONEI shall
finance the acquisition of fixed assets in the following proportions:
(a) for projects whose purpose is the establishment of new
enterprises, up to 65% of fixed assets. The financial
intermediary shall provide funds equal to at least 15.4%
of the FONEI loan from its own resources and the final
borrower shall contribute at least 25% of the value of
said assets;
(b) in the case of projects for expansion, modernization or
relocation of existing plants, FONEI may finance up to
72% of the fixed assets under the project. The financial
intermediary shall provide funds equal to at least 11.1% of
the FONEI loan from its own resources, and the final
borrower shall contribute at least 20% of the value of
said assets.
(c) within the framework of its participation, FONEI may
subordinate its loan in relation to the financial
intermediary in a percentage not exceeding that of the
final borrower, in cases of high-priority projects for
enterprises with total assets not greater than Mex$100
million.
20.        Interest rate.   The net interest rate charged to the final borrower
shall be 2% above the CPP referred to in paragraph 6, except for the subordinated
part of the loan, where it shall be 2.5%.
However, these rates may be reduced by up to 0.25% in the light of
the costs of the preinvestment studies incurred by the enterprise for the
contracting of external consultants acceptable to FONEI.
IV. POLLUTION CONTROL PROGRAM
21.        Purpose of the program.  Through this program FONEI may provide
preferential loans to enterprises, especially those established in areas of high
industrial or population density, for the acquisition of pollution control
equipment, taking into account as far as possible the views of the competent
authorities.



-55                                  ANNEX 3
Page 5
22.        Amount of assistance.   FONEI will finance up to 90% of the cost
of fixed assets and technical advice. The enterprise must contribute not
less than 10% of the investment.
23.        Interest rates.  The net interest rate charged by the financial
intermediaries to the final borrowers shall be the CPP indicated in paragraph 6.
V. TECHNOLOGICAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
24.        Purposes of the program.  Through this program FONEI intends to
support research into and the development and adaptation of methods and
procedures for the efficient manufacturing of industrial products, and the
design, construction and testing of capital goods, including prototypes and
pilot plants.
25.        Use of funds.  The resources in this program will be used for such
purposes as: purchase of basic data and process engineering, salaries,
materials, equipment and services, training costs, etc., all-relating to
technological projects.
26.        Forms of assistance.  FONEI may give its support in the form of
loans and grants, separately or together, in such a way that the sum of both
does not exceed 80% of the enterprise;s annual program costs.
27.        Credit shares.  FONEI's support may account for up to 80% of the
entrepreneur's approved annual budget; the firm must in all cases provide a
minimum of 20% of said budget.
28.        Interest rate.  The net interest rate charged to the final borrower
shall be three percentage points less than that indicated in paragraph 6.
29.        Loan guarantee.  The guarantee for-the loans granted by FONEI to the
financial intermediaries under this program shll not be greater than 90% of
the amount of each loan, including capital and regular interest.
The financial intermediary or, as the case may be, the entrepreneur
or party requesting the guarantee, shall pay to the trustee, in one single
payment, the equivalent of 0.5% of the principal of the loan on the date on
which the guarantee contract is signed.
30.        Exemption from loan repayment.  In the light of the features of each
case, the Technical Committee may exempt an enterprise from repayment of part
of or all of the loan if the results arenot positive, in which case it shall
decide the destination of the remaining assets and rights.
31.        Grant limit.  FONEI's contribution in the form of a grant shall not
exceed 30% of the entrepreneur's approved annual budget, within the allocation
approved annually by the Technical Committee for this section of the program.
32.        Criteria for grants. In making any grants, FONEI shall take into
account principally the d&gree of risk involved, the degree of innovation,
participation by a Mexican research institute or engineering firm, and the
relative size and economic capacity of the enterprise.



- 56 -
ANNEX 3
Page 6
V. PREINVESTMENT STUDIES
33.        Purpose of the program.  To assist entrepreneurs in improving the
bases for their investment decisions and loan requests, FONEI may grant loans
for carrying out preinvestment studies when these relate to projects that are
potential candidates for financing by the Fund.
34.        Credit limits.  FONEI's financing can cover up to 80% of the cost of
the studies. The entrepreneur or promoter must contribute a minimum of 20%
of said costs.
35.        Consolidation.  If the preinvestment study leads to implementation
of a specific project, the loan shall be consolidated with that which FONEI may
decide to grant to the project.
36.        Loan guarantees.  FONEI may provide its guarantee to the financial
intermediaries under this program on the terms stated in paragraph 29.
37.        Interest rate.  The net interest rate charged by the financial
intermediaries on loans for preinvestment studies shall be 3% below that
referred to in paragraph 6.
Isl Banco de Mexico, S.A.
Trustee of the Federal Government
for the Industrial Equipment Fund



- 57 -
ANNEX 4
Page 1
MEXICO - PROPOSED POLLUTION CONTROL PROJECT
INDICATIVE OUTLINE OF THE PROJECT EXECUTION PAPER
Further to the project description included in the draft Loan
Agreement, the Government and the Borrower wish to outline several major
measures which will be taken in order to ensure the successful implementation
of the proposed pollution control project over the next 3-year period. These
are summarized below together with expected time schedules. Annual reports
will be prepared detailing the progress towardaimplementing these measures.
I. GENERAL
1. Institutional and coordination arrangements. Overall implementation of
the various components of the proposed pollution control project will be
coordinated by a high level inter-ministerial 'steering committee' to be
chaired by the Sub-Secretary for Environmental Improvement and comprised of
representatives from SSA, SARH, SAHOP, the Federal District administration,
NAFINSA, FONEI, the chambers of industry and auto-service garages and any
other concerned agencies. Close coordination among the various concerned
agencies and financing institutions would be achieved through appropriate
middle and operational level technical groups to be established--one each
for air pollution control, water pollution control, solid wastes disposal
and health impact studies. These technical groups would be expected to
provide the required guidance to the financing agencies, local government
institutions and the industries,on technical evaluation of investment
proposals, adequacy of equipment to satisfy emission standards, lists of
pollution control equipment suppliers, etc. Each of these technical groups
will be comprised of 4-5 operational level staff, including representation
from more than one ministry if appropriate (e.g., in case of water) (a summary
description of the functions of the steering committee and the technical
groups and names of the heads of technical groups to be included).
2.  Training arrangements.   A staff training program will be carried ouit as out-
lined in Attachment_   (attachment to be included with details  of numbers
of courses, frequency and number and type of participants in each of
the training courses). The training arrangements will cover both air and
water pollution control, and will include: (i) training for technical and
middle level management staff of the government departments and financial
institutions concerned on monitoring, enforcement and applicable corrective
measures related to industrial emissions; (ii) training courses for staff of
industry on the selection, installation and maintenance of control equipment,
as well as on monitoring and analysis of their respective emissions; and
(iii) training courses to upgrade the skills of auto-mechanics for testing and
diagnosing auto-emissions and installation and service of equipment to control
such emissions. To the extent possible these training programs would draw
upon the available facilities from CONALEP (the national vocational training
school system), local universities and other local sources, but several
specialized courses which fall outside the scope of the existing training
sources would be organized by SSA and SARH as necessary. One or more staff



58 -
ANNEX 4
Page 2
training officers will be contracted to coordinate and implement the training
programs. Budgets will also be provided for acquisition of necessary
technical material, librarian/translator capabilities, training manuals,
tapes and other self-instruction material. Some needed out-of-thie country
training (e.g., in the area of hydrocarbon emissions into air) wou]Ld also
be provided for. Periodic reports will be prepared by the training officers
at least once im six months on the progress of the various training programs.
3.   Control actions by state-ow,ned enternrises.  Please include plans to
periodically monitor the progress achieved and to refine the targets set
under the agreements reached with the individual state-owned industries
(PEMEX, CFE, FERTIMEX, etc). Periodic (at least six-monthly) reports will
be prepared on the progress achieved by each of the major state-owned
enterprises, covering both air and water pollution control.
4.   Improvements in information systems and program briefings for staff.
Steps will be taken to strengthen the information system supporting the
work of the operational and health studies departments e.g., through the
establishment of a health effects data base using information from within
the various departments of SSA as well as available outside sources and
ensuring full access to the relevant health impact and environmental
monitoring data for each of the operational departments (please outline the
specific steps). Also, in order to facilitate adequate participation of all
concerned staff, periodic briefings (say once in six months) will be provided
all staff on the objectives, targets and progress achieved under the proposed
pollution control program.
II. COMPLEMENTARY MEASURES RELATED SPECIFICALLY TO AIR POLLUTION
CONTROL
A. Automobile Emissions Control
1.   Inspection program.  A mandatory annual inspection program for all light duty
vehicles will be established in the Greater Mexico City Area (GMCA) and other areas
listed in Attachment    .  (Expected time schedule for each area to be included).
License renewal will be used as an enforcement technique. Vehicles
tested, failure rate, and estimated reduction in HC and CO emissions will be
itabulated annually.
2.   Inspection standards.  More stringent vehicle test standards for newer
vehicles similar to Attachment__ will be incorporated into the vehicle
:inspection program. (Expected standards and time schedule'to be included).
3.   A reactivity study of high altitude methanol/gas emissions and evaporative
'Loss will be designed, adequately funded and rapidly implemented. Data from
t:his study will be used to determine the acceptability of fuel conversion in
l-he GMCA. (Time schedule for completion of the study to be included).
B3. Diesel Bus Emissions
4+. LPG study. Subsecretaria del Mejoramiento del Ambiente (SMA) will contract
for a study to be completed within two years which will:



- 59-                               AN~E
Page 3
- Identify technical and economic feasibility of
coverting diesel buses to LPG (liquefied petroleum gas);
- Identify and promote the necessary regulations to implement
such a conversion.
- Include implementation of a demonstration project in
which several buses will be converted to LPG in the
GMCA.
(Implementation schedule for each of the above steps to be included).
5.   Diesel smoke control program.   SMA will improve its enforcement program
for diesel bus smoke and will tabulate the effectiveness of the program by
an annual random street survey using visual observations.
6.   Diesel fuel quality improvement.  SMA will develop with PEMEX a schedule
for supplying uniform quality diesel fuel and for reducing fuel sulfur
content.
C. Conversion of Industries and Power Plants to Natural Gas.
7.   Measures requiring or encouraging the conversion of major industrial
sources, including thermoelectric plants in the GMCA, to 100% natural gas
when new pipeline service to the area is completed. (Expected time schedule
to be included).
D. Industrial Pollution Control
8.   Emission standards.   New and modified emission control regulations for
major sources of particulate, hydrocarbons and sulfur oxides will be
developed by the end of 1982. Priority will be given to hydrocarbon (paint
and gasoline handling) and oil combustion sources (particulate and SO?) in GMCA;
and cement plants, steel mills, acid plants and petroleum industries in the
GMCA, Monterrey,Guadalajara, and Coatzacoalcos-Minatitlan areas.
Emission standards will be developed with the following components:
- More stringent standards for new sources than existing sources,
based on best available technologies.
- Compliance achievement required within 2-3 years after
adoption of the regulation.
- 5-step compliance schedules, including dates for plan
submittal, purchase order issuance, start and completion
of construction/installation and compliance demonstration.
- Method of compliance determination (source test method)
with compliance testing and reporting required on a
routine schedule for major sources.



- 60 -
ANNEX 4
Page 4
- Incorporation of a non-compliance penalty equal to the
cost of control for those sources failing to meet the
final compliance demonstration date.
- Adoption of countrywide regulations for all sources of
toxic or hazardous emissions into air, including lead,
arsenic, asbestos, acids, coke oven emissions.
(Expected time schedules for each of the above steps to
be included).
9.   Sector Agreements.  Requirements to install a reasonable level of control
on all major sources in the GMCA, Monterrey, Guadalajara and Coatzacoalcos/
Minatitlan on a specific schedule will be incorporated in 'sector agreements'
to be arrived at between SMA and representatives of private industries belonging
to different subsectors.  These 'sector a-reenents' are expected to be
Einalized by the (end of 1982).
E. General Program Improvements and Studies
10.   Emissions inventory. SMA will complete an emission inventory update on
a 5 year basis for all sources and on a 1 year basis for major sources
(including area-wide fuel use). Requirements for submission of this data
will be incorporated in emission regulations and sector agreements referred
to in item 9 above. SMA will also build a systematic data base on the costs
of achieving emissions reductions from different types of industries.
11.   Particulate "Aerosol" study.  SMA will expand the Metropolitan University
Study to include complete physical and chemical characterization of the
P'aerosol" (ambient air mass) in the GMCA. The study will include chemical
mass balance techniques to specially identify contribution of major sources
to the fine ( 2 micron) and coarse ( 2 micron) particulates. SMA will
solicit proposals and contract with an experienced and fully equipped laboratory
for X-ray, carbon, neutron activation and ion chromatography analysis and
chemical mass balance data analysis.  See Attachment _  for a sample
request  for proposal  and potential consultant list.  Special size
segregating sampler used in the study will be permanently incorporated into
the GMCA manual sampling network.   (Time schedule for the study to be included).
12.   Air monitoring.  The automatic sampling network in the GMCA will be
replaced with a new 16-station telemetered-central computer network equipped
with S02 and CO monitors. Five of the stations will, in addition, be equipped
with NO , ozone and continuous particulate monitors. One of the stations will
be equipped with a reactive hydrocarbon analyzer - one complete monitoring
station will be installed as a background unit 30-50 km north of the GMCA. A
manual station with TSP and SO2 will also be located at the background site.
(Expected time schedule to be 2ncluced).
13. Ozone da&a base. Ile LCjZC-e dat-a b. e J1hnnkaround ozone levels, hydrocarbon:
to nitrogen oxides ratio, etc.) will be improved and a study of the ozone reactions
in the Mexico valley to lay the basis for determining long run ozone control
strategy will be carried out.   ( Expected time schedule to be included).
14.   Increases in staff devoted to standards setting, inspection and enforcement.



- 61 -,
ANNEX 4
Page 5
III.  COMPLEMENTARY MEASURES RELATED SPECIFICALLY TO        WATER POLLUTION
CONTROL
1.        Outline of the proposed division of responsibilities at the
operational level between SSA, SARH and SAHOP.
2.        Summary description of the overall strategy to be adopted by SARH and
SSA--e.g., focus on a few priority business plus on the largest water pollution
sources throughout Mexico and sources of toxic liquid discharges as suggested
in Dr. Aguirre's letter of May, 1981, and a strategy to address simultaneously
the problems of state-owned as well as private sector industries and municipal
discharges.
3.    Summary of working arrangements for the proposed technical group to
assist in implementing water pollution control program, which will include
representatives from SARH and SSA (and possibly SAHOP). Ways to deliver the
needed guidance and technical assistance to the local government organizations,
financial institutions and the industries themselves.
4.    Measures towards an accelerated enforcement of the existing limits on
the five parameters of water quality mandated by current regulations, covering
discharges by industries into public water bodies as well as into the
municipal sewer systems, and the discharges of the municipalities themselves
into water bodies. (Specific targets on number of inspections per year and
coverage to be mentioned).
5.    Accelerated setting of individual discharge standards ('condiciones
particulares de descargas'), focussing particularly on industrial discharges
into Mexico's highest priority water basins, and industries contributing the
largest pollution loads and emissions of toxic substances (Specific targets
and time scnedules to be included).
6.     Increases in inspection and enforcement staff and training programs
on water pollution control.
IV. COMPLEMENTARY MEASURES RELATED TO SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL
1.    Time schedule for issuing revised solid waste disposal regulations,
including regulations on chemical and hazardous solid wastes from industrial
sources.
2.    Time schedule and implementation arrangements for undertaking the proposed
study of the characteristics of chemical and hazardous wastes which have been
accumulated in the past, or expected to be emitted in the future by industries.
3. Any other.



- 62 -
ANNEX 4
Page 6
V. HEALTH IMPACT AND RELATED STUDIES
1.    Measures to establish a comprehensive health impact data base to
consolidate data from past health studies carried out by SSA, regional
health statistics available from other sources, information on specific
health episodes, and environmental monitoring (air and water) information
available from SSA and SARH.
2.    Identification of gaps in the above information.
3.    Proposed program of health impact studies oriented towards filling
the gaps in the existing knowledge and helping to refine the standards and
long term strategies for pollution control. The research program will pay
particular attention to the health consequences of the air and water
pollution problems in the Mexico valley, but will also cover other priority
areas as appropriate (please list the areas, type of studies and time
schedules). The health impact studies will be operationally oriented; in
designing and implementing these studies, a close coordination between the
operational departments of SSA/SARH and the health studies department of SSA
will be ensured.
4.   Any other.



6 3 -                               ANNEX 5
T-l
MEXICO: PROPOSED POLLUTION CONTROL PROJECT
Table 1:   Past and Projected Population of the Greater Mexico City Area (GMCA)
TOTAL
GMCA
1950                                            3,200,000
1960                                            5,300,000
1970                                            9,800,000
1980                                           15,000,000
1990                                           22,800,000 a/
2000                                           32,900,000 a/
a/ Assuming 4% annual rate of growth during 1980-2000. A 3% annual growth rate
would imply a population of about 20 million in 1990 and 27 million in 2000.



MEXICO: PROPOSED POLLUTTON CONTROL PROJECT
Table 2-- Dis4trilr,t-inn of Maniifrt-ring  mTnloyment and Valtue Added by Principal States
(in the order of activity in 1975)
1965                                                    1975
Value                                                Value
Employment                Added                     Employment                  Added
State    .      (Thousands)      t    (Mex$ million)        %         (Thousands)       %    (Mex$ million)
Total                   1,343.5       100.0       43,709.5       100.0         1,654.4       100.0       175,958.5       100.0
Federal District       476.6        35.5       16,923.6        38.7           493.4        29.8        55,664.9        31.6
State of Mexico        169.6        12.6       6,990.1         16.0          273.2         16.5        36,185.0        20.6
Subtotal           646.2       48.1       23,913.7        54.7           766.6        46.3        91,849.9         52.2
Nuevo Leon              96.8         7.2        4,499.8        10.3           134.3         8.1        19,898.5        11.3
Jalisco                 74.4         5.5        1,970.5         4.5           114.8         6.9        11,511.2         6.5
Coahuila                39.6         2.9        1,833.2         4.2            58.8         3.6         7,415.8         4.2
Vera Cruz               62.3         4.6        2,025.9         4.6            63.9         3.9         6,638.7         3.8
Puebla                  53.4         4.0        1,253.9         2.9            64.9         3.9         6,394.3         3.6
Baja California         10.5         1.5          779.5         1.8            31.1         1.9         3,138.3         1.8
Chihuahua               27.8         2.1          684.3         1.6            44.3         2.7         3.087.2         1.8
HIidalgo                16.6         1.2          485.4         1.1            27.6         1.7         3,083.3         1.8
Subtotal           391.4       29.1       13,532.5        31.0           539.7        32.6        61,167.3         34.8     o
Queretaro                9.4         0.7          305.7         0.7            21.2         1.3         2,495.5         1.4
Tanaulipas              28.8         2.1          563.1         1.3            30.0         1.8         2,214.1         1.3
Sonora                  19.7         1.5          521.1         1.2            24.4         1.5         1.934.4         1.1
Sinaloa                 21.6         1.6          568.2         1.3            19.8         1.2         1,775.1         1.0
San Luis Potosi         23.9         1.8          348.9         0.8            28.2         1.7         1,685.2         1.0
Subtotal           103.4         7.7       2,307.0         5.3           123.6          7.5       10,104.3          5.7
Others                 202.5        15.1        3,956.3         9.1           224.5        13.6        12,837.0         7.3
1/ Monterrey is the capital of Nuevo Leon.
2/ Guadalajara is the capital of Jalisco.
Source:  Secretaria de Programaci6n y Presupuesto X Censo Industrial, 1976
Direccion General de Estadistica, VIII Censo Industrial, 1966



- 65 -                                ANNEX 5
T-3
MEXICO: PROPOSED POLLUTION CONTROL PROJECT
Table   3:  Past and Projected Growth of Motor Vehicles in GMCA
Total
Cars                        Motor Vehicles
1976                          1,087,000                         1,222,000
1979                          1,963,000                         3,500,000
1988                          3,300,000                         5,300,000 a/
2000                          5,800,000                        8,500,000 a/
a/  Assuming average annual rate of growth of about 4.5% during 1980-2000.



MEXICO: PROPOSED POLLUTION CONTROL PROJECT
Table  4   :  Distribution of Air Pollutants by Source of Emission
(1980 Estimates)
Pairticulate Matters  a/               Sulfur Dioxide                  Carbon Monoxide                    Nitrogeni Oxides                      Hydrocarbons
Tons/day      % of total           Tons/day      % of total           Tons/day      X of total           Tons/day      I of total            Tons/day      Z of total  C
Stationary fuel combustion                       3P             11                 921             90               n.a.  b/                            218               64                  13               1
(Including power gS,neration plants)
Industrial and processing activities           325              89                102              10               n.a.  b/          -                  22                7                 285             25
Automobile& (ex,luding truck.)                  n,a.  c/        -                 n.a.             -               5,011              71                 82               23                 630              55
Trucks                                          na.   0/        -                  n.a.            _               2,076              29                 19                6                 214              19
TOTAL                               363            100               1,023            100               7,087             100               341              100               1,142             1 00
A/    1- 'The .rv soasori, the conicentration  of particulpte matters in the air is very significantly due to dust storms which bring into the air stream particulate matters from
natur3lj so,,rces such  ds dry lacke beds, semi-arid eroded areas, playgrounds and non--paved urban zones.  However, the conitribution of these sources is not included in the
.tatl tics f<r the particulate  matters because of the lack of reliable data.
b/    Estimates not available, but qLiantities are compared to carbon monoxide emissions from motor vehicles.
I/    EsLiMr.rs unavailable, but likely to be small relative to the emissions from  stationary sources.
S)circe:  rilreo" :Iur, (;eneral de Saneamlenco Atmosferico, Subsecretariat de Mejoramiento del Ambiente, SSA.



MEXICO: PROPOSED POLLUTION CONTROL PROJECT
Table  5:     Frequencies of Dust Storms (Mexico City  International Airport)
N               NE              E               SE             S               SW             W             NW
Month
V     F        V      F        V      F       V      F        V      F        V      F        V      F      V      F
January        12    8         15    20       11    7         17    24        18    20        14      9        7     6    11       5
February       16   14         19    29       11    3         14    13        16    26         8      3       16     6    14       6
March          10    5          4      9       13    4        19    30        21    40        16      7        7      2    10       1
April          17   11         15    14       11    5         13    15        16    21        15    15        12      5    13      8
May            10   14         21    46        12   10        13    12         4      3        4      1        9      4    13    10
June            4    4         25    75       17   10                                                          2      2      7     9
July            5   10         15    46        6   11          4      8                        2    25
August                         12    50                        9    50
September                      20   100
October
November        6   10         10    39                        9    31         6    11                         5      6      5      3
December       10   12         15    26        12   15         8    14         8    14         2      1        4      2      9    16
TOTAL                88             454             65              197             135             61               33           58
F - Frequency %
V - Velocity in Knots
Source: Secretaria de Salubridad y Asistencia (SSA), Mexico.
IiE



MEXICO: PROPOSED POLLUTION CONTROL PROJECT
Table 6: Estimated Distribution of Air Pollutants from Major Stationary Sources
in GMCA by Type of Activity
(Tons/Year--1980 estimates )
Total Suspended             Sulfur
Particulates              Dioxide             Hydrocarbons               Nitrogen Oxides
Electric Power Generation         2,388                 136,852                  1,832                     36,194
Other Combustion Processes       11,520                 199,519                  2,844                     43,344
Cement Plants                   110,572                   9,478                                             1,798
Chemical Industries               3,470                  13,558                                               100
Iron and Steel Industries         3,801
Petroleum Refineries                723                  14,218                 10,160                      6,008
Paint Industries 1/                                                             85,804
Pulp & Paper Mills                    65                     87
Transport & Handling of                                                          8,563
Hydrocarbons
TOTAL                    132,539                373,712                 109,203                    87,444
1/ Includes emissions from use and application of paints, lacquers and varnishes



- 69 -
ANNEX 5
T-7
MEXICO: PROPOSED POLLUTION CONTROL PROJECT
Table 7 : Past and Projected Demand for Fuel in GMCA
(Equivalent cubic meters of crude petroleum)
Type                       1965                   1975                   1985
Gasoline                1,977,354              3,541,950               5,763,369
Kerosene                  563,326                 530,473                559,276
Diesel Oil                616,961               1,459,186              2,866,307
Liquefied
Petroleum Gas            685,271               1,316,939              2,164,532
Jet Fuel                  215,908                 618,898              1,275,526
Industrial Fuels        2,769,455              5,725,686               7,023,732
TOTAL               6,828,275             13,202,132              19,652,742
Source:  Secretaria de Salubridad y Asistencia (SSA), Mexico.



MEXICO: PROPOSED POLLUTION CONTROL PROJECT
Table  8:       Suspended Particles (Respirable Fraction) in GMCA
(Daily average Ug/m )
Ug micrograms
Downtown              Northwest                Northeast               Southwest              Southeast
A         M             A         M             A         M      ~      A          M            A          M
1977
November      68         94           90       125            43        115           75        135          164        327
December      84       129           120       245            75        153          103        202          125        196
1978
January       77        94           126       161           200        261           85        121          199        269
February      73       171           100       167           188        374           86        141          203        322
March        131        162           90       163           156        258           77        106          174        260
April         69        151           89       158            49        188           64        112          148        262
May           74        117           98        133           97        160           24         39          147        221
June          97       186            86       133            70        108           66        109          121        257
A= Monthly average
M = Daily average
Source: Secretaria de Salubridad y Asistencia (SSA), Mexico.
OD
tA



- 71 -
ANNEX 5
T- 9
MEXICO: PROPOSED POLLUTION CONTROL PROJECT
Table 9:  Maximum Air Contaminant Levels in GMCA - Ug/m 3
(Factor Exceeding WHO Standards) a/, c/
Air Pollutant                  Annual            24 Hr.          8 Hr.       1 Hr.
Total Suspended Particulate       333  (4.1)       1176 (4.9)       -
Sulfur Dioxide                    108  (1.3)        351 (1)         -
Carbon Monoxide (mg/m 3)           -                 -             22 (2.2)        -
Ozone                              _                 _                         950 (5.9)
Lead                              1.77 (1.2) b/
a/ Dates and Locations of Measurements (by SS,):
ozt; In,  1 7Q
v       z | C~Lb   iL. I, 'i "
SO2         Northeast sector in 1976
CO          Central sector in December 1977
Ozone       Central sector in February 1978
b/ No WHO standard exists for lead. United States standard is 1.5 for a 3-month
average. Data on lead concentrations from Air Pollution Control Association
Paper No. 80-62.7 on Suspended Particulates and Lead by Ing. Tolivia and
Dra. Espinosa, SSA.
c/ W.H.O. recommended long-term goals are:
Pollutant                                          Limit
Sulfur oxides                              Annual mean 60 ug/m3
98% of observations below 200 ug/m3
Suspended particulates                     Annual mean 40 ug/m3
98% of observations below 120 ug/m3
Carbon monoxide (non-dispersive            8-hour average 10 mg/m 3
infra-red)               1-hour maximum 40 mg/m3
Photochemical oxidants as measured         8-hour average 60 ug/m3
by neutral buffered Kl method and         1-hour maximum 120 ug/m3
expressed as ozone



- 72 -                                   ANNEX 5
T- 1U
MEXICO: PROPOSED POLLUTION CONTROL PROJECT
Table 10:"Unsatisfactory" or "Bad" Air Quality Day, in GMCA 1/
(Days/Year)
Northeast    Northwest    Downtown    Southwest.   Southeast
Ozone                          0             0            22          17              0
Carbon Monoxide                0             0             1            0             0
Particulates                  11             0             0            1            30
Particulate & SO2             21            10             1            0             4
SO2                            0             0             0           0             0
TOTAL                  32            10            24           18            34
1/  "Unsatisfactory" air quality days are defined as days with IMEXCA index exceeding
"150" for the respective contaminant (which represents approximately twice the
WHO recommended standards for maximum air contaminant concentrations). "Bad"
days represent days with the IMEXCA levels exceeding "200". Contaminant levels
in air are measured as 24-hour averages.
Source:  Secretaria de Salubridad y Asistencia  (SSA), Mexico.



MEXICO:  PROPOSED POLLUTION CONTROL PROJECT
Table 11: Principal Characteristics of the First Priority Basins
Basin                Average                                                               Gross Value
Aeasn                Annual                                           Total              of Industrial
Area                  Flow                 Population                Amount                Production
Basin                 (Km2)              ('000 of m3)             (residents)              (Kg/year)          (in Mex$ '000)
1.   Panuco                67.872             11.810.000               11.079.696             668.971.696              88.879.411
2.   Lenma                129.263              7.277.000                7.454.257             257.482.610              25.007.575
3.   Balsas               111.300             14.045.000                5.146.041             113.510.513              11.199.163
4.   Blanco                 2.738              1.095.200                  444.960              40.625.690                2.911.777
5.   Guayalejo             17.084              2.198.000                  516.811              67.837.326                1.299.074
6.   San Juan              32.678                129.000                1.606.214             118.470.904               23.615.991
7.   Culiacan              21.677              3.141.280                  368.784              57.711.496                  831.692
8.   Fuerte                33.590              5.007.890                  252.026               51.806.407                 797.293
9.   Coahuayana             7.301              1.842.000                  194.770               26.330.003                 657.403
10.  Mazas                 59.632                274.000                  720.878               53.963.094               3.715.197
11.  Conchos               71.964              1.079.460                  712.146               25.542.840               3.385.046
Source: Secretaria de Agricultura y Recursos Hidraulicos (SARH), Mexico.
J10



MEXICO: PROPOSED POLLUTION CONTOL PROJECT
Table   12  ±  Water C11e4ification  of Surface  Receiving  Bodies by Ulse and Quliity  Characteristics
(1)        (2)          )         )         (5)        (5)         (7)        tO)       (G) (2)) f:)                       :z)
pRt   TSerpcrature    D.O    Cosit!orn   ollzand   Dls:so1lvod TurtIdity    Color    O0or        .r1ettnsz    rc{.tin1;  ?c' :
c C)    (Os/1)    Ecti!tta    Grcat^es     SoLids   (J.T.U..)  crlat!num     end X::rc:e           !4a:cc  S stnc::
Cls           XEsW.&x.. re/} l.l  C out                't:Q                                                                                 ?h'osphorus
CO:3cn"su ss/                                Scalc)
Z ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~M.1nnutr.s t.'.:;-.v:::. StU.s                       Ma'..... :lun  N.avlwwlan 'ail;xt: ,^a  Mxitur, .::.>- ;>:
Water supply for drinking water
systems and food industry-             S.S         X.C       4.0        200        0.76    No hmoto       10       20        absents       kC)       Obsot       ()
D   with disinfection only.                 to         Plus                 (!.c ls)          . na  ±0oo0
Rezreatiou (primary contact)            6.5        2.5
and free for uses DI, DII and D1II                                                                  _ _____
Drinking water supply with             Go         X.C       4,0         1000       1.0     No Inre        N.        )_c)d
DI  conventional treatment                 to         plus 'fccIs                             Thin 1000
(coagulation, sedimentation,           9.0        2.5   .              (c)
filtration and disinfection) and                   a
Industrial uses.
Water suitable for recreational    C.0            N.C       4.0        10 o0       aba,.nce Xo more       N.C     N.C.         N.C         Cc)       abse:       (di
II   guses, fauna and flora conservation tO               plus               Total Coll-  of vistbl  Tb2n 2000                                                                         4-
and Industrial uses.                   S.0        2.5                fonn.,. r.:uMj   fila,
a                 l   y      Pos:a   :
v;:luo .e
Water for agricultural and         to         N.C       3.2    lfu   ) iur d   a!sr.oe te)            X'.C.   N                                        t i    SI)
DIII   Industrial uses.                               PI-s               fr%:c 'o3 Lhe   of Vi5161c           P.' s
Water .for industrial              50                   3.2
DIV    uses (except food processing). 10
p11    e ~lydrogen - Ion concentration
D.0.   - Dissolved oxy&en
X..PJX  - idost prebbble hunber
J.T.U. - Jackson's Units of turbidity
gil   - l4iliigrams per liter
N.C.   -Natural conditions
Source:   Regulation  for Prevention and Control of Water tollution  (incorporating  the  1975 Amendoent).



-   -                                AI5
MEXICO: PROPOSED POLLUTION COTRL PROJECT
Table 13: Maximum Permissible Values of Toxic Substances in Receiving Bodies of Surface
Water
Maximum Limits In my/l.
Classification
Table i)            DA         DI       DII      DIII
Arsehic              0.05      0.05       1.00      5.00
Barium               1.00      1.00       5.00       -
Boron                1.00      1.00       5.00       -
Cadmium              0.01      0.01       0.01      0.005
Copper               1.00      1.00       0.1       1.0
Hexavalent
Chromium             0.05      0.05       0.1       5.00
Mercury              0.05      0.005      0.01       -
Lead                 0.005     0.05       0.10      5.00
Selenium             0.01      0.01       0.05      0.05
Cyanide              Q.20      0.20       0.02       -
Phenols              0.001     0.01       1.00       -
Methylene blue
active substances
(detergents).       0.50       0.50      3.0         -
Chloroform -
Extractables         0.15      0.15        -         -
Pesticides
AIdrin               0.017     0.017
Clordane             0.003     0.003
DDT                  0.042     0.042
Dieldrin             0.017     0.017
Endrin               0.001     0.001
Heptachlor           0.018    0.018
Hepta Chlor
Epoxide              0.018     0.018
Lindane              0.056     0.056
Methoxiclor          0.035     0.035
Organic Phosphates
Plug Carbamates    0.100       0.100
Toxaphene            0.005     0.005
Total Herbicides    0.100      0.100
Radioactivity
Cross beta           1.000     1.000      1.000
Radium 226               3         3          3
Strontium               10         10        10
Source:  Regulation for Prevention and Control of Water Pollution (incorporating the
1975 Amendment).



ANNEX 5
T-14
MEXICO: PROPOSED POLLUTION CONTROL PROJECT
Table 14: SARH Issuance of Water Discharge Standards by Sector
January 1, 1979 - June 9, 1981
Agriculture   Industry   Services   Municipalities   Total
01  Aguascalientes           -             19           1              20           40
02  B.C.N.                   -             10           1               -           11
03  BCS.                     -              3           8               1           12
04  Campeche                 -              -           4               -            4
05  Coahuila                 -              7          24               3           34
06  Colima                   -              5           8               1           14
07  Chiapas                  -              2           3               -            5
08  Chihuahua                -              1           3               -            4
09  D.F.                     -              -           -               -            -
10  Durango                  -              6          13              1            20
11  Guanajuato               1             43           6               6           56
12  Guerrero                 -              9           9              8            26
13  Hidalgo                  M              6           4              -            10
14  Jalisco                  4             34          16             23            77
15  Mexico                   -             44           1              5            50
16  Michoacan                -             18           5               7           30
17  Morelos                  -              5          17             12            34
18  Nayarit                  -             14           6              4            24
19  Nuevo Leon               -              1           3             14            18
20  Qaxaca                   -              3           2               2            7
21  Puebla                   1             26           8               4           39
22  Queretaro                -             46           3               4           53
23  Quintana Roo                            1           6               0            7
24  San Luis Potosi          -              2           2              1             5
25  Sinaloa                  9             15          18              2            44
26  Sonora                  25              2          11               0           38
27  Tabasco                  -             13           1               3           17
28  Tamaulipas               -             18           4               3           25
29  Tlaxcala                 -             14           6              -            20
30  Veracruz                 -             31           5               7           43
31  Yucatan                  -              -           8              -             8
32  Zacatecas                -              2           1              4             7
40           400         207             135          782
Source: Secretaria de Agricultura y Recursos Hidraulicos (SARH), Mexico



- 77 -                                      ANNEX 5
MEXICO:  PROPOSED POLLUTION CONTROL PROJECT                      T-15
Table 15: SARH Personnel Assigned to Water Discharge Inspection Duties
Federal Entity or Region                           Number of Inspectors
Aguascalientes                                              2
Baja California Norte                                       2
Baja California Sur                                         2
Campeche                                                    2
Coahuila                                                    2
Region Lagunera (Coahuila y Durango)                        3
Colima                                                      2
Chiapas                                                     2
Chihuahua                                                   2
Distrito Federal                                            2
Durango                                                     2
Guanajuato                                                  3
Guerrero                                                    2
Hidalgo                                                     2
Jalisco                                                     3
Estado de Mexico                                            3
Michoacan                                                   3
Morelos                                                     2
Nayarit                                                     2
Nuevo Leon                                                  2
Oaxaca                                                      2
Puebla                                                      3
Queretaro                                                   3
Quintana Roo                                                2
San Luis Potosi                                             3
Sinaloa                                                     2
Sonora                                                      2
Tabasco                                                     2
Tamaulipas Norte                                            2
Tamaulipas Centro                                           2
Tamaulipas Sur (Cuenca Baja del  Rio Panuco)                3
Tlaxcala                                                    3
Veracruz                                                    3
Yucatan                                                     2
Zacatecas                                                   2
TOTAL                                                      81
Source: Secretaria de Agricultura y Recursos Hidraulicos (SARH), Mexico.



MEXICO: PROPOSED POLLUTION CONTROL PROJECT
Table 16: Summary of FONEI Lending for Pollution Control, 1980-81
1980                                    1981
Amount of FONEI's financing           No. of Credits        Amount         X           No. of Credits      Amount       Z
(Mex$ Million)                                  (Mex$ Million)
Up to Mex$ 15 million                      3                26.9         62.2               6               30.2      6.5
Mex$ 15 to 25 million                      1                16.4          37.8              2               34.2      7.4
Mex$ 25 to 50 million                      -                 -             -                2               60.4     13.0
Mex$ 50 to 75 million                      -                 -             -                -                -        -
Mex$ 75 to 100 million                     -                 -             -                -                 
More than Mex$ 100 million                 -                 -             -                2              339.2     73.1
Total                                 4                 43.3        100.0              12             464.0    100.0    X
__,



- 79-                                      ANNEX 5
T-17
MEXICO: PROPOSED POLLUTION CONTROL PROJECT
Table 17: Representative Sample of Subprojects Requesting Financirv-
Through FONEI Loans
(Data of mid- 1981)
Type of                Total             Possible
Subproject                     Plant           Investment Cost        Subloan Size
(UTSS equivalent)      (US$ equivalent)
Aceros Industriales S.A.      Foundry                 702,000               632,000
Union Carbide Mexicana        Electrical            3,555,000             3,200,000
Fundicion Nardo S.A.          Foundry                  80,000                72,000
Quimica Central de Mexico    Chemical                  n.a.                n.a.
Cementos Portland Blanco      Cement                1,111,000             1,000,000
de Mexico S.A.
Aceros Corsa S.A.             Steel                   969,000               872,000
Calera El Refugio S.A.        Cement                   89,000                80,000
Camesa  S.A.                  Chemical                400,000              n.a.
Source:   Fondo de Equipamiento Industrial (FONEI).



MEXICO: PROPOSED POLLUTION CONTROL PROJECT
Chart 1: Location of M4ajor Industries in QGCA
r
h =                                                                               1< g  f Industrial Zones
r m    Ii )Major Industry Groupo
a.   Petroleum refineries
hI <\   X b.   Thermoelectric plants
C.   Cement plants
e-                                                                           d d.   Foundries
hr--*_      t.                         -.  Ja\ e,   Soap and detergent industry                                                                      0
f.   Chemicals industry
r  - Fertilizer industry
ni.   Sulfuric acid plants
i.   Paper and cellulose industry
m                                          +                                       ,1J.   Asphalt production
k. Non-metallic minerals
b                                           ^                                              w - -  - *  1.   Non-ferrous metallurgy
/ c                                                                          7 / {   # .,4F? X  >  s. Glass industry
-.   Rubber industry
/   ,  d /,4                                                         0 . _ _ t_  R   A  \  \   <o    Pesticide industry
P.   Slaughterhouses
q.   Fiberglass production
/  4 4 | / , J                       r.   brick kilms
X<   _ m    \-  Q                                                                                                          ;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



MEXICO: PROPOSED POLLUTION CONTROL PROJECT
Chart 2 : Indicative Organization Chart of the Subsecretariat of Environmental Improvement
Ministry of Health
Subsecretariat for Environmental Improvement
Legal Department
Administration
L 1                                                    o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Director General               Director General                        Director General                       Director General,
for Sanitary                   for Sanitary                   for Research on Environmental                   Solid Wastes and
Air                             Water                             Effects on Health                       Special Program
. .                                   . .~~~~~~~~~~9



MEXICO: PROPOSED POLLUTION CONTROL PROJECT
Chart 3    Indicative Organization Structure of the Directorate General for
Sanitary Air
Directorate General for
Sanitary Air
Stationary Sources                Mobile Sources                          Monitoring.and
Analvsis
Inpection Department           Automobile Inspection                    Air Quality Evaluation
Maintenance Department jDepartmentI
Supervision Department           Special Projects andS   Manual Air Monitoring
I _________________ICertification Departmtent                         Department 
Projects Department            Automobile Engineering I                  Automatin  Air Monitoring
. Inspection Department                Network Adtominbile Inspection, Air QuaLlity Etion
.  .   MainLterLance DepartmerLt                    Departent _    _ .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Cl



ME XICO
PROPOSED POLLUTION CONTROL PROJECT
ORGANIZATION CHART OF THE DIRECTORATE GENERAL FOR ECOLOGICAL PROTECTION AND MANAGEMENT
Ministry of Agriculture and
llydraulic Resources
Subsecretariat for Planning
Directorate General for
Ecological Protection and
Management
DCPDE                   I 
v             <     S~~~~~tate Offices        
Subdirectorate General
Laboratories     |
Norms and     Engineering   Environmental        Water          Research   International    Basic &
Organization                     Impact            Use          & Training   Activities       Assistance
4-



MEXICO: PROPOSED POLLUTION CONTROL PROJECT
Chart 4: Organization Structure of FONEI
Technicel Committee
Director
- ~                    r-     y_________________________
Promotions    |                                    Technical            Special                                             Operations
Subdirector                                       Subdirecvor           P                                                  Subdirector
PFMt@   iiI1          Regional                Chief of                        Chief of                          Chief of                                      Chief of
Representatives           Appraisal                      Supervision                        Operations                                   Acco Anting
Appraisal             Projects            Supervision             Constact               Credit                     Inonto a          Portfroli
Officers             Control              Officears                Of                   Of ficer               in ciat                O C6ner
Officer                                                                               Analysis Ollicef          Olticer
Assistant
Adlministrator          Records
World Bank - 20307



- '35 -
ANNEX 7
MEXICO: PROPOSED POLLUTION CONTROL PROJECT
Nature of Proposed Training Courses
and Studies to be Carried Out
1. Training
Establishment of a comprehensive training program for the
technical staff of SSA, SARH, local agencies and, where
applicable, industrial enterprises and participating
financial institutions, on various aspects of: (i) air and
water pollution from stationary sources including such
aspects as emission characteristics, sampling and
monitoring methodologies, chemical and biological analysis
of samples, and pollution modelling to predict effect
of individual emission sources on ambient air or water
quality, determination of individual discharge limits,
enforcement strategies and procedures and prevention and
control technologies; and (ii) air pollution from vehicular
sources, including training for auto-mechanics and automo-
biles inspection staff, in testing and diagnosis of vehicular
emissions and is making adjustments/repairs to reduce
emissions;
2. Health Impact Studies
Strengthening of data base and carrying out studies to
systematically evaluate the effect of air and water pollution
on public health and productivity (e.g. in agriculture) in
critical areas, and to assess the implication to long term
pollution control strategies; to improve the availability of
relevant health-related information and to strengthen the
links between the health impact studies group and the opera-
tional wings of SSA/SARH responsible for pollution control
actions; this component would also include financing for
establishing and maintaining an expanded data base which
would consolidate available pollutant monitoring information
of each environmental medium (air, water and solid waste) as
well as health statistics available from various sources both
within and outside SSA;



- 86 -                              ANNEX 7
Page 2
3. Other Studies
Carrying out other studies and pilot testing programs which
could provide important inputs to the development of appro-
priate long term control strategies and pollution standards,
including: (i) on air pollution control: a pilot testing
program to test technical and economical feasibility of
conversion of motor vehicles from gasoline to liquefied
petroleum gas (LPG), particularly heavy vehicles; evaluation
of the evaporative loss and reactivity of hydrocarbons emitted
from automobile engines using methanol-gasoline mixtures at
high altitudes, and the desirability and feasibility of
converting existing automobiles to enable them to run on
methanol-gasoline mixtures; ozone data base improvement and
study on the mechanisms of ozone formation in the Mexico
valley; and a comprehensive study to deternine the chemical
and physical characteristics of the suspended particulates
including the airshed of GMCA; (ii) on water pollution control
special water basin studies, including through suitable water
modelling,to analyze the water pollution problems and ways to
address them in selected high priority basins (e.g. the Panuco
river basin and the Coatzacoalcos estuary); and (iii) on
industrial solid wastes problems: a comprehensive study for
characterization and quantification of chemical and hazardous
wastes which have been accumulated and/or being discharged by
industries throughout Mexico, and follow-up feasibility studies,
if appropriate, for establishment of a limited number of bulk
collection and recycling plants, treatment plants, and/or
disposal sites for industrial wastes.
4. Management Information System
Strengthening of SMA's internal information system to achieve
a higher level of information support to management and better
briefings to staff on ongoing programs (para.



- 87 --
ANNEX 8
MEXICO: PROPOSED POLLUTION CONTROL PROJECT
Documents Available in Project File
On the Sector
1.     'Programa Coordinado Para Mejorar La Calidad del Aire En El Valle de
Mexico' (Coordinated Program for Improvement of Air Quality in the
Mexico Valley), 1979-82, prepared by the Comision Intersecretarial
de Saneamiento Ambiental, Mexico, August 1979.
2.      'El Indice Mexicano de la Calidad del Aire' (IMEXCA) (The Mexican
Air Quality Index), published by the Subsecretariat for Environmental
Improvement, Mexico, 1978.
3.      'Contaminaci6n Atmosferica En El Valle de Mexico - Instrumentos
Juridico-Administrativos'(Legal and Administrative Instruments
Related to Air Pollution Control in Mexico Valley', published by
the Subsecretariat for Environmental Improvement (SMA), Mexico, 1978=
4.      'Plan Nacional de Distritos de Control de la Calidad del Agua'
(Proposed National Plan for Water Quality Control Districts),
prepared by SARH, Mexico, 1980.
5.      Draft Regulations on Solid Wastes Management, Treatment and Disposal,
SSA, Mexico, 1981.
On the Sector and Project
1.      Consultant's Report  on Air Pollut-.on Control Prepared by Mr. John
Kowalczyk, October 1980.
9.      Consultant's Reports on Water Pollution Coatrol Prepared by Mr. Water
Castagnino, October 1980 and July 1981.
3.      Joint Project Document Prepared by SSA and SARH, April 1982.
4.      Project Execution Paper expec-ed to be approved during May/June 1982.






___________                                                                                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IBRk D 5553-
2         -       =~                                       >                                    aUN  TED    SlATES        OF      AMIL    A
4>                                   Neais        e"  -  __  ,>cr.i...            baer
I ,,);            4 -  2  4 Q 9                                        v                 '/                              \                                                ;                         M  E X I C O
,V                                        .                                                   /..Gono                                   <lUg  ow.\X                                                                                           ricplzte   rtw
L     t:e;t      rioli                                                  I un    hec     1   X( Fvv    rd)                                                                                                        iie   .gwy
_If  ,                         url ~                                .7-----.-                        X9<                                                                     -=-Rv  s
0   N                   rtr4HiI         CQ0                                                                /                                     s 9                T-    ~-Seeoncr
IS                               \     , ,f   Dur -ngo/                        i/       , .          }' ii
>h\Ak*a$oY Uao~>-''* ';?.                                                                                       ,                                                                    MEXcO.
2 ~           ~            \  - N>3ln                                                    t              1,       
Ss=*gN          4                       ..I                                                               -Nriccpr
C                         -~~0     4-                                                        N
(Spesimos ~ ~ ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     \.  -    }                                                                               ''                                                  (N      Storeae  capitad du,+4
BA/A~~~~                                                                                    ~     ~    ~~~~~~~ Ni  . ; < 0B                    -S                                                      0      rir p  , , arp citie  o),r town
(AIFOABIt                                   coo a,                .        ,.                      i . G                             N
I  .                                      +1                                                                                  Selected main roads~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~d ~
050~ ~~~~~~~~~               ~~~~~~~~ 5'ipncg ((C    ,fha2C 'anal                                                                                                                    ^/A^> -              kLt
N  0-~ ~ ~~ ~       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                  ~~         ~       ~~~o 'r  u>  r  -  Mao rocc  ' \  =                     -      Railr oad- .
I  C   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~',         I ~        ~    ~    ~    ~    ~     ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~CAllrH
KILOMlELERS 4         1~0 20          20               30                                                                                                                               A
LurttEsco dNct \  v ' ~            >              i      t UAT EMALA             -. 
-.,lzl.  Ir/*_e  ie,Oooc,n -h o  >r                                                                                nrho       n o                                                                StaterfH hojoAanior
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5N _                                                                                      i§0-                                               Brida   .-;    ,



