 A LOAN NM ER 2154 ME
DOCUMENTS_
Project Agreement
(Pollution Control Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
BANCO DE MBXICO, S.A.
Dated           /  , 1982


﻿LOAN NUMBER 2154 ME
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated          Lb   , 1982, between INTERNATIONAL
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTIOW AN DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the
Bank) and BANCO DE MEXICO, S.A. (hereinafter called the Trustee).
WHEREAS by a trust agreement between the Guarantor and the
Trustee, dated October 29, 1971, the Guarantor has entrusted a
special fund (Fondo de Equipamiento Industrial) to the Trustee
for the purpose of promoting and financing the development of
industrial and service enterprises;
WHEREAS the Guarantor, the Borrower and the Trustee have
requested the Bank to assist in financing such development;
WHEREAS by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between
the Bank and the Borrower, the Bank has agreed to make available
to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to
sixty million dollars ($60,000,000), on the terms and conditions
set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that,
inter alia, the Trustee agrees to undertake such obligations
toward the Bank as are hereinafter set forth;
WHEREAS the Trustee, in consideration of the Bank's entering
into the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to under-
take the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in the
Loan Agreement and the General Conditions (as so defined) have
the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of Parts A and B of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) The Trustee shall, by means of FONEI,
carry out Parts A and B of the Project described in Section 4.01
of the Loan Agreement with due diligence and efficiency and in


﻿- 2 -
conformity with sound industrial, administrative and financial
policies and practices, and     in  accordance with  the   FONEI
Operating Regulations, the Guidelines and the Project Execution
Paper, and shall, at all times, make available, promptly as
needed, such funds and other resources as shall be required to
meet FONEI's operating expenses.
(b) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, and without
limitation to the obligations of the Trustee under the preceding
paragraph, the Trustee shall:
(i) make, or cause to be made, available to FONEI for
purposes of Parts A and B of the Project at least
$86,000,000 equivalent for a period of not less
than 10 years from the date of this Agreement and
on suQ', terms and conditions and at such times as
shall be required for the carrying out of said
Parts of the Project in accordance with Section
2.01 (a) of this Agreement; and
(ii) inform the Bank of the terms and conditions other
than the amortization period on which such funds
have been made available to FONEI, and afford the
Bank a reasonable opportunity to comment thereon.
(c) The Trustee shall consult with the Bank in making any
change in the FONEI Operating Regulations.
(d) The Trustee shall at all times maintain the provisions
of the Guidelines, as such Guidelines may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Bank and the Trustee.
Section 2.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree:
(a) The Trustee shall, out of FONEI's resources, make FONEI
Loans to Participating Intermediaries which shall have made
Sub-loans to Investment Enterprises for Pollution Control Sub-
Projects in accordance with the FONEI Operating Regulations, the
Guidelines and the Project Execution Paper.
(b) (i) Interest on Sub-loans shall be payable in accor-
dance with a variable rate to be adjusted, if necessary, every
six months so as to make it equal to up to three percentage
points less than the prevailing interest rate on the month before
that in which the adjustment is made; and (ii) Sub-loans shall be


﻿-3-
repayable over a period of not more than 13 years, including a
grace period of not more than 3 years.
(c) The agreements providing for FONEI Loans' shall provide
that if Sub-loans or any part thereof shall be repaid to Partici-
pating Intermediaries in advance of maturity, or if they shall be
sold, transferred, assigned or otherwise disposed of for value
by the Participating Intermediaries, the Participating Inter-
mediaries shall repay promptly to the Trustee, the amdunt of the
FONEI Loans corresponding to the Sub-loans or parts thereof so
repaid in advance or disposed of for value.
Section 2.03. (a) When presenting a Sub-loan (other than a
free-limit Sub-loan) to the Bank for approval, the Trustee shall
furnish to the Bank an application together with a description of
the Investment Enterprise and an appraisal of the Pollution
Control Sub-Project (including a description of the expenditures
proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan) and the
proposed terms and conditions of the Sub-loan, and such other
information as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(b) Each request by the Trustee for authorization to make
withdrawals from the Loan Account in respect of a free-limit
Sub-loan shall contain a summary description of the Investment
Enterprise and the Pollution Control Sub-Project (including a
description of the expenditures proposed to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan) and the terms and conditions of such
free-limit Sub-loan, and such other information as the Bank shall
reasonably request.
(c) Except as the Bank and the Trustee shall otherwise
agree, the applications and requests to be furnished to the Bank
pursuant to paragraph (a) hereof shall be delivered to the Bank
before Devember 31, 1985.
Section 2.04. (a) The Trustee undertakes that, unless the
Bank shall otherwise agree, all Sub-loans will be made on terms
whereby the Participating Intermediary shall obtain, by written
contract with the Investment Enterprise or by other appropriate
legal means, rights adequate to protect the interests of the
Trustee and the Participating Intermediary and to accomplish the
purposes of the Project including the right of the Participating
Intermediary to: (i) require the Investment-Enterprise to carry
out and operate the Pollution Control Sub-Project with due
diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound technical,


﻿financial and managerial standards and to maintain adequate
records; (ii) require that (A) the goods and services to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Sub-loan shall be purchased
at a reasonable price, account being taken also of other relevant
factors such as time of delivery and efficiency and reliability
of the goods and availability of maintenance facilities and spare
parts therefor, and, in the case of services, of their quality
and the competence of the parties rendering them and (B) such
goods and services shall be used exclusively in the carrying out
of the Pollution Control Sub-Project; (iii) inspect, by itself or
jointly with representatives of the Bank and the Trustee if the
Bank shall so request, such goods and the sites, works, plants
and construction included in the Pollution Control Sub-Project,
the operation thereof, and any relevant records and documents;
(iv) required that the Investment Enterprise shall take out and
maintain with responsible insurers such insurance, against such
risks and in such amounts, as shall be consistent with sound
business practice; and that such insurance cover hazards incident
to the acquisition, transportation and delivery of goods financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan to the place of use or installa-
tion, and that any indemnity thereunder be made payable in a
currency freely usable by the Investment Enterprise to replace or
repair such goods; (v) obtain all such information as the Trustee
or the Participating Intermediary shall reasonably request
relating to the foregoing and to the administration, operations
and financial condition of the Investment Enterprises; and (vi)
suspend or terminate the right of the Investment Enterprise to
the use of the proceeds of the Sub-loan upon failure by such
Investment Enterprise to perform any of its obligations under its
contract with the Participating Intermediary.
(b) The Trustee shall cause each Participating Intermediary
to exercise its rights in relation to each Pollution Control
Sub-project in such manner as to: (i) protect the interests of
the Bank and the Trustee; (ii) comply with its obligations in
respect of the corresponding FONEI Loan; and (iii) achieve the
purposes of Parts A and B of the Project.
Section 2.05. (a) The Trustee shall furnish, or cause to be
furnished to the Bank, all such information as the Bank shall
reasonably request concerning the FONEI Loans, the Sub-loans, the
Investment Enterprises, and the Pollution Control Sub-Projects.
(b) The Trustee: (i) shall maintain, or cause to be main-
tained, records and procedures adequate to record and monitor the


﻿-5-
progress of Parts A and B of the Project and the Pollution Con-
trol Sub-Projects and to identify the goods and services financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan, and (ii) shall furnish to the
Bank all such information as the Bank shall reasonably request
concerning Parts A and B of the Project and the Pollution Control
Sub-Projects, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan and the
goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
(c) The Trustee shall cooperate fully with the Guarantor
in the preparation of the report required under Section 3.05 (c)
of the Guarantee Agreement.
Section 2.06. The Trustee shall enter into the contractual
arrangements referred to in Section 3.01 of the Loan Agreement.
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Trustee shall not
change or fail to enforce any provision of such arrangements.
Section 2.07. (a) The Trustee shall, at the request of the
Bank, exchange views with the Bank with regard to the progress of
Parts A and B of the Project, the performance of its obligations
under this Agreement and other matters relating to the purposes
of the Loan.
(b) The Trustee shall prompt. inform the Bank of any con-
dition which interferes, or threatens to interfere with, the pro-
gress of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Loan, or the performance by the Trustee of its obligations under
this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Other Covenants
Section 3.01. The Trustee shall operate FONEI in accordance
with sound financial, industrial and. administrative policies and
practices, under the supervision of experienced and competent
management.
Section 3.02. The Trustee shall maintain records adequate to
reflect in accordance with consistently maintained sound account-
ing practices the operations and financial condition of FONEI
in respect of Parts A and B of the Project and shall cause the
Participating Intermediaries to maintain such records for pur-
poses of the Pollution Control Sub-Projects financed by them.


﻿-6-
Section 3.03. The Trustee shall: (a) have an annual audit
satisfactory to the Bank made of the accounts and financial
statements (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and
related statements) of FONEI for each fiscal year, in accordance
with sound auditing principles consistertly applied, by indepen-
dent and qualified auditors appointed by the Guarantor; (b) fur-
nish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later
than four months after the end of each such year, (i) certified
copies of such financial statements for such year as so audited
and (ii) the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope
and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested;
and (c) furnish to the Bank such other information concerning the
accounts and financial statements of FONEI and the audit thereof
as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes
effective.
Section 4.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank
and of the Trustee thereunder shall terminate on the date on
which the Loan Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its
terms.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other addresses as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:


﻿-7-
For the Bank:
International Bank for Reconstruction
and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INTBAFRAD                        440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                 248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For the Trustee:
Banco de Mfxico, S.A.
5 de Mayo No. 2
Mexico 1, D.F. Mfxico
Cable address:
BANXICO
Mfxico 1. D.F. Mexico
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any documents required or permitted to be executed, under
this Agreement on behalf of the Trustee, may be taken or executed
by its Director General or such other person or persons as the
Director General shall designate in writing, and the Trustee
shall furnish to the Bank sufficient evidence of the authority
and the authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collec-
tively but one instrument.


﻿-8-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOI RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
BANCO DE MEXICO, S.A.
as Trustee for the Fondo de Equipamiento
Industrial
By
Authorized Representative


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this  /h.iday of            , 198  .
FOR SECRETARY


