프


﻿LOAN NUMBER 2154 ME
GUARANTEE AIGREENENT
AGREEMENT, dated                                1982, between
UNITED MEXICAN STATES (hfieiinfter called the Guarantor) and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOP14ENT (herein-
after called the Bank).
WHEREAS by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between
the Bank and Nacional Financiera, S.A. (hereinafter called the
Borrower) the Bank has agreed to make to the Borrower a loan in
various   currencies   equivalent   to   sixty   million   dollars
($60,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan
Agreement, but only on condition , that the Guarantor agree to
guarantee the obligations of the Borrower in respect of such loan
as hereinafter provided;
WHEREAS by the Project Agreement of even date herewith
between the Bank and Banco de Mexico, S.A. (hereinafter called
the Trustee), the Trustee has agreed to undertake certain obliga-
tions,, including the carrying out of Parts A and B of the Pro-
ject, as in said Project Agreement set forth; and
WHEREAS the Guarantor, in consideration of the Bank's enter-
ing into the Loan Agreement with the Borrower and the Project
Agreement with the Trustee, has agreed so to guarantee such
obligations of the Borrower;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE- I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank dated October 27, 1980, with the
same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein,
subject, however, to the modifications thereof set forth in
Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement (said General Conditions Applic-
able to Loan and Guarantee Agreements, as so modified, being
hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the


﻿-2-
General Conditions and in Section 1.02 of the Loan Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Guarantee
Section 2.01. Without limitation or restriction upon any of
its other obligations under the Guarantee Agreement, the Gua-
rantor hereby unconditionally guarantees, as primary obligor and
not as surety merely, the due and punctual payment of the princi-
pal of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the pre-
mium, if any, on the prepayment of the Loan, and the punctual
performance of all the other obligations of the Borrower, all as
set forth in the Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of Part C of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Guarantor shall carry out Part C of
the Project through its SSA and its SARH with due diligence and
efficiency   and  in   conformity  with   sound   financial   and
administrative practices and the Project Execution Paper and
shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the purpose.
(b) The Guarantor shall carry out the training, studies and
programs described in Parts C.1, C.2 and C.3 (i) of the Project
in accordance with terms of reference or programs, as the case
may be, acceptable to the Bank.
Section 3.02. The Guarantor shall enter into the contractual
arrangements referred to in Section 3.01 of the Loan Agreement.
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Guarantor shall not
change or fail to enforce any provision of such arrangements.
Section 3.03. (a) The Guarantor undertakes to insure, or
make adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan transferred to it
by the Borrower against hazards incident to the acquisition,
transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or
installation, and for such insurance any indemnity shall be pay-
able in a currency freely usable by the Guarantor to replace or
repair such goods.


﻿-3-
(b) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Guarantor
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan to be used exclusively for the purposes of the
Project.
Section 3.04. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, pro-
curement of the goods, required for Part C of the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by
the provisions of the Schedule to this Agreement.
Section 3.05. (a) The Guarantor shall: (i) at the Bank's
request, furnish, or cause to be furnished to the Bank, the
plans, reports and contract documents for Part C of the Project,
and any material modifications thereof or additions thereto, in
such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request; (ii) maintain
or cause to be maintained, records adequate to record the
progress of Part C of the Project, to identify the goods and
services financed out of the proceeds of the Loan transferred to
it by the Borrower, and to disclose their use in Part C of the
Project; (iii) enable the Bank's accredited representatives to
visit the facilities and construction sites included in Part C of
the Project and to examine the goods financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan transfered to it by the Borrower and any relevant
records and documents; and (iv) furnish or cause to be furnished
to the Bank such other information as the Bank shall reasonably
request concerning Part C of the Project, the expenditure of said
proceeds and the goods and services financed out of them.
(b) Upon the award by the Guarantor of any contract for
goods, works or services to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan, the Bank may publish a description thereof, the name
and nationality of the party to whom the contract was awarded and
the contract price.
(c) Within one year following the last withdrawal from the
Loan Account or such later date as may be agreed for these
purposes between the Guarantor and the Bank, the Guarantor shall
prepare and furnish to the Bank a report, on the execution and
initial operation of the Project its costs and benefits and on
the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan.
Section 3.06. Except as the Guarantor and the Bank shall
otherwise agree, the Guarantor shall take all necessary action
to carrry out the complementary measures for pollution control
set forth in the Project Execution Paper.


﻿ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in
normal circumstances, specific security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority
over its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of
foreign exchange held under the control or for the benefit of
such member. To that end, if any lien shall be created on any
governmental assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for any
external debt, which will or might result in a priority for the
benefit of the creditor of such external debt in the allocation,
realization or distribution of foreign exchange, such lien shall,
unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso facto, and at no cost
to the Bank, equally and ratably secure the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the Guarantor, in
creating or permitting the creation of such lien, shall make
express provision to that effect; provided, however, that, if for
any constitutional or other legal reason such provision cannot be
made with respect to any lien created on assets of any of its
political or administrative subdivisions, the Guarantor shall
promptly and at no cost to the Bank secure the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan by an equivalent lien on
other governmental assets satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely
as security for payment of the purchase price of such property;
and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of banking
transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year
after its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "governmental assets"
means assets of the Guarantor, of any of its political sub-
divisions or of any agency; and the term "agency" means any
agency or instrumentality of the Guarantor or of any political
subdivision of the Guarantor and shall include any institution or
organization which is owned or controlled directly or indirectly
by the Guarantor or by any political subdivision of the Guarantor
or the operations of which are conducted primarily in the
interest of or for the account of the Guarantor or any political
subdivision of the Guarantor.


﻿-5-
Section 4.02. The Guarantor covenants that it will not take,
or cause or permit any of its political subdivisions or any of
its agencies or any such political subdivision to take, any
action which would prevent or interfere with the performance by
the Borrower or the Trustee of its respective obligations
contained in the Loan Agreement and the Project Agreement and
will take or cause to be taken all reasonable action necessary or
appropriate to enable them to perform such obligations.
Section 4.03. The Guarantor shall, at all times, maintain
such organizational arrangements as shall be necessary for
purposes of coordinating the carrying out of the Project.
Section 4.04. Without any limitation or restriction upon any
of its other obligations under the Guarantee Agreement, the
Guarantor (a) shall cause the Trustee to perform in accordance
with the provisions of the Project Agreement all the obligations
therein set forth; (b) shall take or cause to be taken all
action, including the provision of funds, facilities, services
and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable the
Trustee to perform such obligations; and (c) shall not take or
permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere
with such performance.
Section 4.05. The Guarantor shall:
(a) maintain or caused to be maintained separate accounts
adequate to reflect, in accordance with consistently maintained
sound accounting practice, the resources and expenditures in
respect of the Project of the departments or agencies of the
Guarantor responsible for the carrying out of the Project or any
part thereof, as provided in Section 3.01 (a) of this Agreement;
(b) have the accounts referred. to in paragraph (a) of this
Section verified in accordance with the Guarantor's ordinary
procedures, as agreed between the Guarantor and the Bank;
(c) annually, within one year after the end of the year
concerned, furnish to the Bank a summary statement of such
accounts; and
(d) furnish to the Bank such other pertinent information
concerning such accounts and the verification procedures referred
to in paragraph (b) of this Section as the Bank shall reasonably
request from time to time.


﻿-6-
ARTICLE V
Representative of the Guarantor; Addresses
Section 5.01. The Director de Credito Publico of the
Secretaria de Hacienda y Credito Publico of the Guarantor is
designated as representative of the Guarantor for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 5.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Guarantor:
Secretaria de Hacienda y
Crfdito Publico
Palacio Nacional
Mexico DF
Telex: HDA-01777
HDA-01313
For the Bank
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INTBAFRAD                         440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿-7-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
UNITED MEXICAN STATES
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean


﻿SCHEDULE
Procurement
1.   Contracts for goods for Part C of the Project shall be
awarded following the Guarantor's local procurement procedures,
provided, however, that contracts for the procurement of air
monitoring network shall be awarded following evaluation and
comparison of proposals furnished by at least three suppliers
from countries and territories eligible under the current edition
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loan and IDA
Credits". The evaluation and comparison of such proposals shall
be made in accordance with criteria and procedures set forth in
Part A of such Guidelines.
2.   The Guarantor shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after its
execution and prior to the submission to the Bank of the first
application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in
respect of the contracts referred to in paragraph 1 above, two
conformed copies of such contracts, together with the analysis of
the respective bids or proposals, recommendations for award and
such other information as the Bank shall reasonably request. The
Bank shall, if it determines that the award of the contract was
not consistent with the Guidelines or the Guarantor's procurement
procedures, as the case may be, promptly inform the Guarantor and
state the reasons for such determination.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this          day of       , 198 .
FOR SECRETARY


