                                      Document of
                                     The World Bank

                               FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

                                                                        Report No: 32736




                             PROJECT COMPLETION NOTE

                                          ON A

                                          LOAN

                       IN THE AMOUNT OF US$32.8 MILLION

                                         TO THE

                              REPUBLIC OF GUATEMALA

                                        FOR THE

    WESTERN ALTIPLANO NATURAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT PROJECT
                                    (LOAN 7175 - GU)

                                      June 24, 2005




Environmentally and Socially Sustainable Development Sector Management Unit (LCSES)
Central America Country Management Unit (LCC2C)
Latin America and the Caribbean Region (LCR)




This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.

        CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

     (Exchange Rate Effective: June 23, 2005)


        Currency Unit = Guatemalan Quetzales (Q)
            Quetzal 1 = US$0.13
               US$ 1 = Q$ 7.63



                FISCAL YEAR
           January 1   ­     December 31




     ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS


CAS        - Country Assistance Strategy
CONAP      - National Protected Areas Commission
GoG        - Government of Guatemala
INAB       - National Forestry Institute
MAGA       - Ministry of Agriculture, Livestock, and Food
MARN       - Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources
MEF        - Ministry of Finance
SEGEPLAN - Secretary of Planning




       Vice President:      Pamela Cox
     Country Director:      Jane Armitage
       Sector Director:     John Redwood
    Task Team Leader:       James W. Smyle

                                PROJECT COMPLETION NOTE
                                           GUATEMALA
      WESTERN ALTIPLANO NATURAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT PROJECT
                               (Loan ­7175 GU; Project ID: P064883)

                                         A. KEY LOAN DATA

                                   Loan Amount: US 32.8 million
                                  Board Approval Date: 05/27/2003
                              Expected Effectiveness Date: 04/15/2004
                                   Cancellation Date: 12/27/2004


                                          B. BACKGROUND


1. The Western Altiplano is characterized culturally by its majority indigenous (Mayan) population,
   and geographically as encompassing the departments of Sololá, El Quiché, Totonicapán,
   Quetzaltenango, San Marcos, and Huehuetenango. The region has a GDP per capita that is one
   fifth of the national average and (with the exception of the department of Quetzaltenango) has the
   highest incidence of social exclusion nationwide. Almost 60% of the economically active
   population is engaged in smallholder agriculture and reliant upon an increasingly degraded and
   declining natural resources base.

                                 C. FEATURES OF THE PROJECT

2. The Western Altiplano Natural Resources Management project (MIRNA) supported both the
   Peace Accords and the Guatemala Country Assistance Strategy (CAS), prioritizing: (a)
   establishment of social cohesion and strengthening participatory decision-making processes; (b)
   poverty reduction in rural areas; (c) modernization of the public sector; and (iv) environment
   protection. The project emphasized the inclusion and participation of indigenous people and
   communities. As 95% of the population of the project area is Mayan, the project was considered
   an indigenous (Mayan) peoples development project.

3. Project design was built on the fundamental principals of successful natural resource
   management projects identified by the Bank's experiences and on the positive pilot community
   forests/natural resources planning and management experiences of local governments and NGOs,
   other international donors, and GoG agencies in the Western Altiplano. The project, among
   others, supported mainstreaming these successful models within the GoG's line agencies
   (MAGA, MARN, CONAP, and INAB).

4. Project Development Objectives. The project aimed to improve the management and
  conservation of natural resources and biodiversity and the incomes of the people who depend
  upon these resources, in the Western Altiplano of Guatemala. The project would have helped
  alleviate rural poverty, reduce pressures upon and improve management of the natural resources
  base by: (a) increasing social capital around natural resources management, through support to
  communities, organizations and local authorities (traditional and municipal) to jointly define and
  implement a local development vision which takes natural resources management and
  sustainability objectives into account; (b) increasing opportunities to sustainably improve

   productivity and diversity farming and other (non-farm) livelihood systems; (c) extending and
   strengthening ongoing efforts of indigenous communities to establish permanent conversation
   areas within broader zones of biodiversity of global importance and to maintain the habitats
   which sustain this diversity; and (d) establishing and piloting a framework for environmental
   services markets to sustain local incentives for conservation.

5. Project Components.          The total project cost was US$55.6 million, of which the World Bank
   would finance US$32.8 million, Government of Guatemala $8.6 million, the GEF US$8.0
   million, and project beneficiaries an estimated $6.2 million. The project had four main
   components:

       (a) Component I: Sustainable Livelihood (73% of total project cost) was oriented toward
           improving the welfare of the rural poor through promotion of sustainable use and
           conservation of natural resources. The component consisted of two subcomponents:
           Subproject Grants and Local Institutional Strengthening. The former would have
           provided grants to rural community associations in the 54 targeted municipalities to
           finance an estimated 760 small-scale sustainable production, natural resources
           management or conservation subprojects, identified by these groups as priority
           investments to improve community well-being. This subcomponent would also provide
           those cross-cutting services required to ensure the functioning and impact of the local
           capacity building and subproject grants subcomponents, including land and resource
           access conflict resolution assistance, strategic regional services such as technical
           assistance for marketing and commercialization and organizing farmers' organizations,
           and training for municipal-level promoters, leaders, and service providers. The latter
           would have provided grant resources to participating municipalities to finance specialized
           technical assistance, training and other services as needed.

       (b) Component II: Biodiversity Conservation (12% of total project cost) was to finance
           activities to strengthen local and national capacity to conserve national habitats
           containing globally important biodiversity and other areas providing locally and
           nationally important environmental services. The component comprised activities for: (i)
           Protection of sites of Global importance to strengthen local and national institutional
           capacity for conservation and co-management of natural resources in target areas; (ii)
           Intercultural Environmental Education to increase public awareness of environmental
           issues, values, and management practices and knowledge sharing across the Western
           Altiplano region; and (iii) Biodiversity Conservation Monitoring and Evaluation to
           strengthen National Protected Areas Commission's biodiversity M&E capacity by
           establishing a comprehensive biodiversity information system for the Western Altiplano.

       (c) Component III: Environmental Services Markets (4% of total project cost) would have:
           (i) developed the framework for policies and markets for environmental services through
           the elaboration of a National Strategy for Environmental Services: (ii) provided local and
           foreign technical assistance for research and special studies and training for local and
           national officials working in areas related to development of environmental services
           policy, legal framework and pilot programs; and (iii) designed and implemented pilot
           projects aimed at developing capacity, methodologies and instruments for market-based
           incentives for provision of environmental services.

       (d) Component IV: Administration, Supervision, M&E (10% of total project cost) would
           have financed: (i) project administration and planning; (ii) program monitoring and
           evaluation; (iii) incremental PCU salaries and operating costs, vehicles and equipment;
           and (iv) such studies as required for purposes of project implementation and follow up,
           including the development of investment proposals.


                       D. REASONS FOR CANCELLATION OF THE LOAN

6. The principal factors that led to the cancellation of the Western Altiplano Natural Resources
   Management Project were: (i) government's failure to gain consensus and obtain the legislative
   approvals required for project effectiveness prior to the national elections and change of
   administrations and (ii) the very difficult fiscal situation the new government inherited, requiring
   austerity measures that forced the sectoral ministries to reassess their priorities.

7. The project was approved by the World Bank Board on May 27, 2003 which was six months
   prior to national elections. In Guatemala, it is the role of the legislative branch (the Congress) to
   approve government's budget and this mandate extends to the approval of all external loans and
   credits and thus to the approval of any World Bank-financed loan agreement. Loan signing by
   government is conditioned on this prior legislative approval.

8. The importance of obtaining legislative approval for the project loan agreement prior to the
   elections was foreseen. An action plan was developed and implemented by the project
   counterpart (Ministry of Agriculture, Livestock, and Food or "MAGA") to ensure that this would
   occur. The action plan was successful to the extent that all internal government clearances
   required for the submission to the Congress of the project loan agreement were obtained in a
   timely fashion. However, the legislative agenda in the last months before the election was
   dominated by issues related to the passing of the government's 2004 fiscal year budget (FY
   2004) and, due to the political timing, the Congress was unable to achieve the consensus required
   to pass the budget. As a result, the project loan agreement was not taken up for discussions either
   before or after elections in the outgoing Congress.

9. The new government Administration took office in January 2004 and the newly appointed
   Minister of MAGA from the outset demonstrated a high level of commitment to the project and
   ensuring its effectiveness prior to the Bank's eighteen month deadline (November 27, 2004).
   However, during the new government's first year, much of its energies had to focus on
  addressing serious fiscal troubles, as a Constitutional Court decision in early 2004 struck
  down the presumptive income tax, the Impuesto a Empresas Mercantiles y Agrícolas (IEMA)
  which, in 2003, had generated about half of all revenues from enterprises (subsequently, in
  late 2004, the Court also struck down a tax on petroleum and derivatives). These decisions,
  coupled with large spending commitments by the outgoing administration, led to tax
  collection and fiscal deficit projections for 2004 of under 9 percent of GDP and 4.5 percent
   of GDP. To address this impending crisis, the government worked to obtain consensus on
   drastic actions on both the expenditure and revenue fronts. On the former, it enacted
   substantial expenditure cuts (3 percent in nominal terms) in all areas of the budget, with the
   exception of spending on education, health, and housing, which grew by about 4 percent.

10. During this period, the legislative agenda was also focused on resolving the pending crisis to the
    exclusion of all other but the highest priority legislation. For most of the first 2004 session of
    Congress, the country operated on continuing budget resolutions with no new commitments
    being taken on until the new budget could be passed. In the midst of this difficult situation, the
    project counterpart (MAGA) actively worked with the Congress and relevant project actors
    (other Ministries, mayors and congressional representatives from the project area, civil society
    organizations) to have the project approved. They proactively sought out and obtained grant
    financing (from USAID) to finance activities related to meeting project effectiveness conditions
    and to hold workshops and seminars for key legislators and executive branch members in order to
    communicate to them the importance of approving the loan agreement.

11. In May 2004, the Bank sought and received from the Minister of MAGA a formal
    communication on government's continued interest and commitment to having the project loan
    approved and made effective. The communication from MAGA specifically noted the urgency
    of obtaining Congressional approval and of achieving effectiveness prior to the eighteen-month
    deadline. It also informed the Bank of MAGA's strategy with the Congress and action plan for
    meeting project effectiveness conditions.

12. In the Bank's August 2004 meetings with the Executive and the national planning agency
    (SEGEPLAN) on the new County Assistance Strategy being developed, government presented to
    the Bank their new Rural Development Strategy. The Bank noted with satisfaction at that time
    that the proposed Western Altiplano Natural Resources Management Project was not only fully
    consistent with the Rural Development Strategy, but that it was also a vehicle for delivering a
    very substantial percentage of the targets set by the Strategy. Following these meetings, both the
    Office of the Vice President charged with implementing the government's rural development
    strategy and the head of SEGEPLAN became active in seeking support in the Executive and the
    Congress for project approval.

13. Unfortunately, despite this support for the project, the very difficult fiscal situation the
    government inherited and the focus on reducing spending to reduce the deficit, resulted in
    difficult choices having to be made by the sectoral ministries. Given the austerity policies being
    enforced by MEF, the Minister of Agriculture had to choose between the Western Altiplano
    Natural Resources Management project and a US$100 million Land Administration program that
    the Ministry saw as the centerpiece of its agricultural program. The eighteen-month deadline was
    passed and the Bank, on December 6, 2004, informed Government that the loan was to be
    cancelled. On December 27, 2004, the formal notice of cancellation was sent to government.


                                     E. SOME LESSONS LEARNED

14. In countries where legislative approval of loans and credits is required, the Bank should be
    cautious in approving projects within six months of a general election and recognize that, even
    with the existence of a credible action plan, the risks of unforeseen events preventing timely
    legislative approval are high.

