Document of
The World Bank
Re:-ci- No: 25118
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$46.7 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF GUATEMALA
FOR THE
SECOND RURAL AND MAIN ROADS PROJECT
April 10, 2003
Finance, Private Sector and Infrastructure Department
Central America Country Management Unit
Latin America and Caribbean Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective)
Currency Unit = LC
1 Quetzales = US$0.1282
US$1 = 7.8 Quetzales
FISCAL YEAR
January - December
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AADT         - Annual Average Daily Trffic
ADf4AM       - Association of Municipalities in tie
Highlands of San Marcos
Asociacion de Desarrollo Inaegral de
Municipalidades del Altiplano Marquense
BCIE         -  Central American Bank for Economic Integraion
Banco Centroamericano de Inegracion Econ6mica
CAE          -  Country Assistance Evaluation
CAS          -  Country Assistance Strategy
COFINEX      -  Foreign Financing Coordination Unit
Coordinadora de Financiamien:o Erzermo
COVItAL      -  National Road Fund
DGA          -  Environmental Management Department
Departamento de Gesti6n Ambiental
DGC          -  General Roads Directorate
Direcci6n General de Caminos
EA           -  Environmental Assessment
EMP          -  Environmental Mitigation Plan
ER           -  Environmental Report
ERP          -  Poverty Alleviation Strategy
Estrategia de Reducci6n de la Pobreza
FIS          -  Social Fund
Fondo de Inversi6n Social
FONAPAZ      -  National Fund for Peace
Fondo Nacional para la PAZ
FUPNCEDE     -  Central American Development Foundation
Fundacidn Centroamericana de Desarrollo
Vice President:  David de Ferranti
Country Manager/Director:  Jane Armitage
Sector Manager/Director:  Danny M. Leipziger
Task Team Leader:  Guillermo Ruan
Co-Task Team Leader:   Cecilia Corvalan



FVR         -  Regional Road Fund
Fondo Vial Regional
GUAPA       -  Guatemala Poverty Assessment
GoG         -  Government of Guatemala
HDM         -  Highway Design and Maintenance
IDB         -  Interamerican Development Bank
INFOM       -  Municipal Development Institute
Instituto de Fomento Municipal
INTECAP     -  Technical Institute for Training and Productivity
Institiuto Te'cnico de Capacidad y Produtcriv-idad
IRR         -  Internal Rate of Return
ISV         -  Road Selection Index
Indice de Seleccio'n Vial
LSMS        -  Living Standards Measurement Study
MAMSOHUE-      Association of Municipalities in the South
West of Huehuetenango
Mancomunidad del Str Occidente de
Huehuetenango
MARN        -  Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources
Ministerio del Ambiente y de los Recuirsos
Natutrales
MCIV        -  Ministry of Communications, Infrastructure and
Housing
Ministerio de Comunicaciones, Infraesrnrcnira y
Vivienda
ME          -  Micro-Enterprise
NVP         -  Net Present Value
PCA         -  Procurement Capacity Assessment
PCU         -  Project Coordination Unit
PRA         -  Project Responsible Agency
RED         -  Road Economic Development
RMRP        -  Rural and Main Roads Project
RRTS        -  Rural Roads and Transport Strategy
SMRRPP      -  San Marcos Rural Roads Pilot Project
UCBM        -  World Bank Project Coordination Unit
Unidad Coordinadora Banco Mi(ndi.l
UTAV        -  Roads Technical Unit
Unidad Tecnica de Asistencia Vial
VOC         -  Vehicle Operating Costs






GUATEMALA
SECOND RURAL AND MAIN ROADS PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                     Page
1. Project development objective
2. Key performance indicators                                                        S
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project   IC
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                        10
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                I
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                1'
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                     16
3. Benefits and target population                                                    1-
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                     19
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies     '_
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design                               '
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership
5. Value added of Bank support in this project
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic
2. Financial
3. Technical                                                                         '6
4. Institutional                                                                     26
5. Environmental                                                                     29
6. Social                                                                            I
7. Safeguard Policies



F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                   34
2. Critical risks                                                                   35
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                    36
G. Main Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                          36
2. Other                                                                             37
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                        37
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                       37
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                        39
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                  46
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                       53
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary, or Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Summary         54
Annex 5: Financial Summary for Revenue-Earning Project Entities, or Financial Summary  72
Annex 6: (A) Procurement Arrangements                                                  73
(B) Financial Management and Disbursement Arrangements                        79
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                   87
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                 88
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                89
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                          91
Annex I 1: San Marcos Rural Roads Pilot Project - Description and Impact Assesment     93
Annex 12: Pilot Project on Maintenance Micro-enterprises                               99
Annex 13: Pilot Project on Trails, Paths and Footbridges                              107
Annex 14: Labor-Based Municipal Roads Pilot                                            112
Annex 15: Analysis of the Financial Capacity of the Municipalities                    115
Annex 16: Social Assessment                                                            123
Annex 17: Environmental Assessment                                                     130
Annex 18: General Framework for Resettlements                                         136
MAP(S)
IBRD 32242: Four Year Program, Poverty Map
IBRD 32402: First Year Program



GUATEMALA
SECOND RURAL AND MAIN ROADS PROJECT
Project Appraisal Document
Latin America and Caribbean Region
LCSFT
Date: April 10, 2003                              Team Leader: Guillermo Ruan
Sector Manager/Director: Danny M. Leipziger       Sector(s): Roads and highways (90%), Sub-national
Country Manager/Director: Jane Armitage           government administration (10%)
Project ID: P055085                               Theme(s): Rural services and infrastructure (P), Civic
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)  engagement, participation and community driven
development (S)
Project Finan        -                              . - - - t a. -  - .  .  -
1X] Loan     [ ] Credit   [ Grant     [] Guarantee     [ Other:
For LoanslCreditslOthers:
Loan Currency: United States Dollar
Amount (US$m): 46.70
Borrower Rationale for Choice of Loan Terms Available on File: M Yes
Proposed Terms (IBRD): Fixed-Spread Loan (FSL)
Grace period (years): 5                         Years to maturity: 17
Front end fee (FEF) on Bank loan: 1.00%
Payment for FEF: Capitalize from Loan Proceeds
Initial choice of Interest-rate basis:
Type of repayment schedule:
[ j Fixed at Commitment, with the following repayment method (choose one):
PX1 Linked to Disbursement
Financing Plan (US$m):    Source         .      .           Local         Foreign     ; . T otaI
BORROWER                                                      17.02           0.00          17.02
IBRD                                                           0.00          46.70          46.70
Total:                                                        17.02          46.70          63.72
Borrower: REPUBLIC OF GUATEMALA
Responsible agency: MCIV & INFOM
MCIV - Ministry of Communications, Infrastructure and Housing (Ministerio de Comunicaciones, Infraestructura y
Vivienda)
Address: Guatemala City
Contact Person: Flora Escobar de Ramos, Minister
Tel: 502-362-6057           Fax: 502-362-6059           Email:
Other Agency(ies):
INFOM - Municipal Development Institute (Instituto de Fomento Municipal)
Address: Guatemala City
Contact Person: Luis Corletto, General Manager
Tel: 502-336-8103           Fax: 502-334-6735           Email:



Estimated Disbursement in US$m Equivalent (Bank FY/Semesters):
FY.   2004     2005       200S      2007
-.,  Source         Sem. 1    Sem. 1    Sem. i    Sem. 1
-  Sem. 2    Sem. 2    Sem. 2     Sem. 2
IBRD                5.00      15.00     13.35     13.35
Cumulative         $5.00    $20.00    $33.35     $46.70                    .
Project implementation period: 4 years
Expected effectiveness date: 12/01/2003  Expected closing date: 12/31/2007
-2 -



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex I)
"(To have) a good road (un buen camino)" - response from a resident of an indigenous (kaqchikel)
village when asked how welfare should be defined.
Following the Peace Accords of 1996, the Government of Guatemala committed itself to a policy of
decentralization as a means of increasing social cohesion and reducing poverty. A critical requirement for
creating an integrated society is physical connectivity and the elimination of geographic isolation. Thus,
improving the road network in the country by assuring a readily available and affordable road network
was identified as one of the key challenges in the GoG's Estrategia de Reduccion de la Pobreza (ERP)'
and in the Guatemala Poverty Assessment (GUAPA 2002). Providing good quality roads and adequate
year-round access to remote areas is also one of the key goals of the current administration.
These goals were first acknowledged in the ongoing Main and Rural Roads Project (Loan 4260-GU)
which became effective at the end of 1998, and was brought into fruition under the San Marcos Rural
Roads Pilot Project (SMRRPP). The Second Rural and Main Roads Project (RMRP) proposed here is an
important step in furthering the Bank's assistance in meeting theses challenges. The project builds on the
success of the model piloted under the SMRRPP to extend investment support to other regions of
Guatemala, introduce new planning and service delivery approaches for increased participation of
beneficiaries and community-based organizations, and strengthen the policy and institutional framework
to enhance program sustainability.
The overarching goal of the proposed RMRP is to reduce rural poverty and build social cohesion by
improving and maintaining access in rural areas to markets, schools, health centers and other social and
economic infrastructure through broadened community participation. By emphasizing beneficiary
involvement, the RMRP will assure that local development decisions reflect the needs and priorities of
rural communities.
The specific project development objectives of the RMRP are:
*   Improve rural access on a sustainable basis by improving paths, rural roads,
secondary/departmental roads, and main roads;
*   Develop institutional capacity at the local and central level, for rural roads management and
strengthening stakeholder participation; and
*   Generate employment in rural areas by developing an entrepreneurial culture using
cost-effective technologies, providing a demonstration effect through pilot programs, and
promoting spillover activities.
Since the RMRP will extend the framework tested in the SMRRPP, it is important to review some of the
features and lessons learned from the pilot, which are presented below. A description of the SMRRPP
and its main impacts to 'date are also highlighted in Box I and further described in Annex 11.
The SMRRPP was initiated under the ongoing Rural and Main Roads Project (L4260-GU) in the
department of San Marcos in the western part of Guatemala. The main focus of the SMRRPP was to put
in place a new institutional framework at the local level to deal with rural road administration. It focuses
its intervention on an area comprising twelve municipalities, integrated into a municipal association-the
ADIMAM (Asociaci6n de Desarrollo Integral de las Municipalidades del Altiplano Marquense). The
mayors of the association are responsible, along with the municipalities that they represent, for
- 3 -



identifying, financing, and managing the rehabilitation and maintenance of the "core rural road network
3" The ADIMAM mayors receive technical advice from a technical unit UTAV (Unidad Tecnica de
Asistencia Vial), which was especially set up as part of the pilot under ADIMAM. A regional road fund
(Fondo    Vial Regional, FVR) was also established under the aegis of the SMRRPP to administer the
financial contributions received from the municipalities and other potential sources for the rehabilitation
and maintenance of the road network.
A major objective of the project is to ensure physical connectivity and access to services in rural areas.
This requires traversing non-municipal roads for at least a part of the way. In this manner, the project
complements its scope of improving rural roads with that of rehabilitating/improving departmental and
secondary roads, which connect the core rural road network to the main road network of the country.
Hence, the scope of the ongoing SMRRPP spans two road jurisdictions: (i) the core rural road network
under municipal jurisdiction, which the Bank co-finances with ADIMAM; and (ii) the national road
network under the jurisdiction of the General Roads Directorate (DGC, Direcci6n General de Caminos),
which the Bank co-finances with the GoG.
Box 1: The San Marcos Rural Roads Pilot Project (SNMRRPP)
The SMRRPP is being implemented in the highlands of the Department of San Marcos-one of the poorest departments of the country located
on the border with Mexico The project includes 12 municipahues, covers an area of 3,800 sq. km and impacts about 400,000 inhabitants The
total length of the road network serving the project area is 1,320 km and includes roads under the jurisdiction of the municipalities (970 km) and
of the General Roads Directorate (350 kmn)
Before implementation of the project, the condition of the road network in the area was poor The poor road condition was caused mainly by the
lack of funds, leading to dire neglect of road maintenance works and by the limited technical and management capacity of the municipalues to
administer the hmited funding available Road-related interventions were thus restricted to emergency repairs and many roads would become
impassable dunng the rainy season. A prehrmunary impact analysis conducted as part of project preparation reveals that implementation of the
SMRRPP has altered the situation considerably (See below and also Annex I1)
The centerpiece of the SMRRPP is the creation of an institutional framework responsible for administenng and financing municipal roads In
1997, 12 municipaities in San Marcos, with assistance from the Bank, fonmed a municipal association named ADIMAM (Asociactln de
Desarrollo Integral de las Mumcipalidades del Altiplano Marquense). Their objective was to jointly tackle problems associated with poor road
access. This innovative institutional arrangement undertakes the planning and execution of rehabilitation and maintenance works on a portion of
the municipal road network The SMRRPP also created a technical unit UTAV (Unidad Tdcnica de Asistencia Vial) which is responsible for
planning, programming and managing the network and reports directly to ADIMAM. Initially, UTAV was constituted by a local consulting firm
which reported directly to ADIMAM Now, UTAV is staffed with 3 local young professionals (2 engineers and I economist) trained by the
consuling firm The financial aspects, which include the management of contnbutions received from the municipahties to cover the cost of
UTAV and co-financing (with the Bank) the road works, are managed by a local road fund (Fondo Vial Regional, FVR) The fund also reports
directly to ADIMAM and is staffed by a financial professional
The SMRRPP is financed as follows (i) Road rehabilhtation Bank 85%; ADIMAM. 15% (this amount is contnbuted by the municipalities in
ADIMAM that benefit from the works and represents a vanable financial contribution). (ii) UTAV. Initially the Bank financed it 100%,
however, beginning Year 3 of project implementation, i.e. in 2002, ADIMAM began to completely finance it These funds come from the annual
deposit of Q70,000 that each municipality is required to make (fixed financial contnbution); and (iii) Maintenance: works are currently being
undertaken by beneficiary communities with the support of local authorities, however, the use of micro-enterprises to carry out road maintenance
activities will be piloted under the proposed RMRP  The cost of the pilot will be shared with ADIMAM  At mid-point of project
implementation, the SMRRPP had rehabilitated approximately 200 km of the core rural network, which has a total length of 450 km. Additional
road sections cntical to improving access to remote communities with relatively large population and high economic potential have also been
included in the SMRRPP Upon completion, it is envisioned that rehabilitation of the entire core network will be accomplished and several short
road sections outside the core network that are otherwise impassable dunng the rainy season will be improved. The SMRRPP will also
rehabilhtate and/or improve approximately 250 kms of secondary and departmental roads connecting ADIMAM's core network to the main road
network.
There are two central government agencies involved in the implementation of the SMRRPP: the Municipal Development Institute (Insntuto de
Fomento Muncipal, INFOM) which is responsible for the coordination of all aspects related with the implementation of the rural road
components, and the General Roads Directorate (Direcci6n General de Caminos, DGC) of the Ministry of Communications, Infrastructure and
Housing (Mnisteno de Comuncaczones, Infraestructura y Vivienda, MCIV) which is responsible for the same activities in the road network
under its junsdiction (main, secondary and departmental roads)
A study of the preliminary impacts of the SMRRPP indicates that the ADIMAM area, in just a year after implementation of the pilot, witnessed a
10% increase in inhabitants who experienced an improvement in the frequency of public buses and a 13% increase in the number of people
using buses and pick-ups Also, a larger percentage of women in the project area are inclined to use public transport than women who are not in
project municipahties Inhabitants of the project area also witnessed a decrease in travel time (20%) and a reduction tn pnce of commodiues
The SMRRPP has also facilitated increased 'access' to health centers and schools.
-4 -



The main achievements of the SMRRPP can be briefly summarized as follows:
*   Strengthening Social Cohesion. The major achievement of the SMRRPP has been
developing social cohesion and building social capital and consensus. In an area ridden by
conflict and consequently distrust and divisiveness, the Pilot has shown that (ADIMAM)
mayors from different municipalities and with different ideologies are willing to sit together,
set aside their political differences, and constructively take on decisions about development
priorities in the project area. Most decisions are taken to maximize the 'long-term' social
good rather than short-sighted local goals. Presented with historical evidence of grave
discord in the area, this has truly been one of the most significant accomplishments of the
Pilot. The SMRRPP has also shown that social cohesion strengthened by improved
inter-conimunity accessibility has encouraged interaction and exchange of goods, services
and ideas. Improved access to nearby main cities and towns is encouraging an otherwise
marginalized and isolated population to integrate itself into the mainstream;
*   Municipal Empowerment through Municipal Association. The creation of ADIMAM for
the initial sole purpose of tackling the common road infrastructure needs of the association
has facilitated dialogue between the municipalities (of the association) and the central
government (in Guatemala City). Chapter Im of the recently amended Municipal Code
(C6digo Municipal), which regulates the associations of municipalities, was inspired by the
success of the SMRRPP5
*   An orderly and participatory process for selecting and implementing rural roads
investments was established. The SMRRPP established a local mechanism for selecting,
funding and implementing rural roads rehabilitation and maintenance programs. This model
of ensuring local participation and empowering communities has been lauded by the GoG.
The GoG is planning to use it to design its rural road strategy in the country;
*   Improving year-round rural access for the population of ADIMAM. With improved
road quality due to rehabilitation, the inhabitants of the project area have experienced an
improvement in the access to merit services, such as health facilities, educational centers and
employment, thus reducing the vulnerability of these communities and providing them with
a greater choice set of opportunities. The results of the preliminary impact analysis6 and
other sectoral work' indicates that road rehabilitation in Guatemala has had the largest
impact on the provision and availability of public transport;
*   Capacity building in GoG institutions. The capacity of the Municipal Development
Institute (Instituto de Fomento Municipal - INFOM) to support the road development efforts
of municipal associations was created and is currently being strengthened;
*   Meeting National Development Objectives. The objectives of the SMRRPP are consistent
with the prescriptions outlined in the GUAPA and the ERP. It is widely believed that
geographic isolation caused by the country's complex topography and the bad quality of its
road network have been instrumental in shaping the current poverty profile (Box 2). Both,
the GUAPA 2002, the green cover version of which was presented in March 2002 and the
ERP, presented at the Consultative Group meetings in February 2002, emphasize promoting
pro-poor growth and investment in physical capital, among which rural roads figured
prominently; and
*   The success of the SMRRPP has been widely acknowledged. Decentralization fostered by
the SMRRPP has received extensive support from the GoG (the President, the Vice-President
-5 -



and the Social Cabinet) and is viewed as a model framework for addressing and deal with
local infrastructure needs and initiatives. Having recognized its success in empowering and
building social cohesion and participation, the GoG is using it as a prototype to design a rural
transport strategy for the entire country.
By drawing on the success of the SMRRPP and extending its framework to include other pilots, the
proposed RMRP will capitalize on its achievements in San Marcos. It will also incorporate additional
features designed to promote local development and aid the integration of indigenous and isolated
communities into the economic mainstream of the country. Box 2 presents the main characteristics of the
RMRP, and a detailed description of the project is presented in Annex 2.
Box 2: Features of the RMRP (See Annex 2 for details).
Being a poverty targeted operation, the RMRP intervention will be mostly directed at the poorest regions of
the country. By extending the impacts of the SMRRPP to other regions of the country, the RMRP will:
o   Continue the model of empowering local communities by setting up local institutions for selecting,
funding and implementing rural roads rehabilitation and maintenance programs. In Huehuetenango,
project preparation has resulted in the creation of 2 associations covering 21 municipalities:
MAMSOHUE in the south-west of the department, has 13 participating municipalities and HUISTA,
in the northwest, has 8 participating municipalities;
o   Aid GoG in its poverty alleviation and employment generation focus. Other than securing all-weather
roads in previously ill-connected areas, some road segments in the MAMSOHUE and HUISTA project
areas will pilot labor-intensive means of rehabilitating and improving roads (See Annex 14).
o Continue to empower and aid development in communities that were part of the SMRRPP by setting
up Micro-enterprises to undertake road maintenance activities in the ADIMAM area. Approximately
350 kms of roads will be maintained initially with the aid of maintenance micro-enterprises (See
Annex 12).
o   Pilot the improvement of non-motorized means of transport in ADIMAM through the improvement of
tracks, paths and footbridges. This pilot will rehabilitate approximately 300 kms of tracks and paths,
improving accessibility for about 50,000 people in communities with high proportions of extremely
poor and without alternative direct access to the rural road network (See Annex 13). The pilot will also
finance the construction of footbridges;
o   Assist the GoG with financing rehabilitation works and road works that improve main, secondary,
departmental and rural road networks;
o Provide critical support for capacity building in the region and for strengthening the capacity of
INFOM, DGC, and municipal associations.
Through the RMRP, the Bank will evince its continued active support for capacity building and
strengthening decentralized institutions in the country. On July 1, 2002, the GoG's Decentralization Law
(Ley General de Decentralizaci6n) carne into effect. The objective of the law is to promote financial and
administrative decentralization by transferring power from the central executive to the municipalities. It
also aims to devolve power to civil associations (ADIMAM is an example of a civil association). The
spirit and nature of the law is also adhered to in the institution of INFOM since through it, municipalities
directly participate in decision-making and executing plans about rural roads (See Box 4).
- 6 -



On physical grounds, comparable successes to those obtained under the SMRRPP may be expected since
these areas are similar to San Marcos in many ways: They are in the same part of the country, are as poor
and as deprived of rural transport infrastructure and services as San Marcos, if not more (See Table 1).
Additionally, ENCOVI households' in the departments of San Marcos and Huehuetenango - where the
RMRP will be implemented - report especially large economic losses due to high travel times caused by
bad quality of roads and consequent scarcity of transport services. Landslides and mudslides are frequent
in these areas, causing road closures and prolonged delays in access to basic services, work and markets.
The RMRP will make financial and technical resources available for participating municipalities so that
they can undertake road improvements and regular and sustainable maintenance works. This will go a
long way in increasing social welfare within these departments.
Table 1: Accessibilit and Trans ort Infrastructure for some selecte       p artments Guatemala, 2000.
Rest                                                            Average over
of the    San     Huehuternango  Quiche    Baja       Alta       targeted
Country  Marcos                            Verapaz    Verapaz    departments
No. of Sampling Units                301        24         65           26        18        44
No. of Households Sampled            3086       233        617         246       197        465
% HHs without Mutorable roads         11        16         21           19       13         20          19
% HHs without Public Transprt        48         63         68           48        42        73          63
% RHs experiencing Road Closures      28        14         24           38        24        38          31
Time taken to get Water (mins.)       13        15         14           14        8         14           13
Distance traveled to get Water (kms).  0 2      04         03           03       0 2        0 5         0 3
Time taken to get Wood (mins.)        58        79         74           82        83        59           72
Distance traveled to get Wood (kms.)  12        1 4        1 617                  22        1a           17
runt taken to reach a Health facility (mins.)  47  49      St           29        88        48           51
Time taken to reach Work Place (mios.)  46      29         48           31        4         37           42
Distance traveled to reach a Market (ktns.)  8   8          10          7         3          9           9
Time taken to reath a Market (mins.)  41        72         66           61        29        72           62
Source World Bank calculations using ENCOVI 2000, Instituto Nacional de Estadistica, Guatemala
Notes~ Time is measured tn munLtes and is one way. Distance is measured in kilometers (one way) Time taken to reach a health facility is
calculated for individuals who visit a health facilhty A health facility can include public hospital, hospital of the IGSS, a private hospital, a
polyclinic of the IGSS, a health center, a health post, a community center, a private clinic or a private consultation, a pnvate pharmacy or a state
pharmtacy. It excludes time taken by persons taken care of at their own home or at other homes
**Weighted average for ENCOVI households in Huehuetenango, Quiche, Baja Verapaz and Alta Verapaz
The ERP was presented by the GoG, at the Consultative groups meeting in February 2002.
'The term "rural roads" is used in the context of this document to cover the municipal and community roads under
the jurisdiction of municipal governments.
3The "core network" is defined as the road network that provides rinimum adequate accessibility to municipalities in
the association. In defining this network, consideration is given to the financial capacity of the municipalities to
provide the required resources to rehabilitate and maintain their portion of the network.
The World Health Organization (WHO) defines 'access' to a health center if it is less than an hour away.
5The amendment of C6digo Municipal was approved in April 2002 together with the Ley                  General de
Decentralizacitn and the Ley de los Concejos de Desarrollo Urbano y Rural.
6Estudio de Medici6n de Impactos Preliminares: El Caso del Proyecto Piloto de Caminos Rurales de San Marcos,
Repiublica de Guatemala, BIOENERG, Guatemala, 2002.
Are Roads Enough: A Limited Impact Analysis of Rural Road Works in Guatemala, 2002. J. Pun, The World Bank,
2002.
Iln 2000, the Instituto Nacional de Estadistica, Guatemala conducted an LSMS (Living Standards Measurement
Survey) or the ENCOVI 2000. One of the features of the ENCOVI 2000 is that a separate module in the
'community' section of the questionnaire is devoted to roads and transportation issues. The 'community' section of
the questionnaire, where the module on 'Roads and Transportation' is contained, covers a total of 481 Primary
Sampling Umnts. However this section is not representative at the national level or at the community level of the
community.
-7 -



2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
The project will involve the replication of the SMRRPP in two new associations in the Department of
Huehuetenango, one of the poorest of the country as well as the consolidation of the institutional
framework put in place under the SMRRPP in San Marcos. Key project targets include: (i) nearly
500,000 inhabitants of HUISTA and MAMSOHUE region will obtain better road access; (ii)
approximately 400,000 inhabitants of ADIMAM region will continue to benefit from improved access;
(iii) successful replication of the model in other municipalities proving that the institutional set-up can be
put in place even in the absence of the broad incentives surrounding the implementation of the
ZONAPAZ initiative; (iv) consolidation of participatory and decentralized institutional framework to
deal with rural roads management; and (v) adoption of the National Rural Roads and Transport Strategy
(RRTS) by the GoG and the strengthening and preparation of the institutions involved in a larger
intervention in the sector.
The impact of the RMRP will be measured at various stages during project implementation (primary or
interim impact evaluations) and at the end of the project. The main purpose of the impact evaluations is
to assess the project's contribution to improving rural access, providing employment opportunities for the
population served by the project, and improving the institutional framework. In measuring the impacts,
the following indicators will be monitored throughout the project implementation phase and measured at
the end of the project:
1.   Improvement of Rural Access:
o   Ensure that the communities served by the core networks of the various municipal
associations to be financed under the project will be interconnected by all-weather roads
securing access to markets, employment opportunities, and social services (health and
education);
o   Vehicle operating costs for vehicles using the departmental and secondary roads
rehabilitated/improved under the project will decrease by at least 40%;
o   Travel times on the core networks and on the roads under DGC's jurisdiction will be reduced
at least by 20%;
o   Rehabilitation of 830 km of rural roads and 270 km of roads under DGC's jurisdiction (main,
secondary and departmental roads connecting the rural road network to the rest of the
country);
o   300 km of tracks and trails will be improved and approximately 80 footbridges will be
constructed;
o   Approximately 2000 m of spot improvements along segments of rural roads outside the core
road network;
o   Successful formation of 20 micro-enterprises in the SMRRPP area, to carry out road
maintenance; and
o   Maintenance of 350 km of roads in the SMRRPP project area using micro-enterprises;
- 8-



2.   Improvements to the institutional framework:
(at local level)
* A well-functioning decentralized local governance system in place with the enhanced
capability of managing road infrastructure at the local level;
*   Successful formation of 2 new associations of municipalities following the SMRRPP model,
with adjustments where required, to manage the rural road works under their responsibility
(MAMSOHUE and HUISTA);
*   Permanent Technical Units (UTAVs) and Regional Road Funds (FVRs) implemented and
strengthened in the new associations;
(at central level)
*   Strengthened coordination for the management of road infrastructure at the central level;
*   Adoption of national strategy for rural roads and transport, including its discussion with its
stakeholders;
*   Project Coordination Unit from INFOM incorporated into the organization of INFOM; and
*   Increased institutional capacity within INFOM for supporting road maintenance activities
through micro-enterprises.
3.    Employment generation:
*   Creation of an entrepreneurial culture for road maintenance activities through technical
assistance for the creation of 20 microenterprises and training program for 200 local
contractors and consultants;
*   Not less than 150 permanent jobs directly created by the implementation of the
Micro-enterprises Pilot project in ADIMAM;
*   Approximately 200 people employed in the labor-intensive pilot project and by rehabilitation
works financed by the project;
*   The generation of spillover employment activities stemming from improved access to
markets for locally-produced agricultural goods and textiles as well as from complementary
productive activities stemming from the micro-enterprises; and
*   The mnicro-enterprise program will catalyze other local development initiatives, and possibly
mobilize untapped local resources for community-based ventures through a sustained income
stream from micro-enterprise contracts in the project areas.
-9-



B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: 18036     Date of latest CAS discussion: July 14, 1998;
Progress Report: June 25, 2002
The overriding objective of the Bank assistance strategy for Guatemala is to support Government efforts
to achieve sustained, continuous reduction to poverty by assisting the country to secure implementation
on the Peace Accords. The four interlinked development priorities are: (i) building social cohesion and
strengthening participatory decision-making processes; (ii) reducing poverty; (iii) improving economic
management to maintain stability and foster growth; and (iv) modernizing the public sector to make it
more effective at essential tasks. With respect to decentralization and community demand driven
approach, the CAS emphasizes that it is important to: (i) foster a more decentralized and community
demand driven approach, and (ii) strengthen communities and local levels of government.
In this context, the RMRP seeks to foster inclusion and informed participation of beneficiaries through
decentralized decision-making and implementation, while strengthening rural communities. The RMRP
is also consistent with the views of the Operations Evaluation Department's Country Assistance
Evaluation (CAE) which recommends that the Bank should support programs on rural roads and basic
infrastructure for rural communities. Furthermore, improving road access for rural areas is a critical part
of the poverty alleviation strategy and is essential for linking rural communities to markets, and to social
and other public services.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
"During the rainy season, the community is affected because the road is blocked by the mud and the
landslides ...the result is that we can't buy or transport products to the market." Mam villager, QPES.
Poverty and access. More than half the population of Guatemala is poor and nearly 2 million people in
Guatemala live in extreme poverty (See Table 2). Although urban poverty is significant, poverty remains
overwhelmingly a rural phenomenon in Guatemala. Poverty is twice as high in the rural areas and often
the rural poor live in isolation because of the limited supply of transport infrastructure and services.
An unsatisfactory road network, especially in rural areas, is a large determinant factor in the poverty
profile of the country. The absence of all-weather roads limit access to basic services and a distribution
network for crops and essential products, especially for the poor. This has been particularly unfortunate
because the rural poor derive their income predominantly from agricultural labor. They also tend to live
in small (less than 10,000 people) municipalities with limited infrastructure service provision. Thus a key
step for poverty reduction calls for integrating these smaller, rural municipalities which contain large
percentages of poor populations, with services, markets and the rest of the economy.
Among the regions in Guatemala, the northern and the north-western regions ("the poverty belt") are the
most afflicted with more than one out of three people in these regions considered to be extremely poor
(32% in the North and 39% in the North-West). Being a poverty alleviation targeted intervention, the
main criteria for selecting municipal associations under the RMRP are the poverty level and the road
needs in these regions.
- 10 -



Table 2: Poverty and Access to road Types by Region, Guatemala 2000.
All Poor  Extrenmely  Non-Poor I       tHHs with Access to Road Type/ Total HHs**i(Y)-
tug's    ,ooor HHs !  HHs     l---       l 
I   mis'    poor HHs*  I  H S  ISurfacej Roads  Unsurfaced  I  Earth roads  IFootpaths  No motorable
l   |   g  (%)  Ij   t  roads                      roads
i       !  ~~~~~(%)  (%)    i          1        
AII   f  57  1  i2    ,   ~43    j   39.8  i'69.9          37.9    !62_Sp     i3 
Urban j  4         3     !   76     |   65.3  2, 587      !     3      34.9  |  i0.1   |
TRural  67        17         33    1   28.3   !    75   -    44 9    1 75       14 7
:Regions             |         l           l
Metropolitan|  21  j   2          79        65-2   1   57.3       22.3     34 3      32
N4orthii;  66  |  1 l        34        25 8       66.3        15       75 1     17.8   l
North-Easti  351      0         65         18 7       72         5i2      34 9  1   8.31
South-East!  62  !    1         48         32 6       7 i3.4  1  69.9     77.8    i 14.4
Central!  53       12         47        47.4   J    83.6       30       61.5  !   95
South-Westj  60       10         40         37        76 2        38.7     69.3  |  16.1   I
North-Westj  80  |    29         20    !   29.3   j   61.7   !          - - -'  -  -   20
Peten  44    i    2           6    1   47.7  _ _   j_ 0  1   51 i      6        2.3 iJ
* As a percentage of all households in Guatemala. These figures are taken from the 'Household' portion of the ENCOVI 2000. ** As a
percentage of Households tn the 'Community' part of ENCOVI 2000 'Total HHs' are those that have PSU (Pnmary Samphng Unit) data
available Source: World Bank calculations using ENCOVI 2000, Instituto Nacional de Estadistica, Guatemala.
In the poverty belt, which includes the departments of San Marcos, Huehuetenango, Quiche, Alta
Verapaz and Baja Verapaz, more than 70% of households are poor and more than 30% are extremely
poor i.e. has an annual per capita income of less than US$255. It is also not coincidental that physical
access in these departments, as measured by the percentage of households experiencing road closures and
the percentage of households without access to a motorable' road, is among the highest in the country
(See Table 2). These departments have predominantly indigenous populations, who were very severely
impacted by the 35 year long civil strife that riddled the country between 1960 and 1995 (The World
Bank, 2001).
Road network administration, size and condition. Jurisdictionally there are four types of roads in
Guatemala: main, secondary, departmental and rural. The DGC under the aegis of the MCIV is
responsible for constructing, rehabilitating and maintaining a large part of the 'classified road network'
(mainly main, secondary and departmental roads). The DGC also apportions funds between regional
offices for road works. Rural roads are maintained variously by municipalities, communities, finca
owners or others (Social Investment Fund or FIS, National Fund for Peace or FONAPAZ, etc.).'"
However these roads rarely receive central government financing for road maintenance activities. All
other roads, particularly the main road network, receive funding for their maintenance from COVIAL-the
national road fund, which was created in 1996. COVIAL is financed by a fuel surcharge of Q.1 per
gallon of fuel. Approximately US$70 million are collected from this surcharge per year.
Table 3: Guatemala's Road Size and Condition
Total (kms.)  Classified (kms.)
Total                            26,000           14,000
Main/Secondary/Departmental       7,000           4,000
Rural/Municipal                   19,000          10,000



Guatemala has a relatively small road network consisting of roughly 26,000 km. Of this amount, 14,000
km are 'classified' while the rest is still in the process of being classified." The classified road network
comprises nearly 4,000 km of main and secondary roads (mostly paved) and 10,000 km of departmental
and rural roads (unpaved). In the last 6 years considerable progress has been made in the rehabilitation
and maintenance of the paved road network, and today, 75% of this network is in good or fair condition
(maintainable condition). Less than half (45%) of the classified unpaved network (which includes
unpaved secondary, departmental and rural roads) is in maintainable condition. It is also relevant that
amongst the sub-sample of households and communities surveyed in 2000, 13% of the households used
primarily dust roads or paths and trails to reach places outside their community." Both these facts
underscore the need for two kinds of rural road works in Guatemala: (i) the rehabilitation and subsequent
regular maintenance of rural roads; and (ii) the improvement of tracks, paths and footbridges that are
used by residents of remote communities. The proposed RMRP addresses both these needs.
Rural roads constitute about 63% of the entire road system of the country, with a length of approximately
19,000 km. It is estimated that less than half of these roads are in maintainable condition and that because
of the general poor condition of the network, a large percentage of these roads become impassable during
the rainy season. The absence of all-weather roads leads to considerable losses, especially for the rural
poor, further compounding their condition.
A country-wide assessment of the need for road works shows that the absence of all-weather roads is
responsible to a large extent, for the absence of a reliable public transport system in this part of the
country. Poor road conditions lead to large repair and maintenance costs for transport operators,
increases poverty in these areas, and does not allow operators to transfer their costs to the consumers.
The absence of a dependable road network also implies that people have to travel more than an hour
(one-way) to procure wood. Most households in San Marcos and Huehuetenango are more than an hour
away from a marketplace, where they can buy and sell their products.
Once the ongoing and planned road rehabilitation and improvement projects financed by the Bank, the
IDB and other multilateral agencies are completed, it is believed that the entire paved and 55% of the
unpaved networks will be in good or fair condition provided adequate attention is given to maintenance
(See Box 3). This promises to spur economic growth in the region. Even assuming that there is no/very
little mobilization of new resources and migration of opportunities to this region, the reduction in
transportation costs will aid people in the region by securing easily available and cheap transport
infrastructure.
Multiple agency and unclear responsibilities in rural roads. As mentioned earlier, the rural roads
sub-sector, including the municipal roads, is characterized by a large number of financing and
implementing agencies. The outcome of the multiple agency involvement is an array of ad hoc, often
unsustainable interventions. This issue of multiple agency involvement in rural roads and its
consequences was discussed during the Rural Transport Workshop supported by the Bank and held in
Guatemala in May 2001. One of the conclusions of this discussion was that there is an urgent need to
define the role of each agency and to coordinate their interventions. A great deal has been achieved
through the ongoing Bank operation (Loan 4260-GU) but the issue will be addressed more in depth
during the development of the Rural Transport Strategy. The Rural Transport Strategy that will be
prepared under the ongoing loan will contribute to the development of a more coherent set-up for the
management and financing of rural roads which would also result in increased coordination among the
International Financing Institutions, other agencies and the main stakeholders involved in the sector.
- 12-



Box 3: State of Roads In Guatemala: Some Conclusions using ENCOVI 2000.
Access to roads. Access to quality (paved or unpaved) roads is limited with a non-poor, urban bias. In
2000, 13% of the households surveyed by the ENCOVI were dependent on either dirt roads or paths/trails
solely to reach the outside world. There is also a significant inverse correlation between access to
motorable roads and poverty. The percentage with no access is much higher in rural areas (15% of
ENCOVI households) than in urban areas (10%) and the poor are much more disadvantaged than the non-
poor. Lack of access to paved and all-weather roads, is most critical in the north (18% of ENCOVI
households) and the north-west (21 % of ENCOVI households).
Road quality. Road quality is a critical problem in Guatemala and frequently results in isolating large parts
of the country. Only 45% of classified unsurfaced road is in a maintainable condition. 28% of households
in the ENCOVI PSUs reported road closures and three-quarters of these reported road closures lasting more
than 4 days. Road closures are especially significant in the north (34%), south-west (48%) and the central
(32%) regions. Main causes for road closures are flooding and winter (36%), and landslides (28%). Since
the peace accords, although average road quality has improved, improvements have favored the urban and
non-poor populations. 53% of the households in urban ENCOVI sample perceived improvements in road
quality. Only 40% in rural ENCOVI sample saw the same. Only 28% and 22% of the households in the
north and the north-west respectively, perceived improvements. (the national average was 44%).
Public transport. Access to public transport is limited in Guatemala. Only 40% of the rural ENCOVI
households have access to public transport (versus 65% of the urban ENCOVI households). In 2000, 36%
of households in the north and the north-west, had access to public transport. Analysis indicates that the
lack of public transport is caused in part by lack of good quality roads which impose large costs on bus
operators, due to wear and tear. Poverty in the area prevents bus operators from passing these costs onto
their customers.
Possible impacts of improving road access. Physical isolation caused by poor road condition particularly
during the rainy season is correlated with lack of access to essential services. Poor roads in Guatemala has
led to lack of access to health services and markets in rural areas and in the northern, north-western and
south-eastern regions. Geographic isolation has also constrained access to non-farm opportunities. Road
closures also cause large economic losses and seem to most impact employment and access to markets.
Poor public transportation, especially non-motorized transport, also causes immense hardships for the
poor, especially women, who often have to travel more than one hour to fetch necessities like wood.
Policy implications. First: a shift in focus towards rural roads is essential to increase access to basic
services for the poor. Second: while decisions on future transport investments (improvements,
rehabilitation and construction) must take into account economic calculations such as population density
and economic returns, equity concerns must be given more weight now than in the past.
Source Results are based largely on the analysis of the ENCOVI 2000, jointly sponsored by the GUAPA Program and LCSFT
Details are provided in the green cover of the Guatemala Poverty Assessment (GUAPA, February 2002), and the background paper
accompanying the GUAPA.
A road allowing the passage of vehicles with any kind of 'surface'. It may be paved or unpaved.
Finca owners play a specially significant role where present. An interesting anecdote is related by local experts. A
recently constructed road which connects Guatemala to Honduras was commissioned at the beginning of 1995.
However a short stretch of this road went through a banana plantation and the plantation owner would charge most
freight vehicles a tariff for road use. This issue has since been resolved.
One of the byproducts of the SMRRPP was the classification of roads.
As part of ENCOVI 2000, 481 Primary Sampling Units (PSUs) were sampled, covering a total of 4,844
households, more than two-thirds of which were rural, and 57% of which were poor.
- 13 -



3. Sector issues to be addressed 'y ie pro:rect 2zrw1 sCrategic c1hu-ces:
The 1996 Peace Accords established the overall developmental agenda for the GoG that emphasizes
stronger social orientation and broader citizen participation in development and enhanced
decentralization of development projects.
o   Strengthening the framevework for  c     iznftin and Lae capacity to administer and
maintain rurai roads: The GoG intends to push its decentralization agenda focusing on the
development of the capacity of municipalities (See Box 4). The project would contribute to the
effort by providing a new institutional framework to deal with rural road management, and would
assist the GoG in implementing the recommendations of the Rural Transport Strategy. By
incorporating technical and fiscal capability within the general framework, the project would
help to empower local communities in undertaking road maintenance and rehabilitation. Other
than the associations, micro-enterprises set up under a pilot in the SMRRPP area, would
incorporate local communities and their development objectives into road maintenance activities.
Box' 4: Governm e it of Guatemala's Decorafization Policy
The GoG's strategy to improve service de'ivery and empower communities relies on decentralization as an
objective and a mechanism for implemeptation. In March and April of 2002, the Congress of Guatemala
approved one new law and two law amendments that together define the new institutional framework for
decentralization.  Under the approved legislation, power and financial resources will be devolved to
municipalities and/or legally organized communities. This is a gradual process that is expected to be
accomplished within two years.
The principles of decentralization and the strategy to accomplish its objectives are contained in the new
Decentralization Law (Ley General de DecentralLzaci6n - Decreto No 14-202). The Law encourages
community participation in the decision making process and social auditing of programs and projects. The two
amendments that complement the institutional frameworlc cover the following two legislations: (i) Regional and
Local Councils (Ley de los Consejos de Desarrollo Urbano y Rural - Decreto No 11-2002); and (ii) Municipal
Code (C6digo Municipal - Decreto No 12-21002).
O   Improving Agency CruzrtjiLno: The project would finance technical assistance to aid
coordination arrangements to be defined by the Rural Transport Strategy. INFOM, as the
overarching liaising agency, and under the direction of the sectoral ministry (MCIV), would
communicate and coordinate amongst different organizations involved in the rehabilitation,
maintenance and improvement of rural roads and would also draw on its extensive experience to
train local governments and communities to enhance their capacity and effectively manage them.
o   Improving rural access anrd mn oklllty nainl reducing tnnsport costs: The project would
improve road access within municipalities included in the project through the rehabilitation of
secondary and departmental roads that connect the network of the associations to the national
road network and through the rehabilitation of the core network within the associations. In
addition, the project would finance a spot impprovement program in those roads outside the core
network in order to improve passabiiity during the rainy season. The project would also include a
pilot project, in the San Marcos area, aimed at the improvement of tracks, paths and footbridges
which are vital for many communities in the region. Rehabilitation, maintenance and
improvement works would thus guarantee all-year passability and would also encourage the
provision of public and private transport services. Et is expected that both these factors would
increase the mobility of the rural population and reduce transport costs and travel times.
Improving maintenance management and funding: The project would continue support being
- 14-



provided under the ongoing Loan for the establishment of regional road funds (FVRs) at the
association level, and for the strengthening of the national road fund (COVIAL). In addition, the
project would finance a pilot project for the introduction of the concept of micro-enterprises for
the execution of routine maintenance activities of rural roads within ADIMAM; and
*    Creating employment in poor rural areas: Temporary and permanent employment would be
generated by the road rehabilitation works, by the implementation of a pilot project to promote
labor-based technology for road rehabilitation works, and via road maintenance
rnicro-enterprises. Furthermore, the strengthening of local contractors would, in the long run,
create employment opportunities.
Box 5: Changes in Perceptions due to Improvement in Roads and Transport Services,
in the SMRRPP Area
This box presents some reactions of inhabitants in the SMRRPP area, and were recorded during the impact assessment,
just a year after project implementation (See Annex II for more detailed information of the impacts of the San Marcos
Project).
1.    An overnding relief marking the end of marginalization due to the availability of better roads:
" ..now everything has to be agreed to, by us"
"...earlier we had to travel on foot, or on beast. Therefore we were not seen We could not do a great deal. Now they've
fixed it So they can enter our area and cars have followed" Rafael Puac, Ixmoco Coritancillo.
4     Other benefits from better roads in San Marcos.
"...we can sell better our small (sic) things"
with the road ready they connected us to the water"
now we have light"
"... Before we carned the products ourselves, to the fair in the town, usually on beast and the ones that did not have
beasts, had to do so themselves. Now pick-ups can enter the community and it can carry the load and us there. It is
quicker and we can carry more crop and sell more and when the fair finishes the car us comes to leave". Gabnel Sipac,
Sipacapa.
". and our children had to come out with the large jars to the nver. That would take an hour on average, to the
community just so that there would be water in the house. But now because they composed the road, there is potable
water" Inhabitant, Sochel Conception Tutuapa.
"...earlier we had to walk and carry the com and the apples. Now small trucks and pick-ups pass, every 45 minutes and
charge Ql(0.00 The small trucks pass more frequently but collect Q5 00". Inhabitant, San Miguel lxtahuacdn.
"...earlier we moved patients in a stretcher or on a chair and sometime they went themselves. Now we just take them to
the road and they go in a small truck to San Marcos" Inhabitant, Cerezos San Jose Ojetenam.
Source BIONERG, Guatemala
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
The project comprises four components, which are described in greater detail in the subsequent
paragraphs:
1. Rural Roads Program (PRA: INFOM). This component would finance the rehabilitation
of about 830 km of rural roads in both Huehuetenango associations to restore year-round
transit and meet the specific transport needs of the local communities. This component
would also support the development and implementation of the following pilot projects: (i)
- 15-



road maintenance pilot; (ii) trails paths and footbridges pilot; and (iii) labor intensive road
rehabilitation works.
2. Main, Secondary/Departmental Roads Program      (PRA: DGC). This component
comprises four sub-components: (i) reconstruction of main roads; (ii) upgrading of unpaved
secondary and departmental roads; (iii) rehabilitation of unpaved departmental roads; and
(iv) road maintenance.
3. Support for Decentralized Rural Road Development (PRA: IINFOM). Under this
component, RMRP will support the extension of sustainable arrangements and financing of
local roads in rural areas developed under the SMRRPP to other Departments. To reach the
scale of a cost-effective road network, the municipalities have formed the HUISTA and
MAMSOHUE associations to manage their respective municipal road networks. Each
association would create a Road Technical Assistance Unit (UTAV) staffed according their
specific needs. In addition, planning, programming and management of rural roads
maintenance and rehabilitation of the municipal associations would be contracted out with
the private sector. To support these activities, this component would finance following
activities: (i) Project Coordination and Equipment; (ii) Municipal Capacity Strengthening;
(iii) TAs for project implementation; and (iv) Works Supervision.
4. Support for Main/Departmental Roads (PRA: DGC). This component would finance
operational costs and equipment for the Project Coordination Unit, COFINEX, during the
project implementation period, as well as engineering studies and final designs, and works
supervision.
The costs for each component are summarized in the following table:
-                     > -  v  o           < *sta Jw  .5 w>  l - Undieoyftive  . K t - I'EsX  flni6f n
-  ->                                   t      > 5 l . -  >   t  & >>5 ' >  c  l(USZ;MW)  Teoil  pUSffl)  II fnancing
A.l. Rural Roads Program (INFOM)                     20.30       31.9     14.62      31.3
A.2. Main, Secondary/Departmental Roads Program      24.45       38.4     17.35      37.2
(DGC)
B. 1. Support for Decentralized Rural Road Development  4.96      7.8      4.00       8.6
(INFOM)
B.2. Support for Main, Secondary/Departmental Roads   6.25        9.8      5.00      10.7
(DGC)
-   Physical Contingencies of Work                    4.50        7.1      3.22       6.9
-   Price Contingencies                               2.79       4.4       2.04       4.4
Total Project Costs  63.25     99.3     46.23       99.0
Front-end fee    0.47       0.7      0.47        1.0
Total Financing Required   63.72      100.0     46.70     100.0
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
Transport Sector Policies:
o   Supporting GoG's effort to decentralize local development and specifically focus efforts on
transportation;
- 16-



o   Creating sustainable funding for road maintenance at the local level through the development
of regional road funds (FVRs) and consolidating it at the national level through COVIAL;
o   Strengthening the framework for rural roads maintenance management through the creation
of community-based micro-enterprises to undertake routine road maintenance activities;
o   Strengthening private sector participation in rural roads by contracting rehabilitation works
to small and medium-sized regional firms; and
o   Creating/strengthening local technical capabilities.
Social Development Policies
o   Empowering rural communities to define their development priorities (strong focus on
municipal participatory planning);
o   Strengthening the managerial and technical skills of the associations;
o   Increasing employment opportunities in rural areas by outsourcing maintenance activities to
community-based micro-enterprises;
o   Increasing flexibility and transparency in the screening/approval/targeting of interventions;
and
o   Involving communities in the decision-making process and as 'supervisors/auditors' of the
program. This would be an important step in creating 'accountability.'
3. Benefits and target population:
The impact of improved access on poverty reduction is the subject of a study completed in 2002. This
work was coordinated with the Department of Human Development (LCSHD) and the main data source
for the study was the Living Standard Measurement Survey (LSMS/ENCOVI) conducted in Guatemala
in the year 2000 which contains an extensive module on transport. A description of an indigenous village
in the north of Guatemala, also richly brings out the 'isolation' experienced by its members and helps to
put the RMRP in context (See Box 6).
Relevance for other departments: The SMRRPP is specially relevant for the other departments located
in the "poverty belt" (Huehuetenango, Quiche, Alta Verapaz and Baja Verapaz) and in other regions of
the country where poverty is high. The average percentage of households in these departments which do
not have access to a motorable road throughout the year, for the ENCOVI households, is significantly
higher than the rest of the country (See Table 1). In Huehuetenango and Alta Verapaz especially, more
than one-fifth of households surveyed did not have access to a motorable road. Huehuetenango and Alta
Verapaz are also extremely disadvantaged with respect to access to public transport. Issues of road
quality also deserve considerable aid especially in Huehuetenango and Alta Verapaz, where 38% of
surveyed ENCOVI households experienced road closures during the year 2000. These four departments
are also extremely underprivileged with respect to physical access to public services. As mentioned
above, the proposed operation will build on the gains achieved through the implementation of the
SMRRPP and through the development of the national rural transport strategy.
Being a follow-on project, the expected benefits from the RMRP are those included in the SMRRPP plus
the ones resulting from the implementation of the new pilot projects (micro-enterprises, labor-based
rehabilitation, and tracks, paths and footbridges). The benefits are: (i) long term improvements in the
way rural roads are administered in Guatemala; (ii) better access to health, education and other public
- 17 -



services for the predominantly poor population of Guatemala; (iii) improved access to markets and inputs
for agricultural producers and the consequent stimulation of economic activity and incomes; (iv) reduced
travel time and transport costs; (v) increased employment both from the transport induced economic
activity as well as from the direct and indirect employment effects of the increased road construction and
maintenance works; and (vi) creation of an entrepreneur culture in the region by means of the
micro-enterprises program.
The target population is: (i) the country as a whole, which benefits from a better administered rural roads
network; and (ii) the rural poor, who currently lack adequate access to public services and markets.
Box 6: A Mam Village in the Region
(This box contains a description of a village in the North of Guatemala and is presented to provide a flavor of the trials and tnbulations of
some of the indigenous communities of the region. Since the descnption is pieced togetherfrom a QPES survey, the identity of the community
cannot be revealed. Hence through the text, it will be referred to as "community" or "village")
This commuruty is almost completely poor and is far away from either an urban center or a municipal head although they have access to an earth
road. Members of the community revealed that a lot of them had seen violence in the past. This has resulted in a large amount of distrust in the
community against outsiders (community members were however convinced to participate in the survey after they were told their identities
would not be revealed and after they discovered that the interviews were being conducted in their own language). There are 277 dwellings in the
community, with each household containing approximately 8 to 12 people 22 men participated in the 'community' part of the survey. For
individual case studies, 13 men and 4 women participated.
Infrastructurally Deprived: Although most people in the community have access to forests for firewood and the river for water, one of the main
complaints of the community is the lack of potable water and electricity. Electricity is only available for 80 dwelhngs. Potable clean water is only
available for 35 households There are also very few latrines, only one telephone and one primary school that offers classes from grades one to
six. Some parents in the community want their children to study more, but that they say 'Is impossible". This is because, to even study at the
basic level "a child has to go to another community which is 2 to 3 hours on foot from this community". The main form of access to the outside
world is via a dirt road that helps the village members to communicate with other communities and with the municipalty. The main means of
transportation is either a truck, a pick-up or walking. Lack of good access especially affects access to health facilities. Most averred that they "do
not carry sick people to the hospital, because its very far away", located in the head of the municipality, and the type of road and means of
transportation do not allow this to be done all the time. Sick people are only taken in case of emergency
People of the community know that FIS and FONAPAZ helped to build the earth road, but they do not know much about these institutions
because these are located in the municipality head which is far away.
At High Risk and Vulnerable- Community members were asked about their perceptions of risk and vulnerability. They hsted two sources of
risk. The first, categonzed as "moderate" risk by the respondents was that of earthquake. The community suffered an earthquake in 1996. This
was classified as a "moderate" risk even though " .at present the community has no strategy to avoid it" because they believe that ". God
permits it and wants it (to happen)"
The other source of "severe" nsk are the rains from July to September. This affects the entire community because, "roads become impenetrable
and the village remain in isolation" which affects the productive and routine lives of the peoples Members of the community remarked that
dunng the rainy season, the community is affected because the "roads made of mud are ruined and cave-in". So products that are bought in the
market can no longer be transponed to the community and they have to use beasts for more than 2 kms. Most of these products are for daily use
such as sugar, salt, rice, noodles, lme and fertilizers. Similarly, to transpon their products to the market, mainly apples and peaches, takes much
more effon in the ratny season. To mitigate the impacts of these rains, the community has developed two strategies. The first is to transpon
products to a place from where they may be able to use motonzed means of transport. This process is labor intensive and involves all the men,
women and children of the village. The second consists of repainng damages to the roads: "The entire community works, without the aid of
machinery/tractors or anything else, to repair the road with ploughs" Most communty members reiterated that they did not receive any outside
suppon to repair and to maintain the (din) road. The road became accessible only in 1996 Similar to eanhquakes, the villagers perceived this
hardship as 'God given". They did not think that there were any methods for alleviating the impact of rains even though the impact is
predictable.
Lack of Opportunity. The main occupation of the villagers is agnculture. Most grow com, bean, papaya and fruits hke peaches and apples
Some familhes also raise sheep, but these herds are very small (15 to 20 in number) because, the villagers emphasize, most do not have access to
pastures. Usually all the people have some land that belongs to them. However not all land is equally fertile and some plots of land are
completely barren, and do not produce anything. Community members averred that the high cost of production and low productivity compelled
people to rent out their lands or migrate in search of temporary jobs, mainly related to coffee. Villagers said that amongst the reasons for low
productivity were. the low fertility of land which needs a lot of work and fertilizers, lack of water to irrigate it, lack of technical know-how to till
the land and the long distances between the village and the city where the product may be sold. Apparently, the (farm-gate) price they get for the
crops that they produce is too little to justify production ("Lack of markets to sell products") Some villagers also professed that there is "a lack
of interest" to improve one's condition "People lack the fight to improve their lives" .
Source. Extracts taken from the QPES survey, Guatemala, 2000
- 18 -



4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Project set-up. The proposed program will be implemented over 4 years and will extend the framework
of the successful arrangement made in the ongoing Pilot Project. Program implementation will be closely
jointly coordinated by the Project Coordination Units (PCUs) established at DGC (COFINEX-
Coordinadora Financiamiento Externo) and INFOM (UCBM-Unidad Coordinadora Banco Mundial).
COFINEX is the Project Coordination Unit and was established in the General Roads Directorate (DGC)
of MCIV by Ministerial decree and is part of the permanent administrative structure of the DGC
(COFINEX reports to the Planning Division of the DGC). It directly assists the Planning Division in
matters related to the preparation of multiyear investment programs and in coordinating projects financed
by the Bank and other multilateral and bilateral agencies. It is also coordinating activities of the ongoing
Bank Loan (L4260-GU). Under the RMRP, the same PCU arrangement will be used: COFINEX will be
responsible for the project components addressing road rehabilitation and improvement under DGC's
responsibility, and for consultant services during the implementation of the RMRP.
The other coordinating agency for this project will be INFOM (trough its coordinating unit, UCBM).
INFOM will be responsible for implementing the rural roads components, which include related technical
assistance and consultant services. INFOM's experience in coordinating national and local development
efforts and its participation in the implementation of the SMRRPP renders it the ideal agency to
coordinate this portion of the project. However, additional qualified staff will have to be added to the
current coordination unit to enable it to manage the much larger project.
In a way similar to the SMRRPP, each association will contract out planning, programming and
management of municipal roads within their boundaries to consultants, who will become the
association's permanent technical service unit (UTAV). The UTAVs will also prepare, let and manage
contracts on behalf of the members of the associations and will report to the associations. Technical
assistance will be financed under the project to strengthen the associations. Technical assistance will also
be provided to the UTAVs to ensure the establishment of adequate systems and procedures. Also,
technical assistance will be provided to INFOM in order to strengthen its capacity to support local level
development efforts.
Financial Management. Section E4.4 and Annex 6(B) detail the financial management, audit, and
disbursement arrangements.
Procurement Arrangements. The Procurement Capacity Assessment (PCA) was carried out in January
2003 (and approved by the office of the RPA on January 14, 2003) and the overall risk assessment was
rated as average. Positive factors include the significant level of experience accumulated by MCIV
during implementation of several Bank projects and the fair performance of INFOM with the rural pilot
project. Overall, project procurement has managed fairly well under the previous project (Ln. 4260-GU)
and no major issues have emerged from internal or external audits. MCIV and INFOM are subject to the
Government procurement policies and regulations under the Procurement Law (Ley de Contrataciones
del Estado Decreto 57-92) and Regulatory Decree 1056-92.
Institutional and administrative capacity, support and control mechanisms, procurement manuals, record
keeping activities within COFINEX and UCBM were found to be satisfactory. Both entities are also
adequately staffed with experienced personnel and are receiving technical assistance and training to meet
their expanded responsibilities under the proposed project. The PCUs have delineated a procurement
strategy that identifies a package of works, goods, and consulting services and are committed to
developing a detailed timetable for each contract, following a defined forecast sequence. The bidding
-19-



process within COFINEX involves the nomination of bidding/award commissions, technical review,
legal review, approval by Procuraduria, a ministerial resolution for the award, a period of appeals, a
ministerial decree, and contract signature. INFOM requires fewer steps and after award recommendation
and no objection, the manager signs the contracts after Board of Director approval. A recent amendment
to the Municipal Code will increase the threshold for signing contracts without Board authorization from
US$18,000 to US$140,000. On technical matters, INFOM is assisted by MCIV in accordance with an
inter-institutional arrangement. A regional road fund office manages the transfer of funds to the
municipal associations and contractors.
The proposed project will continue to use standard bidding documents and largely retain prevailing
procurement method thresholds and prior review arrangements used under the previous operation, albeit
with some modifications. Small-scale works carried out under the new projects would require the use of
the NCB method to package small works, instead of ICB. In addition, price comparison methods for
small works will be based on at least five quotations, instead of the present practice of three quotations.
NCB procedures should exclude the use of a bracketing system for award as well as allow the
participation of foreign bidders. The Borrower should present NCB documents acceptable to the Bank
and confirm the use of the Bank's standard bidding documents for ICB works and for the selection for
consultant services.
A preliminary procurement action plan has been prepared and reviewed by the Bank. The action plan has
delineated the following: (i) MCIV and JINFOM will both annually prepare detailed procurement plans
that prioritizes ongoing activities, including contracts pending under 4260-GU; (ii) the PCUs of both
executing agencies will support the preparation of model bidding documents for works tendered using
ICB, which will be closely aligned with existing documents; (iii) the executing agencies will prepare
model bidding documents for goods and works using NCB and INFOM will prepare commensurate
documents for works using price quotations; (iv) technical assistance will be provided to strengthen
existing institutions, to improve procurement procedures, to periodically update procurement action plan,
and provide training to the PCU staff and representatives from the municipal associations; (v) update the
procurement manual for the new municipal associations in Huehuetenango; and (vi) improve
inter-institutional coordination between DGC and INFOM.
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
The proposed loan has incorporated the lessons learned from the pilot project in the San Marcos region,
whose successes have been discussed in greater detail in previous sections. Nevertheless, the following
alternatives, related to project scope, institutional set-up, and Bank support were considered and rejected.
Project Scope Options: Main or Rural Roads? Improving the entire road network would imply carrying
out road works along the primary road network in addition to rural roads. However, this may result in
placing greater weight on improvements along main road to ensure that the intended benefits have a
wider impact. This approach was used in the Main and Rural Roads Project (4260-GU). However,
discussions with sector agencies as well as a detailed evaluation of existing conditions along the primary
road network led to the conclusion that main roads are currently in good condition and are expected to
remain in good condition over the next few years. This assessment led to the rejection of this alternative.
At the other extreme, another possibility was to develop a sector intervention that focused almost entirely
on rural roads. Although this approach has a number of merits, it limits the extent of connections between
- 20 -



rural roads and the primary road network, which in turn limits access to regional economic and
population centers. Based on consultations and interviews with stakeholders there was clear preference
for improvements to rural and secondary roads in order to improve access to markets, employment
opportunities, and social services. Thus, an intervention that focuses on improving and maintaining rural
and secondary/departmental roads would provide the most access to the primary road network and
maximize the benefits achieved of the project. Nevertheless, it should be noted that in this particular case
(department of Huehuetenango) a portion of a main road was also included, because of its importance for
the regional network (CA-I).
Institutional Set-Up Options: One or Two Executing Agencies?l Defining an appropriate institutional
framework is one of the critical aspects for structuring an operation of this nature. Therefore, it is
necessary to define the role and responsibilities of the executing agency, so that its activities are
consistent with the project objectives and support the satisfactory implementation of project components.
In Guatemala, the only agency with jurisdiction over both the primary and rural network is DGC, which
directly reports to MCIV. Based on this purview, a logical approach would be to centralize project
implementation under DGC. However, this approach runs counter to DGC's institutional mandate of
maintaining the primary road network in good condition in order to support economic growth in
Guatemala. As a result, it is likely that DGC would unintentionally place less emphasis on road
improvements along rural and secondary roads compared to works along the primary road network,
which could potentially slow project implementation and limit the achievement of the project objectives.
To ensure the satisfactory implementation of project works along rural roads, it was necessary to assign
the management and supervision of these activities to INFOM.
The naming of INFOM as co-executing agency has the additional benefit of creating a mechanism for
supporting the institutional development of municipal governments in the provision of a number of
infrastructure services in rural areas, not Just in roads. The participation of INFOM would allow for the
development of an integrated framework for rural development, which would support poverty alleviation
on a wider level. A more holistic approach can offer greater potential for improving coordination as well
as achieving economies of scale and cost savings across sectors. In this manner, the project would
support the strengthening of INFOM to help it become the primary focal point for rural development.
Furthermore, INFOM has demonstrated strong results in the implementation of roads works along rural
roads under the existing Bank operation. Based on these factors, it was determined that it would be
optimal to have two implementing agencies: INFOM for rural roads and DGC for the primary road
network. To ensure adequate institutional coordination, DGC would continue to manage and oversee
project implementation at a general level.
Institutional Set-Up: Associations of Municipalities vs. Single Municipalities?: One of the strategic
approaches considered was to have INFOM interact directly with each of the municipalities that are
participating in the project. Notwithstanding, this approach would have the following drawbacks: (i) it
would generate few or no economies of scale; and (ii) it would preclude the development of a "core"
road network, since it would be more difficult to target investments to allow for greater connectivity
within an integrated framework. Moreover, a municipal association, such as ADIMAM, would increase
the leverage of individual municipalities, improve project coordination, facilitate the replication of
successful methods developed in one municipality, and generate lessons learned across a wider area.
Finally, municipal associations have served as an important mechanism for increasing the level of
interaction between a diverse range of municipalities, improving social cohesion, and working toward
common regional objectives.
-21 -



2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
_ ,I , r%i ? ' X-                                 at;-zAestSutperivsoni:,
--, ,jlScEoawe!..Proiefn ,aone        y)
Implementation  Development
Bank-financed                                                  Progress (IP)  Objective (DO)
Road Rehabilitation               Road Rehabilitation Rural and    S            S
Main Roads Project
(L4260-GU; US$66.7M). 1998
Community Development            Reconstruction and Community      S            S
Development Project (L4379;
US$30M). 1999
Private Sector                   Private Participation in          U             S
Infrastructure TA (L4 149;
US$13M). 1997
Land Administration               Land Administration Project      S             S
(L4415; US$31M). 1999
Land Fund                        Land Fund Project (L4432;         S             S
US$23M). 1999
Social Fund                      FIS II (L4407; US$50M). 1999      S             S
Other development agencies
Road Rehabilitation              IDB - Road Rehabilitation and
Modernization PRogram
(US$150M). 2000-2005
Emergency Works                  IDB - Natural Disasters
Emergency Program
(US$40M). 1999-2002
Road Rehabilitation              CABEI - Main Roads
Rehabilitation Program
(US$100M). 1999-2001
Road Improvements                JBIC - Rural and Main Roads
Project (co-financing of Bank
Loan 4260-GU)(US$49.8).
1999-2004
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
- 22 -



3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
Bank worldwide experience with rural roads development and maintenance has shown that the principal
problems in achieving sustainable results have been:
*   Institutional weakness, especially at sub-national levels of government;
*   Inadequate funding coupled with unreliable and untimely budgetary releases;
*   Excessive delays in the execution of works;
*   Lack of a firm national framework or strategy for rural roads, resulting in dispersed efforts,
piecemeal interventions and insufficient attention to institutional and financial reform;
*   Low priority to road maintenance needs;
*   Inadequate monitoring and evaluation of results; and
*   Inadequate community participation and consequently a lack of accountability.
During project implementation it is very important that the following elements be carefully monitored to
ensure that project objectives are met:
*   Ownership of the project at all levels must be ensured very early in the process so that,
among other things, the necessary decisions are taken in a timely way. That is why project
preparation has ensured that community members and local leaders are always kept informed
and involved in the project;
*   Capacity building takes a long time and requires a substantial commitment of Bank staff time
and supervision resources. This has been the case for the ongoing Rural and Main Roads
Project which includes only one association. Much more will be required for the new
operation;
*   In addition to requiring intensive supervision, the new project will require a lot of flexibility
to adapt the project to local conditions. It is anticipated that different associations may
require different approaches; and
*   The provision of operating support to both PCUs is critical to establishing managerial and
technical capacity. For this suport being effective, it is important to seek for staff continuity
in both PCUs.
To the extent possible, these elements will be built into the project design. Given the experience the
project team has had with the implementation of the on-going project, no major difficulties are
anticipated for those elements over which the team can exercise some control.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
Rural development constitutes a major part of the Government's strategy for raising the standard of
living of the rural poor, and rural decentralization and empowerment of rural communities is central to
this strategy. This is in agreement with the Peace Accords signed in 1996. The SMRRPP echoes this
sentiment and has strong backing from the highest levels of Government. It has also generated strong
interest in other municipalities of the country.
Furthermore, decentralization fostered by the SMRRPP has received extensive support from the GoG
(the President, the Vice- President and the Social Cabinet) and is viewed as a model means to deal with
- 23-



local infrastructure needs and initiatives. Having recognized its success in empowering and building
social cohesion and participation, the GoG is using it as a prototype to design a Rural Transport Strategy
for the entire country. In this context it is also encouraging to note that Chapter Im of the recently
amended Municipal Code (Codigo Municipal), which regulates associations of municipalities, is inspired
by the success of the SMRRPP.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
The Bank has supported the development of the Guatemala road sector for a number of years and has
maintained an important policy dialogue on the development and maintenance of the sector. The Bank
was instrumental in focusing DGC's attention on the advantages of contracting out maintenance and of
increasing maintenance funding on a sustainable basis. Bank involvement led to the outsourcing of road
maintenance and to the establishment of the national road fund, COVIAL. Today, 100% of the
maintenance of the main road network (4,000 km) and 40% of the unpaved network is contracted to the
private sector and the road fund collects enough resources to maintain the main road network under
DGC's responsibility.
The Bank is well placed to assist the Govemment in replicating the SMRRPP which is considered "best
practice". In addition, Bank involvement is bringing several other best practice approaches to the design
and implementation of rural roads projects including the experience obtained in the Second Rural Roads
Project in Peru which received an Excellence Award from the Bank.
The Bank is in a unique strategic position to strengthen GoG's efforts to decentralize rural development
and to design and implement sustainable funding arrangements or mechanisms for maintaining the
rehabilitated road network.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
O Cost benefit    NPV=US$ million; ERR = % (see Annex 4)
0 Cost effectiveness
O Other (specify)
The project will finance the rehabilitation and maintenance requirements of three classes of roads: (i)
main; (ii) secondary/departmental; and (iii) rural, which include municipal and community roads. The
main, secondary roads and some of the departmental roads included in the first year of project
implementation were subjected to cost-benefit analysis. The economic justification for these roads was
carried out using the HDM model and was based primarily on the quantified benefits that can be
attributed to the road improvements, in particular, savings in vehicle operating costs. For the remaining
roads, with low to very low traffic volumes (less than 40 vehicles per day), traditional economic
calculations do not apply and for that reason multi-criteria procedures were applied. This had a strong
element of consultation and the views of local conmmunity members were taken into consideration. The
concept of the core network was also incorporated into this analysis.
For low traffic volume roads, following the model of the SMRRPP, associations and communities were
(and will be in the new associations) consulted to determine road segments most in need of rehabilitation.
This is an important 'community participation' feature of the project. The first priority within the
RMRP, is to rehabilitate the roads belonging to the core network to all-weather standard. This will be
complemented with spot improvements on some rural roads outside the core network to ensure
-24-



year-round passability. The order of road rehabilitation was determined by a matrix of criteria or the
Road Selection Index - ISV (Indice de Selecci6n Vial), summarized in Annex 4.
2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR = % (see Annex 4)
At the Central Government Level: As indicated in Section C.4 above, both COFNEX and UCBM meet
the minimum financial management and accounting Bank requirements. They are capable of recording
correctly all financial transactions, they support the preparation of timely and reliable financial
statements, safeguard the entity's assets and are subject to auditing arrangements acceptable to the Bank.
However, the preliminary assessment performed by the team indicates that UCBM needs to strengthen its
human resources in the financial management area to be able to cope with the additional workload to be
added by this project. Also, both COFINEX and UCBM will need to upgrade their informatics systems to
enhance the preparation of financial information in a timely manner.
At the Municipal Government and Local Level: In order to adequately assess the financial capacity of the
Huhuetenango municipal Associations (MAMSOHUE and HUISTA), it was necessary to analyze their
most recent executed budgetary data. The 2000 results show that the majority of the 21 municipalities
will not have difficulty absorbing the expected costs of rehabilitation and maintenance of the road
network. For those municipalities with budgetary deficits, their problems can, in most cases, be explained
by exogenous factors. However, in some cases the budgetary deficits are due to internal financial
management deficiencies. These deficiencies should be corrected with the adoption of adjustment
programs under the guidance of INFOM. Despite this situation, there is a strong commitment on behalf
of all the municipalities to provide the cofinancing required by the project.
In order to determine the optimal size of road network, it is essential to determine the Associations'
aggregate financial commitments resulting from the rehabilitation and maintenance of the roads. The
larger the number of kilometers rehabilitated, the greater the financial commitment for maintenance. The
21 Huehuetenango municipalities are expected to finance 25 percent of the cost of rehabilitating the road
network, which is higher than the 15 percent that ADIMAM members were required to pay in the pilot
project. This higher co-financing percentage is justified by the superior financial position of the
municipalities in Huehuetenango. Additionally, as is the case with the ADIMAM, all 21 municipalities
are expected to make a fixed yearly contribution of about 75,000 Quetzales. This contribution will be
used to finance the technical road unit (UTAV) and the regional road fund (FVR).
Furthermore, the size of the road network was also determined by the amount of resources available for
rehabilitation and maintenance. To measure the resources of the Associations, the analysis considered a
base case scenario based on the following assumptions: (i) municipalities will allocate 50 percent of their
annual transport budget for rehabilitation and maintenance; and (ii) municipalities will additionally
allocate 15 percent of the overall fiscal balance to road works.
Given the cost and resource assumptions described above, MAMSOHUE could afford to rehabilitate a
cumulative total of 450 kilometers over a four year period. By the same measure, the HUISTA could
afford to rehabilitate a cumulative total of 486 kilometers. In summary, comparing the estimated future
obligations with the results of the indicators of financial fiscal capacity suggests that the two
Huehuetenango Associations (MAMSOHUJE and HUISTA) will be able to meet the financial
requirements of the project.
Fiscal Impact:
For the municipalities in MAMSOHUE Association, only 2 out of 13 municipalities ended the year with
- 25 -



fiscal deficits (La Libertad and San Juan Atitan in 2000). Similar results were obtained in the HUISTA
association with only I out of 8 municipalities registering a deficit in 2000. The size of the general
surplus in both municipal associations increased from 1999 to 2000, demonstrating a positive trend
(Annex 15). Due to the respective strength of their fiscal position, the majority of the participating
municipalities should be able to absorb the rehabilitation and maintenance expenses incurred under the
project. Under the proposed operation, the Bank would finance 75 percent of project expenditures, while
the municipal associations would finance the remaining 25 percent. The higher level of project
cofinancing is justified due to the healthier fiscal position of the Huehuetenango municipalities compared
to the AD1MAM municipalities. As with ADIMAM, all 21 municipalities in Huehuetenango are expected
to make annual contributions of about 75,000 Quetzales.
This assessment is based on the following assumptions: (i) municipalities are expected to allocate 50
percent of their respective annual transport budget for project related activities, an amount that translates
to roughly 30 percent of their total investment budget; and (ii) municipalities are expected to increase the
amount expended annually on road rehabilitation and maintenance activities by 15 percent. Nevertheless,
the relatively weaker fiscal position of the MAMSOHUE municipalities will necessitate closer
monitoring.
3. Technical:
The technical approach proposed for rural roads is that the proposed works should provide adequate
year-round accessibility using least-cost standards and simple technical norms. The way to do this is
through rehabilitation of a core network plus spot improvement so that benefits from total available
resources are maximized. The RMRP will also pilot the integration of labor-intensive methods for rural
road rehabilitation works, which, if successful, could be used in the work packages to be carried out in
the latter stages of project implementation. Integrating labor-intensive technology for rural roads works
would promote small contractors and generate employment thus contributing to alleviating poverty. The
proposed intervention pose no technical issues.
The planned rehabilitation/improvement of main, secondary and departmental roads is not technically
difficult. However, the design process will be closely monitored in order to avoid design deficiencies.
The procedures applied under Loan 4260-GU for the selection of contractors and consultants will be used
in the RMRP. Also, the familiarity of both DGC and INFOM with the use of Bank Standard Bidding
Documents will facilitate the procurement process.
4. Institutional:
The RMRP is far-reaching in its ability to develop capacity for the effective provision of transportation
infrastructure and promoting equitable and locally sensitive development. It is commensurate with the
GoG's decentralization and poverty alleviation agenda. INFOM and the municipal associations are
ideally positioned to ensure the involvement of communities and local governments, and to identify and
undertake road rehabilitation and maintenance activities. At the same time, the presence of INFOM
ensures that the central government will continue to be involved in the project thus guaranteeing uniform
standards and its interest in seeing the project to completion.
4.1 Executing agencies:
INFOM is a self-supporting agency, with experience as a financial intermediary and executor of
multilateral agency-financed projects. Under Loan 4260-GU, INFOM, in coordination with the MCIV
and DGC, has assumed the lead role in the development of a national rural roads and transport strategy. It
will also serve as the conduit of funds and will be responsible for the overall coordination of the
SMRRPP, role which will continue under the proposed new loan. Technical assistance provided under
- 26 -



Loan 4260-GU to strengthen the capacity of the PCU of 1NFOM (UCBM) will continue under the new
loan. in order to ensure that the expanded size of the project can be adequately handled. The project will
also include funds to strengthen areas of INFOM specifically responsible for municipal development.
The capacity of the DGC to manage and rehabilitate the country's main and secondary road networks has
improved considerably during the last few years following the modernization program implemented by
the. Bank and the IDB. As a result of this, DGC's capacity to plan, program, and supervise road
rehabilitation and improvement works has increased considerably. From 1996-1999, the DGC managed
an average annual expenditures of approximately US$230 millions (up from approximately US$90
million annually between 1992-1995). As an integral part of the modernization program, COFINEX has
been strengthened and its procurement procedures have improved. However, COFINEX will be further
strengthened by the provision of consultants services to assist with the implementation of the proposed
project.
4.2 Project management:
See 4.1 above.
4.3 Procurement issues:
Procurement activities will be carried out by the PCUs at DGC (COFINEX) and INFOM (UCBM).
Preparation of bidding documents, procurement processing and filing will be the responsibility of both
units. Both PCUs will be adequately staffed to carry out the procurement functions. MCIV and INFOM
are subject to the Government procurement policies and regulations under the Procurement Law (Ley de
Contrataciones del Estado Decreto 57-92) and Regulatory Decree 1056-92 (Acuerdo Gubernativo 1056
de 1992). Specifically, Article I of the Procurement Law permits an exception for procurement carried
out under international treaties and agreements in which Guatemala is a party. In this manner, Bank
financed projects can be carried out using the Bank's guidelines and is not subject to requirements
delineated under the national procurement law. Another supportive factor is that a proposed reform to the
procurement law, now under Congressional review, would require the preparation of annual procurement
plans for public entities.
As part of the preparation of this project, the Bank carried out a Procurement Capacity Assessment of
both MCIV (DGC) and INFOM (UCBM) in January 2003 (the PCA was approved by the office of the
RPA on January 14, 2003). Based on this assessment, it was concluded that the overall risk regarding
procurement is average. The PCA recommends the following actions (among other) to improve
procurement practices in both PCUs: (i) MCIV and INFOM will both annually prepare preliminary
procurement plans with timetables of procurement events for each contract or contract groups with the
respective procurement methods. This baseline plan with annual procurement plans will be updated
periodically during project implementation; (ii) the PCUs of both executing agencies will support the
preparation of standard bidding documents for goods and works tendered using ICB and standard
invitation documents for consulting services, in accordance with Bank guidelines; (iii) the executing
agencies will prepare standard bidding documents for goods and works using NCB; (iv) INFOM will
prepare standard documents for works using price quotations for small works introducing the lessons
learned with the ongoing project; (v) update the 1998 Operational Manual to include: (a) employment
descriptions for each position in the proposed project; (b) procedures and formats for the procurement
plan and the Procurement Management Report with respect to physical progress and disbursements for
each ongoing contract; (c) elapsed time for project events; and (d) the standard Bank's documents, NCB
documents, and other methods included in the project plans. (vi) technical assistance will be provided to
include the project's scope, the baseline procurement plan, the functions of the coordinating units, the
- 27 -



functions of the municipal associations, and those of the supporting technical units; (vii) assign functions
to current staff for the preparation, execution, and monitoring of the procurement plan; (viii) improve
inter-institutional coordination between DGC and INFOM; (ix) strengthen the existing coordination
between COFINEX and INFOM coordinating units; and (x) strengthen coordination between top
decision management at MCIC/DGC and INFOM. The coordination instruments will be defined and
included in the Operational Manual (see Annex 6).
4.4 Financial management issues:
Conclusion of the Financial Management (FM) Assessment. Although having basic internal controls
in place, the FM systems in the two executing entities need improvements specific to the project.
Implementation of the FM action plan would result in proper FM arrangements by the effectiveness date.
Details can be found in Annex 6(B).
Flow of Funds. Loan funds will be disbursed to two Special Accounts: one for each of the two executing
entities, in line with the implementation arrangements agreed. The Special Accounts will be opened in
the Banco de Guatemala (Banguat), provided that Banguat maintains such accounts in US Dollars.
Otherwise, the Special Accounts should be opened in a commercial bank or not used.
Procedures for loan disbursements are summarized in Annex 6(B).
Payments in US Dollars. The payments in US Dollars to providers of goods and services should be made
directly out of the Special Accounts.
Payments in local currency. On a regular basis, preferably once per week, COFINEX will send an order
for transfer of funds from the DGC SA to the project's account in Quetzales (DGC Q), in accordance
with the amount of documents pending payment. The same procedure will apply to the transfers from the
INFOM SA to its project account in local currency (INFOM Q).
Under this arrangement, the accounts in Quetzales would be similar to a "bridge" or "zero balance"
account, thus preventing exchange rate losses. In any case, such losses cannot be covered with loan funds
- this will be carefully monitored by the Project's Financial Coordinators, supervised by the Bank
through the review of withdrawal applications and FMRs, and certified by the external auditors in their
annual report.
Counterpart funds. In DGC's case, the counterpart portion of expenditures is paid via transfer from the
Government's central account to the providers' bank accounts. The requests are made by the DGC using
the country's integrated financial management system (SLAF).
In INFOM, counterpart expenses are regularly transferred from the Government's central account to
INFOM's project counterpart account, from which payments are made to providers. For works, the
counterpart portion of expenses will be paid out of the accounts opened to that effect in the rural road
funds (FVRs).
Project financial reporting arrangements. For Bank purposes, the quarterly financial statements will
include: (i) Statement of Sources and Uses of Funds (with expenditures classified by budgetary line
and/or disbursement category); and (ii) Uses of Funds by Project Activities (including budget
comparison). These project financial statements, along with the physical progress and procurement
sections of the Financial Monitoring Reports (FMRs), will be submitted to the Bank not later than 45
- 28-



days after the end of each semester. FMRs will be used for monitoring, not disbursement, purposes.
For Bank purposes, the annual financial statements will include: (i) Statement of Sources and Uses of
Funds; (ii) Uses of Funds by Project Activities; (iii) the schedule of Statements of Expenditure (SOEs)
presented during the year in support of Withdrawal Applications; and (iv) the Special Account
Statement.
Audit compliance. As of the date of the FM assessment, there were no projects with overdue audit
reports in the country portfolio. However, the two audit reports at December 31, 2001 for the first Rural
and Main Roads Projects, were submitted late to the World Bank. The FM assessment action plan
includes specific actions to ensure timely submittal of future audit reports.
Audit arrangements. Annual project financial statements will be audited in accordance with
International Standards on Auditing, by an independent firm and in accordance with terms of reference
(TORs) both acceptable to the Bank. The audit opinions will cover at least the project financial
statements, Special Accounts and Statements of Expenditures (SOEs).
The project annual audit reports will be submitted to the Bank no later than six months after the end of
the reporting period, which should coincide with the calendar year.
The memoranda on internal controls ("management letters") will be issued, at least, on a bi-annual basis.
5. Environmental:                 Environmental Category: B (Partial Assessment)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
The project entails the rehabilitation and improvement of existing rural and feeder roads, and therefore
significant environmental impacts that could jeopardize the natural environment in their area of influence
are not foreseen. Accordingly, the project has been classified as "B Category" for environmental
purposes. There will be not significant changes in road characteristics such as width or alignment in any
of the proposed roads. Therefore, involuntary resettlement of population is not expected. Deficient design
and construction techniques of road networks in the past have resulted in serious environmental
degradation (erosion, sediment loads, encroachment). The proposed project will improve deteriorating
environmental conditions by introducing better road design and construction techniques, and promoting
environmental and social sustainability criteria in the rural road sector in the country.
Stabilizing slopes, restoring borrow pits and material deposit areas, controlling contractor's earthwork
management, controlling existing erosion processes, improving road drainage, as well as dealing with
issues related to road and pedestrian safety, among others, have to be taken into account when designing
the sub projects, to ensure an adequate environmental management for the different project stages. All of
these measures will be included in an Environmental Manual for Road Design and Construction (also
sent to the Infoshop) that will be part of all bidding documents and contracts.
All projects included in the first package have complied with national environmental regulations and
Environmental Reports (ER), which are the instruments designed by the Ministry of Environment and
Natural Resources (Ministerio del Ambiente y de los Recursos Naturales, MARN) when evaluating low
impact projects. The ER is basically a preliminary environmental assessment of each one of the sub
projects, where the main environmental impacts in each stage of the project are identified. It also
-29-



contains an Environmental Mitigation Plan, in order to take care of all identified environmental and
social impacts, as well as the respective budget and activities scheduled to execute the Plan. The ERs for
the first proposed package of works were prepared with the technical support of the Environmental
Management Department (Departamento de Gestion Ambiental, DGA) of DGC and were formally
presented to each one of the Mayors of the HUISTA and MAMSOHUE in public meetings summoned by
INFOM.
In addition to the above mentioned reports, DGC contracted a comprehensive Environmental Assessment
Report for the first package of roads. All project sites were screened for potential triggers of the Bank's
environmental and social safeguards. This report has also been presented to MARN and the
municipalities. A summary of this report is presented in Annex 17.
An appropriate budget has been included in the project to: (i) carry out all environmental mitigation
measures in all rural roads and feeder roads as a percentage of the rehabilitation costs for each segment;
(ii) strengthening the environmental management capacity of all actors involved in the project, specially
the Environmental Unit of DGC (DGA); and (iii) strengthen the environmental supervision of road
construction activities.
Finally, as part of the project preparation, a Rural Transport Strategy is being prepared for Guatemala.
This strategy includes, among others, long term environmental and social sustainability issues and is
based on: (i) the definition of an environmental and social policy for rural roads in Guatemala:
minimizing encroachment of natural habitats and targeting the rural poor; (ii) improving road design and
construction practices through the application of environmental manuals for design and construction and
enhanced supervision; (iii) the promotion of community involvement and participation in the definition
of priorities for project development; (iv) the ensuring of a sustainable maintenance of rehabilitated roads
through community enterprises and other options to be defined in this strategy; and (v) strengthening the
environmental management capacity of key actors involved.
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
Each road will have its own site specific EMP following the Environmental Specifications Manual.
Appropriate budget has been included in the project to implement EMP related activities.
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft: November 2002
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe
mechanisms of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
In addition to the consultations carried out with participating municipalities and the MARN, the draft EA
report was presented and discussed with environmental NGOs on October 25th, 2002. The EA report
includes all relevant information on the workshop such as agenda, participants and main conclusions and
recommendations. In addition, the proposed project and the EA were also presented in the "V Latin
American Conference on Sustainable Rural Roads" held in Antigua, Guatemala from November 11 to 15,
2002. This Conference was sponsored by DGC as part of the institutional strengthening program for the
DGA supported by the current Bank Main and Rural Roads (Loan 4260-GU).
The EA and the Environmental Specifications Manual are available for consultation by all interested
- 30 -



parties at the offices of MARN and DGC in Guatemala City and at the participating municipalities.
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
Although sub-projects would pose relatively minor environmental risks, environmental supervision
clauses will be included in engineering supervision contracts to enforce the application of the
Environmental Specifications Manual.
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
The objectives and outcomes of the project are mainly social. The project will contribute to poverty
reduction in one of the poorest areas in the country by improving access to markets, employment
opportunities, and social services, especially health and education. The project also will reduce travel
times and vehicle operating costs. In addition, temporary and permanent employment will be generated
through the use of labor-intensive methods for road rehabilitation works and by the creation of
micro-enterprises for road maintenance.
Taking into account that roughly 70 percent of the total population in the MAMSOHUE region and 74
percent in the HUISTA region are of Mayan descent, a social analysis and assessment was conducted
during project preparation that: (i) adapted the project to the socioeconomic and cultural characteristics
of the region; (ii) encouraged community participation in the selection of the road works to be carried out
under the project; (iii) identified potential adverse impacts of the project; and (iv) recommended actions
to maximize the positive impacts as well as to prevent and mitigate the adverse impacts of the project.
The preparation of this assessment involved the use of surveys and focus groups with community leaders
and local residents, and was based on a representative sample of small towns in the region. In all, 394
residents were interviewed and 66 focus groups were conducted, representing more than 10 per cent of
the small towns of the region and I percent of the total population.
The results of the social assessment and analysis validated the expected positive impacts of the project.
Local residents in the area of influence perceive that the project will improve access to markets, health
and educational services as well as generate employment opportunities. Potential adverse impacts that
were identified include increased risk of accidents, possible damage to private properties during works
construction, and the protection of 3 local religious sites.
Based on this assessment, a Social Management Plan was designed to maximize the positive impacts and
mitigate adverse effects of the project. The Social Management Plan consists of three programs: (i)
communication and social awareness, which includes the dissemination of information to
mancommunidades and community assemblies regarding the progress achieved during project
implementation, as well as monitoring claims related to possible damages caused by the project; (ii)
respect for local cultural areas, including worker training on the cultural patterns of communities and the
protection of local religious sites; and (iii) road safety, which will be developed through seminars
The Social Management Plan will be implemented by INFOM in conjunction with the mancomunidades.
Implementation of the plan will take into account the different languages spoken in the region as
translators will work closely with social specialists. The anticipated cost of the implementation of the
Social Management Plan is US$ 14,000 for each phase of the project works for a total of US$56,000.
- 31 -



6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
During project preparation, local stakeholders participated in the identification and selection of the roads
to be rehabilitated. In additional, local residents will participate in the rehabilitation and the maintenance
of road works supported by the project, as a result of direct employment generated by the creation of
micro-enterprises. The Social Management Plan will also continuously inform communities in the
project area regarding the progress achieved in implementation and encourage stakeholder participation
during the execution of project works.
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
During project preparation, several meetings were held with the local authorities to analyze the impact of
the project, select the road segments to be rehabilitated, disseminate the Bank's safeguard policies, and
agree on the environmental and social management plans. Community leaders, NGO, and local residents
were also consulted on the potential impact of the project. In all, 394 surveys and 66 focus groups were
conducted. This consultative process led to the selection of the roads to be rehabilitated under the project
and the preparation of the Environmental and Social Management Plan.
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
As was explained in Section C.4 (Institutional and Implementation Arrangements), INFOM will be
responsible for implementing the rural road component, including the social objectives described above.
INFOM will also be responsible for carrying out the Social Management Plan and coordinating with the
mancomunidades during implementation.
6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?
The social outcomes of the project will be assessed through monitoring reports, impact assessment
studies, and statistical information provided by the municipalities. (see Annex 1).
7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Are any of the following safeguard policies triggered by the project?
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, I? 4.01)       (9 Yes (9 No
Natural Habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                ( Yes ( No
Forestry (OP 436, GP 4.36)                                  (9 Yes ( No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                   U Yes ( No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                               U Yes O No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                ( ) Yes ( No
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                       (     UYes (9No
Safety of Dams (OP 437, BP 4.37)                            ( Yes ( No
Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)  (UYes ()No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)*     (9 Yes ( No
- 32 -



7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
Environmental. The project entails the rehabilitation and improvement of existing rural and main roads.
Based on this design, it is not anticipated that the project will have any'significant environmental impacts
that could jeopardize the natural environment in its area of influence. Accordingly, the project has been
classified as a "Category B" project. The civil works projects planned under the project will not require
carrying out major changes in road characteristics, such as road widening or changing the alignment. In
addition, no supplementary works are planned that could affect the direct area of influence of the
proposed subprojects Therefore, involuntary resettlement of population is also not expected. To ensure
an adequate environmental management, slope stabilization, restoration of borrow pits and material
deposit areas, control of earthwork management and existing erosion processes, road drainage, and issues
related to road and pedestrian safety have been taken into account during the design of the road
subprojects. All of these measures will be included in an Environmental Manual for Road Design and
Construction and will form part of all bidding documents and contracts.
All project works included in the first package have complied with national environmental regulations.
Environmental Reports (ER), which are the instruments designed by the Ministry of Environment and
Natural Resources (Ministerio del Ambiente y de los Recursos Naturales, MARN) when evaluating low
impact projects, have been prepared. The ER is basically a preliminary environmental assessment of each
one of the sub projects, where the main environmental impacts in each stage of the project are identified.
Each ER also contains an Environmental Mitigation Plan to mitigate identified environmental and social
impacts, as well as provide the respective budget and activities schedule to execute the Plan.
In addition, an appropriate budget has been included in the project to: (i) carry out all environmental
mitigation measures in all rural roads and feeder roads as a percentage of the rehabilitation costs for each
segment; (ii) strengthening the environmental management capacity of all actors involved in the project,
specially the Environmental Unit of DGC (DGA); and (iii) strengthen the environmental supervision of
road construction activities. In- addition to the above mentioned reports, DGC contracted a
comprehensive Environmental Assessment Report for the first package of roads. All project sites were
screened for potential triggers of the Bank's environmental and social safeguards. This report has also
been presented to MARN and the municipalities. A summary of this report is presented in Annex 17.
Indigenous Peoples. Roughly 70 percent of the population in the project area is indigenous, mostly of
Mayan decent and are primarily involved in subsistence agricultural production. The system of local
government is largely community-based. In the MAMSOHUE area, the indigenous population speaks
Mam or Tektiteko and about 20 percent of the population are unfamiliar with Spanish. The distribution
of indigenous communities in H{UISTA is relatively mixed. Some communities have an indigenous
population of 90 percent, while in other communities, which are located near the main road linking
Guatemala with Mexico, this rate is closer to 20 percent. The indigenous populations speak a variety of
languages.
To ensure that indigenous areas in the project area of influence are adequately protected, a consultative
process with communities was carried out using surveys to better assess the specific investment needs of
the communities in the project area. In this manner, local communities had an active role in selecting the
works to be carried under the project as well as determining the timing for implementation. The roads
proposed by local authorities and the communities were evaluated on technical grounds by DGC.
Furthermore, a Social Management Plan seeks to ensure that the positive impacts of the project are
achieved as well as to prevent and mitigate potentially adverse impacts. This plan, which will be
- 33 -



implemented by INFOM and the association of municipalities, consists of three main programs: (i)
dissemination and social awareness; (ii) respect for cultural heritage sites; and (iii) a road safety program.
INFOM will disseminate subproject characteristics, current subproject status, and mitigation measures to
minimize potentially negative social and environmental impacts through workshops and community
assemblies. INFOM will also develop public awareness campaigns. These activities will be coordinated
with the association of municipalities, who will assign qualified technical personnel to monitor and
oversee the implementation of the Social Management Action Plan. In addition, there will be increased
awareness of environmental guidelines and social protection norms through the development and
issuance of operational guidelines and the provision of training to contractor employees. Annex 16
provided additional detail regarding the activities of the Social Management Plan.
Cultural Property. The project is also expected to have a very small impact on rural indigenous areas, as
most of the civil works projects will be implemented in and around the 93 population centers that form
the area of influence of the project. Nevertheless, 3 sites were determined to have religious significance
to the Mayan population. These areas were marked and designated for protection under national existing
guidelines for protecting cultural and religious sites. Contracts for the rehabilitation and maintenance of
road segments 59 and 62 in HUISTA and 30 in MAMSOHUE will explicitly require protection of these
nearby sites. Strict monitoring and oversight as well as effective enforcement will be undertaken to
ensure compliance. Contractors will be assessed severe penalties in the event of non-compliance. A road
education program will be developed to limit accidents in the areas near protected sites.
F. Sustainability and sRisks
1L. Sustainability:
The project will lead to rural road management techniques that are financially viable and sustainable.
The two features of the project that make it sustainable in the long-term are its focus on
community-based development and its cost-sharing mechanism.
Community-based development ensures that the inhabitants of the community have a developmental
stake in the project since it is after consultations with them that road segments are targeted.
Community-based road maintenance micro-enterprises that generate employment will also guarantee that
communities reap benefits of not just better roads but also higher incomes and consequently higher
standards of living. To further ensure sustainability, the project also includes capacity building features.
Financing is provided for technical assistance and training for the associations, the municipalities in the
associations, INFOM and DGC. Finally the project presents organizational shortcuts for the local
government since most rehabilitation and maintenance works are contracted out to small/medium sized
contractors and community-based microenterprises. This ensures that the local government's goals are
consistent with those of the project and will build pressure on the local government for sustained and
continuous road maintenance.
The financial cost sharing mechanism that has been incorporated into the project also insures that there is
no 'principal-agency' problem and assures the long term sustainability of the project. Municipalities in
the associations have to contribute annually amounts to pay for the services of UTAV and FVR (fixed
financial contribution), and for 25% of the road rehabilitation costs (variable financial contribution).
Maintenance costs following rehabilitation works will be paid in full by the municipalities except in the
case of the Micro-enterprises Pilot Project financed under the proposed RMRP. This co-financing
scheme ensures that there is a clearly defined 'ownership' of the project, with local governments clearly
seeing the need to undertake and complete road works.
- 34 -



Finally, the implementation of the SMRRPP has demonstrated that the presence of a 'beneficiary'
population and of large and significant social impacts of the project will vitally impact the sustainability
of the project.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                   Risk Rating           Risk Mitigation Measure
From Outputs to Objective
- Local government and communities do     M         -The success of the SMRRPP on which the
not develop ownership of the project                design of the new project is based mitigates the
risk. The participatory mechanism that.
underlies the institutional mechanism and the
additional components (Microenterprise Pilot,
Paths and Footbridges Pilot) are designed to
specifically enhance the social and economic
impacts of the project.
- Municipalities not eager to commit      M         -Detailed analysis of municipal finances and
resources to assume their road                      evidence of good results by the SMRRPP.
management responsibilities                         Keen interest awakened in participating and
non-participating municipalities, after results
have been shown to them, proves that this is a
small risk.
- Local leaders and decision makers       M         -Investment prioritization were prepared in
unwilling to accept the outcome of the              consultation with municipal authorities and
planning and prioritization                         communities. The SMRRPP experience shows
methodologies (political interference in           the willingness of the authorities to accept a
selection of projects)                             technically and economically valid analysis.
Consultations in the preparatory phase of the
project also indicate cohesion and unision in
accepting such methods.
- Environmentally unsustainable road      N         -Bidding documents will include specific
construction and maintenance practices              clauses on environmental measures. Further,
utilized in road works                             the cost of mitigation has been factored in
wherever necessary in the cost of road
rehabilitation, although there are very few such
instances.
- Central government delay in transfer of  S       -1INFOM is fully committed with the project
funds leading to unwillingness of the              and will provide bridge-financing to the
communities to participate.                         municipalities, if required.
- Political risk: Change in government    S        -The project, like the SMRRPP, is being
and officials at the local level due to            discussed continuously with local officials and
elections may yield officials who are not          participating community leaders to ensure the
enthusiastic about project                          presence of a momentum independent of the
implementation and progress.                       elected officials. FUNCEDE is also organizing
- 35-



workshops to involve the local populations and
informing them of the goals and objectives of
the project.
From Components to Outputs
- Counterpart funds are scarce or not     S        -Investment programs are tailored to the
released in a timely manner                        financial capacity of municipalities. Also, the
project ensures that counterpart funds are
provided prior to commencement of works by
ensuring that Mayors are aware of their
commitments and are signatories to the
declaration.
-Municipalities not eager to co-finance   M        -SMRRPP experience indicates that the risk is
projects and to participate in the project's       low. Further the design of the co-financing
institutional program                              arrangement was done in consultation with the
municipalities.
- Political changes at the municipal level  M      -This risk was minimized under the SMRRPP
affect project implementation and                  by the strong project ownership of the members
continuity.                                        of the association.
- Problems in awarding small contracts    S        -Procurement process will be streamlined to
and in making timely payments to                   avoid delays in awarding contracts and for
contractors.                                       processing payments.
- There are excessive delays in obtaining  N       -The process is well advanced.
the associations' legal status
- Political preferences may govern the    M        -The process of bidding and awarding contracts
awarding of contracts.                             has improved significantly under the SMRRPP.
Nonetheless it is important to maintain a close
monitoring in this issue.
Overall Risk Rating                       M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
o   that the DGC Operational Manual and the INFOM Operational Manual have been issued and
put into effect;
o   that COFINEX and UCBM have been properly staffed;
o   that the Subsidiary Agreement has been executed by the parties thereto;
- 36 -



o   that the Association Agreements have been executed by the parties thereto; and
o   that financial management arrangements, satisfactory to the Bank, shall have been
established for the Project and become operational.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
o Monitoring, Review and Reporting: DGC and INFOM will prepare and present the Bank,
not later than 30 days after the conclusion of each semester, a report on implementation
progress. DGC, INFOM and the Bank will conduct a mid-teim review of the project not later
than December, 2005.
H. Readiness for Implementation
3 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the
start of project implementation.
E 1. b) Not applicable.
2 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
D 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
2 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
*   that the DGC Operational Manual and the INFOM Operational Manual have been issued and
put into effect;
*   that COFINEX and UCBM have been properly staffed;
*   that the Subsidiary Agreement has been executed by the parties thereto;
*   that the Association Agreements have been executed by the parties thereto; and
*   that financial management arrangements, satisfactory to the Bank, shall have been
established for the Project and become operational.
- 37 -



O. Compliance with Bank Policies
3 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
OI 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies
with all other applicable Bank policies.
Guillermo Ruan   _                                                      e     tie
Team Leader                        Sector Manager    i cr            CWanaW/D!ractOr
Cecil'ia Corvalan
Co-Team Leader
-38 -



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
GUATEMALA: SECOND RURAL AND MAIN ROADS PROJECT
o' i ,  n c:i-es  *:'  Key Performance           -Data Collection Strategy                 -   -
-Hieraichyof Obectives-                Indicators                 .;,                         CriticalAssumptions
Sector-related CAS Goal:       Sector Indicators:             Sector/ country reports:      (from Goal to Bank Mission)
The project is consistent with the  * Impact on reducing rurai  * Country monitonng reports.  * Political comnitment and
local development initiatives      poverty in areas where      * Impact Evaluation               financial support at the
included in the CAS (i) reducing   program implemented.           Assessment performed over      central level to pursue
poverty; and (ii) building social  * Better access to health and  a sample of benefited and      decentralization of sector
cohesion and strengthening         education services where       control areas.                 activities and financial
participatory decision processes.  program adequately          * DGC, INFOM, and                 resources.
implemented.                   municipal statistics.       * Decentralization of decision
* A well functioning                                            making and capacity
decentralized local                                           improvement of local
govemance system in place,                                    governments will reduce
at the end of project                                         inefficiencies and increase
implementation, with                                          responsiveness of
enhanced capability of                                        development effort to
managing road infrastructure                                  people's needs.
at local level; and                                        * Favorable macro-economic
strengthened coordination at                                  conditions.
the central level
- 39 -



Ko l  yPeolormance          Date tCoOlection Straltegy 
Hierarchy of Objectives             Indicators                                           Critical Assumptions
Project Development          Outcome / Impact              Project reports:             (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:                   Indicators:
Reduce poverty and build social  At project completion:     o Impact Evaluation           o Continued Government
cohesion by improving and                                      Assessment performed over    commitment to the program.
maintaining access in rural areas  1. Improved access to       a sample of benefited and  o Complementary investments
to markets, schools, health centers  social services and       control areas.               take place to support the
and other social and economic    integration of rural zones  o Semiannual reports           program (mainly in
infrastructure through broadened  o 400,000 people from        produced by the PCUs.        departmental and secondary
community participation.         ADIMAM in the San          o Implementation Completion     roads).
Marcos region will continue  Report prepared by the
to benefit from improved     Bank.
access.                    o Surveys, road condition
o 500,000 people within two     inventones on all roads
new associations in the      under the project, and road
Huehuetango region, who      completion reports.
currently do not have      o Monthly supervision reports
reliable access will be      prepared by consultants.
provided with reliable       Interviews with transport
access.-                     operators, communities, and
o Travel time to markets and    road users
departmental centers reduced
up to 40% after
rehabilitation of the core
network.
2. Strengthened
institutional capacity to
manage rural transport
infrastructure on a
sustainable basis:
At the local level:
o Three municipal associations
participating in the program,
co-financing rehabilitation
and maintenance activities.
o UTAVs fully implemented
and assisting 21
municipalities in selecting
and pnoritizing roads.
o FVRs fully implemented.
Each municipality within the
municipal associations
formed under the project
contrbuting Q75,000 per
year to finance operational
activities.
At the national level:
o Adoption of a national
strategy for rural roads and
transport, including its
discussion with stakeholders.
o National institutions
involved in the strategy
strengthened to fulfill their
responsibilities.
-40 -



* Mid-term impact assessment
completed.
3. Employment generated
in rural areas.
* The Micro-enterprise Pilot
Project fully implemented
and evaluated. Roughly 20
micro-enterpnses working
on the maintenance of the
SMRRPP roads rehabilitated
under previous operation
(Loan 4260-GU).
* Under a pilot program,
approximately 20
community organization
and/or micro-enterprises
created and fully operational
(creation of 150 permanent
jobs).
* Creation of an
entrepreneunral culture for
road maintenance activities
through technical assistance
for the creation of 20 MEs
and training program for 200
local contractors and
consultants.
-41 -



1    Key Peuormance            Data ColBecelon Sraegy I
Hirrchy of Objectives               Indicatos                                        |  Crcl Assurptlons
Output from each             Output Indicators:           Project reports:             (from Outputs to Objective)
Component:
o Local governments and
1) Rural Roads rehabilitated  1.1 830 km of rural roads     o Semiannual progress reports  communities develop
and maintained.              rehabilitated.                   from the national Project    ownership of the project and
1.2 300 km of tracks improved    Coordination Units (from     link its purposes to their
and 80 footbridges constructed.  INFOM and DGC).              individual and regional
1.3 Pilot for labor-intensive road                            progress.
rehabilitation works implemented  o Supervision mission reports  o Municipalities are eager to
in some of the roads of the two  and PSR's project            commit technical and
municipal associations in        information system.          financial resources to
Huehuetenango.                                                effectively assume their rural
1.4 Approximately 2000 m of                                   road management
spot improvements along                                       responsibility.
segments of municipal roads                                 o Local leaders and
outside the core road network                                 decisions-makers recognize
1.5 Approximately 20 road                                     the value and accept
maintenance micro-enterpnses                                  outcome of planning and
created in the San Marcos Rural                               pnontization methodologies
Roads Pilot Project area.                                     introduced through the
1.6 350 km of rural road                                      Project.
maintained by nucroenterprises.                             o Environmentally sustainable
Average unit cost of $245,000 per                             road construction and
road maintaned by                                             maintenance practices
micro-enterprise                                              utilized for all road sector
activities.
o Coordination with other
programs enhances funding
possibilities for further
improvements to the rural
roads and transport services.
2) Secondary/departmental    2.1 32 km of
roads improved and/or        secondary/departmental roads
rehabilitated                upgraded.
2.2 175 km of
secondary/departmental roads
rehabilitated.
2.3 Average travel time reduced
by 20% on
Secondary/Departmental
roads implemented under the
project.
3) Main road (CA-1) improved  3.1 65 km of critical sections of
and completed.               main road (CAI) reconstructed.
4) Enhanced capacity of the  4.1 Permanent Technical Units
associations of municipalities to (UTAVs) and regional road funds
support the maintenance and  (FVR) implemented and
development of rural road    strengthened in the associations
infrastructure on a sustainable  included in the project.
basis.
4.2 20 road maintenance
micro-enterpnses contracted and
working satisfactonly on the
maintenance of the roads
rehabilitated by the San Marcos
-42 -



Rural Roads Pilot Project.
4.3 Satisfactory implementation at
national level of relevant
components of the Social
Management Plan
4.4 Satisfactory implementation
at local level of relevant
components of the Social
Management Plan
5) Strengthened national     5.1 Project Coordination Unit
institutional capacity to manage from INFOM Incorporated into
rural transport infrastructure  the Organizational structure of
and services on a sustainable  INFOM.
Project Components /         Inputs: (budget for each      Project reports:             (from Components to
Sub-components:              component)                                                 Outputs)
A. Works:                                                                                Timely release of
1. Rural Roads Program                                     Project Implementation Plan   counterpart funds ensures
i. Rehabilitation of              i. US$17 million         (PIP) developed by the        continuity of rehabilitation
Rural/Municipal Roads                                      Borrower and agreed to by     and maintenance programs.
the Bank.
ii. Maintenance of rural          ii. US$0.8 million                                     Municipalities eager to
roads                                                      Biannual Progress Reports     co-finance rural road
on project execution issued   maintenance under the
ni. Pilot Projects: (i)           ni. US$2.5 million       by the project coordination   project arrangements and
Micro-enterpnses; (ii)                                     units (INFOM and DGC).        participate in the project's
Paths/Trails and                                                                         institutional program.
Footbridges; and (iu)                                      Annual Performance Audits.
Labor-intensive.                                                                         Pohtical changes at the
municipal level do not affect
PSRs.                         project implementation
Adequate staff continuity
within national Project
Coordination Units (INFOM
and DGC).
No major difficulties in the
awarding of small contracts
at the regional level and
processing payments
promptly.
2. Main, Secondary/
Departmental Roads
Program
i. Reconstruction of Critical    i. US$10.50 milion        PSRs.
section of main road (CAI).
-43 -



fi. Upgrading                   ii. US$7.55 million
Secondary/Departmental
Roads
im Rehabilitation of            iii. US$5.1 million
Secondary/Departmental
Roads
iv. Road Maintenance            iv. US$1.3 million
B. Institutional Development:
1. Support for Decentralized
Road Development.
i. Project Coordination and        i. US$1.0 million
Equipment.
ii. Municipal Capacity            ii US$1.55 million
Strengthening.
iii. TAs for Project              iii. US$1.41 million
Implementation.
iv. Works supervision              iv. US$1.0 million
2. Support for
Secondary/Departmental Roads.
i. Project coordination and
equipment                          i. US$ 1.5 million
ii. Engineenng Studies/Final
Design/Project Preparation         ii. US$ 2.0 million
hi Works Supervision.
iii. US$2.75 million
-44 -



<  econormc infrastructure through broade-ned commuuty participation  e
Improve rural access on                 Develop  stitutional capacity  at              Generate etploymnt m rural
sustrinable basis by                    the local and centra level, for rural          areas by developin g an
mprovhig paths, nual roads,             roads l i d anagement and                      entrepreneunal culture usung cost-
secondary/departmental                  strengtherung stakeholder                      effective technologies, provndmg a
roads, and mten roads                   participation                                  demonstration effect through pilot
prograPss, and pronmng spiplover
activiles
Intensive RaWorks                                    Institutional DevelopS rent
Rurai Road Pron                                      SuDOort for DeMentraized Road Develroment
*Reconshtrueon of ManRoradMm a  Roads
UpgRehabilation SconurypartMental Roads              *Project Coordination and Equipment
*Road Maintenance oMunmcipal CapacSty                                      Strengthesngn
*Pdot Projects (i) Mlcroenterpnses; (ii)             *TAs for Pro3ect Implementation
Tradls,Paths, and Footbndges, and (wl) Labor-
Intensive Road Rehabilitation                        -Works Supervision
Main and Secondarv/Departmental Road                 Support for Main Secondarv/Devartnental
*Reconstructuon of Main Road                         Ronds
-Upgrading Secondary/Departmiental Roads-PoetC                  rdnirfiupmt
-Rehabilitation of Secondary/Departrmental Roads      EgnegStds/iaDsgs
*Road Maintenance                                    -Wor   Supervision
-45-



Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
GUATEMALA: SECOND RURAL AND MAIN ROADS PROJECT
The Rural and Main Roads Program (RMRP) builds on the initiatives of the San Marcos Rural Roads
Pilot Project (SMRRPP) included in the on-going Rural and Main Roads Project (Loan 4260-GU),
replicating its participatory model in other parts of the country. The objective of the project is to reduce
poverty and build social cohesion by improving and maintaining access in rural areas to markets, schools,
health centers and other social and economic infrastructure through broadened community participation.
The RMRP will follow the SMRRPP model of establishing associations of municipalities to undertake
road rehabilitation and maintenance in rural areas. The RMRP will also contain several new elements not
included in the SMRRPP. It will pilot three initiatives: the introduction of road maintenance
micro-enterprises in rural areas; the use of labor-intensive methods for road rehabilitation; and the
improvement of non-motorized access (tracks, trails and footbridges - the mainstay of 'access' in some
remote areas of the country). It is envisaged that the RMRP, by emphasizing local involvement in
selecting, funding, supervising and maintaining rural roads and other investments, will not only improve
rural accessibility but in the process, will alleviate the exclusion and isolation of rural communities in the
country.
The SMRRPP focused its intervention on the area comprising twelve municipalities integrated into an
association of municipalities in the Altiplano Marquense in the Department of San Marcos, one of the
poorest areas of Guatemala that was seriously affected during the years of civil war.
The RMRP will focus its intervention in 2 new associations (MAMSOHLTE and HUISTA) in the
department of Huehuetenango (a department also affected by extreme poverty and a conflict-ridden past).
One association comprises 8 municipalities located in the northwestem part of the Department under the
name Mancomunidad de la Region Huista de Huehuetenango (HUISTA). The other association
comprises 13 municipalities in the southwestem part of the Department under the name Mancomunidad
de Municipalidades del Sur Occidente de Huehuetenango (MAMSOHUE).
The RMRP involves the establishment of participatory and decentralized mechanisms for selecting,
funding and implementing rural roads rehabilitation and maintenance programs. For this purpose it
focuses on the "core" road network of both municipal associations. This core network comprises rural
roads under the responsibility of the municipal associations, as well as the roads connecting the
municipal seats with each other, which are under DGC or COVIAL administration. The project will
rehabilitate most of the core network under the responsibility of the municipal associations. In addition,
it will rehabilitate or upgrade selected DGC roads included in the core network, as well as roads
connecting this core network to the main road network of Guatemala under DGC administration.
-46-



The project comprises four components, as visualized in the following scheme:
Pat A                                    Port B
TEO+ZCAL
5vURKS                              ASSCSTANCE
Aul    od Pm*MWn md                          Pfo0t for         spo     for
Pru               Se=Xilry/              becEzed             Scemdary/
Rehalitation of                                                     PMW
R P~o            ~        -
-*100d Nunterce     -Aeconsftmtion af       Pmreot Coordinaion  -Pmjec Coordinaxon
Ab     zdacMT                               aid E.i~m=et
Pilat Projects (i)  *Akniao                            city    *Ergirirg Sludes
troises, (ii)        avd Oecndary            TAs for Ptoject
Footbriiges: and (in)  lnxKs
LIoItenive Rad      Rehbilitation of
PRhbilitahort         d
bqmr1mentidRod
Road Aftnteronce of
Ded
oos
A brief description of each component follows:
By Component:
Project Component 1 - US$20.30 million
A.1. RURAL ROADS PROGRAM (PRA: INFOM)
This component comprises three sub-components: (i) Rehabilitation of Rural Roads; (ii) Road
Maintenence; and (iii) Pilot Projects.
A.1.i. Rehabilitation of Rural Roads - US$17.0 million
This sub-component will finance rehabilitation of approximately 830 km of rural roads in the territory of
both municipal associations in Huehuetenango to restore year-round transitability and ensure physical
access tailored to the specific transport needs of the local communities.
The core network of the two Huehuetenango associations comprises 840 km. of which about 830 km
-47 -



have been proposed for improvement or rehabilitation under the project. Though poorly engineered,
these roads have geometric standards adapted to the difficult terrain and the low traffic they serve. The
type of civil works to be executed on these roads are:
o   Upgrading the drainage system by improving existing transversal and longitudinal drainage
and constructing new drainage where required;
o   Rehabilitation of existing gravel roads or upgrading of natural surface (mostly rock) roads to
gravel surface standards;
o   Road segments with very steep gradients or sharp curves will be treated with low grade
concrete to prevent erosion and to provide a better riding surface, a method successfully used
for many years in Guatemala on low traffic roads (about 25 km);
o   Gravel surfaces will be replaced by stone pavements in stretches of roads traversing villages
or densely populated communities (about 25 km); and
o   Paving roads experiencing high volume of traffic (about 25 km).
Additionally, this component will finance spot improvements along segments of municipal roads outside
the core network, totaling about 2,000 m. The purpose of this intervention is to improve short sections of
roads that become impassable during the rainy season. The type of works will include: (i) construction
or rehabilitation of transversal and longitudinal drainage to prevent the formation of ponds on the road;
(ii) protection against erosion of stretches having steep gradients or sharp curves by applying a low grade
concrete layer or stone pavements; (iii) rehabilitation or construction of small bridges (not more than 10
meters long); and (iv) slide removal.
According to present cost estimates, the above described works in Huehuetenango will cost about
US$17.0 million (four packages of works are envisaged during project execution). The packages are
described in detail in accompanying documents in the project file, and are summarized in Annex 4.
A..ii. Road Maintenance - US$0.8 million
This component would be fully financed by the associations of municipalities included in the project. It
will include the cost of routine and periodic maintenance activities for the roads rehabilitated or
improved under the project. It is expected that only roads rehabilitated during the first year of project
implementation will receive periodic maintenance at a later stage of project implementation.
A.1.iii. Pilot Projects - US$2.5 million
Pilot Project in Road Maintenance. This Pilot Project would establish a system of associative
Micro-enterprises (MEs) to carry out satisfactory and cost effective routine maintenance of about 350 km
of rural roads rehabilitated under the SMRRPP financed by Loan 4260-GU. If successful, this concept
could be extended to the other municipal associations in the project. Annex 12 describes this component
in more detail.
The Unit Cost for routine maintenance of rural roads has been estimated at US$700/km/year, including
labor, tools, safety equipment and mobilization. Consequently, routine maintenance of about 350 km will
cost US$245,000 per year, plus US$40,000 for supervision. It is also estimated that the establishment of
the MEs system in San Marcos will cost $230,000 in expenditures for publications, training, promotions
and assistance by a foreign expert, which is included in the corresponding technical assistance
component.
-48 -



Pilot Project on Trails, Paths and Footbridges. This Pilot Project would identify the extent of the trails
and paths system presently serving isolated communities in ADIMAM's territory and develop a
methodology to improve their standards and serviceability. In addition it would promote the
beneficiaries' participation in the various phases of subproject generation, design, implementation and
maintenance. The pilot project would comprise execution of small works along, or at critical spots of,
selected trails and paths, and construction of footbridges required along these routes. Finally, the pilot
project would promote the extension of its findings to other regions of the country. For more details see
Annex 13.
Pilot project on Labor-Intensive Road Rehabilitation Works. The main objective of this pilot project,
described in Annex 14, is to make optimum use of the resources available in the economy and in the
project region where many people are underemployed and natural construction materials are often found
in the proximity of the works site. This objective can be achieved by using labor-based equipment
supported methods to rehabilitate and improve municipal roads efficiently and to the required standards
(the term labor-based equipment supported means labor supported by machines rather than machines
supported by labor).
The pilot project would provide for the selection of one or two road sections to be rehabilitated or
improved, using labor-based construction methods, in each of the regions of MAMSOHUE and HUISTA
Municipal Associations. These road sections would be selected from the roads conforming the first
package to be procured under the project. If the procurement and implementation of the labor-based road
sections are successful, more labor-based roads would be included in the remaining procurement
packages.
Project Component 2 - US$24.45 million
A.2. SECONDARY/DEPARTMENTAL ROADS PROGRAM (PRA: DGC)
This component comprises 4 sub-components: (i) Reconstruction of Main Road; (ii) Upgrading of
Unpaved Secondary/Departmental Roads; (iii) Rehabilitation of Unpaved Departmental Roads; and (iv)
Road Maintenance.
A.2.i. Reconstruction of Main Road, about 65 km of CA-1 West - US$10.50 million
CA-IW is one of the two main roads interconnecting Central Guatemala with its western departments
and with southern Mexico. It has experienced a substantial traffic increase since the consummation of
the peace process and traverses one of the most rugged regions of the Guatemalan territory. Contracts let
in 1999 for the upgrading of the road were hampered by deficient engineering design standards,
unforeseen sub-grade failures of several road sections, lack of funding, the effects of hurricane Mitch,
and severe rains experienced during the rainy seasons following hurricane Mitch which increased the
level of the waters of the Selegua River that runs parallel to the road and caused severe damages to the
road embankment. The contracts were reformulated to concentrate execution of higher level works in
some critical sections. As a result of this, at present it is necessary to carry out pavement strengthening
works along nearly 100 km, and reconstruct two road sections totaling about 20 km. The corresponding
costs are estimated at US$21,525 million, of which US$10.50 million would be financed under the
project. Project works will comprnse of mainly drainage works, strengthening of base layers, asphalt
concrete overlays, reconstruction of critical sections, including the replacement of eroded embankments,
the construction of river defenses, and improved signalization. This component will also cover overlay
and reconstruction works along Section m (51.9 km), which presently has the worst road and traffic
-49 -



safety conditions (Annex 4). The criteria for prioritizing the road sections to be reconstructed, description
of the works required and estimation of costs are described in detail in the project file.
A.2.ii. Upgrading of about 32 km of unpaved Secondary/Departamental Roads - US$7.55 millions
Secondary and departmental roads under DGC administration in the territory of the Huehuetenango
associations have a total length of 822 kim, of which 525 km are integrated into the core network of both
associations. Sub-components, A.2.ii and A.2.iii would finance jointly the improvement of selected
sections of these roads, that link the municipal seats with each other, thus integrating the core road
network of each association; or connect the core network with the main roads of the country, thus
providing access to the rehabilitated core network. These selected road sections, totaling 207 km are
presently unpaved roads carrying traffic in the range of 40 to 400 vehicles a day and are mostly in poor to
very poor condition. The criteria for selection of these roads to be improved, description of works
required for each section and the corresponding cost estimates are described in detail in the project files.
Four of these road sections, totaling 32 km, included in the first package of works, have been selected for
upgrading to paved standards under sub-component A.2.ii, because they link main roads with each other
and will therefore be integrated into the national highway system. The paving works include necessary
improvement of drainage works, sub-grade and slopes consolidation, and strengthening of shoulders.
Paving of these roads would contribute effectively to the economic development of the region and,
consequently, to reduction of poverty.
A.2.iii. Rehabilitation of about 175 kmn of unpaved Departmental Roads - US$5.10 million
Sub-component A.2.iii. would finance the rehabilitation of the remaining 175 km of these selected
unpaved road sections. The type of civil works to be executed on these roads are: upgrading of the
drainage system by improving existing transversal and longitudinal drainage and constructing new
drainage where required; and rehabilitation of existing gravel roads or upgrading of natural surface
(mostly rock) roads to gravel surface standards.
A.2iv. Road Maintenance - US$130 million
This sub-component would use local funds for financing routine maintenance of the roads rehabilitated
or paved under the project. All maintenance activities would comply with annual rural roads maintenance
programs to be prepared by COVLAL.
Project Component 3 - US$ 4.96 million
B.l. SUPPORT FOR DECENTRALIZED RURAL ROAD DEVELOPMENT (PRA: IENFOfM)
The centerpiece of the RMRP is the extension of the sustainable arrangements and financing of local
roads in rural areas developed under the SMRRPP to other Departments. The rural networks of the
municipalities are too small to justify the build-up of technical capacity to manage roads in each
municipality. In order to reach the scale of a cost-effective road network, the municipalities formed the
two associations mentioned above, HUISTA and MAMSOHUE. Both have already obtained their legal
status and decided unanimously in meetings held in April 2002 that each one would constitute the core
entity for the management of the respective municipal road network and would contribute with all the
efforts and funds required for the successful implementation of the RMRP in their respective territories.
The planning, programming and management of rural roads maintenance and rehabilitation of the
municipal associations would be contracted out with the private sector. The associations would employ
-50-



the institutional framework successfully developed for the ADIMAM municipal association under the
SMRRPP. Each association would create a Road Technical Assistance Unit (UTAV) staffed according
their specific needs. A national consulting firm will be hired under the project to train and advise the
UTAVs during the first stages. Additionally, Regional Road Funds (FVRs) will be created in each
association.
INFOM would be the national level agency responsible for the implementation of the components Al
and BI of the project. It has proven its suitability to act as a national coordination unit for municipal
roads through the successful implementation of the SMRRPP. In order to perform effectively the tasks
demanded by the simultaneous execution of the SMRRPP, the implementation of the programs with both
Huehuetenango associations, and an eventual preparation and launching of additional programs in other
Departments, INFOM's PCU (UCBM) would need substantial strengthening.
This component comprises 4 sub-components: (i) Project Coordination and Equipment; (ii) Municipal
Capacity Strengthening; (iii) TAs for project implementation; and (iv) Works Supervision.
B.1.i. Project Coordination and Equipment - US$1.00 million
This sub-component would finance consultant services that INFOM would need to strengthen its in house
capacity to perform the multiple tasks demanded by the simultaneous execution of the SMRRPP and the
RMRP projects, mainly to attend satisfactorily the tasks related to project strategies and to legal and
technical aspects. It would also finance key staff of the project's PCU (UCBM) and those expenditures
related to the enlargement of the needed office space and to the acquisition of supplementary office
equipment, computers and accessories, needed for the adequate implementation of the project.
B.1.ii. Municipal Capacity Strengthening - US$1.55 million
Municipal Capacity Strengthening. Municipal Governments in Guatemala are increasingly being given
more self-determining roles in their administrative activities, but for the most part have serious
limitations in their ability to assume these roles. During the preparation of the municipal financial
analysis of the municipalities of the Huehuetenango Associations it became clear that strengthening the
organizational capacity of the municipalities is necessary. This sub-component would finance consultant
services to improve the technical capacity of the municipal governments to organize their administrative
activities and resource management.
Strengthening of Technical Units (UTAVs) for Associations. This activity would finance TA to the
UTAVs to: strengthen their works programming, engineering, contracting and supervision capacity;
develop cost effective alternatives, to homogenize procedures among the different UTAVs (ADIMAM's,
MAMSOHUE's, and HUISTAS') and to provide continuity in their activities.
TA for Municipal Associations. This activity would finance minor consultant services that the
participating associations would need to improve their managing capacity, not covered under other
sub-components. In particular it would finance the salary of the administrator of the Regional Road Fund
(FVR) to be created in each association. The sub-component would also finance acquisition of office
equipment, computers, communication equipment and vehicles needed for adequate performance of the
association's duties under the project, including the FVR and the UTAVs.
B.1.iii. TAs for Project Implementation - US$1.41 million
T.A. for Implementation of Micro-enterprises. This activity will finance the TA required to set up the
maintenance micro-enterprise system, including legal, promotional, selection and training aspects, as
- 51 -



well as the participation of a foreign expert on maintenance MEs. Supervision costs for the performance
of the ME program are included in sub-component B. l.iv.
T.A. for Labor-Intensive Works. This activity would finance the TA required for the selection of the
roads best suited for the application of labor-intensive work methods, as well as for preparation of special
bidding documents, and of execution and supervision guidelines for these works.
Final Designs/Project Preparation. This activity will finance studies required for the works to be
implemented under the sub-components A.l.i., and A.l.iii., as well as studies for further project
preparation, if the GoG decides so.
B.L.iv. Work Supervision- US$1.0 million
This sub-component will finance the supervision of civil works to be executed under the components
A. I.i. and A. L.iii.
Project Component 4 - US$6.25 million
B.2. SUPPORT FOR MAN/WDEPARTMENTAL ROADS (PRA: DGC)
B.2.i. Project Coordination and Equipment - US$1.50 million
This sub-component will finance operation costs and equipment for the Project Coordination Unit,
COFINEX, during the project implementation period.
B.2.ii. Engineering Studies/Final Design - US$2.00 million
This sub-component will finance engineering studies and final design for works to be financed under
sub-component A.2.i., A.2.ii., and A.2.iii.
B.2.iii. Work Supervision - US$2.75 million
This sub-component will finance the supervision of execution of civil works to be financed under
sub-component A.2.i., A.2.ii., and A.2.iii.
Project Component 5 - US$7.29 million
C. Contingencies.
Physical Contingencies                        US$ 4.50
Price Contingencies                           US$ 2.79
Project Component 6 - US$63.25 million
Total Project Cost
Project Component 7 - US$0.47 million
Front End Fee
Project Component 8 - US$63.72 million
Total Financing
-52 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
GUATEMALA: SECOND RURAL AND MAIN ROADS PROJECT
. -1,!                  \        '-.....  .   ... _' ."Local  Foreign  Total
: - -     Project Cost By Component,   -          US $million.  US $million  US $milli6n
A. I Rural Roads (INFOM)                                 5.68        14.62        20.30
A.2 Main and Secondary/Departmental Roads Program -      7.10        17.35        24.45
Works (DGC)
B.1 Support for Decentralized Rural Roads - TA and       0.96         4.00         4.96
Consultants (INFOM)
B.2 Support for Main/Departmental Roads - TA and         1.25         5.00         6.25
Consultants (DGC)
Total Baseline Cost                                     14.99        40.97        55.96
Physical Contingencies                                  1.28         3.22         4.50
Price Contingencies                                     0.75         2.04         2.79
Total Project Costs'            17.02        46.23        63.25
Front-end fee                    0.47         0.47
Total Financing Required             17.02        46.70        63.72
-Local f" Foreignr         Total
Project Cost By Category ,US $million               US $million  US $million
Goods                                                      0.00         0.00          0.00
Works                                                     14.70         36.79        51.49
Services                                                   2.32         9.44         11.76
Training                                                   0.00          0.00         0.00
Total Project Costs     17.02         46.23        63.25
Front-end fee                   0.47         0.47
Total Financing Required     17.02        46.70        63.72
Identifiable taxes and duties are O (US$m) and the total project cost, net of taxes, is 63 72 (US$m) Therefore, the project cost sharing ratio is 73 29%
of total project cost net of taxes
-53-



Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary
GUATEMALA: SECOND RURAL AND MAIN ROADS PROJECT
Introduction
The project will finance the rehabilitation requirements of three categories of roads: (i) rehabilitation
and partial reconstruction of a main road (US$10.50 million), (ii) upgrading and rehabilitation of
secondary/departmental roads (US$12.65 million), and (iii) rehabilitation of rural roads (US$17.0
million), totaling US$40.15 million, or 72% of the total base cost of the project.
The main road and some of the secondary/departmental roads included in the first year of project
implementation were subject to cost-benefit analysis. The economic justification of the main road was
carried out using the HDM model and was based primarily on the quantified benefits that can be
attributed to the road improvements, in particular, savings in vehicle operating costs. The economic
analysis of secondary/departmental roads was also based on the HDM model. However, the results of this
analysis were subjected to an extensive validation process incorporating criteria for improving
connectivity to the main road network. For rural roads with low to very low traffic volumes (less than 40
vehicles per day), traditional economic calculations do not apply and, for that reason, only multi-criteria
procedures were applied. These procedures had a strong element of consultation and the views of local
community members were taken into consideration. The concept of the core network, as described in the
main text and in Annex 2 of the PAD, was incorporated into this analysis.
Successful achievement of an adequate selection and prioritization of rural roads requires a
grassroots-oriented participatory framework of the sub projects selection procedures. Therefore, the
selection of sub projects consists of a process of steps ensuring that the selected sub projects enjoy the
acceptance and ownership of the affected communities, are technically sound, and respond to the needs
of poor areas and/or to the expected economic benefits.
The implementation of the SMRRPP and the preparation of the RMRP led to the development of
methodologies to measure the multidimensional impacts of investments in rural roads infrastructure
attempting a satisfactory balance between adequate eligibility criteria, the related cost/benefits analysis,
and the need for their easy applicability in the field. The proposed methodologies attempt to capture
these various dimensions in a stepwise fashion with emphasis on institutions and communities
grassroots-oriented actions first, consideration of poverty and other social indicators second, and the
evaluation of economic worthiness, third. Different methodologies were developed for the two distinct
types of roads comprised in the core road network of the municipal associations to be included in the
project: (i) secondary/departmental roads carrying a traffic of more than 40 vehicles per day (vpd),
which are under DGC administration and to which traditional Bank devised evaluation methods can be
applied, and (ii) departmental and rural roads carrying a very low traffic (less than 40 vpd) which are
under DGC and municipal administration, for which traditional economic evaluations do not apply, and
which are therefore evaluated using multi-criteria procedures.
The three different procedures used for cost-benefit analysis and selection and prioritization of road
sections are discussed in more detail in the following three sections of this annex.
Cost Benefit Analysis of Main Roads
The main road serving the territory of both municipal associations, CA-01 Occidente, has been selected
for rehabilitation/reconstruction under the project. It is one of the two main roads interconnecting Central
Guatemala with its western departments and with southern Mexico. This road traverses one of the most
rugged regions of the Guatemalan territory and experienced a substantial traffic increase since the
- 54 -



consummation of the peace process. Contracts let in 1999 for the rehabilitation of the road between
Cuatro Caminos and La Mesilla (152.3 km) were hampered by delays in starting construction, unforeseen
sub-grade failures of several road sections, lack of funding, the effects of hurricane Mitch, and severe
rains experienced during the rainy seasons following hurricane Mitch which increased the level of the
waters of the Selegua River that runs parallel to the road and caused severe damages to the road
embankment. The contracts were reformulated to concentrate execution of higher level works in some
critical sections. As a result of this, at present it is necessary to carry out pavements strengthening works
along 97 km, and reconstruct two road sections totaling about 20 km.
Required Works
The required works can be summarized as follows:
*   Section I Cuatro Caminos - Estancia La Virgen (54.4 km): Subsections D and E (8.0
km), pavement overlay of 14 or 15 cm thickness including upgrading of drainage works; and
subsection F (11.0 km), reconstruction;
*   Section II Estancia La Virgen - San Sebastian Huehuetenango ( 46 km): 5.5 cm overlay
of total road length; and
*   Section III San Sebastiin Huehuetenango - La Mesilla (51.9 km): Subsections A, C and
D (43.3 km), 4 cm overlay including upgrading of drainage works; and subsection B (8.6
km), reconstruction including replacement of eroded embankments and construction of
defenses to prevent lateral erosion of embankments by the river Selegua along 2.6 km of the
road.
Cost of Works: The estimated cost of these works are summarized in Table 4.1.
Table 4.1 Cost of proposed reconstruction/rehabilitation works for Road CA-01 Occidente
Section of Road CA-01           Length km          Proposed Type of         Total Cost
Works                US$ 000
Section 1. Cuatro Caminos (km      54.4          Overlay, drainage, 8.0 km     8,325
185.6) - Estancia La Virgen (km                 Reconstruction, 11.0 km
240.0)
Section 11. Estancia La Virgen (km  46.0         Overlay, drainage, 46.0 km    2,700
240.0) - San Sebastian H. (km 286.0)
Section III. San SebastiAn          51.9         Overlay, drainage, 43,3 km   10,500
Huehuetenango (km286.0) - La                    Reconstruction and river
Mesilla (km 337.916)                            protection works, 8.6 km
Total Works                        152.3                98.9 km               21,525
It was clear from the outset of this economic analysis that it would not be possible to finance under the
proposed loan the rehabilitation/reconstruction of all three road sections. Funding would be available
only for about half of the total amount required. Since Section Im is the one presently offering the worst
road and traffic safety conditions and is also the one closest to total collapse due to the danger of further
erosion by the Selegua river, the Government decided to confer highest priority to the execution of the
works on this section. Moreover, this decision was backed up by its importance for international tourism
coming from Mexico attracted to the Mayan Route in the area, as well as by the fact that contracting of
works in this section can proceed expeditiously, because, contrary to Section I, it is not jeopardized by
legal difficulties derived from the liquidation of cancelled previous contracts. The economic justification
of this road section was undertaken using the HDM-I Model, which determines savings of vehicle
-55-



operating costs (VOC) for different investment strategies considering the parameters briefly described
below.
Trafric Levels. Traffic volumes were estimated based on periodic traffic counts undertaken by DGC in
the past, resulting in traffic projections of 2088 vpd. for year 2002 and 3771 vpd. for 2016, as shown on
Table 4.2. Generated traffic was not considered relevant.
Table 4.2: Average daily traffic (AIDT) and traffc growth rates
Year/Rate     Car    Pick-up   Truck 2   Medium      Heavy   Minibu    Large     Total
I______________  Axles  Truck     Truck      s      Bus
AdYT 2002        272      999      202         8         12      478       117      2088
A[DT 2016         462     1921      343        14         20      812      199      3771
Rate 2002-2004    2%       2%       2%         2%         2%       2%      2%        2%
Rate 2004-2016   4%       5%        4%        4%         4%       4%       4%    4% and 5%
Characteristics and unit costs of the vehicle fleet. The average age of the vehicle park, constituted
mostly of used vehicles imported from the US, is rather high, about 15 years. The vehicle fleet
characteristics used for the evaluation of vehicle operating costs are those commonly used by DGC in
routine economic evaluations, are based on consultant studies and are acceptable to the Bank. The
standard unit costs used in the economic evaluation for the "without project" case, as well as in the "with
project" case considering the roughness index (ER1) projected for this road section are similar to those
used for secondary/departmental roads (Table 4.6). They are also acceptable to the Bank.
Evaluation Horizon. The evaluation horizon was estimated at 15 years. The construction period was
estimated to be one year.
Sensibility analysis and switching values. The economic evaluation includes a sensibility analysis
considering two scenarios: (i) 20% cost increase in construction costs, and (ii) 20% decrease of benefits.
The switching values for the construction costs were expressed as a ratio between the cost which, after
discounting 12%, render a net present value of zero, and the respective base cost. Similarly, the
switching values for the benefits were expressed as the factor (less than 1.0) that turn the base case
benefits to zero, representing the rate of decrease of benefits that turns the feasibility from positive to
negative. Table 4.3 summarizes the economic indicators for the works proposed for Section m of road
CA-01 Occidente.
Table 4.3 Summary of Econominc Indicators
Road Section  Indicators    Base      Costs    Benefits     Switching Values    Maximum
Case     + 20%      - 20%    Costs     Benefits    Investment
US$ million
SECTION HI IRR ( %)         18.4%     15.5%     14.9%     1.52       065          1595
NPV (US$ million)  4.13    2.54       1.76
NPV/km (US$ 000)  79 609   48.983    33.959
IRR Intemal Rate of Return
NPV Net Present Value(discounted at 12%)
The NPV, discounted at 12%, amounts to US$ 4.13 million, the NPV/km amounts to US$79,609 and the
IRR to 18.4%. The sensibility analysis shows that 20% cost increase or 20% benefits decrease still
maintain the economic indicators at feasibility rates above 12%. A 20% cost increase diminishes the
NPV to US$2,54 million, and a 20% benefits decrease, to US$1.76 million. The NPV/km decreases
-56-



respectively to US$48,983 and US$33,959. The switching values are acceptable, 1.52 for increased costs
and 0.65 for decreased benefits (corresponding to 35% of benefit decrease).
Conclusion. The above economic analysis confirms the feasibility of the proposed works which are
extremely important for the integration and economic development of the country and for the
consolidation of the project's objectives in the Huehuetenango region.
Selection Criteria and Economic Analysis of SecondarytDepartmental Roads
The secondary/departmental roads included in the project correspond to those connecting municipal seats
with each other or to the national road network. During project preparation these roads were defined in
the two municipal associations of the Huehuetenango Department based on extended field
reconnaissance campaigns by DGC officers and consultants and extensive discussions with municipal
authorities involved, confirmed through inquiries with members of beneficiary communities. These
campaigns considered primarily general geographic conditions, present road status, population densities,
production potentials, poverty and other social indicators, connectivity to the national road network and
to administrative, commercial, education and health centers, traffic density and likeliness of securing
from other sources financing for the execution of the required works.
The application of multiple selection criteria led to the identification of 207 km of candidate secondary/
departmental roads to be rehabilitated or improved in the territory of the two Huehuetenango municipal
associations, representing a total cost of US$12.65 million for upgrading and rehabilitation works and for
periodic and routine maintenance activities during the project implementation period. These roads were
prioritized using the same criteria outlined above, resulting in four tentative annual packages of works,
which were validated in a general meeting with the mayors of all involved municipalities and confirmed
by the respective municipal councils. The works included in the first year package, shown in the Table
4.4 below, were submitted to economic analysis carried out using the HDM-LI model. This model
determines total savings in transport costs considering road investment and maintenance costs, plus
vehicle operating costs for different investment strategies, ranging from simple regraveling to mayor
asphalt paving jobs.
Table 4.4: Proposed First Year Works Pack;g
Length  Proposed Type of Unit Costs  Total Cost
Departmental Road Section         km         Works      US$/kin       US$M
RD-6: Junction CA- I (km 315) - La Libertad   5 6    Asphalt Paving  230,000       1 29
RD-I I Junction CA- I (km 274) - Sta Barbara  8 0    Asphalt Paving  230,000       1 84
RD-8 Junction CA-I San Pedro Necta            5 8    Asphalt Paving  230,000      1.33
RD-8 San Pedro Necta - Santiago Chimaltenango  12 3  Asphalt Paving  230,000      2 83
RD-s/n Junction RD- 12 (Nent6n) - Bihi (border San Mateo  20.2  Rehabilttation with  30,000  0.61
Ixtatan municipality)                                Selected Matenal
Total                                        51.9       +___                      7.90
TrafFic levels and growth rates. During the field campaigns to study all candidate roads, DGC
personnel undertook in June 2002 two days traffic counts and estimation of likely traffic increase rates on
roads included in the annual packages. Annual traffic growth rates were estimated at 4% to 5% for the
roads included in the first year program delineated in Table 4.5. The pedestrians detected
shoulder-carrying loads would most probably switch to using pick-ups if their income level increases.
- 57 -



Table 4.5: Average Daily Trafric and Trafic Growth Rates
Trucks 2    Medium
Departmental Road Section                        Pedestrians    Pickups     Axles      Trucks      Buses       Total
RD-6 Junction CA-I (km 315)-LaLibertad              162          261          0          15          I          278
RD-I [ Junction CA-I (km 274) - Santa Barbara       169          194          2          50          0          246
RD-8 Junction CA- I - San Pedro Necta               N/A          228          2          48          4          282
RD-8 San Pedro Necta - Santiago Chimaltenango       N/A          228          2          48,         4          282
RD-s/n: Junction RD-12 (Nent6n) - Bilil (border San  N/A          25          8          20          5          58
Mateo Ixtatan municipality                                              I
Traffic growth rates                                N/A           5%         4%          4%         4%        4%-5%
N/A - Not Available
Estimates for generated traffic and the corresponding increase rates were made separately for gravel
roads to be upgraded and for gravel roads to be rehabilitated, as shown in Table 4.6.
Table 4.6: Generated Traffic
Trucks 2    Medium
Departmental Road Section             Pedestrians      Pickups      Axles      Trucks     Buses     Total
RD-6 Junction CA-O (km 315)- La Libertad            162             261          0           15        I        278
RD-I . Junction CAI (km 274) - Santa Barbara          169            194          8           50        0        246
Characteristics and unit costs of the vehicle fleet. The roads analyzed are mostly of an extremely low
design standard with sinuous curvature combined with steep gradients and very rough road surfaces in
mountainous terrain dedicated mainly to coffee cultivation. Therefore, the most representative vehicle is
the four wheel drive Toyota pick-up truck, as well as small two axles trucks of different makes. Both
types of vehicles provide load, as well as passengers transport services. Buses are rarely used. Most
vehicles are second hand imports from the US with an average age of about 15 years.
The vehicle fleet characteristics used for the evaluation of vehicle operating costs are those commonly
used by DGC in routine economic evaluations, and are based on consultant studies with some
adjustments to reflect the characteristics of the local vehicles. The standard cost of vehicles, spare parts,
tires and fuel were raised to reflect increased prices in this isolated region. Table 4.7 shows the unit
costs used in the economic evaluation for the "without project" case (rough gravel surface), as well as in
the "with project" case. This analysis considers the most representative roughness index (IRI) for each
road section.
Table 4.7: Vehicle Unit Costs, US$/km
Road                                                               Truck        Medium
Section               Case           ERI     Car       Pickups      2 Axles       Truck         Buses
RD-6           Wuthout project           18.9   0 36       0 46         N/A           1.18          1.30
With upgrading project    2 1    0 18       0 19         N/A           0.67          0 91
RD- l          Without project           19.6   0.37       0.48         1.30          1 32          N/A
With upgrading project    2 1    0 16       0 16         0.29          0.30          N/A
RD-8 to        Without project           19.7   0 38       0 50         1.62          1.56          1.59
CA-I
With upgrading project    2 1    0.17       0 18         0.56          0 59          0 45
RD-8 to        Without project          19 7    0.39       0.51         1 43          1 43          1 59
Santiago
With upgrading project    2.1    0 16       0.16         0.28          0 30          0.45
RD-s/n         Without project          19 5    N/A        0 49          1 06         1.13           1.25
With rehabilitation project  95  N/A        0.30         0 78          0.83          1.01
N/A - Not Available
-58-



Evaluation Horizon. The evaluation horizon was estimated of 15 years for upgrading jobs and 10 years
for rehabilitation with gravel surfacing.
Sensibility analysis and switching values. The economic evaluation includes a sensibility analysis for
each road sector considering two scenarios: (i) 20% cost increase in construction and maintenance costs,
and (ii) 20% decrease of benefits. The switching values for the construction and maintenance costs were
expressed as a ratio between the costs which, after discounting 12%, render a net present value of zero,
and the respective base cost. Similarly, the switching values for the benefits were expressed as the factor
(less than 1.0) that turn the-base case benefits to zero, representing the rate of decrease of benefits that
turns the feasibility from positive to negative. Table 4.8 summarizes the economic indicators for four
departmental gravel road sections to be upgraded to asphalt paving standards and of one to be
rehabilitated with selected gravel surface, which conforms to the first year works package of the project.
Table 4.8. Summary of Economic Indicators of First Year Package
Switching Values
Departmental Road     Indicator  Base     Costs      Benefits
Sections                    Case     + 20%       -20%            Costs  Benefits
RD-6: Junction CA-I (km315)  IRR    16.1%    12.1%        11.3%         1.20        0.84
- La Libertad              NPV       0.22     0.01        -0.04
RD-I1: Junction CA-I (km   IRR      26.2%    22.2%         21.1         1.83        0.56
274) - Santa Barbara       NPV       1.20     1.00         0.74
RD-8: Junction CA- I -San   IRR     31.9%    26.4%        25.2%         2.20        0.46
Pedro Necta                NPV       1.26     1 05         0.80
RD-8: San Pedro Necta -     IRR     34 8%    28 7%        27.4%        2.30         0.44
Santiago Chimaltenango     NPV       3.13     2.65         2.02
RD-s/n. Junction RD-12     IRR      22.0%    16.0%        14,7%         1.35        0 74
(Nent6n) - Bilil (border San  NPV   0.18      0.08        0.05
Mateo Ixtatan community)
TOTAL (US$million)         NPV      5.99      4.79         3.57
TOTAL (US$Skm)            NPV/km   115,414   92,293       68,786
IRR: Intemal Rate of Retum in %
NPV Net Present Value in US$ millions, discounted at 12%
Total NPV, discounted at 12%, for the package amounts to US$5.99 million, the average NPV/krn
amounts to US$115,414. The IRR varies between 16.1% ad 34.8%. The sensibility analysis shows that
20% cost increase or 20% benefits still maintain the economic indicators at feasibility rates above 12%,
except in road RD-6 where they border acceptable thresholds. The results of all other sections
corroborate the strength of the foreseen technical solutions and investment levels. A 20% cost increase
diminishes the NPV to US$4.79 million, and a 20% benefits decrease, to US$3.57 million. The NPV/km
decreases respectively to US$92,293 and US$68,786. The switching values show acceptable margins
between 1.20 and 2.30 for increased costs, and of 0.84 and 0.44 for decreased benefits (corresponding to
16% and 56% of benefits decrease, respectively).
- 59-



Table '&9: Physical Characteristics and Estimated Cost of the Four Works Packages
N,      Origin                   ~~~~~Destination     Length       Type of            Type of            Cost
N_                 Origin                    Desbnabon(kmn)                    Surface        Works Proposed       (sS$),
I     Entronque CA-I                  A LIBERTAD                   5 6       Not Paved           Paving          1,332,900
2     Entronque CA-I                   ANTA BARBARA                8.0       Not Paved           Paving          1,861,700
3     Entronque CA-I                   AN PEDRO NECTA              5 8       Not Paved           Paving          1,390,600
4     SAN PEDRO NECTA                SANTIAGO                      12.3      Not Paved           Pavmg
___________________CHIMALTENANGO                     2.        NoPaePvig2,949,400
-En    ntronque RD-12, MENTON        V    L    Comulan Mateo I    20.2       Not Paved        Rehabilitation      622,
COLOTENANGO, Entronque RN-      SAN GASPAR IXCHIL            5.2         Paved       Penodic Maintenance     54600
L_m.Deptal.
5     SAN GASPAR IXCHIL              Huehuetenango/San Marcos a    6.7       Not Paved        Rehabilitation      211050
_oncepci6n Tutuapa
LIm.Deptal
6     SAN GASPAR IXCHIL               Huehuetenango/San Marcos a   7.0       Not Paved         Rehabilitation     220,500
San Miguel Ixtahuacan
7     Entronque CA-I                 COLOTFNANGO                   10          Paved       Penodic Maintenance     26,250
CO_OTENANGO                     ANHIDELFONSO                9.2         Paved        Periodic Maintenance  241,500
8  OLOTENANGO               ~~~~~~XTAHUACAN                                                              241_____500___
Entronque CA-L. SAN SEBASTIAN   SANJUAN ATITAN               17.3      Not Paved         Rehabiltation
HUEHCIETENANGO5490
ajchrlaj, Entronque a
ANTIAGO
10    SAN JUAN AT1TAN                  HIMALTENANGO y              3.0        Not Paved        Rehabilitation      94,500
ODOS SANTOS
CUCHUMATAN
I     SANTIAGO CHIMALTENANGO          ;ajchilaj. Entronque a SAN   9 6        Not Paved        Rehabilitation      302,400
JUAN ATITAN
Im Deptal.
12     ANTA BARBARA                    uehuetenango/San Marcos a   10.2       Not Paved        Rehabilitation      321,300
San Miguel Ixtahuacdn
13    SAN MIGUEL ACATAN (Bif. En        m. Comunal San Miguel      45         Not Paved        Rehabilitation      118,125
RD-4)                          AcatAn San Sebastidn CoatAn                                                  118_ _____ _125____
14    Lfm Comunal San Miguel AcatC n  SAN SEBASTIAN                4 6        Not Paved        Rehabilitation      120,750
San Sebastian CoatAn           CAA                                                                           2,5
15    SAN SEBASTIAN COATAN             hemalito, Pet, Entronque a  9.7        Not Paved        Rehabilitation      254,625
_                         ~~~~~~~~~Llm. Comunal San Miguel
16    SAN MIGUEL ACATAN               Acatanl San Rafael La        7 3        Not Paved        Rehabilitation      191,625
Independencia. Villa Linda
Ifm Comurial San Miguel Acatdn  SAN RAFAEL LA
17    San Rafael La Independencia, Villa  IDEPENDENCIA             46         Not Paved        Rehabilitation      120,750
L inda__                           _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ ___                             _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
-I D NEEPNDENCIA                      Chemahto, Entronque a RD-3    6 5       Not Paved        Rehabilitation      170,5
olomchoch- Um Comunal
19    SAN MIGUEL ACATAN               San Miguel AcatAn/ San Juan  14.3       Not Paved        Rehabilitation      450,450
20  l   m Comunal San Miguel Acatan'   le de la Ciesta             14 3       Not Paved        Rehabilitation      450,450
San Juan  1,xcoy                _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
21    Pe de la Cuesta                 SAN JUAN IXCOY, RN-9          2.6       Not Paved        Rehabilitation      81,900
22    SANTA ANA HUISTA                El Coyegual                   9 8       Not Paved        Rehabilitation      257,250
23    El Coyegual - Chichinabaj       Entronque CA-I (San Rafael)   7.7       Not Paved        Rehabilitaci6n      242,550
_OTAL                        207.0                                          12,633,150
Costs estimates include environmental mitigation measutes
- 60-



Selection Criteria and Multi-Criteria Analysis of Rural Roads.
Determination of the Preliminary Core Network.
Methodology. The selection of the rural roads in the municipal associations of HUISTA and
MAMSOHUE to be included in the project started with the analysis of all departmental and rural roads
proposed for rehabilitation by the municipal authorities of both associations. Those requests were
screened according to the following 6 criteria:
*   Ownership. The basic condition for consideration of a road was the location of such road
within the area of influence of both associations;
*   Connectivity. Roads to be selected were required to link with other roads sections already
rehabilitated or planned to be improved, or to higher class roads, in order to improve
connectivity and functionality of the regional road network as a whole and to expedite the
mobility of people and resources. It was intended to incorporate into the preliminary core
network those roads that would contribute to: expedite interconnection between production
and consumption centers and facilitate access to hospitals and health centers, education and
cultural centers, public agencies and services, municipal or departmental headquarters, and to
main roads. This analysis was based on information gathered during field trips of the project
preparation teams (one for each association) integrated by DGC and INFOM personnel and
consultants, and was aimed at preventing isolation of any existing road;
*   Road works to be executed by other agencies. Road segments that were targeted for
execution by other agencies, as IDB, FIS, FONAPAZ; and other institutions, were excluded
to avoid duplication;
*   Financial capacity of the municipalities. The financial capacity of each association to carry
out sustainable maintenance - both routine and periodic- was considered to determine the
total length of roads to be rehabilitated in the territory of each association;
*   Equity in assigmnent of resources. In order to attawn commeasured participation of all
municipalities, it was agreed that the yearly road packages would selected from the priority
list of roads to be rehabilitated ensuring that each municipality will adequately represented in
all work packages; and
*   Project requirements. All petitions requiring construction of new roads were excluded and
replaced, if possible, by improvements to existing roads.
The initial selection of roads undertaken to define a proposed core network was subjected later to a
validation process in consultation with municipal authorities to determine the final version of the core
road network.
Validation of the Core Network
Methodology. The list of initially selected departmental and rural roads to be included in the project was
validated applying social and environmental criteria,
Social Validation. This validation considered, in particular, the social studies undertaken in HUISTA
and MAMSOHUE Association by the Central-American Foundation for Economic Development (
Fundacion Centroam6ricana de Desarrotlo Econ6mico, FUNCEDE), through surveys among local
- 61 -



groups at the municipal headquarter, village, community and rural level, and through regional social
diagnosis interviews. The analysis included review of all existing or assembled data on: population,
housing, commercialization and destination of local products, transportation means, health services, and
need for all type of infrastructure sub projects. Particular attention was devoted to: suggestions on new
roads and improvement of the existing ones, benefits expected from such sub projects and comments on
the need and problems of access to the main roads.
Analysis of the data gathered in these surveys and interviews concluded that in HUISTA among 180
infrastructure sub projects discussed, priorities were awarded 32% to drinking water, 22% to roads and
18% to minor irrigation sub-projects. In MAMSOHUE, out of 298 sub-projects the results were as
follows: 35% for roads, 24% for health centers and 21% for drinking water. In both associations 87% of
the answers received considered improvement of roads to be highly beneficiary.
According to the population of the territory of both municipal associations, the advantages expected from
the improvement of the selected roads would be the following:
o   Decrease of rural isolation during the winter months;
o   Increase of production, at present limited by transport difficulties;
o   Decrease of transport costs and reduction of travel time;
o   Fostering of private investment in the region;
o   Lower costs of supplies for agricultural production and for general merchandise;
o   Availability of bus service at all times;
o   Improved communications with hospitals and health centers;
o   Reduction of the number of absentee teachers and pupils;
o   Facilitation of attendance of higher studies in bigger towns;
o   Improvement of phone communications and other public services; and
o   Tourism promotion.
The social validation led to the conclusion that the list of roads to be improved requested by the
municipal authorities reflects adequately the aspirations of the communities in both associations (For
more detail, See Annex 16, Social Assesment).
Environmental Validation. The preliminary listing of candidate secondary/departmental and rural roads
to be included in Phase I was also validated with the results of the environmental assessments of those
roads carried out in both associations by the Environmental Management Department (Departamento de
Gestion Ambiental, DGA) of DGC and consultants.
The analysis of these assessments concluded that 91% of the candidate roads required only minor
engineering and environmental interventions that could be carried out at reasonable costs. The remaining
9% would require more detailed study of the design techniques, environmental mitigation actions and
related costs demanded for sustainable rehabilitation or improvement works. These activities should be
carried out as part of the basic engineering of each particular road (For more information, See Annex 17,
Environmental Assesment).
- 62 -



The above outlined social and environmental validation processes allowed the final selection of road
sections to be included in the core network of the HUISTA and MAMSOHUE associations,
distinguishing between secondary/departmental roads, under DGC administration. This process is
summarized in Table 4.10 showing for each association the number of total road sections requested to be
improved, the number of departmental and rural road sections selected for improvement, and the number
of departmental and rural road sections excluded from the program, because they are included in
programs of other agencies, correspond to new construction or are not located within the associations'
territory.
Table 4.10: Validation Results for the Improvement of the Rural Road Network
Validation Status                        HUISTA       MAMSOHU
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ ___  E
Total number of requests submitted                               91             119
Included in the Core Road Network                                74             82
Of which, secondary/departmental roads sections                   8             9
Of which, rural roads sections                                   66             73
Excluded of the Core Road Network                                17
37
Of which, included in other programs (IDB, nIs, Fonapaz and Consejo de  7       3
Desarrollo)
Of which, new rural or urban road sections, or those located outside the  10    34
associations' territory
Criteria for Definition and Prioritization of Works Packages.
Methodology. Once the core network was determined, it was necessary to define and prioritize annual
works packages for secondary/departmental, as well as for rural roads. The methodology applied to the
secondary/departmental roads is explained in the previous section of this Annex, the one applied to rural
roads is explained below.
Criteria for prioritization of rural roads. As stated in the Introduction to this Annex, rural roads with
very low traffic volumes (less than 40 vehicles/day) cannot be subjected to economic analysis using the
traditional HDM model. Using conventional methods for estimating returns on investment on rural roads
would almost always make them unlikely candidates for road works. To redress this deficiency, it was
necessary to develop a multi-criteria index, to assess the value of rehabilitating/improving rural road
segments and to 'rank' the order in which they are subjected to road works. This index was developed
during implementation of the SMRRPP and preparation of the RMRP and is called Road Selection
Index, ISV (Indice de Seleccion Vial).
The ISV uses information on variables such as poverty alleviation potential and the potential for
improving the quality of life of inhabitants in ill-connected communities, along with the technical
feasibility to determine the value and order in which rural roads are rehabilitated/improved.
To determine rural segments in need of rehabilitation/improvement, the first step in the SMRRPP and in
the RMRP project preparation was to get a shortlist of road segments in need of
rehabilitation/improvement, from mayors of participating communities. It was assumed that these
reflected the local needs and priorities of communities. (This 'need' was further investigated during
surveys undertaken by field agents, during project preparation.) The ISV was then used, in the SMRRPP
and in RMRP preparation, to assess the "urgency" of road works. Road segments were thus ranked and
- 63 -



distributed amongst road works packages according to the assessment of 'need'.
Definition of the ISV. The ISV is a weighted average of several social and technical variables relevant
to the beneficiary population within the ZOI of the road segment. Table 4.11 shows the ten variables
considered in the study undertaken in Huehuetenango during project preparation.
To produce unit values comparable among different road projects, ISV variable values are normalized to
a unit value by dividing the value assigned to each road by the maximum value established for the
corresponding variable. The unit value is thus expressed as a number in the range between 0 and 1. Since
the ISV includes ten evenly weighted variables, their addition produces a number below 10, which in turn
is multiplied by 10 to have an ISV variation between 0 and 100.
Table 4.11: VariabRes included in the Road Selection lindex (IISV)
Variable             Unit                  Parameter                          Infonnation Source
Population          Number. of        Number of inhabitants living in the  INE 1994 data reprocessed 1999 by MAGA based
inhabitants/km2   ZOI, per km2                    on population polygons and zones of influence
(ZOI) of roads, later 'ground-truthed'.
Poverty                     (%)       Percentage of population in the ZOI  Living Standards Measurements Surveys (LSMS)
iving below the poverty line.   - ENCOVI 2000 collected by INE-Guatemala and
processed by SEGEPLAN, at the municipal level.
Extreme Poverty            (%)        Percentage of population in the ZOI  ENCOVI 2000 figures.
living below the extreme poverty line.
Traffic                 Vehicles/day  Average Annual Daily Traffic (AADT) Traffic surveys and counts undertaken
+(Non Motorized Traffic/15)*.   by the corresponding municipalities.
Functional               (4,3,2,1)    Type of road: tertiary (4), rural (3),  According to road classification
Classification                         ocal (2) and minor local (I).   proposed in the Study of the Road
Inventory by Berger International.
Health                 (km/inhabitant)  Distance traveled by inhabitants of the The Ministry of Health (Mintstenio de
ZOI to get to health centers.    Salud, Sistemna de Gesnon).
Education                 Number      Number of students + number of   Ministry of Education - MINEDUC.
teachers.
Public Transport           (0,1)      Including buses and pick ups,    Consultant survey.
Available (1), Not Available (0).
Agricultural Area           (%)       Potential agnculturally productive area Consultant estimates based on field
Exploitable                           as percentage of ZOI.            visits.
Environmental             (0,1)       Rehabilitation or upgrading are  Evaluations of DGC environment specialists based
Feasibility                           environmentally feasible (1), not  on field visits.
feasible (0).
* Assuming that a pick-up can carry 15 load carTying people.
It is important to clarify that candidate road segments proposed by mayors, were considered in the
development of the core network. Also, as is explained below, the ISV is only one of the tools to procure
an ordering of road segments in need of road works. Other factors, such as political feasibility,
'connectivity' and equity were used to complement the ISV to obtain a final ranking.
Further, extensive and multiple field visits undertaken during project preparation contributed to the
assembling of detailed information about the needs and aspirations of each community involved, with
particular attention to indigenous and gender considerations. By ordering all rural road segments in
descending order of ISV, it is possible to establish an initial prioritization of the roads to be rehabilitated,
as well as a tentative grouping of work packages for successive annual implementation.
- 64 -



The ISV is easily computed based on information collected in the field. Interviews and conversations
with people in the field convey "need" for rehabilitation/improvement of road segments and also ensure
feedback and people's participation in road works decisions. The ISV also accounts for the "social"
impact of road works; it captures benefits of improved access to schools and health centers in the poor
and remote areas of the country, robustly. The project files contain detailed information on the
procedures followed to establish representative ISV values for each road and their respective ranking.
Definition of annual work packages. As also described in the project files, the ISV ranking of rural
roads was subsequently reviewed and 'fine-tuned' using additional criteria described below.
*   Connectivity of roads to be rehabilitated. In order to expedite connections to the trunk
road network as well as to departmental and municipal capitals, preference is given to roads
providing easy connections to other rehabilitated roads that experience high traffic volumes;
*   Equity in assignment of resources. In order to attain effective representation and
sustainability of the RMRP in each municipal association, it was agreed that each
municipality will have an adequate number of projects in each yearly package;
*   Local priorities of municipalities. As mentioned above, the initial requests of the municipal
mayors on rehabilitation of specific roads and their relative priorities were considered;
*   Road works to be executed by other agencies. Road segments that were targeted by other
agencies and other projects were excluded to avoid duplication; and
*   Packaging of Works. Special attention was devoted to including neighboring roads into the
same package to avoid unnecessary spreading out of road works and to reap benefits of scale
economies. These work packages were submitted for approval to the mayors of the
Huehuetenango associations MAMSOHUE and HUISTA in a participatory two-day
workshop, held in Guatemala City in June, 2002. This enabled feedback, on updating of the
work priorities initially established, as well as of works implemented in the meantime by the
municipalities, with local or international financing. The validation process introduced
additional adjustments to the preliminary work programs and allowed preparation of final
programs and definition of the annual works packages.
Validation of the first year package. Later adjustments to the project scope and structure introduced
minor modifications to the above program resulting in the definition of the final version of the first year
package, and tentative agreements for the work packages of subsequent years. The mayors confirmed the
package for the first year and acknowledged the packages for years 2 through 4 for future budgeting
purposes. Each one of these future packages will be validated in participatory workshops in due time
during project implementation.
The first year packages for HUISTA and MAMSOHUE are summarized in Tables 4.12a and 4.12b,
including rehabilitation of 19 rural roads totaling 145.5 km and costing US$ 2.8 million in HUISTA, and
20 rural roads totaling 126.5 km and costing US$2.4 million in MAMSOHUE.
-65 -



Table 4.12a: First Year Works Package for the HUIISTA Association_
Length
Length        per
_  Sedan                            (hm)_    Municipalrty      Municipalit        (US     )
1 Juncfion RD-13, Caserfo Yichoch, Aldea
1   Tzunhu_ z                              Caserio Cabic v Petatan  8 6        8.6          Concepci6n Huista     177.8
2    Jacaltenango                          Lupina - BwUXp          155                        Jacaltenango        262.5
3   Wacater_an_  o                         Xayom_a_                2.6      _                 Jacaltenango         49 6
Inchehujex
J uncton to Xam (laYinguex)                                        5 8                        Jacaltenango         122.4
Pebilpam, Coronado,
Inchehuex (Yinchenguex)               iuntion RD-12           12.6        36.5           Jacaltenango         260.5
6    CA-1, Boouer6n (Piedra Parfida)       Nueva EsDeranza         18 0                      La Democracia         370.2
7    Oabe                                  Crossan Chichinabai     4 0         22.0          La Democraacia        79.1
8                                          Yalanbojoch (Indiai
I La Tnnidad (on RD-12)                    secion FTN)             15.3                         Nent6n             208 2
9    Crossnp to Nent6n RD-12               Quixal                  3.5                           Nent6n            73.7
10   Finca Chanquejelbe, tunton to Bilil    Subajasum, Canguintic   6.0         24.8             Nent6n            130.7
RanchoViejo, (through
11   ISan Antono Hu_sta                    bndge La Cabafial        7.0         7.0         San Antonio Huista     141 0
12   San Miguel Acatan                     Rio Rosano               9 0                     San Miguel Acatan      184 6
13   Rio Rosario                            Santa CruzCoya          4.0                     San Miguel Acatan       80.8
14   Santa Cruz Coyv                       El Mul                   4.2                     San Miguel Acatan       88.1
El Mul Chiquito
15   B Mul                                 (Jacaftenanao)           10          182         San Miguel Acatan       21.0
16   RD-12 (dose to Cuatro Caminos)        Agua Escondida           1 2                      Santa Ana Huista       24.4
17                                         Caserfo Buenoshres/
RD-13: Aldea Monajil                   BuxuD (Jacaltenango)    3.9         5.1          Santa Ana Huista       75.6
18   Todos Santos - Aldea Max (Mash)       Caserio Chanrdmil        162                  Todos Santos Cuchumatan   302 4
19   Caserio Chaniil                        Caserio Tuibochl        7.1         23.3     Todos Santos Cuchumatan    135 3
TOTAL FIRSTYEAR WORKS PACKAGE                                        145.5        145.5                              2787S
I    Costs esumates include environmental nmigation measures
Table 4.12b: First Year Works Package for the MAMSOHUE Association.
Swoon                             Length       Leng  p2            Munidpality           (os)
1    CA-1                                 Ical                    2.9                      Colotenanao                  61.1
2    CA-1                                  ixel                   18                       Cobtenango                   37 4
3                                          La Barranca-Los
Xemal                                 Narantabs-CA-1          2 5           7.2       Coiotenengo                   51 2
4    bxmuule                               San Francsco E Retiro  9 8                      Cuilco                       182.6
5    Los Cheitos                          B Carrizal              11.0          20.8       Cuilco                       210 9
6    La Libertad                           Cenegal                10 0          10.0       La Libertad                  211.8
7    Malcatancito                         Aldea Topocaz (CA-1)    7 3           7 3        Maiacatancito                154.6
8    Caserio Tuibjo                        RN-7W                  3 9           3 9        Sn Gaspar Ixchil              45.3
9    San IdeHtonso lxtahuacan             Aldea La Cumbre         6 6                      Sn Idefonso Ix.              107A
10   La Laguneta                           RN-7W                   5.0                     Sn IdeHtonso Ix               76.7
11   CrossrR Laguneta-RN7W                 Caserio Chanchquia      1.0           12.6      Sn IdetHonso Ix               18.4
12   Aldea Tucacal                         RD-8'                   3 5           3.5       Sn Juan Attan                 57.5
13   San Pedro Necta                       Jolimex                12.7          12.7       Sn Pedro Necta               2693
14   San Rafael Petzal                     Oratono - Xemal         3 0           3.0       Sn Rafael Petzat              62.5
15   LaCumbre (RD 11)                      Tuulol                 13.4          13A        Sta Barbara                  284.6
16   CA-1                                  Mapa                    6.0           6 0           Sn Sebasban Hu            124 3
17   Caserio Chepon                        RD-8                    2.7                     Santago Chimalt               55.2
18   Santago Chima'tenango                 Caserio Rio Ocho       14.5          17.2        Santiago Chirmalt           239 9
19   CruceTecbtan /Tacana                  Sachumba                5.0                     Tectitan                      115.0
20   CrucB Techtin / Tacana                 Tennuim                3.9           8 9       Tectian                       812
TOTAL FIRST YEAR WORKS PACKAGE                                       126.5         126.'                                  2446.9
1.   Costs estimates include environmenral mitigation measures
-66-



Cost of works. Works quantities were estimated during technical inspections of each road section by
DGCAINFOM personnel and consultants. Special attention was devoted to the use of road standards that
would minimize earth works in cuts and embankments, as well as requirements for widening, by
including in very narrow roads, as needed, switches for the crossing of vehicles. These designs were
aimed at ensuring accessibility, traffic worthiness and sustainability at the lowest cost possible. Unit cost
for each work item were estimated based on actual costs for similar works under the SMRRPP,
particularly on the costs of the two last annual work packages that reflect present market conditions and
include the cost for environmental mitigation actions. Cost estimates also factored in the environmental
mitigation measures. Thus, estimated unit costs rendered an average cost of US$19,300 per km, however,
more precise estimates were undertaken, as needed, for specific road sections diverging from average
conditions. Table 4.12 shows referential unit costs per km for different types of works.
Table 4.12: Reference Unit Costs per km for Works Type
Works Type                           Unit Cost (US$/ kn)
Graveling                                                    20,000
Periodic maintenance                                         15,000
Annual routine maintenance                                    1,000
Stone paving                                                 30,000
Drainage upgrading                                           25,000
Physical and financial targets. The physical and financial targets for rural road rehabilitation in each
municipality to be agreed at appraisal the project are summarized in Tables 4.13 a and 4.13b, separately
for each association. The program considers 396 km of road rehabilitation for HUISTA totaling US$7.6
million, and 437 km for MAMSOHUE totaling US$8.4 million.
Conclusion. The above described methodology, developed under the SMRRPP and improved during
preparation of the RMRP, represents a satisfactory procedure for evaluation and prioritization of
rehabilitation works of low traffic rural roads. It uses an important "community participation" feature to
combine successfully the technical, economic and sustainability requirements of rural road rehabilitation
with rural development objectives.such as promotion of land development, generation of employment,
social cohesion and consensus and integration of indigenous and isolated communities into the
mainstream of the country.
-67 -



Table 4.13a Physical and Financial Ta               ets - HUISTA Association
Length
ROAD SECTION                                      Municipality   Length      iipr       Type of Works    Works Total
(kim)   Municipality     Proposed     Cost    (US$)
1 Entronque RD-13, Caserfo  Caserfo Cabic y PelatAn  Concepct6n Huista  8 6             Penodic Maintenance   177,816
Y (choch, AJdea Tzunhurtz 
2  ula                     Chalhuiz               Concepa6n Huista   4.8                     Graveling         92,405
3    cepa6n Huista         Caserio Checam         Concepaon Huista   6.2                     Graveling         119,357
4    1u                    Yula                   Concepc6n Huista   7.0                     Graveling         134,758
5                          Yac6  atolop, (Yatolob)  Concepci6n Huista  2.0                   Graveling          38,502
6    cepa6n Huista, RD-13  Com (Qoom)             Concepci6n Huista  3 9                     Upgrading         75,080
Esquipulas
7   dea Secheu en RD-13    Caserlo Canalal        Concepan Huisa     3.9       36A      Penodic Maintenance    75,080
8 acaHenango               Lupina - Buxup           Jacaltenango    15.5                     Graveling         262,534
9  acaltenango             Xayomlaj                 JacaHtenango     2.6                     Graveling          49,594
10 Entronque a Xayomlaj    Inchehuex (Yinchenguex)  JacaHtenango     5.8                     Graveling         122,393
11 Inchehuex (Yinchenguex)  Pebilpam, Coronado,     Jacatenango      12.6                    Graveling         260,515
_ _________________     entronque RD-12
1 Entronque camino a Buxup  Taj-Buxup               Jacatenango      1 2                     Graveling          23,102
1 Rio Azul                 Huzpobal (Nitsobal)      JacaHtenango     52                      Upgrading         100,106
14 Hurtz4obal (Wdsobal)    El Mul Chiqudo           Jacaltenango     6.0                     Graveling         115,507
15 uilina (Jaylima)        Tzisbaj, entronque Camino  Jacaltenango   7 0                     Graveling         134,758
_______________________  a Lupina al cementeno
16 upind                   AUdea Chejbal            JacaHtenango     2.5                     Graveling          48,096
17 Entronque camino a Tzisbaj  AUdea Wijax          JacaHlenango     0 8                     Gravefing          15,401
18 San Marcos Huista        San Andres Hursta       Jacaltenango     7.1                 Routmie Maintenance   136,682
19 La Laguna RD-12         Frontera M6xaco          JacaHtenango     6.0                      Gravelng         115,507
Entronque en RD-13,      Aldea Qom (Com)          JacaHtenango     4 0       76.3          Upgrading          77,004
acatenango - Concepcan
Husta
1 CA-1, Boquer6n (Pedra   Nueva Esperanza          La Democracia    18.0                     Graveling        370,158
Parbda)                                                            _
2O )xbe                  Cruce Chichinabal        La Democracia    4.0                     Graveling          79,095
Las Guacamayas           Guaila                   La Democracia    1.4                     Graveling          26,952
4 Guaila                   Frontera con Mexco      La Democracia    0 9                      Graveling          17,293
La Democraca              Chamuxu                  La Democraca     8.4                      Gravelng          161,710
26 cceso a                 Majagual                 La Democraaa     0.9                      Graveling          17,293
27 Acceso a                 El Sabno                La Democracia    0.4                      Graveling           7,668
28 Valparaiso (El Jobal)    El Mamonal              La Democraaa     2.8                      Graveling          53,919
2 CA-1 La Montamita - El Camzo lxcunen - Buenos Aires  La Democraca  7.0                 Penodic Maintenance    134,758
30 Las Tarayes              La Laguna               La Democraca      5.3                     Graveling         102,031
31 Aceso a                  El Matazano             La Democracia    0 4                      Graveling           7,701
3 Acceso a                  El Chorro               La Democraca      0.9       50.4          Graveling          17,326
3 La Tnnidad (en RD-12)    Yalambojoch (Tramo inicial  Nent6n        15.3                     Graveling         208,225
FTN)
34 nce a Nent6n RD-12      Quixal                      Nent6n        3 5                      Gravebng           73,663
35 Finca Chanquelelbe,     Subajasum, Canquintic       Nent6n        6 0                 Routne Maintenance     130,704
ntronque a BEilt                                                   _
|Nent6n                  Jom Tzala (hacia Jom,       Nent6n        8.0                      Graveling         154,009
ULm Comunal San Miguel
___________________      Acatan)
3 Entronque RD-12, (a 3 km  Finca Chacaj               Nent6n         5.0       37.8          Graveling          96,256
Nent6n)
-68 -



San Antonio H4u,sta      | ancho Viejo, (par Puente San Antonio Huista  7.0           Penodic Maintenance    140,954
La Cabana)
_ Rancho Viejo              Entronque a lxmal     San Antonio Huista  6 9                    Graveling         132,833
40 Entronque a xmail        El Pajal              San Antonio Huista  8 2                    Graveling         157,859
1 8 Pa]al                   El Coyegual           San Antonio Huista  4 9                    Graveling          94,331
4 San Antonio Husta        Gualaquelo I Petatan   San Antonio Huista  4.0                     Graveling         77,004
t San Antonio Husta         Raneho Viejo (por Caserio San Antonio Hursta  3.5                 Gravelmng         67,379
_____________________    La  Estanaa) - Cajuil
_4El Progreso               RD-13: Tabl6n Viejo   San Antonio Huista  0 8               Routine Maintenance     15,401
4 RD-13 Tabldn Viejo        San Jose El Tabl6n    San Antonio Huista  1.2                Routine Maintenance    23,102
4 San Antonmo Hu)sta        Los Pinos             San Antonio Huista  0.5                   Stone Paving         9,626
47 San Antonio Huista       Canoeas               San Antonio Huista  2.0                   Stone Paving        38,502
San Antonio Huista (parque) Cant6n Recreo       San Antonio Huista  1 5      405          Stone Paving        28,845
9 San Miguel Acatan        Rio Rosano             San Mtguel Acatan  90                     Upgrading          184,529
Rio Rosaro               Santa Cnuz Coya        San Miguel AcatAn  4 0                Penodic Maintenance     80,831
51 Santa Cnuz CoyA          E Mul                  San Miguel AcatAn  4.2                    Upgrading          88,116
52   Mul                    El Mul Chiquito        San Miguel AcatAn  1 0                    Upgrading           20,980
(Jacaltenango)_
_ Quixic                   Payconop               San Miguel AcatAn  2 0                     Graveling          38,502
54 Payconop                 Poy rumbo a RN-9, Santa  San Miguel Acatan  1 5                   Graveling          28,877
Eulatia
_ Cheche                   Baci                   San Miguel AcatAn  17 0                    Upgrading         327,269
_ San Miguel Acatan        Yaxtuntal, Solomchen   Sari Miguel Acatan  7.0      45.7     Penodic Maintenance    134,758
rumbo a San Sebastian
Coatan
7 RD-12 (cerca de Cuatro   Agua Escondida          Santa Ana Huista  1.2                      Graveting         24,398
- Caminos)
RD-13 Aldea Monaii'      Caserno Suenos Aires'   Santa Ana Huista  3.9                     Gravekng           75,524
Buxup (Jacaltenango)
59 Cuatro Caminos RD- t2   Agua Zarca  -           Santa Ana Huista  48                      Graveling          92,405
60 Santa Ana H-uista        Buena Vista, Pumul - El  Santa Ana Huista  124               Penodic Maintenance    236,681
errero Pinalio - Olo de
Agua La Montana                                             _
61 Cuatro Canmnos RD-12,    BelAn Coyolar          Santa Ana Husta   30                  Penodic Maintenance    57,753
_  uxen                                            .                _
*   ua Zarca               El Amate, Frontera Mtxioo Santa Ana Huista  6.0      31 3         Graveling         115,507
qrodos Santos - Aldea Max  Caserio Chanximil        Todos Santos     16 2                    Graveltng         302,359
_(Mash)                                            Cuchumatan
rfo ChanimilI        Caserio Tuibochl         Todos Santos     71                      Graveling         135,270
__                                                   CuchumatAn                                   .
55 Entronque (1) Chanmarrl  Caserio Rio Ocho (de    Todos Santos     6 8                     Graveling         130,875
__________________       Aldea Mash)              Cuchumatan
66 Xetalhuitan, Uanosde San  Aldea Chichim, Aldea    Todos Santos    27 0                     Graveling         519,780
Miguel, Aldea Chemal     Chalhudz                  CuchumatAn
7 Entronque a Caserio Buena  Caserio Los Ramirez    Todos Santos     9 3                      Graveling        179,035
vista                                              Cuchumatan       _
iTodos Santos (Ruinas), Aldea  zinima, Tuicuxdal, Rumbo  Todos Santos  11.0     774      Penodic Maintenanoe   211,762
_ Chipoctal                a San Juan Atian          Cuchumatan   I_                    I                  I            II
TOTAL         39I.6      395.8                        7,606,000.0
-69-



Table 4.13b Physical and Financial Targ- MAMSOHUE Association_
Length        Length        Type of Works      Works Total
ROAD SECTION                                      Municipality    Len            Per             Proposed         cost (US$)
_________________       _________________      _____________    _           Municipality  (kin)  __________Mun__pal_ _(m )
1   A-1                   cal                        Colotenango       29                            Graveling            61,114
2   A-1                   Rxel                       Colotenango        1.8                          Graveling            37,438
3   ominoche              RN-7W                      Colotenango        1.0                          Graveling            19,296
4   A-1                   tudzquian                  Colotenango        1.0                         Upgrading             19,296
5   an Jose Arenal        RN-7W                      Colotenango        1 0          _              Upgrading             19,296
6   aniche                RN-7W                      Colotenango        2.5                          Upgrading            48,239
7   emaJ                  La Barranca-Los            Colotenengo        2.5          12.7            Graveling            51,998
_     _Na_ araniales-CA-1
8 lxmulei                 San Francasco El Rebro        Cuilco          9.8                          Graveling           182,576
9 Los Chepdos             El Camzal                     Cuilco         11.0                          Graveling           210,897
10 Cruce lxmuleb/ San     El Sabmno y El Chical         Cuilco          34                           Graveling             65,606
Francisco El Rebro
11  anibal                Buena Vista                   Cuilco          3 5                          Upgrading             67,535
12 El Tabl6n              Posonicapa Chtquno            Cuilco          13.0                         Graveling            250,845
13 La Pajonada            RN-7W                         Cuilco          10.0                         Graveling            192,958
14  os Chepnos / Soledad   nuce a Oaxaquehia / La       Cuilco          9.0                          Graveling            173,662
______________________  Frontera
15 Chejl                  RN-7W                         Cullco          2.0                          Graveling             38,592
16   erba Buena           RN-7W                         Cuilco          30                           Upgrading             57,887
17 Los Chepnos/ Soledad   Cruce a Batal                 Cullco          5.0                          Graveling             96,479
18 El Astllero            RN-7W                         Cullco          3.0                          Upgrading             57,887
19 El Herrador            RN-7W                         Cuilco          3.5                          Graveling             67,535
20   gua Dulce            Boqueron                       Culco          5.5                           Graveling           106,127
21   gua Dulce            Flor del Cafe                  Cuilco         3.0                           Graveling            57,887
22 La Rancherfa           RN-7W                          Cullco         4.0                           Graveling            77,183
23 El Tabl6n/ Ponosicapa  Cruce el Carnzal - Tnunfo -    Cuilco         10.0                          Graveling           192,958
hCiuto                RN-7W                                                             _
24 San Julian La Lucha    RN-7W                          Cuilco         4.0                           Graveling            77,183
25 Agua Sembrada          Los Cimientos                  Cuilco         2.5          105.2            Graveling            48,239
26    LLbertad           Cenegal                      La Ltbertad      10.0                          Graveling           21 1,772
27 La Lbertad              El Limar - CA-1             La Libertad       8.5                          Graveling           164,014
28 Cruce La Libertad / El  Montana y Amapolar          La Dbertad       6.5          25.0             Graveling           125,423
atazano
29 Malacatancto           Aldea Toqocaz (CA-1)        Malacatancito     7.3                           Graveling           154,646
30 Tres Cruces             Pueblo Viejo               Malacatancito     12.0                          Graveling           231,550
31 nice Malacatancito/ Pno Zaiatzan                   Malacatancto      2.0                          Upgrading             38,592
_  olo Piache
32 res Cruces             La Estancia                 Malacatancio      11.0                          Graveling           212,254
33 Snuce Malacatancto/ Pno Las Uvas                   Malacatancito      1 4                         Upgrading             27,014
Pol Piache
34  nuce Tojochan / Cnuce  Cal - Tres Cruces          Malacatancito     13.0                         Upgrading            250,845
Rio Hondo                                                                                    .
35  nuce Malacatancito/ Pino  Xemop Chocal            Malacatancito     1.1          47.8             Graveling            21,225
b Piache
36   aserfoTuilol          RN-7W                    San Gaspar lxchil   3.9                           Graveling            45,275
37  nuce San Gaspar Ixchil /  Manaja                San Gaspar lxchil   2.0           5.9             Graveling            38,592
cepa6n Tutuapa_
38     Idelfonso Ixtahuacan  Adea La Cumbre         San Idelfonso Ix.   6.6                           Graveling           107,364
39 La Laguneta            RN-7W                     San Idelfonso Ix.   5.0                           Graveling            76,655
40  nuce La Laguneta-RN7W  Caserfo Chanchiquia      San Idelfonso Ix.    1.0                          Graveling           18,383
41 San Idelfonso Ixtahuacin  Chelol                 San idelfonso ix    18.0                          Graveling           347,324
42 San Idelfonso Ixtahuacan  Casaca                 San IdeHfonso Ix.    3.0                          Upgrading            57,887
43   ant6n Bella Vista     RN-7W                    San Idelfonso Ix.    1.0                         Upgrading             19,296
44 Polaa                  Tunales (RN-7W)           San Idelfonso Ix.    4.0          38.6            Graveling              ,183
- 70-



45 Aldea Tuiscacal       RD-6a                    San Juan Atitan    3.5                          Graveling           57,535
46 Caserfo Sajchilal     Cojtom                    San Juan Attan    4 0                          Gravelng            77,183
47 Caserlo Sajchilaj     Tuizpichon               San Juan Attan     4 0          11 5            Graveling           77,183
48 San Pedro Necta       Joimex                   San Pedro Necta    12 7                        Upgrading           269,256
49 San Pedro Necta        Rio Ocho                San Pedro Necta    19 0                        Upgrading           366,620
50 CA-1 - El Boquer6n    La Esperanza             San Pedro Necta    10.0         41 7           Upgrading           192,958
51 San Rafael Petzal     Oratono - Xemal          San Rafael Petzal  3 0                          Gravebng            62,462
52 Buena Vista            Xechul - CA-1           San Rafael Petzal  2 0                          Graveling           38,592
53 Tuisneina             Caserfo La Cruz - CA-1   San Rafael Petzal  4 0                          Graveling           77,183
54 El Oratono            Xemal Balo               San Rafael Petzal  3 0          12 0            Graveling           57,887
55 CA-1                  Mapa                    San Sebasban Hu     6 0                          Graveling          124,301
56 Pueblo Viejo (Cruce    Palajchuj / RD-1a       San Sebastian Hu   6 0                          Graveling           115,775
Chichina / CA-1)                                                _
57 Toron                 Tuizquisal - Entronque RD-  San Sebastian Hu  18 0                       Graveling          347,324
10 a San Juan Atian
58 Pueblo Viejo (Cnuce    Chexap                  San Sebastian Hu   6.0                          Upgrading           115,775
_Chichina / CA-1 )
59 San SebastAn           Caserio Tuzin           San Sebastian Hu.  4.0                          Upgrading            77,183
_ Huehuetenengo
60 Xinajxop en CA-1      Tojchec                  San Sebastian Hu.   6.5         46 5            Upgrading           125,423
61 La Cumbre (RD 11)      Tuilol                   Santa Barbara     13 4                         Graveling           284,605
62 Caserio Chiquilla      RD-11                    Santa Barbara      9.0                         Graveling           173,662
63 Cnuce Xaul / RD-11     Sacmuj                   Santa Barbara      5.0                         Graveling            96,479
64 Tojchun                RD-17b                   Santa Barbara      0.5                         Upgrading             9,648
65 Sacbech               Tintonel (CA-1)           Santa Barbara      2 5                         Graveling            48,239
66 Saul                   RD-11                    Santa Barbara      7 0                         Graveling           135,071
67 Cnuce Caserfo Chiquilla /  Muxna                Santa Barbara      3 0         40 4            Graveling            57,887
68 Caserfo Chepon         RD-8                    Santago Chimalt.    2.7                         Upgrading            55,168
69 Santago Chimaltenango  Caserfo Rfo Ocho        Sanbago Chimaht    14 5                         Graveling           239,941
70 Cnuce Sanbago          Loctoc                  Santago Chimaht.    1.7                         Upgrading            32,803
Chimahenango / Caserio
Rio Ocho
71 Cnuce Santago          Ehuitz                  Sanbago Chimaft     2 0                         Upgrading            38,592
himaltenango / Caserfo
_ Rfo Ocho
72 Niya -                RD8                      Santiago Chimat.    3 0                         Upgrading            57,887
73  nice La Florida - Loma  Bella Vista           Santago Chimalt     1.5                         Upgrading            28,944
Grands
74   nice Sanbago         Loma Grande             Sanbago Chimalt.    2.7         28.1            Upgrading            52,099
himaltenango / Caserio
_fRo Ocho
75 Cnuce TecitAn / Tacana  Sachumba                   Tectitan        5 0                         Graveling           115,043
76 Cnuce TecttAn / Tacana  Teninquim                  Tectnan         3 9                   _     Graveling            81,186
77 Cnuce TecbtAn ' Tacana  Chiste / Tuibia         .Tectitan          7 3                         Grvelinq            140 859
78 Cnuce Tectran/ Cuilco   Uano Grande I (Tuilzhom)   Tecbtan         5 0         21 2            Graveling            96,479
.    Tosion
TOTAL          436.6        436.6                           8,431,240.1
-71-



Annex 5: Financial Summary
GUATEMALA: SECOND RURAL AND MAIN ROADS PROJECT
Years Ending
(In US$ millions)
| Year I    Year 2  | Year 3  | Year 4  | Year 5| Year 6   | Year 7
Total Financing Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs         6.3       20.5      18.2      18.2      0.0       0.0       0.0
Recurrent Costs           0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0
Total Project Costs        6.3      20.5      18.2      18.2       0.0       0.0      0.0
Front-end fee   0.5        0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
,Total Financing            6.8      20.5      18.2      18.2       0.0      0.0       0.0
Financing
IBRDADA                  5.0      15.0      13.4      13.4       0.0      0.0       0.0
Government               0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0
Central               0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0
Provincial            0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0
Co-financiers            0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0
User Fees/Beneficiaries    0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0
Other                      0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0
Total Project Financing   5.0       15.0      13.4      13.4      0.0       0.0       0.0
r (,;                        }   *{ AL _
.  Year I    Year 2    Year 3   Year 4  | Year 5    Year 6  j Year 7
Total Financing Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs        0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0
Recurrent Costs         0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0
Total Project Costs        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0
Front-end fee   0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0
Total Financing            0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0
Financing
IBRD/ADA                0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0
Government              0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0
Central              0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0
Provincial            0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0
Co-financiers           0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0
User Fees/Beneficiaries    0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0
Other                      0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0
Total Project Financing   0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0
Main assumptions:
- 72-



Annex 6(A): Procurement Arrangements
GUATEMALA: SECOND RURAL AND MAIN ROADS PROJECT
Procurement
Procurement methods (Table A)
Works and goods will be procured in accordance with the provisions of the "Guidelines for Procurement
under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" dated January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996,
September 1997 and January 1999. Procurement of consultant services will follow the "Guidelines for
the Selection and Employment of Consultants" published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in
September 1997. The procurement arrangements below were derived from the Procurement Plan.
Procurement Arrangements. The Procurement Capacity Assessment (PCA) was carried out in January
14, 2003 and the overall risk assessment was rated as average. Positive factors are the earlier good
experience accumulated in MCIYV during implementation of several Bank projects and the fair
performance of INFOM with the rural pilot project. To avoid a potential issue, NCB procedures should
exclude a bracketing system for awards and allow participation of foreign bidders. For the new operation,
the Borrower should present NCB documents acceptable to the Bank and confirm the use of the Bank's
standard bidding documents for ICB works and for the selection of consulting services. In addition, the
price comparison methods for small works will be based on at least five (5) quotations, instead of the
present practice of three (3). Current issues related to delays in the procurement process are expected to
lessen with top management support and an adequate procurement planning. Another supportive factor is
that a proposed reform to the procurement Law now under a Congress Commission intends to introduce
annual procurement plans as an obligatory requirement to public entities. The Bank should supervise this
project closely, particularly, the rural component at least three times during the first two years. A yearly
procurement audit should be needed to assess transparency of operations.
Institutional and administrative capacity, support and control mechanisms, procurement manuals, record
keeping activities within COFINEX and UCBM were found to be satisfactory. Both entities are also
adequately staffed with experienced personnel and are receiving technical assistance and training to meet
their expanded responsibilities under the proposed project. The PCUs have delineated a procurement
strategy that identifies a package of works, goods, and consulting services and are comnmnitted to
developing a detailed timetable for each contract, following a defined forecast sequence. The bidding
process within COFINEX involves the nomination of bidding/award commissions, technical review,
legal review, approval by Procuraduria, a ministerial resolution for the award, a period of appeals, a
ministerial decree, and contract signature. INFOM requires fewer steps and after award recommendation
and no objection, the manager signs the contracts after Board of Director approval. On technical matters,
INFOM is assisted by MCIV in accordance with an inter-institutional arrangement. A regional road fund
office manages the transfer of funds to the municipal associations and contractors.
The proposed project will continue to use standard bidding documents and largely retain prevailing
procurement method thresholds and prior review arrangements used under the previous operation, albeit
with some modifications. Small-scale works carried out under the new project would require the use of
the NCB method to package small works, instead of ICB. In addition, price comparison methods for
small works will be based on at least five quotations. NCB procedures should exclude the use of a
bracketing system for award as well as allow the participation of foreign bidders. The Borrower should
present NCB documents acceptable to the Bank and confirm the use of the Bank's standard bidding
documents for ICB works and for the selection for consultant services.
- 73 -



A preliminary procurement action plan that has been prepared and reviewed by the Bank. The action plan
has delineated the following:
Procurement Plan
A proposed bidding strategy uses ICB for major works and good contracts and QCBS or other applicable
methods for selecting consulting services. It also includes NCB, price comparison and limited direct
contracting for small works under the rural component. In accordance with this strategy, the units agreed
to do the following:
o   A proposed table of bid packages showing anticipated contracts (Works, Goods and
Consultant Services) with their estimated costs and procurement methods will be presented
to the Bank and discussed during project appraisal.
o   A preliminary plan in the categories of Works, Goods and Consultants recording time tables
of procurement events for each contract or groups of contracts with the respective
procurement methods. This baseline plan with annual procurement plans should be updated
periodically during project implementation. These tables should be presented by April 2003.
o   Standard Documents for ICB works, ICB goods and standard invitation documents for
consulting services as required by the Bank.
o   Standard documents for NCB for works and for NCB for goods.
O   Standard documents for request for price comparison for small works introducing the lessons
learned with the ongoing project.
o   Items c), d), and e) to be presented by May 2003
Strenghtening the Coordinating Units
Organization and Functions
Update the 1998 Operational Manual to include:
o   Employment description for each position focused to the proposed project;
o   Procedures and formats for the procurement plan and its periodic updating;
o   Procedures and formats to the Procurement Management Report with respect to physical
progress and disbursements for each ongoing contract.
o   Elapsed time for procurement events in the categories of consultants, works and goods
adjusted to the Guatemalan environment to support the procurement plan.
O   The standard Bank's documents, NCB documents and other methods included in the project
plans.
o   Items f) through j) to be presented by June 2003
Training
o   Training to include the project's scope, the baseline procurement plan, the functions of the
coordinating units, the functions of municipal associations and those of the supporting
technical units. This training is to begin by April 2003
-74-



Staffing
*   Assign functions to current staff for the preparation, execution and monitoring of the
procurement plan from now thru June 2003 and thereafter.
Institutional Coordination
Update the agreement for technical and coordinating relation between MCIV and INFOM in order to:
*   Strenghten the existing coordination between both COFINEX and INFOM coordinating units
*   Strenghten coordination between top decision management at MCIV/DGC and INFOM. The
coordination instruments should be defined and included in the Operation Manual.
A.1 Works
The project will be executed by the two executing agencies that are responsible for the implementation
the Rural and Main Roads Project (Loan 4260-GU): the Municipal Development Institute (Instituto de
Fomento Municipal - INFOM) and the Ministry of Communications, Infrastructure and Housing  (
Ministerio de Comunicaciones, Infraestructura y Vivienda - MCIV). ENFOM will be responsible for the
rural road components and MCIV for the main, secondary and departmental road components.
Table A shows the project costs and procurement arrangements. International Competitive Bidding
(ICB) procedures will be used for work contracts of US$ 1.5 million and more. Formal prequalification
of contractors will be carried out for ICB contracts exceeding US$ 10 million. For work contracts
estimated to cost US$ 250,000 but less than US$ 1.5 million, National Competitive Bidding (NCB)
procedures will be used. Work contracts costing less than US$ 250,000 but more than US$75,000 will be
awarded on the basis of proposals obtained from at least five qualified domestic contractors. Small
contracts for works costing less than US$ 75,000, may be done through direct contracting with
community organizations and micro-enterprises for road maintenance following special procedures
outlined in paragraph 3.15 of the Guidelines and on the basis of reference unit prices and standardized
quantities. This procurement arrangement  would allow for: (i) the participation of poor local
communities in the direct management of small works;  (ii) the formation of maintenance
micro-enterprises; and (iii) the development of local contractors.
For the contracting for routine maintenance, the process envisaged is as follows: (i) the road section to be
maintained is selected by 1NFOM/DGC and the municipal associations; (ii) the various communities
along the road are visited by technical and social professionals to assess the capacity and interest in
carrying out the works; (iii) this process leads to the selection of the best community from which the ME
will be formed; (iv) once the ME is legally formed, training on technical, administrative and legal matter
is provided to the ME; and (v) once the training process is completed, the contract is signed based on
predetermined cost. More detailed information regarding this type of contract as well as the procurement
stages to be followed in each case, will be included in the Operation Manual.
For the contracting of stone paving with community organizations, it is envisaged that those contracts
will not exceed US$50,000, and that the community must be legally established to qualify.
A.2 Goods
The procurement of vehicles and office furniture and equipment with a cost of US$ 150,000 or more will
be carried.out using ICB. Individual contracts costing between US$25,000 and US$150,000 will be
procured under NCB rules. And for individual contracts costing less than US$25,000 national and
- 75-



international shopping will apply based on three quotations. Preference will be given to domestically
manufactured goods (see provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 and Appendix 2 of the Guidelines).
A3 Consultant Services
Consultant services will be procured under contracts awarded using the following selection methods: (i)
Quality and Cost-Based Selection (QCBS); (ii) Quality Based Selection (QBS); Selection under a Fixed
Budget; (iv) Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications; and, exceptionally (v) Single-Source
Selection.
Table B summarizes the prior review thresholds. In the case of works and goods, all ICB and NCB
contracts will be subject to prior review. For small works to be procured on the basis of five quotations
from qualified contractors, only two contracts from each package of works will be subjected to prior
review. In the case of small works, it is anticipated that 4 work packages (one per year) will be
contracted and executed. For works to be awarded to local communities, only the first contract in each of
the 4 work packages will be subjected to prior review.
In the case of goods procured under ICB and NCB, all contracts will be subject to prior review. For
National and International shopping, the first contracts in each case will be subjected to prior review.
For consultants services, prior review will be needed for all contracts valued at more than US$100,000
for firms and all contracts with individuals costing more than US50,000 equivalent. For consultant
contracts valued at less than the amounts indicated above, prior review by the Bank will only cover the
corresponding terms of reference and short lists of consultants.
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
- ...      ,~ *  ,      .      . .!.  ' aoProcurement Mlethod
xpendituresbaieg  .ry     Ci^.
p             *r                  .         ,                           ..F.    T oa Cost
1. Works                           18.58           15.44         15.37         2.10       51.49
(13.94)         (11.58)       (11.27)       (0.00)     (36.79)
2. Goods                            0.15            0.73          0.00         0.00       0.88
(0.12)          (0.58)        (0.00)       (0.00)     (0.70)
3. Services                         0.00            0.00         10.88         0.00       10.88
(0.00)          (0.00)        (8.74)       (0.00)     (8.74)
4. Miscellaneous                    0.00            0.00          0.00         0.00       0.00
(0.00)          (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)     (0.00)
5. Front-end fee                    0.17            0.15          0.15         0.00       0.47
(0.17)          (0.15)        (0.15)       (0.00)      (0.47)
Total                            18.90           16.32         26.40        2.10       63.72
(14.23)         (12.31)       (20.16)       (0.00)     (46.70)
"Figures in parentheses are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
21 Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted
staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related
to (X) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
Notes: (i)N.B.F. = Not Bank-Financed. (ii) Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank
loan. (iii) Others include: direct contracting, local shopping, and the contracting of consultant services.
- 76 -



Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
(US$ million equivalent)
' r -,                1      ....', eSelection Method -
Consultant Services                           .
Expenditure Category  OCBS'  OBS   -SFBI     LCS     -'CO -  Other,  N.B.F. Total Cost'_
A. Firms              7.30    0.00    0.00    0.00     0.00    0.00    0.00     7.30
(5.84)  (0.00)  (0.00)  A(000)  (0.00)   (0.00)  (0.00)   (5.84)
B. Individuals        0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00     3.58    0.00    0.00     3.58
(0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (2.89)   (0.00)  (0.00)   (2.89)
Total  7.30    0.00    0.00    0.00     3.58    0.00    0.00    10.88
(5.84)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (2.89)   (0.00)  (0.00)   (8.73)
Including contingencies
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS = Quality-based Selection
SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS = Least-Cost Selection
CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines), Commercial
Practices, etc.
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
Figures in parentheses are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan.
- 77 -



Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review'
Conxraci Value                               'Cariisracia e&;e. i'o
.1T LhieShDId          Lb l,cr c u re-Jm Xri rdno
Expenditure Categoiy. L   (US$ thousands)             M - Jethod -         (US$ millions).
1. Works                       >1,500                   ICB                  All documents
>250-1,500                 NCB                 All documents
>75-250            At least 5 quotations  First 2 contracts of each
work package
75 or less         Direct contracting with  The first contract of each
local communities         work package
2. Goods                        >150                     ICB                 All documents
25-150                   NCB                 All documents
<25            National and International  First contract in each case
Shopping
3. Services                     >100             As per September 1999
3.1 Firms                                             Guidelines             All documents
100 or less              As above
TOR and Short Lists only
3.2 Individuals                  >50                   As above              All documents
50 or less               As above          TOR and short lists only
4. Miscellaneous
5. Miscellaneous
6. Miscellaneous
Total value of contracts subject to prior review: US$15 million
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment:  Average
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed:  One every 6 months
(includes special procurement supervision
for post-review/audits)
Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult "Assessment of Agency's Capacity to Implement
Procurement" and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.
-78 -



Annex 6(B1) Financial Management and Disbursement Arrangements
GUATEMALA: SECOND RURAL AND MAIN ROADS PROJECT
Financial Management
1. Summary of the Financial Management Assessment
Implementing Entities
The Borrower for the loan will be the Republic of Guatemala. The project will be executed by: (i) the
General Roads Directorate (DGC), which is attached to the Ministry of Transport; and (ii) the Municipal
Development Institute (INFOM).
Program implementation will be closely coordinated by the Project Coordination Units (PCUs)
established at DGC (COFINEX-Coordinadora de Financiamiento Externo) and INFOM (UCBM-
Unidad Coordinadora Banco MundiaO.
COFINEX was established in the DGC by Ministerial decree and is part of its permanent administrative
structure, under the Planning Division. It directly assists the Planning Division in matters related to the
preparation of multiyear investment programs and in coordinating projects financed by the Bank and
other multilateral and bilateral agencies. Under the RMRP, the same PCU arrangement will be used:
COFINEX will be responsible for the project components addressing road rehabilitation and
improvement under DGC's responsibility, and for consultant services during the implementation of the
RMRP.
INFOM, through the UCBM, will be responsible for the rural roads components under municipal
jurisdiction which include related technical assistance and consultant services. INFOM has experience in
coordinating national and local development efforts, including the implementation of the SMRRPP.
In a way similar to the SMRRPP, the municipal associations will contract out planning, programming and
management of municipal roads within their boundaries to consultants, who will become the
association's permanent technical service unit (UTAV). The UTAVs will also prepare and manage
contracts on behalf of the members of the associations and will report to the associations. Payments,
however, will be made by INFOM.
Staffing
Each executing entity has a specialized unit that will support the financial/administrative functions of the
Project.
Among others, COFINEX has a WB Loan Coordinator, a works analyst, two project analysts, an
institutional strengthening analyst, and two financial analysts. On the other hand, the UCBM has a WB
Loan Coordinator, a municipal strengthening specialist, a technical specialist, a financial specialist, a
financial assistant, and others.
As a result of the assessment, and in light of the new project, the following actions were suggested: (i)
contracting of a FM Specialist (local consultant, CPA, with relevant public sector and investment project
experience) to help both executing entities and the respective financial departments in setting up the
required project-specific FM arrangements before effectiveness, and its implementation during the first
year of project execution; (ii) contracting of a CPA to support the FM functions in COFINEX; (iii)
contracting of two accounting assistants to support the FM functions in INFOM; and (iv) updating the
position descriptions (or TORs) in the operational manual.
- 79-



The contracting of consultants for these positions will follow the pertinent Bank Guidelines.
Funds Flow
Loan funds will be disbursed to two Special Accounts: one for each of the two executing entities, in line
with the implementation arrangements agreed. The Special Accounts will be opened in the Banco de
Guatemala (Banguat), provided that Banguat maintains such accounts in US Dollars. Otherwise, the
Special Accounts should be opened in a commercial bank or not used.
Procedures for loan disbursements are summarized in Annex 6 to the PAD.
Payments in US Dollars. The payments in US Dollars to providers of goods and services should be made
directly out of the Special Accounts.
Payments in local currency. On a regular basis, preferably once per week, COFINEX will send an order
for transfer of funds from the DGC SA to the project's account in Quetzales (DGC 0), in accordance
with the amount of documents pending payment. The same procedure will apply to the transfers from the
INFOM SA to its project account in local currency (INFOM Q).
Under this arrangement, the accounts in Quetzales would be similar to a "bridge" or "zero balance"
account, thus preventing exchange rate losses. In any case, such losses cannot be covered with loan funds
- this will be carefully monitored by the Project's Financial Coordinators, supervised by the Bank
through the review of withdrawal applications and FMRs, and certified by the external auditors in their
annual report.
Counterpart funds. In DGC's case, the counterpart portion of expenditures is paid via transfer from the
Government's central account to the providers' bank accounts. The requests are made by the DGC using
the country's integrated financial management system (SIAF).
In INFOM, counterpart expenses are regularly transferred from the Government's central account to
INFOM's project counterpart account, from which payments are made to providers. For works, the
counterpart portion of expenses will be paid out of the accounts opened to that effect in the rural road
funds (FVRs).
Accounting Policies and Procedures
Segregation of duties. Each executing entity will channel financial transactions through the
organizational structure and procedures established in its respective norms. Those procedures support an
adequate segregation of procurement, budgeting, payment and recording activities.
Budgeting. The loan agreement, cost tables and procurement plans will be the main input for the project
budgets. Following local requirements, each executing entity will prepare at least:
o   the annual work plan;
o   the annual budget proposal specifying the sources of funds and the expenditures classified by
the country's budgetary codes;
o   after approval by Congress, the budget execution program broken down monthly;
o   the monthly report on budgetary execution; and
o   the quarterly report on evaluation of budgetary execution.
-80-



One of the problems affecting the "regularization" of budget expenditures is the requirement to register
WB deposits before the expenses being reimbursed can be recorded, which creates an important time gap
between actual expenditures and their recognition in the budgetary (not accounting) system. Both entities
should agree with the MFP on a mechanism to reduce the cited time lag.
Payments and operation of bank accounts.
DGC. In accordance with the internal procedures, payments are subject to a series of internal reviews: (i)
the works supervising company; (ii) DGC's Works Department (technical clearance); (iii) DGC's
Internal Audit; (iv) DGC's Finance Department (financial clearance); and COFINEX. The checks are
issued by DGC's Cashier Department.
Bank account reconciliations are prepared on a monthly basis. However, these: (i) are prepared by the
Cashier, not the Accounting Department, and (ii) reconcile bank balances against the cash book, not the
accounting balance. It was proposed that both issues be solved.
MFOM. The internal review steps are summarized as follows: (i) the works supervising company; (ii)
the UTAV (technical clearance); (iii) the FVR (financial clearance); (iv) UCBM; (v) INFOM's Treasury
Department; and (v) INFOM's Internal Audit. Since the checks must be signed by both the municipal
association and INFOM, these are initially issued by the FVRs, but finally released by INFOM, which
also funds the (bridge) account.
Bank account reconciliations are prepared monthly by INFOM's Accounting Department.
Accounting. Both executing entities follow the cash basis of accounting. Although using their respective
institutional accounting systems, these allow for separate maintenance of project accounts, which include
the usual assets, liabilities and fund balances. The expenditures are classified per each entity's
classification, but both COFINEX and UCBM prepare subsidiary project-specific information, like
investments classified by disbursement category.
Regular and timely reconciliation between the two data bases in each entity was recommended.
Information systems.
DGC. After significant problems, including loss of data, the DGC is testing a recently introduced
accounting software. Although the system evaluation is still underway, its upgrading is foreseen,
particularly to link accounting and other functions, such as cashier's. System security is another relevant
need.
Through the ongoing project, assistance for improving the accounting software is envisioned. The WB
will supervise the actions taken in this area, so as to ensure that the system is operating satisfactorily
before project effectiveness.
INFOM. No major issues have been identified in the operation of INFOM's accounting software.
Policies and procedures. Under the ongoing project, an operational manual was prepared. Although
comprehensive in technical matters, the FM procedures are scantly dealt with. It was therefore agreed
that, when updating the operational manual, the executing entities would pay special attention to chapters
on FM organizational arrangements, position descriptions (or TORs), flow of funds and related
procedures, budgeting, internal controls, accounting manual, financial reporting, records management,
relationship with Associations, and audit contracting and follow-up.
- 81 -



Safeguard over assets. Each executing entity has procedures for asset control, including subsidiary
registers. These, however, are not reconciled monthly against accounting balances and, in DGC's case,
cannot break down the assets acquired under the project. Besides overcoming these deficiencies, it was
proposed that annual physical inspections be undertaken by both executing entities, preferably with the
participation of the internal and external auditors.
Project Financial Reporting
Financial statements and reports will be prepared in formats satisfying the Government and IBRD's
monitoring and fiduciary purposes.
On a monthly basis, each executing entity will prepare at least the project's balance sheet and statement
of budgetary execution. This information must be made available within 30 days after the end of each
month.
For Bank purposes, the quarterly financial statements will include: (i) Statement of Sources and Uses of
Funds (with expenditures classified by budgetary line and/or disbursement category); and (ii) Uses of
Funds by Project Activities (including budget comparison). These project financial statements, along
with the physical progress and procurement sections of the Financial Monitoring Reports (FMRs), will
be submitted to the Bank not later than 45 days after the end of each semester. FMRs will be used for
monitoring, not disbursement, purposes.
For Bank purposes, the annual financial statements will include: (i) Statement of Sources and Uses of
Funds; (ii) Uses of Funds by Project Activities; (iii) the schedule of Statements of Expenditure (SOEs)
presented during the year in support of Withdrawal Applications; and (iv) the Special Account
Statement.
Internal Audit
In both executing entities, the capacity to undertake meaningful audits of project funds is limited due to
the low number of certified auditors, lack of computers, audit software and relevant training. Under the
project, an internal audit consultant (local consultant, CPA, with relevant public sector and investment
project experience) would be hired to help strengthen the departments, including the development of an
overall improvement plan and audit techniques related to the projects.
External Audit
Audit compliance. As of the date of the FM assessment, there were no projects with overdue audit
reports in the country portfolio. However, the two audit reports at December 31, 2001 for the first Rural
and Main Roads Project, were submitted late to the World Bank.
DGC. A combination of factors, such as problems with the previous accounting system and untimely
contracting of auditors, contributed to the delay. The audit opinion included a qualification because the
original expense documentation was not kept in COFINEX.
In answer to the issues related to the 2001 audit, COFINEX has prepared a document outlining: (i)
actions to improve timeliness, including a single contracting process for 2002/03; and (ii) actions to
address the internal control issues, including coordinating with the DGC's Finance Department and the
Ministry of Transport's Financial Unit the access to original documentation selected by the auditors.
INIFOM. The delay was mainly related to untimely contracting of auditors. The audit opinion included
qualifications because of lack of subsidiary registers in UCBM for the counterpart expenses, and a
difference between UCBM's financial data and the information from INFOM's accounting records.
- 82 -



The UCBM has subsequently prepared a document outlining: (i) actions to improve timeliness, including
the finalization of the 2002 contracting process and prompt initiation of the 2003 audit; and (ii) actions to
address the internal control issues, such as enhancing communication with the external auditors about the
informnation available in INFOM's Accounting Department and improving the reconciliation process with
this department.
2. Audit Arrangements
Audit arrangements. Annual project financial statements will be audited in accordance with
International Standards on Auditing, by an independent firm and in accordance with terms of reference
(TORs) both acceptable to the Bank. The audit opinions will cover at least the project financial
statements, Special Accounts and Statements of Expenditures (SOEs).
The memoranda on internal controls ("management letters") will be issued, at least, on a bi-annual basis.
The executing entities should appoint the auditors within three months after loan effectiveness, with an
annual contract to be renewed during the first quarter of each subsequent year. Audit expenditures can be
financed by the loan.
The executing entities will prepare, if needed, an action plan to address any issues and recommendations
contained in the audit reports. The action plans and follow-up activities will be communicated to the
Bank.
The table below summarizes audit requirements:
Audit Report                               Due Date
Project financial statements  6 months after the end of the reporting period (coincides with CY)
SOE                       same as above
Special Accounts          same as above
Strengths and Weaknesses
Through the ongoing project, the executing entities have gathered relevant experience managing WB
funds and developing the related internal controls. Still, staffing complements in the FM and internal
audit functions, improvements in the reconciliation processes and in the accounting systems, among other
actions, are required to properly take on the new project FM functions. The Action Plan below aims at
addressing these issues.
- 83 -



Financial Management Action Plan
Action                    Responsible Entity             Completion Date
1. Contract FM Consultant for  DGC/INFOM                      One month after negotiations.
both entities.
2. Contract CPA to support     DGC                             Before effectiveness
COFINEX's Financial Unit.
3. Contract accounting assistants to INFOM                     Before effectiveness
support UCBM's Financial Unit.
4. Decide Special Account      DGC/INFOM/MFP                   Before negotiations
arrangements: (i) in USD at
Banguat; (ii) in USD at
commercial bank; (iii) no SA - use
of agent; or (iv) no SA -
reimbursements and direct
payments.
5. Agree with MFP on mechanism  DGC/INFOM/MFP                  Before effectiveness
to record expenditures (in the
country's budgetary system) as
they are incurred.
6. Ensure approval of          DGC/INFOM/MFP                   Before effectiveness
counterpart/loan budget.
7. Develop sound reconciliations,  DGC/INFOM                   Before effectiveness
including: (i) bank accounts; (ii)
fixed assets; (iii) works; (iv)
accounts payable/receivable; (v)
accounting data vs. PIUs financial
records.
8. Finalize diagnostic of DGC's  DGC                           Before effectiveness
accounting system and prepare
follow-up plan. Implement
adequate system security features.
9. Finalize FM section of the  DGC                             Before effectiveness
Operational Manual.
10. Prepare format of the FMRs.  DGC/[N'FOM                    Before negotiations
11. Produce first FMR.         DGC/lNFOM                       3 months after effectiveness
12. Contract Internal Audit    DGC/INFOM                      3 months after effectiveness
Consultant.
13. Provide audit report for   DGC/INFOM                       Before effectiveness
WB-funded project (Ln. 4260) as
of December 31, 2002.
14. Prepare action plan to address  DGC/INFOM                  Before effectiveness
any audit qualification or internal
audit observatons.
15. Prepare audit TORs and short  DGC/INFOM                    Before effectiveness
list of external auditors.    I__
16. Contract external auditors.  DGC/INFOM                     3 months after effectiveness
Financial Covenants
Section 3. Require sufficient annual budgetary allocations for external and local funds needed for the
project.
- 84 -



Section 4.01 "Standard" wording,. The audit reports will be furnished to the Bank not later than six
months after the end of each year.
Section 4.02 "Standard" wording. The FMRs will be sent to the Bank not later than 45 days after the end
of each quarter.
Effectiveness condition. FM arrangements satisfactory to the Bank in place and operational.
Supervision Plan
A FM Specialist should perform a supervision mission prior to effectiveness. After effectiveness, the FM
Specialist must review the annual audit reports, should review the financial section of the quarterly
FMRs, and should perform at least one supervision mission per year.
3. Disbursement Arrangements
Transaction-based ("traditional") disbursement procedures will be used for the loan.
Special Account. To facilitate project implementation, each executing entity would establish, maintain
and operate a Special Account. The Special Accounts will be opened in the Banco de Guatemala
(Banguat), provided that Banguat maintains such accounts in US Dollars. Otherwise, the Special
Accounts should be opened in a commercial bank or not used.
The Special Accounts are only for eligible expenditures under the loan (under no circumstances may
funds in the Special Account be used to cover the share of expenditures corresponding to the
counterpart). Transfers from the Special Account to other bank accounts will only be permitted to meet
eligible expenditures for a limited period of less than 30 days.
Total advances to each Special Account at any given time would not exceed the "authorized allocations"
indicated in the Loan Agreement.
For replenishment of the advances, the executing entities will prepare monthly (in any case, no more than
quarterly) requests for reimbursement of expenditures made.
Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs). Loan withdrawal applications can be supported by SOEs for
expenditures relating to contracts that are not subject to the Bank's prior review (see Table B of Annex 6
to the PAD). Reimbursement of other expenditures would require submittal to the Bank of full supporting
documentation.
Documents in support of SOEs must be maintained by each executing entity at least until one year after
the Bank has received the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last loan withdrawal was made.
Such documents must be available to review by the external auditors and Bank staff.
Other procedures. Upon request from the Borrower and subject to the Bank's approval, payments may
be made: (i) directly to a third party (supplier or consultant) for goods, works, and services; (ii) to a
procurement agent; or (iii) to a commercial bank for expenditures against a World Bank Special
Commitment covering a commercial bank's letter of credit.
- 85 -



Allocation of loan proceeds (Table C)
Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
-  xpenditure Categorn       rmount 8n USS4mil11on       -nancinr   P3rncJir-:
Civil Works for:
I -(a) Main and Departmental Roads        26.89                        75%
Rehabilitation and Improvement
1-(b) Rural Roads Rehabilitation,         22.50                        75%
Improvement
1 -(c) Main/Departmental Roads             1.30                         0
Maintenance
I -(d) Rural Roads Maintenance            0.80                          0
Goods for:
2-(a) INFOM                                0.31                      80% (**)
2-(b) DGC's Central Office                 0.57                      80% (**)
Consultant Services for:
3-(a) Support for Decentralized Rural      3.65                        80%
Roads Development and INFOM
Consultants (*)
3-(b) Supervision of Works (Rural          1.00                        80%
Roads) INFOM
3-(c) Engineering Studies/Final            2.93                         80%
Designs/Project Preparation for Main
Departmental Roads, Supervision and
DGC Consultants (*)
3-(d) Works Supervision (DGC)              3.30                         80%
Total Project Costs                       63.25
Front-end fee         0.47
Total                                     63.72
(*) Including funding for: (i) audits, (ii) training, and (iii) payment of key staff in each PCU (COFINEX and UCBM)
(**) 100% if foreign goods. 80% financing applies for local goods.
-86-



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
GUATEMALA: SECOND RURAL AND MAIN ROADS PROJECT
Project'Schedule-      !      -      -       ,;,,'--'_ Planned --.             Actual
Time taken to prepare the project (months)      18
First Bank mission (identification)
Appraisal mission departure                                                  01/13/2003
Negotiations                                    09/10/2002                   03/17/2003
Planned Date of Effectiveness
Prepared by:
Ministry of Communications, Infrastructure and Housing (Ministerio de Comunicaciones, Infraestrutura
y Vivienda, MCIV) and the Municipal Development Institute (Instituto de Fomento Municipal, INFOM),
in collaboration with the World Bank.
Preparation assistance:
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
u - Name    Wimv> ., -, Sopeciality                                   i."-,
Guillermo Ruan                    Task Team Leader - World Bank
Cecilia Corvalan                  Co-Task Team Leader - Transport Economist
Sergio Miquel                     Consultant - Transport Engineer
Roberto Armijo                    Consultant - Transport Economist
Josef Stig Trommer                Financial - Operations Analyst
Hemando Garzon                    Consultant - Municipal Finances
Enrique Pinilla                   Consultant - Labor-Intensive Pilot
Jyotsna Pufi                      Consultant - Economist
Livio Pino/Manuel Vargas          Financial Management
Elena Correa                      Social Specialist
Margarita de Castro               Consultant - Social Specialist
Marco Zambrano                    Consultant - Environmental Specialist
Victor Osorio                     Consultant - Micro-enterprises Specialist
Adan Cajina                       Consultant - Procurement
Emma Cubillas                     Consultant - Procurement Analyst
Alexandra Orellana                Program Assistant
Miriam Allen                      Program Assistant
- 87 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
GUATEMALA: SECOND RURAL AND MAIN ROADS PROJECT
A. Project Implementation Plan
1. Operational Manual
2. Proyecto de Caminos Rurales: Analisis de la Capacidad Financiera Municipal H. Garzon and J.
Trommer, Antigua, Guatemala, The World Bank, 2002.
3. Preparacion del Programa de Caminos Rurales y Carreteras Principales I: Validacion del Primer
Paquete de Obras Propuesto, Guatemala City, 18-19 June 2002.
4. Preparacion del Programa de Caminos Rurales y Carreteras Principales II: Validacion del Primer
Paquete de Obras Propuesto, Guatemala City, 18-19 June 2002.
B. Bank Staff Assessments
1. Guatemala Poverty Assessment, The World Bank 2002.
2. Transport and Poverty Linkages using ENCOVI data, Guatemala 2002. J. Puri, The World Bank,
2002.
3. Estudio de Medicion de Impactos Perliminares: El Caso del Proyecto Piloto de Caminos Rurales
de San Marcos, Republic de Guatemala, BIOENERG, Guatemala, 2002.
4. Are Roads Enough: A limited Impact analysis of road works in Guatemala, 2002. J. Puri, The
World Bank, 2002.
5. Project Financial Management Assessment Report. Manuel M. Vargas, the World Bank, 2003
6. Procurement Capacity Assessment. Adan Cajina, the World Bank, 2003
7. Social Assessment. FUNCEDE, 2002
8. Environmental Assessment. Marco Zambrano, 2002
C. Other
1. Country Assistance Strategy Progress Report for the Republic of Guatemala, May 31, 2002a, The
World Bank.
2. Violent Conflict and the Transformation of Social Capital: Lessons from Cambodia, Rwanda,
Guatemala and Somalia, Nat.J. Colletta and Michelle L. Cullen, May, 2002b, The World Bank.
3. Dawson, H and I. Barwell Roads are Not Enough: New Perspectives on Rural Transport Planning
in Developing Countries, Intermediate Technology Publications, 1993.
4. Van De Walle, D and D. Cratty Impact Evaluation of a Rural Road Rehabilitation Project,
TheWorld Bank, 2002.
5. Cameiro, P., Hansen, K.T., and J. Heckman Removing the Veil of Ignorance in assessing the
Distributional Impact of Social Policies, Institute of Labor Market Evaluation, Working Paper,
2002:2
*Including electronic files
- 88 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
GUATEMALA: SECOND RURAL AND MAIN ROADS PROJECT
04-Nov-2002
Difference between expected
and actual
Onginal Amount in US$ Millions                           disbursements
Project ID    FY   Purpose                                   IBRD         IDA                        Cancel    Undisb.     Ong    Frm ReVd
P076853       2002 GT Finanal Sector TA Loan                      5 00      0 00                          0 00      5 00      0 00      0 00
P074530       2002 GT Finaroal Sector Adjustment Loan            150 00     0 00                          000     150 00      000       000
P066175       2002 GT INTEGRATED FINANCIAL MNGT III -TA          29 75      0 00                          0 00     29 75      0 00      0 00
P055084       2001 COMPETITIVENESS                               2030       000                           000      20 10      346       000
P048652       2001 GTUNIVERSALIZATIONOFBASICEDUCATI              6216       000                           000      6216       1498      000
P040198       1999 GTFISII                                       so0        0o00                          000       086      -509       000
P054462       1999 LANDFUND(APL)                                 2300       000                           000      1464      11 14      000
P049616       1999 LAND ADMINISTRATION (APL)                     31 00      000                           000      19 27      14 77     000
P049386       1999 GT RECONSTRUCTION & LOCAL DEV                 30 00      0 0o                          o 0o     20 84      17 51     0 00
P047039       1999 GTJUDICIALREFORM                              3300       000                           000      2063       1263      000
P035737       1998 RURAL & MAIN ROADS                            6670       000                           000      2594       1511      000
P048654       1996 GTTAXAOMIN TAL                                2620       000                           000      1849       1849      000
Total      52911       000                           000      38768     10300       000
- 89 -



GUATEMALA
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
Jun 30 - 2002
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                        Disbursed
IFC                             1[FC
FY Approval        Company                       Loan   Equity   Quasi    Partic  Loan   Equity    Quasi   Partic
1994               Fabngas                        1 50    000      1.00   0.00     1.50    000      1.00    0.00
2000               Frutera                        7.00    0.00    0 00     0.00    7.00    0.00     0.00    0.00
1998               La Fragua                     17.89    0.00    0.00     0.00   17.89    0.00     0.00    0.00
0/97               Orzunil                       10.71    1.17     1.17   12.37   10.71    1.17     1.17   12.37
1996               Pantaleon                      8.75    0.00    0.00     0.00    8.75    0.00    0.00     0.00
1993               Vigua                          2.06    0.00    0.00     0.00    2.06    0.00     0.00    0.00
Total Portfolio:        47.91     1.17    2.17    12.37   47.91    1.17     2.17   12.37
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval        Company                          Loan    Equity     Quasi     Partic
2002               Occidente                        0.00     10.00      0.00      0.00
2002               El Canada                        15.00     0.00      0.00     22.00
2002               Interforest                      6.00      0.00      0.00      2.00
Total Pending Comnutment:        21.00     10.00      0.00    24.00
- 90 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
GUATEMALA: SECOND RURAL AND MAIN ROADS PROJECT
Latin   Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                         America    middle-
Guatemala    & Carib.  income      Development diamond'
2001
Population, mid-year (millons)                       11 7       524     2,164                 Life expectancy
GNI per capita (Atlas method, US$)                  1,670     3,560     1,240
GNI (Atlas method, US$ billions)                     19.6     1,862     2,677
Average annual growth, 1995-01
Population (%)                                        2 6       15        1.0     GN
Labor force (%)                                       3 4       2,2       1 2                     GNI             Gross
Per taprimary
Most recant estimate (latest year available, 1995-01)                             capita                      enrollment
Poverty (% of populatlon belownatfonalpovertyline)     56
Urban population (% of total population)               40        76        46
Life expectancy at birth (years)                       65        70        69
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)               39        29        33
Child malnutritlon (% of children under 5)             44         9        11          Access to improved water source
Access to an improved water source (% of populatfon)   92        85        80
Illiteracy (% ofpopulation age 15+)                    31        11        15
GrossprImaryenrollment (%ofschool-agepopulation)      102       130       107           Guatemala
Male                                                108       131       107         - ---Lower-middle-income group
Female                                               96       128       107
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1981     1991      2000      2001
Economic ratlos'
GDP (US$ bilions)                            8.6      9 4      19.1      20.5
Gross domestic Investment/GDP               17.0     14 3       17 0     15.4
Exports of goods and services/GDP           17.1     18.0      20 3      18 6                     Trade
Gross domestic savings/GDP                  10.5     10.7        8 1      6 0
Gross national savings/GDP                  10.6     11.9       115      10 4
Current account balance/GDP                  -6 7     -2.7     -5 5       -6 0    Domestic
Internest payments/GDP                       0 7      1.2       0 8       0 9     sains                       Investment
Total debt/GDP                              14 9     32.9      16 8      174      savings
Total debt service/exports                   8 7     15.3      16 9      18 2
Present value of debttGDP                      ..              15 8
Present value of debt/exports                                  64.9
Indebtedness
1981-91  199141      2000      2001   2001-05
(average annual growth)
GDP                                 1.4      4.1      36        21        34          -Guatemala
GDP per capita                     -11       1.3      0.9      -0 6       0.8               Lower-middle-income group
Exports of goods and services       0.1      6 3      3 9       0 0       5 9
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1981     1991      2000      2001      Growth of Investment and GDP (%)
(% of GDP)
Aqnculture                                  25 0     25 7      22.8      22 6
Industry                                    21 7     19 6      19.8      19 5     20
Manufactunnq                               16 0     14 9      13.2      13.1
Services                                    53 3     54.7      57 4      57 9      o
Pnvate consumption                          81 6     83 9      84.9      86 2     -20
General qovemment consumption                7 9      5 4       7.0       7 7                     0GD          GDP
Imports of goods and services               23 6     21 6      29 2      28 0                     G
1981-91  199141       2000      2001      Growth of exports and imports (%)
(average annual g26wth)
AIdculture                                  10.7                 2 6      1.2     30 
Indusatur                                    07       41        195       04      20 
Manufacturmin                              0 7      2 7        1 9       1 4       I 
Services                                     1 6      4.6       4 6       3 1
Private consumption                          1.7      4 1       3 5       2.5
General qovemment consumpton                 2 6      5.5       7 6       8.1    -so
Gross domestc investment                     0 1      5 1       4 2       -2 6              -Exports       9Imports
Imports of qoods and services                0 8      8 4       61        0.2
Note 2001 data are prehmnary esbtmates
* The diamonds show lour key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average If data are missing, the diamond will be incomplete
-91-



Guatemala
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1981     1991      2000     2001      Inflation (%)
Domestic prices
(% change)                                                                        15
Consumer pnces                               11 4    33 1        6 0      7.3
Implicit GDP deflator                        8 5     33 0        5 9      6 5
Central Govemment finance
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                               o 
Current revenue                                       9.0       10.4     11 3             96    97    98    99    00    01
Current budqet balance                         ..      1.5       1.8      1.9                  GDP deflator    CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                               -0 5      -2.4     -2 4                 -GDP d_fla_or  CP        _
TRADE
(IJS$ milions)                              1981     1991      2000     2001       Export and Import levels (US$ mIll.)
Total exports (fob)                            ..   1,298      3,085    2,865     soo
Coffee                                        .     287        573      307
Suqar                                               141        180      213
Manufactures                                  .     692      1.907     1,911
Total imports (ci)                              .    1,851     5,171    5,607
Food                                          ..    264      1,085     1,359    t
Fuelandenerqy                                       311        540      596                           XI
Capital goods                                 .     430      1,417     1,353       o.
Expontprice index (1995=-100)                 1 1      70       141       140           s     S   9     9   9     0   0
Importpnceindex(1995=100)                     13       76       135       141                  OExports      DlIrports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                     85       93       104       100
BALANCE ot PAYMENTS
(LJSS radllons)                             1981     1991      2000      2001      Current account balance to GOP(%)
Exports of goods and services               1,446    1,727     3,896    3,778 o
Imports of goods and services              2,024    2,030      5,601    5,923
Resource balance                            -578     -302     -1,705    -2.145    *2
Net income                                    -86    -174      -209       -90
Net current transfers                         90      220       865       997      4
Current account balance                      -574    -256     -1,049    -1,238    *6
Financing items (net)                        273      812      1,777    1,738
Chanqes in net reserves                      301     -556      -728      -500      6 -.
Memo:
Reserves includinqgqold (USS millions)       172      419      1,811    2,260
Conversion rate (DEC, local/UJS$)             1.0      50        7.8       79
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1981     1991      2000      2001
(US$ milloins)                                                                     Composition of 2001 debt (USS mill.)
Total debt outstandinq and disbursed        1,278    3,092     3,218     3,567
IBRD                                       171      279       296       330     |
IDA                                          0        0         0         0312                        A330
Total debt service                           136      290       786       855
IBRD                                        16       31        34        34
IDA                                          0        0         0         0
Composition of net resource flows                                                   F 1,029  -'
Offictal grants                             12       72        85        93
Official creditors                         169       46        94        84                       4         . D 1,340
Pnvate creditors                           110       -7        33       106
Foreign direct investment                  127       91       230       456
Portfolio equity                             0        0         0         0                 E 556
World Bank program
Commitments                                  0        0         54       62      A- IBRD                    E - elateral
Disbursements                               35        4        51        46      8 - IDA  0 - Other multilateral  F - Pnvate
Principal repayments                         7       21        13        12      C - IMF                    G - Short-ternm
Net flows                                   28      -17        38        35
Interest payments                            9        9        21        22
Net transfers                               18      -26        17        12
ueveiopment tconomics                                     --                                                        Yl ;.Vuw
-92 -



Additional Annex 11: San Marcos Rural Roads Pilot Project
Description and Impact Assesment
GUATEMALA: SECOND RURAL AND MAIN ROADS PROJECT
Background
Guatemala's road network is estimated to be approximately 30,000 km, although the MCIV currently
classifies only 14,000 kms of roads, most of which are national or departmental roads and are in a
"maintainable" condition. Rural roads account for more than 60% of this network. Historically however
these roads have been neglected, because of a variety of reasons: Firstly because rural roads were not part
of the 'classified' road network of the DGC. Funds for road works, whether construction or rehabilitation
or maintenance thus could not be allocated to roads that simply 'did not exist'. Secondly, 35 years of
civil strife have led to a marginalization of the poor and frequently indigenous populations that live in
remote areas. Civil war has also fostered a deep distrust for the government along with a widespread
perception of exclusion. This has implied that populations inhabiting these areas are frequently not vocal
enough to ask for changes in infrastructure. Thirdly, not incidentally these areas are also extremely poor.
This has implied that inhabitants are usually not educated enough or aware of their rights. Finally, civil
strife has also led to an erosion of social fabric which has translated into a critical lack of social cohesion
whether within communities or amongst them. This has meant a lack of community action, otherwise so
vital to undertake any community works.
All these factors have led to the presence of a rural road network desperately in need of rehabilitation and
maintenance. Recognizing this, Loan 4260-GU was signed in 1998, and has the following core
objectives:
*   Rehabilitating the municipal 'core' road network of the Association of Municipalities,
ADIMAM, which is 481 km. long;
*   Rehabilitating roads under the Road Directorate that connect association's 'core' network to
the main road network of Guatemala. In the first two years of implementation, the Project
rehabilitated approximately 200 km of the 'core' network;
*   Rehabilitating road sections critical to improving access to remote communities; and
*   Undertaking improvement of 'critical spots' or spots which are rendered impassable during
specific times of the year-usually the rainy season.
Institutional Framework
The mainstay of the Pilot project was the creation of an association formed by 12 municipalities in the
San Marcos region. Association de Desarollo Integral de Altiplano Marquense or ADIMAM was thus
formed in 1997. The goal of the association is to prusue development in the area by seeking solutions to
issues of common interest, particularly municipal roads. The twelve municipalities which form the
association, form an asembly of representatives of each municipality (usually a mayor or a councilor).
The goal behind the formation of the ADIMAM is to enable communities to decide their own
development path. In this case, selecting, financing and sustaining road rehabilitation in the ZONAPAZ
(Zone of Peace - as the project area came to be called) was entrusted to the ADIMAM. ADIMAM has
two main roles. The first is financial: Each member municipality of the ADIMAM annually grants an
amount of Q70,000 to the organization's budget. It also contributes 15% of the total cost of any road
rehabilitation work. It is expected that this component of the budget will steadily increase so that by the
- 93 -



end, ADIMAM is able to completely finance all road works. The second task is organizational: In order
to fulfill its technical and administrative tasks, ADLMAM has initiated the formation of two counseling
bodies. These are UTAV and FVR or Unidad Tecnica de Asistencia Vial and Fondo Vial Regional
respectively.
UTAV till recently was constituted by a Guatemalan consulting firm. However in April 2002, UTAV
was headed by a 3 person team of local professionals (2 engineers and 1 economist) trained by the
consulting firm. Responsibilities of UTAV are as follows:
o   Providing technical assistance in negotiating and contracting road projects within
ADMIMAM;
o   Providing advice for the selection and prioritization of roads in the project area;
o   Assist technically in the road rehabilitation and maintenance techniques and communicating
progress to the center;
o   Updating the "Operational Manual" for the implementation of the pilot and for contracting
consultants and others for road rehabilitation and maintenance; and
o   Aiding in the preparation of a national rural transport strategy.
It is foreseen that the replication of this set up in other areas, as proposed in the RMRP will create a
market for private sector firms in the provision of road management services.
There are also other advisory agencies. At the center, INFOM is responsible for implementation of the
institutional structure at the municipal level. It is also a national level agency in charge of municipal
development and training and serves as an advisor to ADJvIAM. INFOM assists ADIMAM by
performing four important functions:
o   Channeling funds: Bank funds are transferred to INFOM;
o   Technical assistance: INFOM with the help of DGC, provides technical assistance and
training to the association in accounting and in supervising and monitoring UTAV;
o   Training: INFOM has long experience in training local governments and communities and
works closely with ADIMAM to enhance their capacity to generate, plan and manage local
resources; and
o   Overall component management:
The other agency which has a supervisory and managing role to play in the project is the DGC. The DGC
is the central sector agency for roads, and serves as an advisor to ADIMAM.
Execution of the SMRRPP has been divided into four package of works. Each package aims to
rehabilitated approxiamtely 85 km. annually, with widths not exceeding 4.5 meters. These works also
include repair or provision of drainage works and installation of informative and preventive transit
signals. Currently, the third package is being executed. Road works are entrusted to small and
medium-sized local enterprises and it is emphasized that works to be labor intensive to the extent
possible.
-94 -



Criteria for Selection of Rural Roads
Rural roads cannot be selected using the same criteria used for high traffic volume roads such as
highways. For the latter, the net present value or the internal rate of return is used (as incorporated in the
RED model or the HDM model). However rural roads by definition connect poor areas, and have low
traffic volumes. On the other hand, their selection cannot be random either. At the same time, the
selection of road segments should be exempt from subjective and political interests. The objective of
undertaking road rehabilitation implicitly assumes that road works will be targeted at the most deserving
road segments and at those that are most beneficial in terms of alleviating poverty and realizing economic
gains. It is also true that road works should be technically feasible. Hence any index of selection should
be multi-sectoral- they should contain an assortment of technical, social and economic parameters. On
the ground, such an index cannot however ignore political reality and equity considerations. Thus it is
apparent that if 12 municipalities are members of ADIMAM, all of these municipalities must have some
road segments which are rehabilitated.
Taking all these factors into consideration, the ISV or the Indice de Seleccion Vial was developed (See
Annex 4). The index is used for the selection of roads which experience AADT of less than 40 vehicles
per day.
Methodology
The WDR 2000 (World Development Report) also states that the impacts from investments in public
goods, have a long gestation period. Their effects on income distribution and welfare come about only
after a long period of time and are indirect as well, so that it is not easy to see their impact.
Achievements
The Department of San Marcos is located in the northern region of Guatemala, and is constituted by 29
municipalities. In 2000, its estimated population was 825,000 (approximately 7.5% of the national total).
The project covers an approximate area of 3,791 square kilometers and its elevation ranges from 2000
meters to 3000 meters above sea level. Population of the participating communities constitute a little less
than half of the departmental population.
Table 11.1: Population and Number of Communities of the Participa ting Municipalities:
No              MUNICIPALITY               No. of Communities   Population in 1999.
1    Sibinal                                     39                  14,647
2    Tejuela                                     56                  31,089
3    Tacand                                      128                 68,891
4     San Lorenzo                                15                  11,082
5    Comitancillo                                65                  47,457
6    San Miguel Ixtahuacan                       92                  32,480
7    San Cristobal Ixchigudn                     38                  19,982
____ _Tajumulco                                  112                 41,067
9    S_pacapa                                    38                  15,415
10    Concepci6n Tutuapa                         85                  58,602
it    San Jose Ojetenam                          48                  18,359
12    San Marcos                                 41                  35,403
=_Totals                                    757                 394,474
Source. Uses base population figures and rates of growth from the 1994 census (SEGEPLAN, Guatemala).
- 95 -



The SMRRPP has achieved the following targets to this date:
o   Rehabilitation of 188.2 km.
o   Routine maintenance of 77.3 km.
O   Creation and strengthening of ADIMAM.
O   Establishment and consolidation of UTAV and FVR.
O   Strengthening of the technical capabilities of INFOM.
O   Creation of systems that allow the updating of information on rural roads, between MCIV
and INFOM.
llmpacts
The project benefits a population of approximately 400,000 inhabitants and covers a total of
approximately 760 communities. According to a preliminary impact analysis conducted by Bionerg
(Bionerg was the national consulting firm in charghe of UTAV activities during the first 2 years of
project implementation), road works have implied a series of advantages for the target communities, most
of which are attributable to the Pilot Project.
The main achievement of the San Marcos Pilot Project has been to ensure that local knowledge and needs
infuse the decision making process. In bringing together municipalities that would otherwise plan and
work in disparate ways and which were compelled to think short-term and on a small scale, the
association has been able to provide the people in the participating municipalities a voice at the local and
central governmental level. The association has ensured that the peoples of the municipalities cooperate
not just on road building but also in procuring other projects and services from the Central Government.
The pilot has also succeeded in ensuring that needs and demands be backed by financial capability and
planning.
Community development. One of the main objectives of the Pilot Project is the creation of an
institutional arrangement for managing and financing rural roads. This is consistent with the
Government's general policy of decentralization. With the capacity to determine the extent and location
of the road segments which will benefit from road works and in generating employment through the use
of labor intensive means, the project represents a unique effort in power devolution in the country.
The project has also provided critical support for building technical capacity in the department. The
technical arm of the association has been instrumental in developing the capacity of INFOM for
coordinating rural transport development efforts. The technical unit (UTAV) provides support needed by
the association by identifying roads constituting the core network and assessing costs.
Physical Infrastructure. An initial impact analysis was undertaken roughly 14 months after the start of
the project which compared "beneficiary communities" (communities that benefited from some
road-related works and are part of the association's municipalities) with "non-beneficiary communities"
(communities that did not benefit from any road-related works financed under the project). This analysis
demonstrated that rural road works have resulted in improved access to public transport infrastructure.
Beneficiary communities registered a 24 percent increase in the number of vehicles passing through the
community and a 13 percent increase in the number of people using public transport-specifically
autobuses and pickups-over non-beneficiary communities. Thirteen percent of respondents believe that
the total number of bus lines has increased and 30 percent noted an increase in the weekly household
- 96-



expenditures on transportation. All these impacts indicate that rural road works in the department have
increased the supply of transportation facilities which had otherwise been constrained by road quality.
100      Impact of Road Works on People's Perceptions, San Marcos, Guatemala 2002.
90
80
70
*43 60                                         C
5o A0
2 20
to
0
Inc in volume of Decreased travel  Improved  More lines of  % using public
Vehicular Traffic  tme to nearest  condiuon of  public transport  transport
E3 Beneficiary community  community  public transport  * Differences over 2 years, significant at
ONon-beneficiary communy  Attributes of Road-related Infastructure* the 5% level  Source BIOENERG
Socio-economic Impacts. Health: The World Health Organization defines a household as having
" 'access' to a health facility" if members of the household have to travel less than an hour to reach the
health facility. The ENCOVI 2000 reveals that for the department, 25 percent of respondents did not
have access to a health facility. On average though, people take about 50 minutes to reach a health
facility. In the impact study, beneficiary communities indicate a greater presence of and easier access to
health services. In non-beneficiary communities, most residents 'did not have access' to health services
since the time taken to reach a health facility in the non-beneficiary communities was almost an hour.
Education: Not many households in San Marcos pay for their children to reach a pre-primary school or
kindergarten. However, for children attending a primary school or higher, 4 percent of the households in
the department pay an average of 60 Quetzals' a month for school transportation and travel times are less
than 20 minutes. Target communities also seem to have a greater incidence of schools than non-target
communities, but it is difficult to attribute a causal relationship here.
Gender: Rural road works have had significant impacts in the mobility of women and road-rehabilitation
induced interaction has also resulted in attitude changes towards them. 17 percent more people in
beneficiary communities responded that there had been an increase in the number of women who use
means of transport like pick-ups and trucks, to reach their destinations. Women in the non-beneficiary
communities, usually walk. In beneficiary communities there is also greater openness to women using
health centers, going to markets and to working in road-related maintenance works. Beneficiary
communities showed 72 percent more households had women in the house receiving some education.
Quality of Life Most of the households in the department use wood as the principal fuel for cooking.
Initial surveys reveal that inhabitants spend almost 2 hours on average to go and collect wood, with 30
percent of households spending more than 4 hours. Since most families collect wood once every two
days, this represents a major time constraint. The impact analysis indicates that there has been a small yet
significant decline in the time taken to acquire wood.
- 97 -



Rural road works undertaken mainly as part of the pilot have also resulted in a small but significant
decrease in the time taken to reach nearby communities, facilitating greater interaction and more
cohesiveness amongst them. There has also been an almost 20 percent decline in the time spent to reach
work, even though the average time taken to reach the work place in San Marcos is lower than the
national average, little more than 40 minutes one-way.
Expanding the Scope of Road Improvement
The poor condition of roads in rural areas of Guatemala makes it difficult to deliver public services to the
rural population and constitutes a major disincentive to increased rural productivity and incomes. By
setting up a decentralized institution the project has enabled municipalities to reap the benefits of scale.
Further, due to the success of the project in ensuring decentralization and in empowering communities in
San Marcos, the Bank and the GoG are preparing a proposal for a rural roads project which will replicate
the San Marcos project in the Department of Huehuetenango.
The success of the San Marcos pilot suggests that replicating it in other departments will improve the
availability and affordability of rural transport services in the newly targeted departments also. The
Department of Huehuetenango is simnilar geographically, and is as poor and deprived of rural transport
infrastructure and services as San Marcos. By replicating the San Marcos project in Huehuetenango, the
Bank will also be pursuing the objectives of the World Development Report in providing opportunities,
increasing empowerment and reducing vulnerability.
Table 11.2: Statistics on Transportation and Access to Basic Amenities for Guatemala, 2000
Urban              Rural       San Marcos**
Guatemala*         Guatemala*
% HHs without Motorable roads                                            15               16
% HHs without Public Transport                                          61               63
% HHs experiencing Road Closures                                         27               14
Time taken to get Water (mins.)                                          13               15
Distance traveled to get Water (kms).                                    0.3             0.4
Time taken to get wood (mins.)                                           68               79
Distance traveled to get Wood (kms.)                                     1.5              1.4
Time taken to reach a Health facility (mins.)                            55               49
Time taken to reach Work Place (mins.)                                   43               29
Distance traveled to reach a Market (kms.)                               II               8
Time taken to reach a Market (mins.)                                     61               72
Without San Marcos ** Predominantly rural. Source: World Bank calculations using ENCOVI 2000.
This was however not the first initiative. In 1984. the USAID and the World Bank co-funded a project "Rural Road Building" via Loan
L520-T026 The aim of the project was to build and maintain existing ones in the departments of Huehuetenango, Quiche, Totonicapan,
Quetzaltenango. San Marcos, Coban, Chimaltenango and Chiquimula However the objective soon became to rehabilitate roads with high
volumes of traffic. The project however soon ran into several difficulties and did not lead to, as had been previously planned, the development of
a rural road conservation and maintenance strategy. In 1996, MCIV left the program and moved the procured equipment to DGC, who then
undertook some road works.
7.88 Quetzales = US$I approximately (June 24, 2002)
-98 -



Additional Annex 12: Pilot Project on Maintenance Micro-enterprises
GUATEMALA: SECOND RURAL AND MAIN ROADS PROJECT
I.     Background
As part of its objective to improve maintenance management and funding, the proposed Rural Roads
Project will include a pilot project introducing Micro-enterprises (MEs) for undertaking routine
maintenance of rural roads. The pilot project will carry out routine maintenance of 350 km of rural
roads rehabilitated under the previous Rural and Main Roads Project, (Loan 4260-GU). This rural roads
rehabilitation program was successfully managed by ADIMAM and closely monitored by INFOM. The
executing agency for this pilot component will be INFOM through its Project Coordination Unit (UCP).
Consistent with the objective of strengthening local capacity and decentralizing the administration of
rural road maintenance, INFOM will be the executing agency for the proposed pilot project and
ADIMAM will be responsible for executing the pilot project.
The idea of performing routine road maintenance by contracting with cooperatives or associations of
members of the neighboring communities, organized as MEs, started in 1984 in Colombia, under the
Eighth Highway Sector Loan (2121-CO). The pilot program involved 28 MEs and was highly successful.
Each association was formed, on average, by 12 associates and was entrusted with the routine
maintenance of approximately 50 km main road segments. Financed under subsequent Bank loans and
local resources, the program increased in 1992, to a total of 398 MEs performing 84 percent of the
routine maintenance of the National Road Network, which comprised about 23,000 km in 1992. The
decentralization of approximately 50 percent of the National Road Network to the departments in 1994,
brought about a partial discontinuation of the system. Currently, 11,500 km, comprising 85 percent of
routine maintenance of the National Network in Colombia, is carried out by MEs.
This model has been successfully replicated for undertaking routine maintenance of primary and paved
secondary roads in Honduras and Nicaragua as well for unpaved rural roads in Peru. Regarding the
maintenance of unpaved roads using microenterprises, the proposed project has attempted to incorporate
the lesson learned from the Peru program to replicate this program in Guatemala. As part of project'
preparation, representatives of the Bank, INFOM, and ADIMAM, and project consultants visited Peru.
As a result, a number of similar guidelines used in developing the legal and regulatory framework
governing MEs, the promotion of MEs, forming ME, selecting ME associates, and eligibility criteria for
selecting ME associates have been incorporated in the pilot project.
This extensive experience has proven that these programs for performing routine maintenance of roads
by MEs have been highly satisfactory and extremely cost effective. In addition, MEs provide many
advantages compared to traditional approaches, which include the following: (i) MEs succeed in creating
permanent and reliable employment in rural areas, especially in extreme poverty areas; (ii) MEs foster
community awareness regarding the need for sustainable development; (iii) MEs and its associates have
developed entrepreneurial and organizational skills, which have empowered the MEs to undertake other
productive projects and local development initiatives; (iv) the ME model has provided large spillover
effects of benefits into neighboring communities; and (v) most importantly, MEs have gained the
acceptance and support of communities and government officials, encouraging the development of
similar initiatives in other sectors.
-99-



IL     Objectives
The specific objectives of the pilot project are to: (i) establish a system of associative MEs to undertake
satisfactory and cost-effective routine maintenance of rural roads rehabilitated in the San Marcos Region
under the Bank Rural and Main Roads Project (4260-GU); and (ii) promote this approach for expansion
to other regions of Guatemala.
In addition to these specific objectives, the pilot project addresses the following socio-economic
objectives: (i) alleviate rural poverty by generating new employment opportunities in disadvantaged
communities; (ii) develop technical and managerial skills among its members; (iii) endow ME associates
with an entrepreneurial mentality to foster their own economic progress and participate in local and
regional development efforts; (iv) promote greater community participation in solving transport
problems; and (v) advance the concept that roads exist for the benefit of the entire population and should
be maintained in a sustainable manner by the community with the support of the local and central
government.
1[H.   Pilot Project Scope
The pilot project will undertake routine maintenance of all roads rehabilitated in the San Marcos region
under Loan 4260-GU, other rural roads in the area detected to be suitable for maintenance, and some
main roads under the responsibility of the DGC that provide road linkages to some ADIMAM municipal
seats. Although the total length of roads that will receive routine maintenance is still under review, an
estimated 350 km would require the participation of nearly 20 MEs, who will be responsible for an
average of 17.5 km each. On average, each ME will consist of 10 associates. MEs will be contracted and
paid by ADIMAM through its Regional Road Fund or FVR (Fondo Vial Regional). Special agreements
will be reached between DGC, COVIAL, and ADIMAM for administering and funding routine
maintenance activities of roads under the jurisdiction of the DGC.
IV.    Action Plan for the Implementation of the Project Scope
The actions required to ensure the satisfactory preparation and implementation of the proposed pilot
project are described below.
1. Engagement of a Project Coordinator. INFOM has designated an experienced officer of
UCBM to coordinate all efforts for the preparation of the ME pilot project. However, to satisfy
efficiently the higher demands of this job during project implementation, the designated officer
should, in due time, be relieved of his other duties, or be replaced by another suitable person.
2. Assembly of a Work Group. The members of ADIMAM's Technical Road Unit (UTAV,
Unidad Tecnica de Asistencia Vial) will later be assigned to supervise maintenance activities carried
out by MEs and will participate in a Working Group comprised of JINFOM, DGC, and the Technical
Institute for Training and Productivity (INTECAP, Instituto Tecnico de Capacitacion y
Productividad). The total number of supervisors in UTAV will be determined once the scope of the
program is fully defined.
3. Definition of ME Legal Status. The legal status of the MEs is of critical importance because it
should comply with the concept of "associate" work. "Associate" work implies that all members will
be collectively and simultaneously owners and workers of the enterprise with equal rights and
obligations, without discrimination. In other countries, MEs have been given the legal status of
cooperatives or free associations. Exhaustive investigations carried out by the preparation mission
and by INFOM have shown that none of the above alternatives can be used in Guatemala because of
- 100 -



the legal requirement of a starting capital and the relatively slow bureaucratic process required for
their creation (estimated at more than six months). After studying eight different alternatives,
INFOM's Director for Municipal Strengthening and his legal council recommended that the
associative MEs should adopt the legal status of a "Not for Profit Civil Association" (Asociaci6n
Civil sin fines de lucro) established by Government Decree 512/98 dated July 29, 1998. Such
associations satisfy all requirements described above and need only municipal authorization for their
establishment. Draft by-laws for these associations are beeing discussed between INFOM and
ADIMAM, and should be sent to the Bank for review before June 30, 2003.
4. Preparation and Signing of an Agreement INFOM-INTECAP. It is envisioned that technical
assistance for preparing and implementing the pilot project will be supplied by INTECAP in
accordance with an agreement to be signed with INFOM. A draft agreement has been prepared and
discussed with both parties. The agreed draft should be sent to the Bank for approval before June 30,
2003. This agreement foresees: (i) the organization of a seminar to train and prepare promoters to
assist the communities in forming MEs; (ii) the provision of personnel training during project
preparation and implementation; and (iii) the preparation of the required manuals and guidelines such
as: (i) Manual for the Promotion and Configuration of MEs; (ii) Methodology Guidelines for
Promotion and Training of Micro-entrepreneurs for road Maintenance; (iii) Basic Manual of
Entrepreneurial Management; and (iv) Technical Manual for Routine Maintenance of Rural Roads.
The agreement also foresees the creation of an Interagency Work Committee integrated by INFOM,
INTECAP, DGC and ADIMAM and nominates their respective representatives.
5. Selecting and Hiring Promoters. The Promoters (maximum 3) will be engaged to assist in
promoting MEs among involved communities. They will also aid in selecting qualified candidates as
members, in creating MEs and in delineating their final organization. It is envisioned that INFOM
will determine if qualified candidates for promoters are available among its regular institutional
social workers. In their absence, INTECAP will aid in devising procedures for their selection.
Promoter candidates will comply with the following conditions:
*   University or technical degree, particularly in the social area, with at least 2 year experience
in promotional and organizational work with communities;
*   Adaptability for group work;
*   Interest in social work among the dispossessed population;
*   Interest in working in isolated communities away from city amenities;
*   Capacity for leadership and personal communication;
*   Capability to coordinate interdisciplinary actions; and
*   Residence or prior experience in the region.
The main responsibilities of the promoters will be to:
*   Visit the area of influence of the roads maintained by each ME;
*   Determine the availability of qualified candidates for ME membership in their coverage
areas;
*   Identify natural leaders in the communities;
- 101 -



o   Promote the general microenterprise concept without creating false expectations;
o   Motivate and mobilize suitable individuals to participate in events aimed at creating cohesive
groups that demonstrate entrepreneurial proclivities;
o   Promote the associative concept to potential micro-entrepreneurs;
o   Promoting the auto-selection of members of MEs, while being careful to not influence the
process of selection;
o   Coordinate and participate in training potential micro-entrepreneurs in legal, administrative,
accounting, financial, contract, and social security aspects, as well as in their rights and
duties as associates, workers and owners of their enterprise;
o   Assist MEs in preparing their governing statutes and internal work regulation;
o   Assist legal representative of MEs in all required legal procedures;
o   Coordinate all activities of the Work Group and the Institutional Committee with MEs; and
o   Prepare monthly reports to the Project Coordinator.
6. Monitoring of project roads and ME groupings. Before starting the promotion campaign, the
Work Group should inspect all roads to be included in the pilot project to assess the maintenance
activities required and the suitability of the grouping proposed during the preparation of the project
The most practical final grouping of roads and the number of MEs required for their maintenance, as
well as the real requirements of transportation, should be defined.
7. Preparation of Didactic Material. INFOM and INTECAP should jointly prepare, edit and
publish the didactic materials required for the seminar to train promoters. This would include, in
particular, developing a Manual for the Promotion and Configuration of MEs and a bulletin that
summarizes in a relatively straightforward manner the objectives to be achieved by creating
associative MEs for routine maintenance of rural roads. This publication, which will include
pictures, drawings and graphics, will be aimed mainly to the potential micro-entrepreneurs, but
should also be suitable for general dissemination to better acquaint the public with the anticipated
benefits of the project. The content of this bulletin should include general information on the projects
origin, nature of the associative MEs, tasks to be performed, procedures for contracting and
supervision and social benefits expected to be achieved.
8. Training Seminar for Promoters. This activity will be undertaken simultaneously with the
hiring of Promoters. INFOM and INTECAP should coordinate and carry out the training seminar for
the promoters, which would be shared by the members of the Work Group and by representatives of
ADIMAM and DGC. The main subjects to be included in the Seminar are:
o   Introduction of the participating agencies;
o   Introduction of the pilot project of associative MEs for routine maintenance of rural roads;
o   Socio-economic characteristics of the country and project region (Altiplano Marquense);
o   General characteristics of associative MEs;
o   Prior experience with associative MEs for road Maintenance;
o   Methodology for participative community work (importance of "on the job training");
- 102 -



* Methodology for the promotion, creation and consolidation of associative MEs;
* Technical aspects of the ME pilot project;
* Contract between MEs and the executing agency and ADIMAM;
* Maintenance activities to be carried out by the MEs;
* Legal Status of the MEs;
*   Administrative structure of the MEs;
* Accounting aspects of the MEs;
* Social aspects of the MEs (social objectives, operational scope and services);
* Institutional legal obligations; and
* Field experience (direct contact with one or more communities, project presentation,
identification of natural leaders, diagnosis of individuals and of the community, meeting with
potential micro-entrepreneurs).
9. Promotion of MEs. The trained promoters would carry out the field work within their respective
assigned areas. Promoters would be responsible for: (i) contacting the population clusters in the areas
covered by each ME; (ii) prepare a diagnostic of the target community and of the potential candidates
for ME membership; (iii), explain the project objectives and the role of the MEs, (iv) assist in the
selection of eligible individuals until ME can carry out this activity on its own, and (v) establish a
provisional organization that can be turned into a full-fledged ME. The candidates for ME
membership should comply with the following profile:
* Adult men or females residing in the targeted communities, preferably head of families;
* Interest in participatory community activities;
*   Experience in activities similar to road maintenance or willingness to participate in training
courses offered by the program;
* Physical condition suitable for performing strenuous work related to road maintenance;
* Leadership and adaptability to group work; and
* No criminal records.
10. Creation of MEs. Once the potential members have selected themselves and have formed a
provisional organization, the promoters in conjunction with all involved agencies would begin
training of ME members. These activities would include:
* Defining the operational structure and composition of MEs;
* Describing the advantages for its members and scope of work;
*   Prior experience in Guatemala with similar organizations;
* Foreign experience with associative MEs for road Maintenance;
* Scope and characteristics of the pilot project in San Marcos;
* Defining the legal status of the MEs to be created in Guatemala, functions and
- 103-



responsibilities, including the legal requisites and procedures for incorporation;
o   Enterprise management: organization, administration, accounting, internal charter and
regulation, documentation, filing, invoicing, budgeting, etc.;
o   Implementing of routine maintenance activities;
o   Formulating small projects, preparation of cost estimates;
o   Elaborating training methodologies;
o   Imparting the importance of, and methods for effective communication;
o   Integrating women into project activities;
o   Imparting the importance of associative and community oriented work;
o   Simple methods for self-evaluation; and
o   Basic teachings on sustainability and environmental impact of road works.
After completing the training and with the assistance of the promoter, the provisional MEs would
hold its Founding General Assembly, elect the internal authorities prescribed by law, approve the
prepared Statutes and Internal Regulations and initiate the proceedings required for legalization of
the MEs.
11. Unit Cost per Km.-Year for Routine Maintenance through MEs. Preliminary cost estimates
have been determined in relation to the minimum wage for rural areas for uniforms, tools, safety
accessories, basic social insurance or insurance against labor accidents, and occasional transport
costs to the work side. Since the total scope of rural roads to be included in the project and the
groupings of roads have not yet been determined, cost estimates were estimated for typical routine
maintenance of a group of rural roads totaling 20 km performed by a ME of 10 members, resulting in
an average annual cost of US$700 per km. On an aggregate basis, the maintenance of 350 km of rural
roads would cost about approximately US$245,000 per year.
12. Additional Costs to be considered. Additional costs that should be considered to deterrnine the
total cost of the pilot project include: (i) publications and training costs, about US$150,000; (ii)
initial cost of two promoters for five months US$15,000; (iii) one promoter for 12 additional months
US$15,000; (iv) supervision costs, estimated at US$40,000 per year; and (v) US$50,000 for the
engagement of a foreign expert on maintenance MEs, for periodical assistance, particularly during
the initial stage and later periodical project evaluations. All these costs should be reviewed as soon as
the final project scope is defined.
13. Annual Work Program of each MIlE. ADIMAM's technical road unit UTAV should undertake
a detailed inspection of the roads assigned to the MEs as well as elaborate the type and scope of
routine maintenance activities required. Once the requirements Qf all roads included in the group are
defined, it would be necessary to prepare a Monthly and Annual Work Program for each ME.
Beginning in the first year of project implementation, supervision of the ME performance would be
carried out to ensure compliance of each of their respective annual work programs. Based on the
experience of the first or of subsequent years, UTAV would review the viability of supervising
routine maintenance activities through compliance with Quality Standards for each activity.
14. Model of Contract with MEs. INFOM and ADIMAM should prepare a model contract to be
signed by all MEs. This model should avoid establishing a direct labor relation between the MEs and
- 104 -



ADIMAM and should define clearly ME obligations, the supervision system, payment procedures,
potential penalties or retentions in case of non-compliance, warranties, etc. ADIMAM
representatives have suggested that the contracts should cover a four year period to avoid political
interference during municipal elections, which are carried out every four years. This extended period
would have the additional advantage of ensuring longer permanency of ME personnel that has
received special and intensive training. The legal council hired to define the appropriate Legal Status
of the MEs, should also be entrusted with the responsibility of preparing the model contract.
15. Contract Signing and Execution. The incorporation of each ME should be coordinated by the
Work Group responsible for the preparation of the corresponding annual work program and the
respective contract. Execution of the maintenance program should start as soon as possible after
signing and the formalization of the contract.
16. Supervision of ME Performance. ADIMAM, through UTAV, would monitor and supervise the
implementation of the agreed Annual Work Programs and compliance with Quality Standards.
Specifically, UTAV would oversee the execution of maintenance activities, signing of the monthly
performance statements, submission of monthly payment forms, imposition of penalties, retentions or
discounts according to the contract, adjustments of monthly work programs, and all other activities
expected from an efficient supervising organization.
17. Program Evaluation. An internal evaluation should take place at the end of the promotion and
the establishment period for MEs and on a yearly or half-yearly basis to discuss the achievements,
difficulties, and lessons learned in the implementation of the program. These evaluations would be
aimed at fine-tuning the program and at preparing similar programs in other regions of the country.
18. Follow up and Technical Assistance to Ensure Consolidation of MEs. All institutions
involved in project execution (INFOM, ADIMAM, INTECAP and DGC) should follow up on the
development of MEs. This would be governed by signed joint agreements that would establish the
type and scope of activities, the required level of follow-up required, and the resources devoted in
achieving this objective. These efforts should center on periodic evaluations and the provision of
technical assistance to solve potential problems and promote system-wide synergies.
19. Lessons learned from previous projects. The ME pilot project draws heavily from best
practices in the region. In particular, many of the lessons learned have been drawn from the ME
program in Peru, which used MEs to regularly maintain unpaved rural roads and has demonstrated to
be sustainable in the medium-term. In this manner, the proposed pilot project is based on the
following principles and experiences from earlier Bank projects in the region, which is described in
greater detail in the subsequent paragraphs:
*   Balancing poverty alleviation and the promotion of economic opportunity with improving
rural access. One of the main principles of a poverty alleviation strategy lies in the
recognition that sustainable solutions rest on encouraging income generation opportunities.
In this manner, the ME strategy is strongly oriented toward poverty reduction. However, ME
should not be viewed as a welfare program, but as a cost-effective way of carrying out road
maintenance activities to ensure that the benefits from improved access do not disappear over
time. The fragile dynamics of local development require close monitoring of benefit
distribution effects. No matter how deeply rooted in the community, support for MEs decline
over time, if communities perceive that they are not benefiting from the ME program. This
underscores the importance of complementary local development initiatives and the
development of an exit strategy that provides opportunities to other members of the
- 105 -



community once the ME (or its associates) have developed enough capacity to continue on
their own without direct project support. Based on international experience, ME programs
have tended to serve as catalysts for local development initiatives, create temporary
employment, and provided complementary income generation opportunities.
o   Financial and operational requirements of MEs. From an economic efficiency perspective,
it is desirable that MEs conform to the legal and regulatory framework governing the
financial position of small enterprises in the country. This includes the following operational
requirements: (i) designation of managerial staff to designate expenditure use, including the
allocation of salaries; (ii) paying taxes; (iii) preparing financial statements and having this
infornation audited by an independent accountant; (iv) ensuring that a suitable contractual
mechanisms exists for verifying proper completion of works as well as ME payment; (v)
establishing a fixed time schedule to ensure that the timely completion of project works; and
(vi) adequate selection process for associates (e.g. proximity to worksites, previous
construction experience, inclusion of heads of households, and personal interviews); and
(vii) the provision of continuous training. These elements are also vital for building capacity
to ensure that the MEs develop an "entrepreneurial culture" in order to become sustainable
entities over time. These requirements have been incorporated in the ME program financed
under the project.
o   Establishing ownership over project activities. The success and sustainability is predicated
on the level of ownership that MEs and its associates are given during the implementation of
road maintenance works. Working directly with communities in establishing MEs, effective
coordination with government institutions and the MEs, and adequate dissemination public
information regarding project activities and potential benefits are critical mechanisms for
establishing and sustaining ownership. The value of community participation has been well
documented as critical element for inducing positive social change. Participation workshops,
which have been incorporated under this project, are powerful way to mobilize public
involvement and create ownership. Once the MEs have been established and have
demonstrated an adequate implementation record, a coordination mechanism among MEs,
such as an association of MEs, is useful for voicing common problem and developing
system-wide solutions.
O   Use of appropriate technologies. Once the ME has demonstrated initial results, there is
pressure from a variety of sources to use more expensive technologies, such as chemical
treatments and the purchase of heavy equipment. As a result, MEs should focus on using
labor-intensive technologies, which is cost-effective and consistent with having a significant
poverty alleviation impact. Although more expensive technologies should not be precluded
once an ME has grown large enough to require wider economies of scale, it is important that
ME are not pushed into using these technologies until ready.
o   Financing of MEs and the development of a sustainable financing mechanism. ME are
contracted out through performance-based contracts and paid on a monthly basis, subject to
meeting the quality standards stipulated in the contract. Based on international experiences,
salaries account for 89 percent of expenditures and profit margins average 14 percent. To
support the ME program, it is necessary to develop a sustainable financing mechanism with
adequate resources to finance ME activities over the medium-term. During implementation,
there are plans to development an agreement with COVIAL to link the ME pilot project with
the National Road Fund, especially in the financing of road maintenance activities at the
Departmental level. A possible source of funds could be through the I Quetzal/gallon gas tax
that is already in place.
- 106-



Additional Annex 13: Pilot Project on Trails, Paths and Footbridges
GUATEMALA: SECOND RURAL AND MAIN ROADS PROJECT
Background
The Rural and Main Roads Project, Loan 4260-GU has been improving the rural road system of 12
municipalities in the Altiplano Marquense, located in the northern portion of the Department of San
Marcos, which is one of the poorest areas in Guatemala. According to the findings of a recently carried
out Partial Impact Analysis, this project, implemented by the Association of local municipalities
ADIMAM, is having a positive impact on the reduction of poverty in the area. However communities
that can be reached only by non-motorized means of transport (NMTs) have not participated fully of the
benefits reaped by other communities directly connected to the rural road network.
Driven by the scarcity of agricultural land and by the perils of the long lasting civil war, many families
have settled in isolated locations, where the deep ravines and steep slopes of the regions rugged
topography impede the construction even of basic tracks for motorized transport. These scattered
settlements have evolved into communities depending exclusively on paths and trails to connect them to
the closest village or rural road, to access basic social services, and to move their products to markets.
Transportation of essential staples and goods along these narrow and steep trails can only be carried out
by walking (head- or shoulder-carrying), or by using pack animals. These inefficient and time consuming
transport means heavily curtail the possibilities for economic development of the affected communities
and condemn them to remain the poorest and most vulnerable sector of the rural population.
Accessibility and mobility of these communities is further impaired by the poor conditions of the trails
and paths, exacerbated by the absence of bridges to cross rapid flowing mountain rivers, leading often to
total isolation over extended periods during the rainy season. According to the above-mentioned Partial
Impact Analysis, the improvement of the prevailing conditions of these trails and paths is an anxious
desire of all communities involved.
Conditions similar to these prevail in most mountainous regions of southern Guatemala and affect a great
number of communities, many of them indigenous communities, representing a total population of about
400,000. Living conditions in these communities are particularly harsh on women and children, who are
burdened extensively with load-carrying duties and suffer directly extreme hardships derived from
difficult connections to health centers and schools.
This Pilot Project would start to address this critical national problem by: (i) identifying its extent within
ADIMAM's 12 municipalities, the types of conditions and difficulties prevailing in the existing
infrastructure of trails and paths, the most adequate cost effective solutions, and the willingness of the
affected communities to participate in their execution; (ii) organizing joint efforts by INFOM, ADIMAM
and the involved communities to plan and carry out corrective works and actions; (iii) executing jointly
the necessary works and actions; and (iv) establishing the possibilities of executing similar programs in
other regions of the country.
Objectives
The specific objectives of the Pilot Project are: (i) identification of the extent of the trails and paths
system presently serving isolated communities in ADIMAM's area and development of a methodology to
improve their standards and serviceability; (ii) promotion of the beneficiaries' participation in the various
phases of subproject generation, design, implementation and maintenance; and (iii) promotion of the
application of this system to other regions in Guatemala.
- 107-



In addition to these specific objectives, the pilot project would address the following socio-economic
objectives: (i) mitigation of extreme rural poverty by improving accessibility and mobility of the most
dispossessed rural population sectors; (ii) diminishing prohibitive transport costs along existing trails and
paths; and (iii) promotion of communities' involvement in the search for solutions to their own
problems.
Project Scope
The pilot project would comprise execution of small works along, or at critical spots of, selected trails
and paths, and construction of required small bridges along these routes. Typical works requested along
the trails and paths are: (i) widening of narrow pathways to a minimum I m width; (ii) transversal and
longitudinal drainage where needed; (iii) removal of slides and protection of side slopes; (iv) graveling of
the road surface in stretches subject to flooding; (v) stone pavement along steep stretches subject to
erosion; (vi) stone or wooden steps along extremely steep stretches; and (vii) other, including widening
of trails up to 2.5 m, only where justified by special conditions.
Footbridge construction may include rehabilitation of existing footbridges in poor conditions and would
comprise the following types of footbridges not wider than 2m: (a) stepping-stone bridges; (b) Irish
crossings; (c) masonry arch bridges; (d) lumber bridges; (e) suspension bridges for wider or deeper
ravines; and (f) other types suitable to be built with local materials and community labor.
This Pilot Project would also consolidate, particularly in its earliest stages, the participatory approach
used during project preparation to identify the extent of the trails and paths system in the ADIMAM's
region and assess the interventions or works needed for its improvement. For this purpose INFOM, with
the support of technical personnel and of the experimented social workers of its Social Management
Department, should organize participatory workshops especially designed to secure that community
participation is undertaken in a systematic and organized manner. These workshops should offer an
opportunity to: (i) provide local communities with necessary information about the project and their role
in the project; (ii) assess transportation needs of these isolated communities, (iii) confirm with the
beneficiaries the priority of the proposed interventions; (iv) validate the design of these interventions to
include possible local solutions; and (v) mobilize community support for the implementation of the
proposed works, for the future maintenance of the improved trails and paths and the footbridges, and in
the prevention of damages to natural resources.
Present Status of Preparation
Due to unsuccessful prior attempts of INFOM to get from each ADIMAM municipality information of
their respective needs for rehabilitation of trails and paths and construction of footbridges, to be
evaluated and later discussed April 12, 2002 at a joint meeting, the mission and 1NFOM prepared in the
first week of April an exploratory questionnaire to prompt immediate action by the municipalities. They
were requested to submit this information at the April 12 meeting. Although the information submitted
was incomplete and was presented unevenly by each municipality, its subsequent analysis showed a
potential demand for rehabilitation of 71 trails and paths (total length about 290 km), used by an average
of 190 people a day, and for construction of 119 footbridges. Of the 185 applications submitted, 16 were
rejected because it could be detected that they corresponded to rural roads and not to trails. The cost
estimates submitted by the municipalities permitted to infer a total cost estimate of approximately
US$1,200,000 equivalent for the small works requested in the 169 accepted applications.
Based on this experience, INFOM and the mission prepared a second, more detailed, questionnaire form,
and detailed guidelines to insure adequate response. At a second meeting April 22, 2002, INFOM and
the mission discussed with the municipalities the shortcomings of the first inquest, confirmed the
- 108-



municipalities keen interest in this proposed program and agreed on a timetable for the preparation and
submission of the replies. It was also agreed that a group of INFOM's social workers would assist the
municipalities in this endeavor and would conduct inquiries at the user and community levels. Two
ladies of INFOM's Social Management Department visited the area April 29 to May 4, 2002, assisted ten
municipalities in the completion of the forms and interviewed at random members from 15 communities.
These interviews ratified the information submitted by the respective municipalities and confirmed the
keen interest of the communities in the improvement of their connecting trails, as well as their
willingness to participate in the execution and later maintenance of the required works and in the
protection of natural resources.
By May 7,2002, INFOM was able to start processing the new information received only from 10
Municipalities; the other two promised to submit their information a few days later. Although this time
the quantity, quality and accuracy of the information received increased substantially compared to the
first inquiry, there were still some gaps and/or inconsistencies in the information sent by some
municipalities. After rejection of 10 applications corresponding to rural roads, 130 valid applications
remained in the running.
The information of the two remaining municipalities arrived May 14, 2002, comprising 6 applications
from Sibinal and 70 from San Miguel Ixtahuacan, bringing the total to 206 applications. Although the
number of applications presented by San Miguel exceeded by far the numbers submitted by other
municipalities, the data presented by San Miguel appeared consistent and there was no reason to reject
any of the applications submitted by this municipality.
The subsequent analysis oft the data presented by the 12 municipalities showed the following demand:
*   Total length of trails or paths for which works have been requested, 620 km;
* Average length of trails or paths for which works have been requested, 3km;
*   Rehabilitation of 68 trails with a total length of about, 175 km;
*   Construction of 171 footbridges (requested information on type or length of each bridge was
too incomplete or inconsistent to allow due processing);
* Average use of trails and footbridges, 209 people a day;
* Average directly benefited population, 963;
* Average cost of trail rehabilitation, US$10,378; and
*   Average cost of bridge construction, US$7,777.
Interesting additional information could be processed, or was added this time. The following list
summarizes this additional information showing for each item in brackets the number of municipalities
that submitted usable information:
*   Total number of people per day who use these trails (12 M), 39,461.
*   Total population directly benefited by the requested works (8 M), 143,454.
*   Main reasons for use of trails and footbridges (12 M.): access to agricultural activities,
15.8%; access to schools, 15.4%; access to health centers, 12.8%; gathering or transporting
lumber, 12.5%; commercial, 12.3%; family matters, 11.1%; religious activities, 9.5%;
contact with authorities, 7.8%; and others, 2.8%.
- 109-



o   Average days of traffic interruptions per year (9M.), 126 days.
o   Types of trail rehabilitation works requested (9 M.):  stone surfacing 18,8%; gravel
surfacing, 16,8%; transversal drainage, 15%; widening 12.3%; longitudinal drainage 11,5%;
others, 10,3%; steps, 8%; and slide removal, 7.3%.
o Existence of alternative roads (7 M.), from 206 applications only 57 indicated existence of
alternative roads with an average length of 4.5 km and indicating average time saving by
using the trail of 61 minutes per trip.
o All applications confirmed the willingness of the involved communities to participate in the
execution of works, contributing with labor, with local materials, or both.
o   All applications but three confirmed the willingness of the involved communities to
participate in the protection of trees or other natural resources endangered by the greater
accessibility resulting from the proposed improvements.
The above information shows clearly that in the ADIMAM territory there is a substantial demand for
rehabilitation of trails and paths, with a total cost estimate of about US$706,000 equivalent; and for
construction of footbridges, some located on the trail to be rehabilitated, but most of them on other trails,
with a total cost estimate of about of about US$ 1,330,000 equivalent. This total estimated cost of about
US$2 million equivalent doubles the funds provided for this purpose in the proposed project, therefore it
would be possible to implement under the project only half of the works requested.
The selection and prioritization of the requests received were carried out by INFOM after the preparation
mission, partially at headquarters with support of its local representative, and partially through extended
field trips undertaken by three social experts and three engineers. The studies performed at headquarters,
the field investigations and the subsequent discussions with municipal authorities and involved
communities allowed to: (i) eliminate those requests that could not be satisfactorily identified, or
corresponded to roads and not to trails, and those for suspension footbridges exceeding 50 meters length;
(ii) review the justification of the remaining sub-projects; (iii) inspect representative sites of the
remaining sub-projects; (iv) estimate work quantities; and (v) prepare reliable unit costs and cost
estimates of the remaining sub-projects.
A comprehensive study was submitted January 10, 2003, which is summarized in one table showing that
--- requests have been accepted, which include -- sub-projects for rehabilitation of trails, amounting to
about US$349,000 equivalent, and --- subprojects for construction of footbridges, amounting to about
US$450,000 equivalent (--- requests included trails and footbridges sub-projects). This number of
identified sub-projects is sufficient to initiate implementation of this pilot project. However, NFOM
should prepare the first year package of works for about US$250,000 before September 30, 2003. Based
on the experience of the implementation of this first year package, additional sub-projects could be
identified for execution during the fourth year aiming at compliance with the US$1.0 million target for
this pilot project.
Action Plan for further Preparation
To perform the required analysis, INFOM should form two working groups, one by road experts and the
other by social workers, with the assignment to carry out the following tasks:
o Estimation of unit costs of all work items foreseen, including different types of footbridges
o Primary prioritization of the applications received, by assigning higher priority to requested
sub-projects not having an alternative road and/or to those showing the longest annual traffic
- 110-



interruptions
*   Preparation of a listing of non government organizations (NGOs) that could participate in
different stages of project preparation and implementation, or could contribute with their
prior experience in these matters
*   Field inspection of the works requested in each priority application to appraise
characteristics and quantities of work items required
* Based on the above, review the assigned prioritization
* INFOM's group of social workers, should organize interviews or participatory workshops
with the involved communities especially designed to: (a) provide them with necessary
information about the project and their role in the project; (b) assess transportation needs of
these isolated communities; (c) confirm with the beneficiaries the priority of the proposed
interventions; (d) validate the design of these interventions to include possible local
solutions; and (e) mobilize community support for the implementation of the proposed
works, for the future maintenance of the improved trails and paths and footbridges, and for
the prevention of damages to natural resources.
*   The findings of the social group should be coordinated with those of the technical group to
carry out jointly a social-economic analysis and define the final prioritization of the
sub-projects, including definition of those to be implemented during the first year.
*   Prepare proposals for the incorporation of interested NGOs in the preparation, financing and
implementation of the project.
The above activities should be completed during the first year of project implementation to allow for
timely selection of the works to be executed, preparation of their design, and execution of their
construction.



Additional Annex 14: Labor-Based Municipal Roads Pilot
GUATEMALA: SECOND RURAL AND MAIIl4I ROADS PROJECT
Objectives
The objective of this Pilot project is to make optimum use of the resources available in the economy and
in the project region where many people are underemployed and natural construction materials are often
found in the proximity of the works site. This objective can be achieved by using labor-based equipment
supported methods to rehabilitate and improve municipal roads efficiently and to the required standards
(the term labor-based equipment supported means labor supported by machines rather than machines
supported by labor)
Presently, construction practices are strongly biased toward the use of equipment-based methods, largely
because of technology transference from more industrialized countries, resulting in a labor contribution
of about 10 to 15% of the total construction cost. This Pilot project seeks to increase the use of labor to
about 30 % of the construction cost, and reduce the bias toward equipment-based construction methods
by reintroducing more intermediate technologies in Guatemala. The proposed approach includes the
identification of those work items, which are more suited to the use of labor and the adoption of design
solutions more suitable for this method of construction.
Suitability of labor-based construction
Labor-based technologies suit well the project rural environment:
o   There are many poor people, most of whom are underemployed. In the HUISTA and
MAMSOHUE project areas for example, 31% and 50% of the population is extremely poor
(i.e. per capita income is less than $255 per annum). In the HUISTA region, 78% of the
population is poor and in the MAMSOHUE area, 85% of the population is poor;
o   The unskilled labor salary is about $3.80 which compares favorable with the cut-off wage of
$4.0 per day estimated by ILO for cost effectiveness of labor compared with equipment in
works construction;
o   The size of the roads sections to be improved is small, most targeted road sections will have
lengths of two to ten kilometers, their location is remote and disperse and many of them have
sources of natural materials near by;
o There is interest at the municipal and central levels of government to generate more
employment in rural areas;
o   Labor-based works adapt better to the payment capacity of the municipalities, which receive
their budget allocations every two months; and
o   There is experience with labor-intensive programs in Guatemala.
In addition, the increased use of labor instead of equipment would contribute to improve the trade deficit
by reducing the need to import equipment.
In order to confirm the suitability of the labor-based method, a real case was evaluated. Construction, by
equipment-based methods, of a 1.55 km road located in the project area was contracted with a local firm.
Because of the rocky site conditions, it was decided to modify the design and adapt it to a labor-based
method. Table I shows a comparison of the price, as submitted by the contractor, for an equipment-based
construction and the estimated cost of the works as built by labor-based methods. In this case, the use of
- 112 -



labor-based construction increased the labor portion of the cost from 15 to 43 % and the total cost of the
was 18 % cheaper than if done by equipment-based methods. A closer analysis of the contractor's
proposal showed that the number of hours envisaged for some of the equipment units, to accomplish the
proposed works, were unrealistically high. Even so, this case shows that labor-based methods are a
cost-effective alternative to equipment-based methods in the project area.
Table 14.1: Price Comparison of Equipment-based and Labor-based Construction Methods in the Project
Area*
Resource               Equipment-based method         Labor-based method
'000 Quetzals (% of total)  '000 Quetzals (% of total)
Equipment                    227.7 (51)                   59.0 (16)
Labor                      65 0  (15)                   163 5 (43)
Matenals                  153 8 (34)                   156 8 (41)
TOTAL                       466-5 (100)                  379.3 (100)
* For a road of length 1 55 km
Description
The Pilot project will provide for the selection of one or two road sections to be rehabilitated or
improved, using labor-based construction methods, in each of the regions of MAMSOHUE and HUISTA
project regions. Road sections will be selected from the roads in the first package. If the procurement and
implementation of the labor-based road sections are successful, more labor-based roads will be included
in the remaining procurement packages.
Selection Criteria
Selection of road sections will take into consideration the choice of design standards and selection of
materials that support the use of labor-based methods. Small, geographically dispersed, technically
simple road improvements are usually better served, both for construction and for maintenance
operations, by methods drawing upon locally available labor. The choice of a broken stone (empedrado),
instead of graded stone for road surfacing, dictates the use of labor-based method, and the use of masonry
or brick may be an acceptable alternative to reinforced concrete or pre-cast pipes. Therefore the selection
criteria for selecting the road sections should consider:
*   Road sections of short lengths, say less than 8 km;
*   The absolute maximum longitudinal grade limit should not exceed 15 %;
*   The proximity of suitable road materials such as stone; and
*   The willingness of laborers to work in road construction. This will be gauged by discussions
with community leaders and simple surveys.
Labor-based Work Items
The construction contract will contain a range of items, some of which are more suited to the use of
equipment and others that are more suited to the use of labor. A review of the work items in the bill of
quantities (BOQ) used in the San Marcos project shows that some materials are more easily applied
through labor-based methods, if some modifications are made to design and construction methods. The
net effect will be to have a more balanced technology in road works. Some of the BOQ work items
recommended for labor-based implementation include:
*   Hand-laid stone pavement (empedrados);
- 113 -



o   Cobblestones paving (adoquinados);
o   Masonry stone work;
o   Earth trapezoidal ditches; and
o   Stone/masonry culverts.
Implementation of labor-based methods will rely in the experience of various labor-intensive methods in
Guatemala, particularly the USAID-DGC program (1978-1996) that developed technical material suited
for labor-based construction. The Table 14.2 presents production data used in the USAID-DGC program
Table 14.2: Labor Production
Item                     Metric Units           Daily production by person
Structural Excavation in dry material
a Soft                           CM                          199
D   _  _ _  __ _  _ __Medium            CM                          1 40
D_  _  __  _ _  ___Hard_                CM                          106
a   Rock                         CM                          0 65
Culvert built on site
D Using cast                     CM                          0.30
D Using string                   CM                          0 84
Masonry
n      Cast stone work                  CM                         0.30
o      Using string                     CM                          0.84
D  Boxes                         CM                          0.37
Laying a 30"concrete pipe               LM                          1 00
Laying a 36"concrete pipe               LM                          0.50
Concrete ditch                          SM                          2.00
Laying stone surfacing                  SM                          2 00
LM: Linear Meter, SM: Square Meter. CM: Cubic Meter
Execution and Monitoring
Labor-based works will be implemented through contracts procured following shopping procedures for
which at least three proposals will be requested, preferably from established firms with some experience
on labor-based construction. The selected contractor will be free to either hire labor directly for
undertaking labor-based activities or subcontracting the labor-based portion of the works to local ad-hoc
labor groups. Contract conditions will take into consideration the longer time period required by some
labor-based activities such as stone surfacing, and will include clauses related to insurance, basic health
and labor standards on the work site. In addition the conditions of contract will also include standard
Bank clauses related to fraud and corruption.
Monitoring of labor-based contracts will be carried out by technical units of the municipal associations or
by the consulting firm contracted for the supervision of the works. The initial labor-based contracts will
be closely monitored to draw lessons for replication in future procurement packages. Data will be
obtained to facilitate cost comparisons between labor-based and equipment-based activities in the project
area. This will be achieved by monitoring resource inputs for labor, implements, vehicles and
construction plant in the labor-based contracts. On completion of each contract, the quantity of work
performed would be measured so that the input/output analysis would be based on actual quantities. The
data will be analyzed to show the cost for each labor-based activity. These costs will be further compared
with the rates for equipment-based contracts in the same package.
-114 -



Additional Annex 15: Analysis of the Financial Capacity of the Municipalities
GUATEMALA: SECOND RURAL AND MAIN ROADS PROJECT
Background
The following analysis covers 21 municipalities, incorporated into two municipal associations, located in
the department of Huehuetenango in Northwest Guatemala. These Associations are: MAMSOHUE
(Mancomunidad de Muinicipalidades del Sur Occidente de Huehuetenango) with 13 members; and
HUISTA (Mancomunidad de la Region Huista de Huehuetenango) with 8 members.
Objectives
The three objectives of this analysis are: (i) assessing the financial capacity of the Municipal
Associations to absorb the costs of rehabilitation and maintenance that will result from participating in
the project; (ii) determining the length of roads that MAMSOHUE and HUISTA can rehabilitate and
maintain given their available resources; and (iii) closely examining municipalities with fiscal deficits
and determining if these problems are caused by low levels of revenue or high levels of expenditure, or a
combination of both. The analysis will then make some suggestions to resolve these problems.
Objective 1: Financial Capacity of the Associations to Acquire New Commitments. In order to
adequately assess the financial capacity of the Municipal Associations, it was necessary to use executed
budgetary data. Given that the 2001 and 2002 municipal budgets are still projected, the analysis is based
on available executed budgetary data for 1999 and 2000.
In Guatemala, the main source of municipal revenues for financing public investment are fiscal transfers
from the central government. These include a share of the Value Added Tax (IVA) and taxes on motor
vehicles. Municipal own revenues usually finance recurrent (administrative and operational)
expenditures. The main sources of municipal own revenues are local taxes, fees and user charges. Local
taxes include property taxes (Bienes Inmuebles), excise taxes and in some cases, a vehicle tax.
For the municipalities in MAMSOHUE Association: The 1999 fiscal accounts indicate that eight out
of the 13 municipalities (or 62 percent) had a deficit in the overall fiscal balance (see table 15.1). These
deficits ranged from 138,932 Quetzals (about US$17,766 dollars) in the municipality of La Libertad, to
over 2 million Quetzals (about US$256,000) in the municipality of Cuilco. In 2000 the situation changed
and only two municipalities closed the year with deficits in their overall balance: La Libertad (116,583
Quetzales) and San Juan Atitan (583,615 Quetzales).
When comparing the performance for both years of the analysis, the financial situation of MAMSOHUE
improved significantly in 2000. The results show that the magnitude of the overall surplus of the
association fluctuated between 1.6 million Quetzales (US$205,000) in 1999 and 10.3 million Quetzales
(US$1.3m).. Despite the general improvement in the Association's finances, one municipality (La
Libdrtad) displayed a budgetary deficit in both years. This result suggests that La Libertad needs to carry
out a fiscal structural adjustment before it can fully participate in the new project.
- 115-



Table 15.1:
Municipality        T Total  Budgetary      T Total  [Overall
l[ncome   Adjustbnent L Expenditure  EBalance
SAN PEDRO NECTA        3,352,033     449,713    3,555,474    246,271
LA LIBERTAD            4,148,863     309,858    4,597,653    -138,932
SANTIAGO
CHIN4ALTENANGO         1,996,617     266,576    2,232,210     30,983
MALACATANCITO          2,220,924      57,899    2,478,812   -199,989
SAN SEBASTIAN          4,116,590     134,834    5,023,409    -771,985
SAN JUAN ATITAN        4,163,646   1,239,923    3,642,153   1,761,416
SANTA BARBARA          2,959,136     846,763    3,216,158    589,742
SAN RAFAEL PETZAL      2,592,911     905,542    4,693,762  -1,195,309
COLOTENANGO'           3,593,999   1,497,860         N/A    5,091,859
SAN GASPAR IXCHIL      1,671,766     722,534    3,860,497  -1,466,198
SAN IDEFONSO
IXTAHUACAN             3,173,471     110,634    5,042,480  -1,758,375
CUILCO                 4,165,287     516,231    6,726,464  -2,044,946
TECTITAN               3,370,557     342,721    2,279,581   1,433,697
1/ There is no data available for expenditures.
Municipality        Total     Budgetary      Total       Overall
____________________      Income  AjAustment  Expenditure   Balance
SAN PEDRO NECTA         4,717,379     389,824     4,717,379     389,824
LALIBERTAD              4,614,939     611,747     5,343,270    -116,583
SANTIAGO              l 
CHIMALTENANGO            2,944,388    652,839     2,853,731     743,496
MALACATANCITO            3,734,613     346,901    3,403,572     677,941
SAN SEBASTIAN           4,098,356      90,970     3,080,653    1,108,673
SAN JUAN ATITAN         4,965,121      165,982    5,714,718    -583,615
SANTA BARBARA           4,131,688      121,090    4,088,569     164,208
SAN RAFAEL PETZAL       4,231,392    1,605,042    2,620,732   3,215,702
COLOTENANGO             4,099,325     327,270     3,660,038     766,557
SAN GASPAR IXCHIL       4,615,294     561,564     3,039,005   2,137,854
SAN IDEFONSO
DC TAIUACAN              4,221,185     319,163    4,057,553     482,795
CUILCO                   6,323,0261         0     5,070,674    1,252,352
TECTITAN                 4,075,675     220,121    4,209,351      86,445
Source INFOM and Bank staff estimates.
For the municipalities in HU]ISTA: The overall fiscal position of this Association is more favorable
than the one of MAMSOHUE. The 1999 results show that only three out of the eight municipalities (or
-116-



38 percent) finished the year with a deficit in the overall fiscal balance (see table 15.2). The deficits
ranged from 346,077 Quetzales (about US$44,255) in the case of the municipality of San Miguel to over
1.7 million Quetzales (about US$220,000) in the case of the municipality of La Democracia. In the year
2000, with the exception of La Democracia (whose deficit grew by over 100 percent), the municipalities
experienced surpluses in their overall fiscal balance.
Table 15.2:
1999 H tista FISCAI ACCOUN'lS
I~~~ (I,, Ouc'Iu/CA ,                     -- ,,
Municipality         Total     Budgetary       Total      Overall
Income   Adjustment   Expenditure    Balance
NENTON                    2,237,351           0     3,562,276  -1,324,925
LA DEMOCRACIA             1,843,583     298,596     3,865,704  -1,723,526
JACALTENANGO             4,196,116     1,402,540    3,931,860   1,666,795
SAN MIGUEL ACATAN        2,685,961      970,696     4,002,735   -346,077
TODOS SANTOS
CUCHUMATAN               4,817,478      543,862     4,525,528    835,813
CONCEPCION               2,789,019     1,167,143    1,777,127  2,179,034
SAN ANTONIO HUISTA        1,996,688    1,581,535    2,215,410   1,362,813
SANTA ANA HUISTA'        2,013,930     1,581,535    2,013,930   1,581,535
1/ based on projected data
201( Hliistilt FISCAI ACCOUN'IS  -
Municipality         Total     Budgetary      Total      Overall
Income    Ad justment Expenditure    Balance
NENTON                    4,452,634     349,395    3,907,584    894,445
LA DEMOCRACIA             5,460,544     859,151    10,175,967  -3,856,273
JACALTENANGO              7,173,802   2,983,271    6,350,455   3,806,618
SAN MIGUEL ACATAN         4,412,281      14,844    3,995,437    431,688
TODOS SANTOS
CUCHUMATAN                7,055,756   1,241,212    6,831,064   1,465,903
CONCEPCION                4,887,109     564,684    4,039,262   1,412,531
SAN ANTONIO HUISTA        4,249,344     333,698    3,577,029   1,006,014
SANTA ANA HUISTA          4,342,459     276,114    4,469,355     149,218
Source INFOM and Bank staff estimates
Analyzing the results from both years we can conclude, as was the case with MAMSOHUE, the overall
fiscal position of HUISTA improved in 2000. The magnitude of the overall surplus of the association
fluctuated between 4.2 million Quetzales (about US$537,000) in 1999 and 5.3 million Quetzales
(US$686,000) in 2000. Nevertheless, one municipality, La Democracia, incurred continuous deficits in
both years. This deficit indicates the need for structural adjustment in the public finances of La
Democracia before it can participate in the new Project.
Several factors can explain the results described above. First, the less favorable results in 1999 when
compared to 2000, should be understood in the context of the 1999 municipal elections in Guatemala. It
- 117 -



is generally the case during elections that government revenue tends to fall while expenditures rise. This
tendency, known as the "Electoral Cycle" effect, promotes inefficiencies and generates large deficits that
take time to overcome. It is also to be noted that as newly elected mayors took office in 2000, they were
subject to a learning curve. This initial lack of administrative experience probably contributed to lower
expenditures in that year. Second, in most cases, the municipalities finance part of their overall deficits
by delaying payments to suppliers and contractors, thereby temporarily financing the municipalities'
fiscal deficits. Usually these debts are paid off in the following fiscal year as new resources become
available. However, a situation of chronic fiscal deficits can be harmful to the municipalities' ability to
develop their strategies in the medium and long term. A third factor that explains the above results is
frequent delays on the part of the Central Government in executing complete constitutional transfers to
municipalities. The payments owed to the municipalities are then transferred during the first quarter of
the following fiscal year. These delayed transfers, that appear in the above tables 1 and 2 as "budgetary
adjustments," help municipalities to finance most of their overall fiscal deficits.
Objective 2: Determining the size of the road network that Municipal Associations can rehabilitate
and maintain, given available resources. The optimal size of the road network can, in principle, be
defined in two ways: (i) based on the demand, determined by the needs of the municipalities; and (ii)
based on the supply, determined by the number of kilometers that a municipality could rehabilitate and
maintain, given available resources. It is the second method of defining the optimal size of the rural road
network that is the focus of this section of the analysis. In order to determine the optimal length of the
road network for the two new Associations (MAMSOHUE and HUISTA), the analysis will calculate the
expenditures using the costs of rehabilitation experienced in ADIMAM and the costs of maintenance
suggested by the project's road engineers. On the revenue side, a base case scenario was developed to
determine the Associations' available resources for the project, which will be detailed below.
Expenditures
It is projected that during the four year duration of the San Marcos pilot project (Loan 4260-GU), nearly
400 kilometers of rural roads will be rehabilitated. To date, 189 kilometers have been rehabilitated at a
total cost of approximately 22 million Quetzales.  Accordingly, the average cost per kilometer
rehabilitated was 116,853 Quetzales, of which the Bank's loan financed 85 percent (99,325 Quetzales)
and the ADIMAM    financed the remaining 15 percent (17,528 Quetzales).  In addition to the
rehabilitation costs, each of the twelve municipalities in ADIMAM is required to make a fixed yearly
contribution of 75,000 Quetzales. This contribution is used to finance ADIMAM's technical roads unit
(UTAV) and the regional road fund (FVR) (See Table 15.3).
Table 15.3:
CONCEPT                                        Length              Cost
(in Iilometers)   (in Quetzales)
Pilot Project (Loan 4260-GU)                    approx.400 Km.     47 million
Executed (to date)                                 189 Km.   l_22 million_l
Average Rehabilitation Cost Per Km.:
Total Cost for San Marcos (Bank Loan plus Municipalities)  I Km.    116,853
World Bank Loan (85%)                               1 Km.            99,325
ADIMAM's co-financing (15%)                         I Km.            17,528
Source: INFOM, UTAV and Bank staff estimates.
- 118-



The average cost per kilometer rehabilitated in the Huehuetenango Associations (MAMSOHUE and
HUISTA) is expected to be 20 percent higher than that in ADIMAM. The reasons for higher cost are the
difficult topography of the region and the larger area of these municipalities. These two factors increase
infrastructure costs, and costs of transporting equipment and materials. Consequently, the average cost
of rehabilitating one kilometer in the Huehuetenango Associations is expected to be 140,224 Quetzales,
of which the Bank's loan would finance 75 percent. The Huehuetenango Associations (MAMSOHUE
and HUISTA) will finance the remaining 25 percent. This higher proportion of project co-financing that
will be provided by the Huehuetenango Associations, when compared to ADlMAM's 15 percent, is
justified by the superior financial position of the municipalities in Huehuetenango. As is case with
ADIMAM, all 21 municipalities in Huehuetenango will be expected to make a fixed yearly contributions
of about 75,000 Quetzales.
The network of rural roads that will be rehabilitated must be maintained in order to ensure the
sustainability of the initial investment. These roads need two types of maintenance: (i) routine
maintenance, that will be applied every year and consists of basic upkeep of the roads; and (ii) periodic
maintenance, which will be applied in recurrent cycles of five years to the total length of the
Association's rehabilitated road network. Periodic maintenance requires more intensive upkeep of the
roads. The costs associated with both types of maintenance will be the sole responsibility of the
municipal associations. The average cost of routine maintenance is about 6,400 Quetzales (US$800)3
per kilometer, while the average cost of the periodic maintenance is about 42,067 Quetzales (US $5,258
dollars) per kilometer.
Revenues
On the revenue side, the analysis considers a base case scenario to determine the amount of resources
that the two Huehuetenango Associations can afford to spend on rehabilitating (for the four year duration
of the project) and long-term maintenance of their rural road network. This scenario is based on the
following assumptions: (i) Municipalities will allocate 50 percent of the resources annually designated
for the transport sector (about 30 percent of total investment) to rehabilitation and maintenance; and (ii)
municipalities will additionally allocate 15 percent of their overall fiscal balance to road rehabilitation
and maintenance. Under this scenario, the municipalities in the two Associations could count on
resources of approximately seven million Quetzales (US$875,000) that they can spend yearly on road
rehabilitation and maintenance.
Table 15.4:
RUIRAI. ROAI)S lH),IIR.CT IN -lUHUIF.TF:-NAN(NG
!    -  -          ~~~~~~-- ,\lA.\I.SOIIUI.JE:,nd Hllistal--
CONCEPT                                        | MAMSOHUE | HUISTA
Resources-av'ailable for rehabilitation and Maintenance  7,061,725  7,173,348
Fixed annual contribution (75,000 Quetzales) per municipality  975,000  600,000
Net Resources (after the fixed annual contribution)   6,086,725    6,573,348
Average Rehabilitation Cost Per Km.:
Total Cost for Huehuetenango (Bank Loan plus Municipalities)  140,224  140,224
World Bank Loan (80%)                                  112,179     112,179
MAMSOHUE and Huista co-financing (20%)                 28,045       28,045
Average Maintenance Cost Per Km.:
Routine maintenance                                     6,400        6,400
Periodic maintenance                                   42,067       42,067
Source: INFOM, UTAV and Bank staff estimates.
- 119 -



In order to deterrine the optimal size of the road network, it is essential to determine the Associations
aggregate financial commitments resulting from rehabilitation and maintenance of the roads. The larger
the number of kilometers rehabilitated, the greater the financial commitment to maintenance. Given the
assumptions developed in this section, we can conclude that MAMSOHUE could afford to rehabilitate a
cumulative total of 450 kilometers over the four year project span. By the same measure, HUISTA could
afford to rehabilitate a cumulative total of 486 kilometers.
Table 15.5:
;*E ,g- - -=} '0~HJ8            til'  '7  g   |        &taaCxt-= e'J_ 
Number     of        Duration of Project               Maintenance cycle
Kilometers      1 year  2 year 3 year 4 year 5 year  6 year 7 year  8 year 9 year
Rehabilitated   112      112    112    112      0      0      0       0      0
Accumulated      112     225    337     450     0       0      0      0       0
Routine           0      112    225     337    360     360    360    360     360
IMaintenance
Periodic          0       0      0       0             90
Maintenance                                                   90      90     90
. ~ ~    ~    ~   - . .~ .3 _nd .                                          _
Number     of        Duration of Proiect               Maintenance cycle
Kilometers      I year  2 year 3 year 4 year 5 year   6 year 7 year  8 year 9 year
Rehabilitated   121      121    121    121      0      0      0       0      0
Accumulated      121     243    364     486     0       0      0      0       0
Routine           0      121    243     364    389     389    389     389    389
Periodic          0       0      0                            97      97     97
Maintenance       0       0      0       0      9      9       9
Source Bank staff estimates
Objective 3: Examining the causes of Fiscal Deficits. The analysis suggests that the financial resources
available to the Associations in Huehuetenango (MAMSOHUE and Huista) for the new project are more
than adequate to cover the estimated costs. However, some of the municipalities in these Associations
face some financial problems. This section of the analysis will examine the income and expenditure
structure of these municipalities to determine the source of their financial difficulties. A comparison of
per capita (budgetary) income and expenditures of municipalities with budgetary problems and the
averages of the Associations was used to identify the areas of fiscal imbalance.
These results show that for MAMSOHUE the financial problems are better explained by the structure of
expenditures than by the income structure (see table 6). For example, the municipality of San Juan
Atitan finished the year 2000 with an overall fiscal deficit of 583,615 Quetzales. When comparing San
Juan Atitan's budgetary income per capita with the average budgetary income per capita of all
municipalities in MAMSOHUE, there is no significant difference. However, when comparing the
budgetary expenditure per capita, San Juan AtitAn at 347 Quetzales is about one-third (37%) higher than
the average budgetary expenditure per capita of the MAMSOHUE at 253 Quetzales.
- 120-



Table 15.6:
MUNICIIPAl FINANCIAL STRE'NG'I-IEININC.
I           Necissary A\d. Justmuents to th. Ixpenditure StructuLrc*e
-NikNIS)SOHlULE--U
1. Average per capita expenditure of all Municipalities  253 Quetzales
in  MAMSOHUE
Per capita budgetary expenditure of sample municipality:  347 Quetzales
San Juan Atitan
Required structural adjustments: San Juan Atitan      37 Percent
*In 2000.
In the case of HUISTA, the fiscal difficulties are better explained by the structure of income than by the
expenditure structure (see table 7). For example, the municipality of La Democracia finished the year
2000 with an overall fiscal deficit of about 3.9 million Quetzales. In this case, there is no significant
difference between the budgetary expenditures per capita of La Democracia when compared with the
average budgetary expenditures per capita of all municipalities in HUISTA. However, when comparing
the budgetary income per capita, La Democracia at 121 Quetzales is about 43% below the average
income per capita of the Huista at 212 Quetzales.
Table 15.7:
- MUNICIP Al., I IN,ANCI A  S'I', S NGR IIENIN(;
Nececssarv Ad,justmeints to the Incomiie Structure:
-- II l ista --
1. Average per capita income of all Municipalities in Huista  212 Quetzales
Per capita expenditure of sample municipality:       121 Quetzales
La Democracia
Required structural adjustments: La Democracia        43 Percent
*In 2000
From the results described is this section, it is clear that the municipalities of San Juan Atitin and La
Democracia will have to undertake a structural adjustment plan, due to weaknesses of their expenditure
and income structures respectively. It is worth noting that San Juan Atitan not only has a deficit
problem, but, in addition, did not allocate resources to the transportation sector in 2000. A more detailed
financial analysis of these municipalities will allow identification of the specific areas requiring greater
attention. Accordingly, an agreement would then need to be reached with the municipal authorities to
define a relatively short-term program of fiscal and financial adjustment to ensure their successful
participation in the project.
IiFOM is the institution that is best suited to contribute to the design, instrumentation, and supervision
of this type of municipal program of fiscal and financial structural adjustment. A program of technical
assistance would have to concentrate not only on fortifying municipal income, but also reducing fiscal
expenditure in general and investment expenditure in particular. However, to guarantee the full success
of the project, INFOM has agreed to offer financial assistance (in the form of bridge-loans in exchange of
agreeing to a budgetary restructuring) to those municipalities that could potentially have difficulties
making their expected monetary contributions to the project. By agreeing to do this, lNFOM recognizes
the importance of the project's impact in improving the living conditions of the people living in the
befitted areas.
- 121 -



Conclusions and Recommendations
The 2000 results suggest that the great majority of the municipalities (86%) will not have difficulty
absorbing the project expenses of rehabilitation and maintenance. Nevertheless, some municipalities
(14%) have had difficulty balancing their budgets in 2000 and closed the year with a net total deficit in
their financial operations. The deficits have been due, in most cases, to exogenous factors rather than to
municipal financial handling. However, in a smaller number of municipalities, the deficit situation of
local governments is due to internal financial management deficiencies on the part of the municipalities.
The municipalities of association MAMSOHUE will require closer monitoring than those of HUISTA,
which have shown better financial results, with the exception of La Democracia whose problems can
generally be attributed to low income levels. However in the case of La Democracia, it is important to
remember that this analysis uses figures from two years ago so that fiscally La Democracia may or may
not be experiencing fiscal problems of this magnitude. To redress this issue, a more detailed municipality
analysis will be subsequently undertaken. Nonetheless the municipality's mayor is committed to a
budgetary restructuring of his own initiative to ensure counterpart funds to participate in the project and
has accepted the 'declaration' of the first package which contains road segments in the municipality.
Calculated at a 1999 exchange rate of Q7.82 per $1.
Calculated at a 2000 exchange rate of Q7.73 per $1. in 2000
3Calculated at a 2001 exchange rate of Q8.0 per $1.
- 122 -



Additional Annex 16: Social Assessment
GUATEMALA: SECOND RURAL AND MAIN ROADS PROJECT
Taking into account that the majority of the population in the area of influence of the project is of Mayan
descent, a Social Analysis and Assessment was carried out to obtain a detailed analysis of the regional
characteristics of the project area'. The preparation of this study encouraged community participation in
the selection of roads to be rehabilitated under the project and facilitated the identification of project
impacts. Based on this assessment, a Social Management Plan was prepared with the goal of maximizing
the positive impacts of the project and to mitigate potentially adverse effects. This annex summarizes the
results found in the Social Impact Assessment.
Objectives and Methodology
The main objectives of the Social Impact Assessment were the following:
*    Prepare a socioeconomic and cultural diagnostic of the MAMSOHUE and HUISTA regions;
*    Consult with local community leaders and residents regarding the road sector improvements
that will form part of the optimal core road network;
*    Assess the benefits and the potential adverse impacts of the project; and
*    Design a Social Management Plan.
The information found in the social impact assessment was based on field visits, surveys among local
groups at municipal government areas and villages, personal interviews with municipal officials,
representatives from civil society groups, community leaders and residents, and an extensive review of
secondary source materials. In all, 394 residents were surveyed and 66 focus groups were conducted,
representing more than 10 per cent of the small towns of the region and I percent of the total population.
Table I summarizes the regional characteristics, the coverage of the social impact assessment, and the
expected project beneficiaries of the first package of project works.
Table 1: Regional Characteristics and Project Beneficiaries in the Huista and Mamsohue Regions
Regional Characteristics             M ayan            Coverage of the Social  Project beneficiaries
population         Impact Assessment      ror the first works
__________________                 pa~~~~~~ ~~ckage
Mamsohue   * 285,439 inhabitants     * 199,222 (or    * 238 residents              p 64,12 beneficiaries
Region     * 511 population centers     69 8 percent)  * 42 focus groups        (22 5 percent)
* 13 municipalities,                    * 13 community         . 44 population
* 143 villages                             leaders               centers (23 villages
* 317 caserfos and                      * 75 population          and 21 caserfos)
* 26 cantons                               centres in 4 months
* I I parajes and I
H uista    * 211,106 inhabitants     *  156,383 (or   * 156 residents        * 50,070 beneficiaries
Region     . 362 population centers:    74 I percent)  * 24 focus groups       (23 7 percent)
* 8 municipalities                      . 8 community leaders  * 45 population
* 123 villages                          . 54 population           centers (24 villages
* 205 caserfos                             centers in 4 months    and 21 caserios)
* 24 cantons
* I plantation and I
Total      * 873 population centers  * 355,605 (or    * 394 residents        * 114,194
495,545 inhabitants      (71 8 percent)  * 66 focus groups        beneficiaries
* 21 community         * 89 population
leaders               centers
*  129 population
centers
Source: FUNCEDE, 2002
-123-



Socioeconomic and Cultural Assessment
The project areas of influence within Huehuetenango include the MAMSOHUE and HUISTA regions.
The MAMSOHUE region is located in the southern part of Huehuetenango and has an area of 2,086 km'.
Mamsohue includes the municipalities of Malacatancito, Santa Barbara, San Sebastian Huehuetenango,
San Juan Atitan, San Rafael Petzal, Colotenango, San Gaspar Ixchil, San Idelfonso Ixtahuacan, Cuilco,
TectitAn, San Pedro Necta, Santigo Chimaltenango, and La Libertad. The HUISTA region has a total area
of 2,024 Km', which includes the municipalities of Nent6n, Santa Ana Huista, San Antonio Huista,
Jacaltenango, Concepci6n Huista, La Democracia, San Miguel Acatan, and Todos Santos Cuchumatan.
According to the most recent census undertaken in 2002 by the National Statistical Institute (Instituto
Nacional de Estadistica, INE), the total population of the Huehuetenango Department is 932,865 or
roughly 7.8 of the total population of Guatemala. The MAMSOHUE and HUISTA regions account for
more than half of the total Departmental population. Roughly 70 percent of the population in the project
area is of Mayan descent are primarily involved in subsistence agricultural production. The system of
local government is largely community-based. In the MAMSOHUE area, the Mayan population speaks
Mam or Tektiteko and about 20 percent of the population are unfamiliar with Spanish. The distribution
of Mayan communities in HUISTA is relatively mixed. Some communities have an Mayan population of
90 percent, while in other communities, which are located near the main road linking Guatemala with
Mexico, this rate is closer to 20 percent. The Mayan population speak a variety of languages, including
Mam, Akateko, Kanjobal, Jakalteko, and Popti, with a number of residents able to speak more than I
language. The overall rate of non-Spanish speakers in HUISTA is unavailable.
Table 2: Physical, Demographic and Social Characteristics of the Huista and Mamsohue Regions
Mamsohue                                       Huista
Physical Characteristics  Steep and rolling hills, humid and   Mostly mountainous, with wooded and low mountainous
subtropical                          farming areas and, humid and temperate sub-tropical areas
Population                285,439 total inhabitants            211,106 total inhabitants
Density                   137 inhabitantstkm2                   104 mhabitants/km2
Population growth rate    2 95% per year                       2.50% per year
Rural/urban distribution  86% rural, 14% urban                 82 5% rural, 17.5% urban
Main economic activities  Subsistence farming. handcrafts at small  Agriculture, livestock farming
scale
Agricultural producdon    Beans, com                           Apricots, beans, cardamom, chili peppers, citrus, cocoa coffee,
com, garden produce, pears, tomatoes wheat
Percent under 20 years    62 7%                                60%
Average life expectancy   N/A                                  68 years
Infant mortality rate     N/A                                  3 41 per 1000
Poverty rate              92.4% are under the poverty rate, 63.5% are  91 8% are under the poverty rate;
in extreme poverty                    50.5% live in extreme poverty
Literacy rate             42.7%                                78.4%
Elementary school education 69%, with 8 4% desertion rate      71.3%
Average distance to       2 km education                       N/A
education and health care  8 km health care
services
Access to infrastructure  Electricity. 59%                     Electricity, 54%
services                  Potable water, 46%                   Potable water, 33 2%
Expected project          23 villages, 21 country houses. An   24 villages, 21 country houses, and 4 farns An estimated
benefidaries              estimated 64,127 beneficianes (23 percent  50,070 beneficiaries (24 percent of the total population)
of the total population)
Source. FUNCEDE, Social Diagnostic, 2002
- 124-



Most of the population does not have access to potable water, sewerage services, and telecommunication
infrastructure. Access to health care services is also extremely poor, with very few health care facilities
that are spread out through the Department. Most health care facilities have a shortage of qualified
medical staff and equipment. Although most of the urban areas have an elementary school, there are very
few secondary schools in the area. Access to educational services is also very low, as students have an
average walk of 2 km in the MAMSOHUE region. Moreover, the poor condition of the unpaved road
network strongly limits to health and educational facilities, especially during the rainy season when the
roads become largely impassible. The high level of poverty in the region is also related to the poor
quality of the native soil, the erratic pattern of rain, and the difficult topography that reduces access to
markets and social services.
Social Organization
Communities in both regions are relatively well organized, with an average of 4 associative entities in the
larger population centers. In communities with large Mayan populations, two types of community
organizations have been identified. These include: (a) formal organizations that have been created and
recognized by the Government and are governed by the underlying legal and regulatory framework in the
country; and (ii) traditional organizations, which typically are not legally recognized but have significant
legitimacy within their respective communities.
In the municipalities and population centers with large Mayan populations, decision-making and conflict
resolution is typically based on achieving a general consensus. Most population centers have permanent
Pro-mejoramiento Committees that conducts assemblies, where community level decisions are reached
regarding specific issues. Disputes are resolved using the following mechanisms: (a) community
assemblies, (b) municipal mayors; and c) municipal boards.
Infrastructure and Social Services Needs Reported by Residents of HUISTA and MAMSOHUE
Roughly 180 infrastructure subprojects were presented and discussed with residents in the HUISTA
region. Based on the surveys and interviews data, residents placed the highest priority on improving the
provision of potable to drinking water (32%), improving the road network (22%), and the implementing
minor irrigation sub-projects (18%). Similar results were achieved in MAMSOHiUE, where out of 298
subprojects priority was given to improving roads (35%), health centers (24%) and improving access to
potable drinking water (21%). In both mancomunidades, 87% of the respondents believed that significant
improvements to the area roads would be highly beneficiary to the community.
Current road transport conditions
Existing road conditions in the MAMSOHUE and HUISTA regions is extremely poor, as roads are
barely passable using all-terrain vehicles during the summer and completely impassable during winter
rainy seasons. Moreover, the existing system for inter-urban transport is extremely weak, as most of the
buses go along the main road through the Departmental capital and the Mesilla. At present, more than 60
percent of the population in both regions uses pick-up trucks that have a maximum capacity of 20 people.
- 125 -



Table 3: Accessibility and Transport lInfrastructure for Selected Departments, Guatemala, 2000.
San    Huehuetenango  Quiche   vBaia      vAlta      ORest      Average over
Marcos   Huehuetenango  Quiche   Verapaz    Verapaz    ofth      departmentse
country    deatnts
No. of Sampling Units                 24         65          26        18        44         301
No. of Households Sampled            233         617         246      197        465       3086
%HHswithout passableroads             16         21          19        13        20         11           19
% HHs without public transport       63          68          48        42        73         48           63
% HHs experiencing road dosures       14         24          38        24        38         28           31
Timetakentogetwater,min               15         14          14        8          14        13           13
Distance traveled to get water, km.  0 4         0.3         0.3       0.2       0 5        0.2          0.3
Time taken to get wood, min.          79         74          82        83         59        58           72
Distance traveled to get wood, km.    1.4        1.6         1.7       2.2       1.8        1 2          1.7
Time taken to reach a health care     49         51          29        88        48         47           51
fadlity, mnin)
Time taken to reach work, min.        29         48          31        44         37        46           42
Distance traveled to reach market, km  8          10          7        3          9          8            9
Time to reach narket, min.            72         66          61        29        72         41           62
Source World Bank calculations using ENCOVI 2000, Instituto Nacional de Estadistica, Guatemala
Notes: Time and distance are measured in minutes and are one way. Time taken to reach a care health facility is calculated for
individuals who visit a health facility. A health facility can include public hospital, hospital or chnic of the IGSS, a private hospital, a
health center, a health post, a community center, a private clinic or a private consultation, a private pharmacy or a state pharmacy It
excludes the amount of time needed to take care of individuals at their own home or at other homes
Consultative Process
The project has placed a strong emphasis in incorporating the views of local community members and
municipal associations in developing the "core" network of roads and in determining the roads to be
rehabilitated and maintained under the project. In conjunction with INFOM and DGC, the Bank has
worked closely with the mancomunidades (coordinating entities that represent two or more neighboring
municipalities) in HUISTA and MAMSOHUE regarding the selection and the implementation of project
activities within their respective jurisdictions. Several meetings were conducted with the mayors of the
two Mancomunidades to: (i) analyze and discuss the characteristics and the scope of the project; (ii)
identify and select the core network of roads to be maintained; (iii) disseminate the Bank's safeguard
policies; and (iv) analyze the results of the environmental impact assessment and the mitigation
measures.
The consultation process with communities were carried out from March to July 2002 through surveys,
focus groups, and interviews with representatives from civil societies, NGOs, community leaders, and
area residents to better assess the specific investment needs of the communities in the project area. A
broad consensus was reached regarding the overall need to improve transport access, and the
labor-intensive technologies in road works.
The roads proposed by the local authorities and the communities were evaluated on technical grounds by
DGC and consultants. Road works to be carried out were evaluated and ranked according to local
preferences using the formula established in the Index for Road Selection (Indice de Selecci6n Vial, ISV
- See Annex 4). The final results of the process form the "optimal road network" which will be
implemented in four separate packages over the next four years. Roughly 148 of the 156 road works
(96.1 percent) selected and prioritized by local residents are included in the project. Road rehabilitation
works not included generally had sufficient financing from other sources The first package of works,
planned for 2003, involve a total of 39 rural road segments, which were built primarily using community
resources. These roads are accessible with all-terrain vehicles and only during summer months. From a
- 126-



social perspective, the area of influence includes local residents who live or work within 3 km from the
central axis of the road segment covered under the project. Table 2 summarizes the 4 road packages that
will make up the "optimal road network" by location, number of road segments, and length.
Table 4: Rural Roads Compris ng the Optimal Road Network
Optimal Road Network      Number of r ad segments          Lengtl (km)
Mamsohue        Huista      Mamsohue       Huista
lI' package of works            20            19           126.5         145.5
2n' package of works            18            23           133.4         122.0
3rd package of works            20            15           90.5          72.7
4th package of works            20             13          86.2          56.6
Total                            78           70           436.6         396.8
Source- DGC-INFOM-Consultants, August 2002
Social Impact Assessment and Expected Project Benefits
The Social Impact Assessment was based on a diagnostic of socio-economic and cultural characteristics
of the area of influence of the project. By and large, the project is expected to have an extremely positive
impact on the region. The project is expected to improve rural access, increase mobility, and reduce
transport costs. Road rehabilitation, maintenance, and improvement works will guarantee all-year
passage and encourage the extension of public and private transport services. The project is also expected
to have the following benefits for residents living in the project area; (i) improvements to the rural road
network to improve access and social services, such as health and education; (ii) rehabilitation of the
secondary and department road network to provide better connections between rural and trunk roads; (iii)
increased employment opportunities in rural areas; (iv) institutional strengthening program to improve
the management of rural roads; and (v) improved social cohesion. The project will also support the
development and provision of road safety courses for school instructors, who will disseminate this
information to their students.
According to the population surveyed, the expected advantages from improving selected roads includes:
*   Decreased level of isolation during winter months;
*   Increased production, which is presently limited by transport bottlenecks;
*   Decreased transport costs and reduced travel times;
*   Fostering of private investment in the region;
*   Lower costs of supplies for agricultural production and general merchandise;
*   Improved availability of bus service;
*   Improved links with hospitals and health centers;
*   Reduced number of absentee teachers and pupils;
*   Facilitate the attendance of secondary education in the larger towns;
*   Improved telephone communications and other public services; and
*   Increased tourist promotion.
None of the proposed works involve the development of new roads nor the widening of existing roads.
As a result, none of the planned road works are expected to result in the population resettlements.
- 127-



Potential adverse impacts identified include: (i) higher accident rates; (ii) possible damage to private
property during works construction; and (iii) possible damage to local religious sites. Suitable mitigation
measures have been delineated under the Social Management Plan.
Social Management Plan
The Social Management Plan seeks to ensure the positive impacts of the project are achieved as well as
prevent and mitigate potentially adverse impacts A Social Management Plan, which will be implemented
by INFOM and the mancomunidades, consists of three main programs: (i) dissemination and social
awareness; (ii) respect for local religious sites; and (iii) a road safety program.
1. Dissemnination and social awareness
a. Dissemination of the Social Management and Environmental Management Pla
Through seminars, INFOM will disseminate to the mancommunidades the
characteristics, the progress achieved, and the social and environmental mitigation
measures. The man-comunidades will then pass on this information to the community
assemblies.
b. Dissemination of the Progress Achieved    in  Project limplementation. The
participation of community leaders of the mancomunidades is essential for the success of
this project. Community leaders are expected to promote and disseminate the objectives
and the expected benefits of the project to local community assemblies.
c. Prevent and limit damage. Civil works contracts will include clauses that guarantee
that contractors are held responsible for any damages and financial losses caused during
works implementation. Defined enforcement mechanisms and procedures will be
circulated to communities so that local residents are aware of these safeguards as well as
the relevant enforcement procedures, if necessary.
2. Protection of local religious sites
a. Sensitivity training to workers. Training seminars will be conducted and general
guidelines will be issued to contractor employees to ensure that the norms governing the
protection of the environment and local religious sites are upheld.
b. Protection of religious sites. Roughly 3 sites were found near planned road works that
of religious significance to the local population in the region. The tender documents for
civil works contracts for these projects will outline the procedures for protecting these
sites. Strict monitoring and oversight as well as effective enforcement will be carried out
throughout implementation to ensure compliance. Contractors will be assessed severe
penalties in the event of non-compliance. In addition, a road education program will be
developed to limit accidents in the areas near protected sites.
3. Road Safety. In coordination with local authorities, there will be annual seminars on road safety
during two consecutive years. These seminars will be designed primarily for school teachers and
will focus on road safety in road crossings and intersections and how to teach road safety to their
students using practical examples.
- 128-



Institutional Arrangements
INFOM will dissemninate subproject characteristics, current subproject status, and mitigation measures to
minimize potentially negative social and environmental impacts through workshops and community
assemblies. INFOM will also develop and public awareness campaigns. These activities will be
coordinated with the mancomunidades. 1NFOM will assign qualified technical personnel to monitor and
oversee the implementation of the Social Management Action Plan. Table 5 outlines the components,
costs, sources of financing, and evaluation indicators of the Social Management Plan.
Table 5: Components, Cost, and Evaluation Indicators for the Social Management Plan
Component of the Social    Implementing             Cost and Sources         Evaluation Indicator
Management Plan            Agencies            of Financing
1. Dissemination and social awareness                INFOM: US$4,000
Mancomunicades: US$3,000
1.1 Dissemination of the   INFOM and the                                   *   Number of meetings
Social Management Plan     Mancomunidades                                  *   Number of participants
1.2 Dissemination to the   INFOM and the                                   *   Number of meetings
Mancomunicades             Mancomunidades                                  .   Number of participants
1.3 Preventing potential   Contractors,                                    *   Number of complaints presented
negative impacts           Mancomunidades                                  *   Response time between claim
coordcnated by                                      and response
INFOM
2. Protection of local religious sites               INFOM: US$3,000
2.1 Sensitivity training to  INFOM and the       *                         (i)      Number of workshops
workers                    Mancomunidades
2 2 Protection of local    Contractors,          *                         (i)      Number of sites preserved
religious sites            Mancomunidades                                  (iii)    Numbers complaints made
coordinated by                                          regarding the management
INFOM                                                    of sacred sites
3. Road Safety
3.1 Road safety education  INFOM and the             INFOM. US$4,000       *   Number of road safety semrnars
Mancomunidades                                  *   Total number of accidents
*   Accident rate
Estimated Budget
The estimated project to implement the Social Management Plan is approximately US $14,000 for each
package of road works or US$56,000 during the entire project implementation period.
.The Social Assessment was carried out by the Centro-American Foundation for Development (Fundact6n
Centroamericana para el Desarrollo -FUNCEDE)
- 129-



Additional Annex 17: Environmental Assessment
GUATEMALA: SECOND RURAL AND MAIN ROADS PROJECT
The Second Rural and Main Roads Program (RMRP) builds upon the model established under the San
Marcos Rural Roads Pilot Project (SMRRPP). Based on this experience, this project has incorporated
new elements that will improve environmental supervision and performance. These elements include: (i)
a more upstream analysis of environmental issues; and (ii) the introduction of environmental issues in
defining a national level Rural Road Strategy to improve long term environmental sustainability of the
project.
A checklist of environmental and social issues relating to rural roads, which includes all the Bank's
Safeguard Policies, has been developed for the project. Based on this checklist, a comprehensive analysis
was carried out for the first package of works proposed under Phase I of the project-the HUISTA and
MAMSOHUE Associations in the Department of Huehuetenango. A sample of 5 main roads and 19 rural
roads subprojects (out of 39 subprojects) that will be started in year one of project implementation were
selected for this review. In this manner, 24 of 44 subprojects (55 percent of the total) contained in the
first year package were visited and screened for potential environmental effects.
Project activities
Most of the potential environmental impact will be located directly along the rights-of-way of the roads
rehabilitated under the project. The potential environmental impact as a result of the project may be
caused by a combination of the following factors:
a. Pre construction activities:
o   Building and operating camps;
o   Moving machinery and equipment during construction;
o   Designating areas for borrowed materials banks;
o   Designating waste areas for the material generated during slopes cutting;
o   Construction of access roads to burrow pits and quarries, if necessary;
o   Clearing of vegetation; and
o   Transportation of fuels and lubricants to work sites.
b. Construction activities:
o   Constructing burrow pits and quarries;
o   Hauling away waste and other construction materials;
o   Verifying earthworks where a road is going to be widened or modified;
o   Building terraces at slopes and filling where the road is going to be widened or modified;
o   Carrying materials to waste deposit areas;
o   Digging 30 centimeters to eliminate waste materials (e.g. organic soil, vegetative residues,
etc.)
- 130-



*   Reconditioning the base with stones, as needed;
*   Placing surface material (a double surface treatment/paving for main roads and ballast for
rural roads);
*   Drainage works (e.g. ditches, vaults, culverts, etc.) This project does not includes bridge
works;
*   Placing of road signs; and
*   Worksite activities (e.g. administration, storage, warehouse, and equipment workshops, etc..
c. Restoration activities:
*   Mending, leveling, compacting, and reforesting areas used as burrow pits or material banks.
*   Leveling, compacting, and reforesting waste disposal areas; and
*   Clearing rights of way at the end of the works.
Environmental impacts
The project entails the rehabilitation and improvement of existing rural and main roads. Based on this
design, it is not anticipated that the project will have any significant environmental impacts that could
jeopardize the natural environment in its area of influence. Accordingly, the project has been classified as
a "Category B" project purposes. In addition, the civil works projects planned under the project will not
require carrying out major changes in road characteristics, such as road widening or changing the
alignment. Therefore, involuntary resettlement of population is also not expected.
In the past, inadequate design and poor construction techniques have resulted in serious environment
degradation, including erosion, sediment loads, and encroachment. The proposed project will improve
existing environmental conditions by introducing improved road design and construction techniques, and
promoting environmental and social sustainability in the rural roads sector. The main conclusions
reached regarding an extensive analysis of the first-year works include:
*   In general, it is unlikely that the sub-projects proposed by RMRP will jeopardize the natural
or social environment, as these projects focus exclusively on rehabilitation works.
*   Civil works sub-projects will take place along existing roads, which have relatively optimal
construction characteristics and precludes the widening of existing roads. Similarly, there
are no changes foreseen in the road alignment. In addition, no supplementary works are
planned that could affect the direct area of influence area of the proposed subprojects.
*   The deforestation of zones alongside the road is expected to be extremely limited.
Consequently, reforestation activities along the roads financed under the project are expected
to be minimal. Reforestation will be only necessary in the recovery of borrow pits and
disposal sites.
*   Not only does the project possess minor environmental risks, but will also support the
improvement of existing environmental conditions. The project will provide resources to
encourage the recovery of degraded areas, e.g. the improvement of eroded zones, slope
stabilization, etc., which were caused during the original construction.
- 131 -



o   Most of the roads visited lack quarries or material exploitation areas, which is why most of
the environmental mitigation measures will likely involve reducing the impact caused by
borrow pits and quarry exploitation. Because the project emphasizes financing low-cost
works, it will be necessary to minimize the cost of hauling materials by encouraging
contractors to find material sources close to road works that meet current standards. In this
manner, contractor. supervision is very important to ensure that the selected sites are close to
the work sites to reduce potentially negative environmental impacts. It is also important to
insist upon the use of good practices and sanctioned measures in the exploitation and
subsequent restoration of project areas.
o   To the extent possible, the project will promote community participation in carrying out
reforestation works in order to expand income generation opportunities and increase
ownership among the local population.
Environmental Management
Environmental supervision: An important strategy for ensuring environmental sustainability of the
project is the development of adequate supervision mechanisms of civil works subprojects. One
approach would be to require at least one environmental specialist in the terms of reference for
environmental supervision firms.
Ilnstitutional strengthening: The project will also require that the environmental unit within the
implementing agency has attracted qualified staff and has obtained the necessary equipped to
satisfactorily carry out environmental supervision and monitoring activities. To this end, the project will
finance the following activities: (i) strengthening of the environmental management capacity of sector
institutions, especially the Environmental Unit within DGC (Direcci6n de Gesti6n Ambiental - DGA);
and (ii) strengthening the environmental supervision of road construction activities.
Meeting national environmental standards: In carrying out project due diligence, the Bank will
require evidence that each subproject meets the environmental norms and regulations established by the
Environment and Natural Resources Ministry (ENRM). The ENRM has developed an checklist and
related requirements for each subproject to ensure adequate environmental management during the
project life cycle.
For road projects, the environmental authority requires the preparation of an Environmental Report (ER),
which identifies and summarizes the-potential environmental and social impact of each subproject. The
next step would be the preparation of an Environmental Mitigation Plan (EMP), which delineate in
greater detail the potential environmental impact of the project as well as the intended mitigation
measures, including budget and timetable for implementing the EMP. ERs for the rural and main roads
were developed with the technical support of the DGA, and were officially delivered to each one of the
Huista and Mamsohue Community's Mayors at a meeting chaired by INFOM. To initiate the
environmental review process, the Mayors of these communities delivered the ERs for rural roads to the
ENRM Delegation Representative in Huehuetenango. The ERs for main roads were delivered directly by
DGC officials to the ENRM Delegation Representative. The environmental authority approved the
first-year package presented by DGC and the municipalities (Of. No. 238-02/MARN-Htgo) in October
2002.
Presentation of the Environmental Evaluation to the Civil Society
- 132 -



To ensure the application of the Bank's Safeguard Policies related to O.P 17.50, a workshop with the
participation of approximately 30 representatives from 18 different organizations (e.g. NGO,
municipalities, universities, governmental institutions, etc). The purpose of the October 2002 workshop
was to provide and disseminate information regarding the Bank's environmental and social policies and
due diligence process. Several recommendations were received during the workshop, which have been
incorporated in development of the project. These recommendations include the active participation and
ownership of all project actors and the development of an adequate communication strategy. This is a
critical and innovative feature of the project, which will translate into the improved development and
implementation of the project objectives.
Environmental Mitigation Plan (EMP)
EMPs will delineate environmental mitigation measures, such as slope stabilization, the restoration of
burrow pits and material deposit areas, contractor supervision, controlling earthwork management and
existing erosion processes, and carrying out drainage works. Road and pedestrian safety and other issues
will be taken into account during subproject design. The EMPs will ensure adequate environmental
management throughout the subproject life cycle. These measures will be included in an Environmental
Manual for Road Design and Construction, which was prepared by the DGA, and will form part of
tender documents and contracts provided to bidders. The environmental manual will address the
following issues:
- 133-



Potential Impacts Along right-of-way                                  Mitigabon Measures
a. Generated residues and/or poUuting agents.
Atmospheric emissions:
Emission can be caused by- (X) the use of machinery and The equipment used must be in perfect working condition, and must
equipment, which release gases created as a result of fuel have filters to reduce emissions. During the transport of matenals, the
combustion; (ii) detonating material banks; and (ii) hauhng  filters should be covered with canvasses to avoid the dispersion of fine
materials. The latter two activities will generate dust particles, particles to neighboring areas. Another important measure will be
which may produce respiratory illness to workers or inhabitants in treating the road under construction with adequate humidity contents to
the direct area of influence                               limit the amount of dust dispersed. It is very important for all field staff
to use masks to avoid respiratory infections.
Sewage discharges:
Inadequate handhng of excrement coming from worksites, which The project will require the installation of latrines or septic tanks at
might contaminate the ground and nearby water sources      project worksites at a ratio of one for every ten workers These facilities
will be placed as far as possible from nverbeds or water sources to
avoid having contact with the water table.
Lubricants discharge:
Equipment used dunng construction, e g tractors, dump trucks, Harnessing tanks will be built for treating lubncants at the project
water trucks, and compressors, etc., will require maintenance. The worksites Later on, these residues will collected and deposited inside
inappropriate disposal of lubncants might contaminate superficial metal barrels, which will taken to recycling areas.
or underground water sources.
b. Archeological Sites:
There may be archeological treasures uncovered in the project's Pnor to commencing project works, it will be necessary to survey the
area of influence, which includes indigenous communities and area of influence and gather detailed infonmation to determine the
areas with significant cultural and historical interest    presence of archeological sites or places with high levels of cultural
importance This assessment will carried out in conjunction with the
Anthropology and History Institute (IDAEH)
Solid Waste:
c   During the construction and implementation, there may be sohd  Regarding the removal of the rolling coat, it is necessary to determine
waste residues caused by the removal of the rolling coat, machinery  if recychng is an option in order to reuse the matenals removed This
filters, used supplies, used spare wheels, oil containers and waste  will reduce the size of quarry and a waste area may not be needed
produced by the field workers                               Spare matenals left at the worksite will be collected and taken to
recycling sites and/or re-used industnally. In any case, project will
monitor the construction site to ensure that solid waste is not left at
clandestine or municipal waste areas.
d. Noise and Vibrations:
Noise can be generated by construction machinery dunng the  Construction equipment should be in good condition to minimize
preparation of work sites, the detonation of matenal banks, and  sound waves and noise emissions. Workers should use special
road rehabihtation works Noise can affect workers and inhabitants  protective equipment. Implementaton of road works are expected to
from neighboring communities.                              take place only dunng the day.
e. Visual Impact:
A poor choice of the work areas, inadequate banks, or the lack of  The camp should be located where visual fields will not be affected, or
waste can negatively alter the landscape Project activities will also  where there are vegetable curtains can ease the visual impact In many
involve removing vegetation alongside the roads and placing  places, the landscape where the works will be carned out have natural
rolling coats                                               and scenic value It will be necessary, therefore, to monitor that the
landscape resembles original conditions, including the reforesting of
native species.
The location of material banks will be a determining factor Due to the
road's topographic conditions, poor location choice will affect the
landscape. Therefore, the project will ensure that there will be a
reforestation of native species, immediately after finishing extraction
works.
The mitigaton measures for waste areas are also very specific First, it
will be necessary to select an adequate location, since the topography
makes matenal placement difficult Placing matenal along the sides of
the road or on farming areas should be avoided, as well as at or near
water sources If necessary, contention structures will be built to avoid
materials from sliding
Removing vegetation should be lmited to the 9.5 m required for the
road improvement. Recovery activities should be implemented at the
affected areas by seeding with native species.
f. Protected Areas:
Based on a review of registers and maps of protected area, there are  No mitigation measures will be needed, since there aren't any protected
not any known protected areas along the road section        areas close to the subprojects
- 134 -



Environmental budget:
The environmental budget includes the cost of: (i) environmental mitigation measures that is included as
part of the subprojects cost, and (ii) institutional strengthening for Environmental Unit within DGC. The
estimated cost of carrying out environmental mitigation measures for rural roads is US$ 456.181, which
represents 2.8% of the total cost of these works. For main roads, the cost of undertaking mitigation
measures is US$ 720.450, which represents 4.3% of the total cost of these roads. The institutional
strengthening of the DGC is estimated at US$ 50,000, which will be used primarily for project
monitoring and supervision activities. In this context, the total estimated budget for the project for
environmental activities is US$ 1,306.631, representing 4.0% of the total amount of the subprojects.
Environmental strategy for the rural road sector in Guatemala
As part of ongoing project preparation, a Strategy for the Rural Road and Transport Sector has been
prepared for Guatemala. This strategy includes long term environmental and social sustainability issues
and is based on: (i) defining an environmental and social policy for rural roads in Guatemala to minimize
encroachment of natural habitats and targeting the rural poor; (ii) improving road design and construction
practices through the development of an environmental manual for design and construction and improved
supervision; (iii) the promotion of community participation in the definition of sector priorities; (iv)
ensuring long term maintenance of rehabilitated roads through community enterprises; and (v)
strengthening environmental management of key sector actors.
Additional actions to undertaken
With the objective of ensuring environmental and social sustainability of the project, the following
environmental requirements have been established, which should be included in the loan agreement.
*   During the Mid-Term Review, provide evidence that the DGA has been strengthened; and
*   Prepare Monthly Progress Reports regarding the progress achieved regarding the
development of EMPs for rural and main roads financed by the project.
- 135 -



Additional Annex 18:General Framework for Resettlements
GUATEMALA: SECONMD RURAL ANI1D MiAlIN ROADS PROJECT
Plan Gerencial para el Manejo die Reasentamientos
(Octubre de 1997)
Dlocumento eRaborado por lla DBirecci&n General de Camnilnos
1. Presentaci6n
El presente documento ha sido elaborado con el objeto de presentar los lineamiientos generales para el
manejo de reasentamientos, dentro del marco de ejecuci6n de los distintos proyectos viales a cargo de la
Direcci6n General de Caminos, especificamente aquellos que requieran la planeaci6n y el manejo de
reasentamientos, generados por desplazamientos involuntarios de poblaci6n causados por el impacto que
genere la ejecuci6n de cualquier proyecto vial.
2. l[ntroducci6n
En el marco de la ejecuci6n del Plan de Inversiones 1997-2000 de la Direcci6n General de Caminos, se
ha contemplado la rehabilitaci6n, mejoramiento y modernizaci6n de la red vial del pafs con el prop6sito
principal de reducir los costos generales de transporte, proporcionar comodidad y satisfacci6n en el
transporte de productos y personas, asi como mejorar la calidad de vida de la poblaci6n y promover la
productividad y competitividad de los diferentes productos a nivel nacional e intemacional.
En este contexto, se ha considerado la creaci6n de una Unida de Trabajo Social, dentro de la Asesoria
Juridica de la Direcci6n General de Caminos, con el objeto de que dicha Unidad coadyuve a la
realizaci6n de las actividades de planificaci6n, gesti6n y ejecuci6n de los proyectos viales, mediante el
desarrollo de una investigaci6n de la situaci6n socioecon6mica de los habitantes que residen en los
alrededores del derecho de via de la red vial nacional y su posible afectaci6n por el impacto generado por
la ejecuci6n de cada proyecto vial en particular.
3. Justificaci6n / Antecedentes
Las condiciones socioecon6micas de la mayorfa de los habitantes en el area rural son precarias y su
desarrollo econ6mico es limitado, lo cual ha generado la existencia de invasiones al derecho de via y la
respectiva habilitaci6n de viviendas, negocios populares y otro tipo de construcciones, que a traves del
tiempo han pasado a ser parte del Area urbana.
La anterior situaci6n ha obligado a que en el momento de planificar y gestionar la ampliaci6n y
mejoramiento de la red vial se tengan que formular diferentes planes de reasentamiento, que incluyan
entre otros, un plan de actividades necesarias para propiciar las condiciones favorables de vida a la
poblaci6n afectada por la ejecuci6n del proyecto.
No obstante, para cada caso en particular es necesario realizar una investigaci6n socioecon6mica de cada
nucleo familiar en donde se estara realizando el proyecto y determinar el impacto particular que sera
provocado, asi como las medidas de mitigaci6n del impacto o su posible compensaci6n, con el fin de que
en el momento en que se inicien los trabajos de construcci6n de la obra civil, la poblaci6n afectada ya
debera estar reubicada o reasentada en otro lugar, mejorando su antigua calidad de vida o por lo menos
que no se afecte su libre locomoci6n, fuentes de trabajo, salud, educaci6n, vivienda, etc. Asimismo, las
compensaciones e indemnizaciones debidas a los afectados deberan haber sido entregadas a manera de
- 136-



facilitar el resarcimiento por perdidas materiales y/o econ6micas causadas.
Esta investigaci6n socioecon6mica, asi como la formulaci6n del plan de reasentamientos a ejecutar,
requieren de lineamientos particulares que satisfagan los requerimientos de las diferentes instituciones
financieras que financiarfan parcialmente la ejecuci6n de los proyectos.
4. Plan Gerencial para el Manejo de Reasentamientos
Este Plan Gerencial pretende normar las actividades de la Direcci6n General de Caminos relacionadas
con la administraci6n de los diferentes planes de reasentamiento formulados en virtud de la ejecuci6n de
proyectos viales, manteniendo coherencia con las directrices generales que el Banco Mundial tiene para
los reasentamientos involuntarios consignados en la directriz operacional 4.30 y en consideraci6n a los
lineamientos generales siguientes:
4.1 Lineamientos Generales para la Formulaci6n de un Plan de Reasentamientos
Estos lineamientos persiguen proporcionar un procedimiento a seguir cuando, por causa de la ejecuci6n
de un proyecto vial (rehabilitaci6n, modernizaci6n u ampliaci6n), en todos o alguno de sus componentes,
se afecte a un grupo de poblaci6n y se requiera de la realizaci6n de diferentes estudios de campo que
comprendan la participaci6n de especialistas de las ciencias sociales, con el prop6sito de identificar con
precisi6n los impactos a ser generados en la poblaci6n afectada y formular las medidas de mitigaci6n
necesarias o compensaciones/remuneraciones requeridas para mantenerse o elevar el nivel de vida de
dicha poblaci6n y asegurar que las personas desplazadas o afectadas por la construcci6n o desarrollo de
algun proyecto, restablezcan sus condiciones de vida previa al desplazamiento, a travds de programas de
monitoreo social, disefiados para dicho fin.
Por lo anterior se debera formular un plan de reasentamientos particular a cada proyecto, que procure
evitar, mitigar y/o compensar los problemas ambientales (impactos) generados por el desplazamiento
involuntario de la poblaci6n restituyendo condiciones de vida (econ6micas, sociales y culturales)
igualandolas y/o mejorandolas en la medida de lo posible, considerando que en aquellos casos en que la
vivienda inicial de los destinatarios del reasentamiento no cumplan con las condiciones minimas de
seguridad, salud y saneamiento, el plan a formular debera contemplar la provisi6n de las mismas.
Cada plan de reasentamientos formulado debera responder a las caracterfsticas particulares de cada
proyecto, de conformidad con las condiciones e impactos generados, sin importar las caracteristicas
propias de la poblaci6n o comunidad afectada. Los costos relacionaos con la formulaci6n de estudios,
analisis desarrollo y acompaniamiento necesarios para la realizaci6n de reasentamientos deberan estar
contemplados como parte del costo total del proyecto.
4.2 Principios Basicos
1. Previo a la implementaci6n de un Proyecto vial, se debera demostrar tdcnicamente que el proyecto
seleccionado ha considerado todas las alternativas viables para evitar reasentamientos involuntarios
y/o la minimizaci6n de los mismos en casos inevitables.
2. Ni el medio ambiente (degradado como consecuencia de una obra o proyecto que ejerce una carga
determinada segun a magnitud y la naturaleza de la actividad) ni la poblaci6n, ni los desplazados
directamente por dichos proyectos deben sufrir o pagar los costos de desarrollo.
3. Se debe buscar que las personas a ser reasentadas reciban los beneficios econ6micos del proyecto
durante la ejecuci6n del mismo y el perfodo de monitoreo especifico para cada plan de
reasentamiento.
- 137-



4. Los impactos asociados a los desplazamientos involuntarios y sus respectivas acciones de mitigaci6n
deberan quedar definidas. Los siguientes son impactos relacionaos con desplazamientos
involuntarios: alteraci6n de la vida econ6mica (perdida de ingreso, empleo aumentos en costos de
vida debido al transporte, impuestos, etc), afectaci6n de la vida famniliar (incluida la particularidad de
cada uno de sus miembros), desarticulaci6n de las relaciones sociales u otros de orden cultural.
5. Mereceran especial consideraci6n en los procesos de reasentamientos involuntario, aquellos grupos
que por sus caracteristicas propias sean considerados vulnerables. Para tal efecto se deben centrar los
esfuerzos de reasentamiento en los siguientes grupos:
o   Comunidades de repatriados localizadas en la regi6n de ZONAPAZ
o   Habitantes de asentamientos y/o localizados en zonas de riesgo en los espacios suburbanos
o   Familias que viven del producto de pequentos negocios
o   Pobladores suburbanos que dependen de la economfa informal
o   Hogares humildes sin padre de familia
o   Pequefios campesinos con economfa de subsistencia
o   Poblaci6n en riesgo de marginalizaci6n
o   Poblaci6n analfabeta, minorfas dtnicas y ancianos
o   En general, todos aquellos grupos de poblaci6n en riesgo de empobrecimiento y de
marginalizaci6n de la sociedad, que pueden verse afectados por los desafios que ofrece el
nuevo entorno de localizaci6n.
6. La poblaci6n sujeto de desplazamiento debe ser actor fundamental en el proceso de la toma de
decisiones relacionadas al reasentamiento, desde el disefio el Plan de Reasentamientos y durante toda
la fase de ejecuci6n del mismo (planificaci6n, formulaci6n ejecuci6n y monitoreo del Plan),
favoreciendo la participaci6n de la poblaci6n afectada en el proceso de toma de decisiones
relacionadas con la evaluaci6n de los impactos asociados al desplazamiento voluntario, quienes seran
sujetos del proceso de reasentamiento, evaluaci6n de las altemativas de reasentamiento, selecci6n de
sitios donde se habra de ejecutar el reasentamiento, relaciones con la poblaci6n anfitriona, etc.
7. Es importante indicar que para los casos en que las personas afectadas no sean consideradas
vulnerables, en peligro de empobrecimiento o marginalizaci6n, las mismas tendrdn la oportunidad de
escoger indemnizaci6n en dinero, al valor de reposici6n de las viviendas o predios afectados. Los
habitantes que poseen el titulo legal del predio que habitan, tendran el derecho juridico de vender su
propiedad sin ser reasentados, si asi lo eligieran. En dicho caso la vivienda o predio seran
compensados a su valor de reposici6n.
8. Todas las anteriores discusiones deben ser discutidas con amplitud, transparencia y veracidad. De
todo el proceso en su conjunto debe quedar documentaci6n que sustente y certifique la participaci6n,
por lo que se espera que todos los afectados sean consultados y concertados de todos aquellos efectos
o impactos que el reasentamiento mismo conlleva. La estrategia de comunicaci6n debera tener no
s6lo un manejo individual, sino tambien comunitario. En casos especiales se podran llevar a cabo
consultas amplias, como audiencias pdblicas.
9. La politica de reasentamientos sera aplicada a todos los afectados independientemente de la tenencia
de un titulo legal que acredite la propiedad del bien. Para cada caso, se establecera previamente a la
ejecuci6n del proyecto, un censo para delimitar quienes seran las personas y familias objeto de ser
reasentadas o indemnizadas. Las organizaciones comunitarias pueden aportar informaci6n reciente
- 138 -



que verifique la legitimidad de los afectados, para evitar la presencia de personas no sujetas a ser
beneficiarias.
10. Definir quienes tienen derecho al reasentamiento, principalmente aquellos que pierden su vivienda,
tierra o ambos, acceso a recursos naturales, empleo, ingreso familiar, oportunidades econ6micas
fundamentales para la supervivencia. En general donde hayan alteraciones que provoquen riesgo de
empobrecimiento, quedarse sin tierra, sin trabajo, perdida del hogar, marginalizaci6n, aumento de la
mortalidad infantil causada por el sitio de reubicaci6n, desarticulaci6n social, perdida de acceso a
bienes comunes (rios, mares etc). Todo lo anterior debe estar verificado por estudios de campo.
4.3 Monitoreo y Evaluaci6n
Todo plan de reasentamiento contara con un plan de monitoreo, que contemple la realizaci6n de visitas
peri6dicas al nuevo sitio ubicado, informes peri6dicos de desarrollo de la poblaci6n, evaluaci6n de las
medidas implementadas, problemas encontrados y propuesta de soluci6n a los mismos, formulando un
plan de contingencia en el caso de que las medidas planteadas originalmente no hayan obtenido los
objetivos propuestos.
4.4 Inventario Social
En virtud de que los planes de reasentamientos a formular tienen su base principal en la informaci6n de
campo obtenida en estudios participativos, sera recomendable detallar y valorar los impactos ambientales
particularmente en su dimensi6n social, precisando los componentes demograficos, econ6micos,
culturales y politicos de la poblaci6n afectada y posteriormente desarrollar una base de datos (inventario
social) que permita actualizar la informaci6n obtenida para su aplicaci6n en futuros proyectos.
4.5 Marco Institucional y Juridico
El marco legal aplicable a reasentamientos esta establecido en el articulo 40 de la Constituci6n de la
Republica y el Decreto 1000 del Congreso de la Republica de fecha 20 de Agosto de 1953. Para cada
proyecto de obra civil a ejecutar, se debera formular un plan de reasentamientos que dependera de la
magnitud del impacto generado. Sera responsabilidad de la Direcci6n General de Caminos la formulaci6n
del mismo, a traves del Programa de Gesti6n Ambiental y la Asesorfa Juridica de la instituci6n,
considerando la participaci6n de profesionales de las distintas disciplinas y la consulta y concertaci6n de
la poblaci6n afectada y de las entidades financieras relacionadas con el proyecto, con el fin de garantizar
de la mejor forma posible la restituci6n de lo perdido y lograr beneficiar a la comunidad de las bondades
del proyecto.
Este plan de reasentamientos sera elevado a consideraci6n de las instituciones financieras de proyecto y
dependiendo del tipo de obra a ejecutar (rehabilitaci6n, mantenimiento, mejoramiento o construcci6n),
debera ser aprobado por la Comisi6n Nacional del Medio Ambiente, conjuntamente con la Evaluaci6n de
Impacto Ambiental realizada para el proyecto en particular.
La ejecuci6n del plan de reasentamientos formulado sera responsabilidad de la Direcci6n General de
Caminos y supervisada por el Programa de Gesti6n Ambiental de la Instituci6n, a traves de consultores
con reconocida competencia profesional para este tipo de actividades, en coordinaci6n con todas las
partes involucradas. Ademas, el Programa de Gesti6n Ambiental velara por el completo cumplimiento de
las medidas propuestas por parte del contratista responsable de la ejecuci6n del plan de reasentamientos.
5. Objetivos Generales del Plan Gerencial de Reasentamientos
e   Concienciar y sensibihzar a la poblaci6n afectada del beneficio que proporcionara la
- 139 -



ejecuci6n del proyecto (nacional, local y particular) y el mejoramiento en el nivel de vida
proporcionado por la reubicaci6n de viviendas.
o   Lograr la participaci6n y aceptaci6n total de la poblaci6n afectada, asi como de los
pobladores del Area de influencia del reasentamiento para determinar su futura reubicaci6n.
6. Objetivos Especificos
o   Formular una politica de administraci6n de asentamientos humanos, sostenibilidad ambiental
y mejoramiento de la calidad de vida, en el marco de ejecuci6n de proyectos viales, que
comprenda un marco econ6mico, social, cultural y politico.
a   Proporcionar una herramienta que permita la planificaci6n de la distribuci6n equitativa de los
beneficios econ6micos, politicos, sociales y culturales generados por cada proyecto, asi
como el fortalecimiento de los individuos y comunidades (tanto en sus asentamientos
tradicionales, como en aquellos de reciente poblamiento)
o   Establecer las areas especificas en donde se realizara el reasentamiento de los habitantes
afectados, para mantener el equilibrio entre ecosistemas y poblados.
o   Establecer metas accesibles sobre el numero de familias que se atenderan en cada plan a
ejecutar.
o   Establecer planes de trabajo que tengan una cobertura minima de estudios socioecon6micos y
que puedan ser primordiales en seis meses de trabajo.
7. Organizaci6n
El desarrollo del trabajo de campo para la obtenci6n de informaci6n de los estudios socioecon6micos y
puesta en marcha de los planes de reasentamientos formulados, estara bajo la responsabilidad de un
equipo multidisciplinario integrado por un Asesor Juridico, una Trabajadora Social, un Ingeniero
Agr6nomo, un Ingeniero Civil, un Arquitecto, Tip6grafos y un Maestro de Caminos. El desarrollo de los
planes debera contemplar los elementos siguientes:
o   Impacto generado
o   Ubicaci6n geografica
o   Inmersi6n en la comunidad
o   Estudio socioecon6mico
o   Diagnostico
o   Planificaci6n
o   Valoraci6n
o   Ejecuci6n
o   Evaluaci6n expost
8. lProceso de Trabajo
El proceso de trabajo deberA contemplar las actividades siguientes:
- 140-



EVALUAC16N PRELIMINAR
*   Inmersi6n comunal
*   Diagnostico operativo
*   Plan general de actividades
*   Estudios socioecon6micos
*   Infraestructura basica
> Calles (vialidad)
> Drenajes
>  Administraci6n
> Electricidad
> Agua
> Recreaci6n
> Salud
*   Elaboraci6n y presentaci6n de informes escritos
EVALUACI6N
*   Observaci6n directa e individual
*   Revisi6n de instrumentos elaborados
CONTENIDOS
*   Organizaci6n administrativa de las comunidades
*   Desarrollo comunal
*   Aspectos demograficos de las poblaciones
*   Caracteristicas socioecon6mica y culturales de las comunidades a afectar
AREAS DE INTER VENCION
Las comunidades a ser analizadas
9. Recursos
HUMANOS
*   Autoridades superiores de la Direcci6n General de Caminos
*   Autoridades comunales
*   Asesor juridico de la Direcci6n General de Caminos
*   Profesional del trabajo Social
*   Equipo multidisciplinario de la Direcci6n General de Caminos
*   Comunitarios de los departamentos de Guatemala que seran reasentados en diferentes
- 141 -



sectores
FISICOS
o Oficina asesorfa jurfdica de la direcci6n General de Canilnos
o   Locales comunales e institucionales
o   Viviendas de los comunitarios
o   Vehfculo para traslado y ejecuci6n del trabajo de campo
o   Papeleria a utilizar
INSTITUCIONALES
o   Municipalidades de las localidades
o   Direcci6n General de Caminos
FINANCIEROS
El programa de reasentamiento deber valorarse econ6micamente e incluirse dentro del costo total del
proyecto. El estimativo de los costos que implicara el Plan de Reasentarmiento para cada proyecto, debera
contemplarse en el monto total de dicho proyecto.
10. Calendarizaci6n
La calendarizaci6n se llevara a cabo de acuerdo a los requerimientos de cada Plan de Reasentamiento,
contemplado en un cronograma o en calendarizaci6n especifica de actividades, a efecto de contar con un
orden 16gico y sistematizado, previendo los posibles cambios de fechas que pudiesen darse para el
desarrollo de las mismas.
- 142 -



MAP SECTION






IBED 32545
92-00'                                             91-30'                                            9100                        GUATEMALA903'
Th,m=p  pdud by IhT M=p S-g, Um o Th. W=rld                                                                                                  G  A E   L
r       a-d=r d--c--ondatoadonya.  a- Eon                                                                      _                 SECOND      RURAL AND MAIN
= n,, pdaanplp,=n h. p=d =f Th WorldS Bonl Gcap, ony       -      7      -           -
sm_m=n i/I-hlecJaucnyryany2ndonr                                                                                              ROADS REHABILITATION           PROJECT
!                1<,       /     (                                 f      t /                    FOUR YEAR PROGRAM
-16'00'                              '        g)  \     >    ro           \       :                     rZ       l,,                     1,2,4 PHASEOPWORK                  16a00'T
1 U!U'  /                                                                     /                            WORK PACKAGES
SMAIN ROUTES
/   N jE N T O N                                                    a -1 \s  'I B  R I  S          MAMSOHUE MUNICIPALITY ASSOCIATION
ISAN MATEO IXTATAN                                                               H 1UISTA MUNICIPALITY ASSOCIATION
i          J'                                                                             - SAN MATEO IXTATAN _  t   /  PAVED ROARS  - MAMSDOHUE MUNICIPALITY ASSOCIATION
MEXICO  //                 I                                               I            -  NON-PAVED ROADS              HUISTA MUNICIPAUTY ASSOCLOTION~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NO PAEDRODS  UITAMUNCIAUY ASOIAIO
M  E X I C                                      O                 /                                                      UNDER CONSTRUCTION FONAPAZI   OTER MUNICIPAL TY ASSOCIATION
-,  Son MUon UUUn          0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  -   St~~~AIN RO)UTES      ei  DEPARTMENT CAPITAL
'----ii         ,-   -           -fy              i--,-~l ,5a                                -n  -   /  WORLD BANK ROADS   *  MUNIC PALITY CAPITALS
I7   SAN SEBASTIA  ~-,          i    ~   -                           ~SLCED TRACK'S/TRAILSMUIPATYBNDRE
A   >,    RanSAN SE t                                                                             , __ j 0on  Panda Mactonarl orna Narnfer=lon.=-   DEPARTMENT BOUNDARIES
I     -   0           ~~~~~~~~~~~~COATAN                               -/
a~~~~~~~~~ ~~~9jo1             a taneic00oInUain  cnnc       INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
H E t  U           A/N    G U\E                 I C  N
NANGO   '                         .            -       / II          9
ACATAN             Sant   SANTA EULALIA    a      ,          V                   rT                     -
Cnaton  0 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~      a ~~~~      RURAL POVERTY IN GUATEMRALA
R <X X S tIL=IndtFiz~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(AY 21 ______, 1998 |                 |)  F
DEMO  4    I   SonAcaono/c                        SAN JUl4AN 0 D, -,,                      ca     E
\, , S10 5 OKdmKtrEo0EArNNOL                                                                                                                                 i -k  LAtit  _B ;WELISLVDO
\~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~"JA IkO 3N<O CRERAL t! D                                                                                            IZE
'\   9P00   _                     |   TO;ONICAPAr                               ,:,   92   . -  - ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ .  >    Klomewe     APRItMUICIALIY BUNDRIE
NTOS ~~~~~~~~~~aRIVERS
I IL I ,  , dna Sanlna  I              Q~~~~~~~~~~~             ~     ~ U I C H E  INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES             3
I  lilt            k r 4 I A                     N                                  -~~~~~~~~~~~                      cLA-IAANA - '
4                                             SYTII~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ATAI                                        / ~ ' '   -
-7~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
SAN MARCOS                   X> 
5     10   IS   ST2 Kilama-a                      X )  ~    
QUEZALTENANGO   WK        A      ~PACIFIC                                                               Et SALVADOR
P29                                                                          O~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-CEA N  -4            A
I  OTOONICAPANRioaa
APRIL 5003






I8RD 32242
92-00'                                                9 130'                                               9H1P00                                                90 T30'
Th'n -p -o podo..d by h. Map De-pgn LIo-TTh. Wc,dM B.on                                                                                               GUATEMALA
ThtLoMnd olorn3moVdony, ,oMn.nndTho.nPonld -,or ,yonnm -T-----o-o----*----------*- -r-*-                                                  SECOND      RURAL AND        MAIN
o,n,hnnnopdonoln,ply,on  ho pod of rhrVo WonSo BopSnE Droo p , a
odgno t'  on  .I o   nl oEoo  o l ony H r.rofl y  on a y  on dt>r1oO nl  o_
occepmnceof_uch mu-d-r.m                                        I      -------j                                                ROADS REHABILITATION              PROJECT
ooooptoncnolnocHMondo  /  1          -'  0                               g        R,FOUR YEAR PROGRAM
1600'  /               I      -            "                                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1,2,3,4 PHASE OFWORK160
-16:00 /                   '                                                       /                             \1 WORK PACKAGES
MAIN ROUTES
/-J  3  (   .                 B  A___                                                M AMSOHUE  MUNICIPALITY ASSOCIATION
j/J                        j  ,  SAN  MATEO IXTATAN           ARIL L,A            /                                  HUISTA MUNICIPAUTY ASSOCIATION
/                                                         .               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PAVED ROADS  M PAMSOHLLE MUNICIPALITY ASSOCIATION
MEXICO  /"  1 -,  -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ .~~~i I -                                  I                NON-PAVES ROADS                 HUISTA MUNICIPALITY ASUOCIATION~~~~~~~~~~~ONPAVD OAS  HISA UNI'PLIY ASOIAIO
M -                   /                  UNDER CONSTRUCTION. FONAPAZ/3CIED  OTHER MUNIC PAITY ASSOCIATION
MAIN ROWIEDSi DEPARTMRNT CAPITAL
,      -            L.  So1ll o~4  I   l~ n MoLoLo IttoLon  __1  - f   /        _   WORLD RANK ROADS            *  MUNICIPALITY CAPITALS
<,'  \    SAN SEBASTI   A                .                         :                   SELECTED TRACKS/TRAILS     ---- MUN CIPALITY BOUNDARIES
- - I                  V n _   A  9 0ondo  N or,onol  po ralo o Poz/-ono o  - - DEPARTM ENT  BOUNDARIES
1<  /           'N  RonIIos         "~~            PUSS'     ConVoo,nner.conodoInrogroc,on Econonnico 9--00  INTERNATIONAL RBUNNAAREE
/S                 1-1 -'- > E  H-'dS-U E  Tr >  N  A  N  G   0   - ------        /
/       /         JACALTENANGo \ SAN MI GU9EL , ' Sn    S       E                 /     92
ACATATAULLI
IeSA0A >         SonSnn* .LA              SANTA EULALIAI,/                     RURAL POVERTY IN GUATEMALA  r-A--             --
/                                     C:n -         A                                /              (MAT -2-_1._9I -DEPARTMENT50UNDARIES9- - - 5
S4A1      Son M;oA1 A o  '  SoRIf I   on                        /               F27TIERTEEME
/                                                       SLQ4IAA                     /                    HIGHS 20 Kllometers  z t /  Sl_ { /  2  i  ,  1 J---H
'\~ ~ ~ ~~~~Sn Ano' NTNO             lo-OCon1                                                                               .-      .=             :                       o
E                               C                   S.                                             MEDIUM   i
I  4*  I  2                    SA~~~~~~~~~~~~  ~   ~~~~~~N JUAN IXCOY  r       O
LIBEIC                                                                                                 ATOALCTADAL ~ >I  ~ 7~  ~   noIooonP  E  N
--DEPARTMENT BOUN~DARIES
U  lIt, I I                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0  U I C H  E  --INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIS0
15030'  /                                       CHIANTI A                            1S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2U'  Aroo ofnnop otto/I MEXICO          I      ..~~~~~~~~~~1530'  MEIC
1 5-30'~ ~ ~ ~ ~~   ~~~~N         '"L.      1    i r                                                                                                                       aSo-nn
C  U  IL  C O  nyU  nu~~~~~~y  III  Ii  Esntnno~~~~~,o                                   10      ,             I                                  '-AN T  I 
I-Ill  '  '   Pro'  I                           I    **~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L~~~~~~'  I ~~~~~6
I                                                                               H          HONDURAS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ - 
A tLNtYUI4A A
LE~~~~~~~~t.                                                                     E 
U  5  iT IS  20 dannenns                             24'~                                     PACFIC                           1o       EL SLVADO
7=DOFATIANQ~.                                                o~                                           CA5                                                   O
_N~~~~~~~H~U'-              -9.Elnon
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~j                         OONCPNARLTD






IBRD 32402
92'000                                                           VI '30,                                                          9VI0e9U30
Th,~~~ ..pz p,.d_d by h. M.p  om ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~f Th. W.,fd 8-k ~~~~~~~GUATEMALA                                                                                       9'5
The -     .- pandnd--heae.gn-, - af-hnWen,Seh-
anlNnmapdorrnplyanthepanaefmaweddSen--        ----     ---    ----      ---k---       --ep---    ---    ---     -SECOND----RURALEC                                 NDANDALAMAINI
ecnnpVnneeFnenhhacnden,ee                                - /                                                             ~~~~~~ROADS   REHABILITATION              PROJECT
_                                 /                      ~~~~~~~~~~FIRST YEAR PROGRAM
lU'TS'  C,                  I                        -                               -                                                   I  FIRST TEAR PROC                        ISeTO~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IFRS EA RGRM160'
T  *  /  -  -             -                         / /                                   W~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ORE PACKAGES
NENTLJN                                                   / ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- MAIN ROUTES
T  N                                                                                                   - ~~~~~~~~~~~~BRILSMAMSOHUE MUNICIPALITY ASSOCIATION
I  SAN MATFO IXTATAN \                    -~~~~~~A RI LL                                         H UISTA MUNICIPAEITY ASSOCIATION
-  PAVED ROADS                            MAMSOHIUE MUNICIPALITY ASSOCIATION
M ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~     ~     ~     ~     ~    ~     ~    ~    ~    ~    ~~~~~~~~' E- NON-PAVES RO)ADS                                                              HUISTA MUNICIPALITY ASSOICIATION
UNDER CONSTRUCTION, FON-APAZ/BCIE'  -  OTHER MUNICIPALTFY ASSOCIATION
/'              -   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~Sa,, Melee bele              -       /                        WORED TANK R'OADS                     MUNICIPALITY CAPTrAES
'SAN SEBASTIA                                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SELECTED ERACKS/TRAILS  ---MUNICIPALITY ROUNDARIES
* Pada MaNal DaeI e/ac                   EPARTMENT ROUNDARIES
---- I   "Iff., ~ ~~~~n91 ~Goo                            Cantaaa-n--n de lnlg-a-a Enaamee--      INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
ACATAN   ak   I  .--     S-nt     SANTA    EULALIA/
~~~s  TA                        - ----------                                            1rd)~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 6D-U tteCA-EeISI-LeLbeT56  elRan       1    is
'I          ~~~~~~~~2 I-Il Unat CAl 16 2741 -Ste B6leana  RU          RAplb PUn          I 84
~~1  \SenReI~~~eIEeIndnpen            /                  U  ID-S  SenPndteteeate-SaaeeypCS.nonhenecga  125         UepheIl-Panng     283!,-  12 3A,6.1 P-R 
I             5  LQ~~~~~~~~~~~~AA                                   S  IDe~-- -- - ---  M /n Lente   RD-12 (IT'eV6,) -BdhI (k*de See lIteelatc W. a-,eN)  20 2  Rekb,IAatne   banedMeed ITS
ONCEPCION                -                                                             en ee ee ILSIVA                         L.gI                         C.,IaeelSl  0e)5$ OD)
6 tnteU1CniTletUdezneeCanntlCeSeyPetel       RU         CanepcsnH-e        1778
JUAN IXCOY                        ~~~~~~~~~~7 Ielnay-re-Btp                     15 5         Saadteeeg        262 5
IT  Ineeetesa .nle- Ihnh- e YlTA..eyuea   I5 aeheeg                        1224
0IT ncthhea9ine,nnga-   -  6n1ipa, Cnaeedn uerenRD-12  125 6aeeag          2605
BI C-I, aqeaULPadle.de) -N- Eeesp-n      ISO          laEWnn-ee370 2
IS  L.TtlnrdIa RD-l2)-T  b,nttr l FITNI      1553          blenT           208 2
IS  ,, UA-en ASarste R- R r Cap, Strnet bng  L. Cab6Tel  70  SAlate  eee1
10:1-  S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                            0~~~ U I  C    H   E         1  San,tMgeL1 UAeln-Ra.RanteISSteedelt-                                    1.366
15-30'  ~                                                               r152'30                                                                     IS Wan,nCreCayUEIMd                          62         S.tMegaIlAaete  I   5I
fl,eemnKDAN  '~~~~~~~'~  CH I AN  T IA                                     20TeeSM.1EdCkngenMebengeI                     I          Sa,,teWlydate ik,   21 0
/~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A                                                                                   21 RD-I2ld.teteC-anCenne-UnA,,.nEatdrda        2Steatet                     264
22 ID-13 UAkten1r M-p C-ta B.-a Ateel Bap IJLenSnnp  29  Sat Ma U-e75
'24 CnteSae-CtaTeer               ___        71        T&lneCdneS          153
Cerlee  I exel ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Sr  Snalna ne                                                26 CAl-fad                I                   IT          Celannarga        574~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2 CAT"f  acd-W11 A
r          Rc~~~I,          fl,         '.  - - --  - ~~~~~~ens     27  Onreel EeBeneree-Iee Reten1dee-CU-1       25   J       Ed7eXtn1eL.B. -a.n-Ue  5121  5  5
28UT 6 kea- S-  F - c ElUR.r.                9T             Cak             182 6
I                                  AGU    ~~~~     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Al )  296 E IeOgee-SCnr            110    -2Cub                   SlO
Ag                          30 ~~~~~~~~~S   UlallbetCed-CInnypl          IUL.lrbettd                   2118
HUEHU                                   3~~~~~~~~~  2 C-beleTe6,-RNe-                   39         S. ee6et teAi43
25  Sane  lEesbe66en-  AldnL. Canbn       656          Snt,eRennel       10764
ang                                 1~~~~~~~~~~~ 11~~~5 Ielteut- RN-TW            TT          SnUePatoels       76 7
35  C-neeOgI.V teRN7W- C..,tlCheenlp-                     s, (&W.  L,      18 4
19k                                                                                                     3~~~~~~~~~~~~~~    ~      ~      ~     ~    ~      ~     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~6 Aldnelrceen- RD-'  355   UntAenUlr57t 
37  San-PedtnNee   JMe-                      12 7  -      S.nPldrelan      269 3
SAN   MARCOS                     TANC(TO                                                3398~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5 Sa,` RPlee Penl - Oteenr XTete  3 0  Sa aRed Petet  63 5
L. eC-6rbrnIRDS13I-Trr                      SC Sn6eo-e       t,e         12A46
40  CAIl t.tpU                                T    I     SSbUne14
SI C---.aChnpe -SORe                     -         I 2ao7peOrrne           552
62 Saneagareeb-n-ga -Ce,eNleCAhre             5           -Snegernh    -   229 9
43  C-snlen,6Un / Tenen- S.W.tt6b            55            T.ett             ..5
QUEZALTENANGO V                                                                   lbIOTPJR,1 R aed SS.0 nI  __              12725  L                       5_2_4
9200                                                              V
TOTONfCA PA N
APRIL 2003









R C.L 7N' . :     25118   GU
Type:     PAD



