Report No. PID9624
Project Name             GUATEMALA-WESTERN ALTIPLANO NATURAL (@)
RESOURCES MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Region                   Latin America and Caribbean Region
Sector                   Sub-national government administration
(50%); Agro-industry (30%);
Agricultural extension and research
(10%); Crops (10%)
Project ID               P064883
Supplemental Project     P068292
Borrower(s)              GOVERNMENT OF GUATEMALA
Implementing Agency
MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE
Address: 7A Avenida 12-90, Zona 13,
Guatemala City, Guatemala
Contact Person: Hon. Jorge Escoto
Tel: 011-502-362 4764
Fax: 332-8302
Email: magadisf@intelnet.net.gt
Environment Category     B
Date PID Prepared        January 10, 2003
Auth Appr/Negs Date      January 30, 2003
Bank Approval Date       November 15, 2005
1. Country and Sector Background
Main Sector Issues:
Declining Natural Resource Base. More than one-half of the population of
Guatemala lives in rural areas and depends directly on natural resources
for food, shelter, income, and spiritual sustenance. Agriculture and
forestry account for 60% of land use, with agriculture providing more than
50% of employment, 24% of GDP, and 60% of export value nationwide.
However, factor productivity in agriculture is very low, and productive
investments in the sector amount to only 10% of gross national investment,
reflecting the high degree of neglect and the unsustainable extractive
practices in the sector. While providing important opportunities for
sustainable development, the nation's renewable natural resources are
subject to increasing pressure: some 60% of the national territory is
estimated to be subject to accelerated soil erosion from human activity,
with soils being unsustainably exploited under current production
systems. Countrywide, approximately 90,000 hectares annually are
deforested. Protection of remaining forests within the Guatemalan
Protected Areas System (SIGAP) is strongly threatened by extractive
practices, the expansion of the agricultural frontier (particularly in the
Western Altiplano and the Peten) and weak management of the SIGAP.
Rural Poverty.    Despite relative macroeconomic stability, moderate
growth, low external debt, and a fairly open economy, Guatemala scores
relatively low on poverty and social indicators. In 2000, over half of
all Guatemalans - 56W or about 6.4 million people - lived in poverty.



About 169 lived in extreme poverty. Rural residents account for over 81-
of the poor and 93t of the extreme poor. Three quarters of all rural
residents fall below the full poverty line (US$547) and one quarter under
the extreme poverty line (US$242).
Although the indigenous represent about 43? of the national population,
they account for 58t of the poor and 72t of the extreme poor.    Over
three-quarters of the indigenous population live in poverty, as compared
with 41- of the non-indigenous.   Poverty is also deeper and more severe
among the indigenous. The ENCOVI 2000 also reveals that there are
important differences in poverty rates between indigenous groups. The
largest indigenous groups are the K'iche, the Kaqchiqel, the Mam, and the
Q'eqchi. Among these, the Mam and Q'eqchi have the highest poverty
rates.
Loss of Social Cohesion. The protracted civil war strongly impacted
indigenous communities in the Western Altiplano. In the struggle between
the army and the insurgency, the social fabric was torn apart,
inter-ethnic trust was severely damaged, and community organizations and
local power structures were destroyed. The signing of the Peace Accords
between 1994 and 1996 ended most of the (overt) conflict and established a
framework for development. While more peaceful community relations and
organizations are slowly re-emerging, there is still very little trust in
government institutions.
Government Strategy
Fostering Social Inclusion, Peace and Alleviating Poverty. The Peace
Accords outline the Government's inclusive development strategy for the
Western Altiplano and other affected regions of the country. The Accords
state that, in order to construct a lasting peace in Guatemala, the
poverty, especially rural poverty, must be tackled. The Accords call for
a reduction in social inequities, increased participation of indigenous
and other groups in economic growth, sustainable management of natural
resources, and regular Government dialogue with civil society on
development of policy and legal instruments.
Natural Resource Management and Rural Development. A strong and
consistent set of natural resource policies exist, with the notable
exception of water law and policy. Current public policies foster an
atmosphere that permits decision-makers to make rational economic choices
that can lead to sustainable economic growth and resource conservation. A
market-oriented model with an open trade regime has been put into place
over the past decade. Evidence suggests that policy makers now
increasingly view companion environmental and natural resource policies as
a necessity for a modern Guatemala and less as a constraint to economic
growth. The current government has further contributed to this framework
through the National Strategic Environmental Agenda 2000 - 2004 which
proposes a framework for the integration of environmental policy into
agriculture, industry, commerce, tourism, oil and natural gas, as well as
providing direction on biodiversity, climate change, desertification and
drought. Created by legislative decree in 2000, the Ministry of
Environment and Natural Resources (MARN) is charged with implementing this
policy. The challenge for MARN is to lead a process which creates a
public system of environmental management, which in the specific case of
natural resources management, brings together the roles of the Ministry of
Agriculture (MAGA), the National Protected Areas Commission (CONAP), the
National Forestry Institute (INAB) and Municipal governments.
Decentralization. A recent World Bank report concluded that a limiting
-2 -



factor of decentralization in Guatemala is the coordination between the
central level and sub-national government agencies. Little has been done
to build the capacity of public or private sector groups to assume their
roles and the extension of rural development support services on the part
of government institutions has been quite limited. Central government
transfers to municipalities currently are used almost exclusively for
financing public infrastructure and to servicing municipal debt.
Municipalities lack the incentives and have only limited capacity to
approach local development in an integrated manner and to include
management of local natural resources. On the other hand, municipal
governments do have the constitutional authority to manage natural
resources and the necessary participatory mechanisms are supported through
the Decentralization Law; these latter offer a long-term foundation for
resource management. They have, however, demonstrated little technical
competence to do so.
Biodiversity and Protected Areas. The country's policies for biodiversity
conservation and protected areas are contained in: (a) the National
Biodiversity Strategy (published in early 2000 with assistance from GEF
funding through UNDP), (b) the National Policy for the Development of the
Guatemalan Protected Areas System (SIGAP), (c) CONAP's Strategic Plan 1999
- 2010; and (d) the National Strategic Environmental Agenda 2000 - 2004.
The central priority of all these is the in situ conservation of
biodiversity, mainly through strengthening of the SIGAP.
2. Objectives
The Western Altiplano is characterized culturally by its majority
indigenous (Mayan) population, and geographically as encompassing the
departments of Solola, El Quiche, Totonicapan, Quetzaltenango, San Marcos,
and Huehuetenango. The region has a GDP per capita that is one fifth of
the national average and (with the exception of the department of
Quetzaltenango) has the highest incidence of social exclusion nationwide.
Almost 60t of the economically active population is engaged in smallholder
agriculture (minifundio) and reliant upon an increasingly degraded and
declining natural resources base.
Project Development Objective: The project aims to improve the management
and conservation of natural resources and biodiversity and the incomes of
the people who depend upon these resources, in the Western Altiplano of
Guatemala.   The project would help to alleviate rural poverty, reduce
pressures upon and improve management of the natural resources base by:
(a) increasing social capital around natural resources management,
through support to communities, organizations and local authorities
(traditional and municipal) to jointly define and implement a local
development vision which takes natural resources management and
sustainability objectives into account; (b) increasing opportunities to
sustainably improve productivity and diversify farming and other
(off-farm) livelihood systems; (c) extending and strengthening ongoing
efforts of indigenous communities to establish permanent conservation
areas within broader zones of biodiversity of global importance and to
maintain the habitats which sustain this diversity; and (d) establishing
and piloting a framework for environmental services markets to sustain
local incentives for conservation. The proposed project will form a part
of the Government's program of interventions in the implementation of the
Peace Accords for the Western Altiplano. As some 95t of the population of
the proposed project area is indigenous, the proposed project can also be
considered an indigenous peoples development project.
-3 -



The project will assist municipal governments, communities and local
groups to incorporate sustainable natural resources management into local
development planning and investment, while building upon the successful
Western Altiplano experiences that have been generated by NGO (e.g.,
HELVETAS, Movi Mundo), bi-lateral (e.g., GTZ) and government (e.g.,
INAB/BOSCOM) programs. The project will provide rural households,
community groups and local authorities (traditional Mayan and local
government) with instruments to improve rural incomes, create incentives
for increasing environmental sustainability of production practices, and
value and protect globally important biodiversity.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
The Bank supports a rich portfolio of natural resources management,
forestry and communal forest management, watershed rehabilitation projects
in several Central and South American countries, from which important
lessons have been captured for application in this project.     The current
Guatemala portfolio includes related projects in land administration,
local initiatives and municipal development, and social infrastructure
(through its support to the Guatemala FIS and FONAPAZ).
Biodiversity conservation: The Bank has wide experience and will help
target project activities to zones of critical ecological importance and
mobilize appropriate technical assistance. The Bank has been active in
regional dialogue on environment, sustainable use and conservation of
natural resources within the framework of the MBC in Central America and
Mexico and has many similar projects in the region.
Demand-driven, competitive funds: The Bank supports agricultural
extension, social infrastructure, rural investment programs and natural
resources management throughout the region. Sharing of experience from
these other funds will greatly shorten the learning curve for establishing
the financing mechanism for local institutional programs.
Agricultural technology programs: The Bank has acquired broad experience
with financing agribusiness development and producer and community
organizations and can bring this experience to bear in project design and
implementation.
Land Administration and Land Funds: The Bank supports key projects in
Guatemala's rural sector: the Land Fund (Ln. 4432-GT), Land Administration
(Ln. 4415-GT) , and the Reconstruction and Local Development Project
(Ln4379-GT). Coordination among projects has been discussed and
opportunities for synergies have been identified.
Natural resources conservation and watershed protection: The Bank finances
many such projects worldwide. Experience from these initiatives has been
incorporated into the project design, including good practices in private
service provision and private sector development.
Integration of production and conservation activities to encourage reduced
environmental degradation; demand-driven priority setting and planning;
support to "farmer" (client-driven) agendas for improved income security
versus "agency" (supply and centrally driven) agendas seeking conservation
outcomes through non-sustainable external pressures.
Environmental Services Markets: Although new for Guatemala, the World Bank
is involved significantly in major environmental services projects or
components in Mexico, Costa Rica, El Salvador, Belize, and Colombia. A
network of experts and a web page with resources has been created. This
area is one in which the Bank has developed cutting edge experience and
thus is able to provide significant value-added.
- 4 -



4. Description
The total project cost is US$55.43 million, of which the World Bank will
finance US$32.82 million and the GEF US$8.0 million.
Component 1 (Sustainable Livelihoods) is oriented toward improving the
welfare of the rural poor through promotion of sustainable use and
conservation of natural resources. The component consists of two
subcomponents: Subproject Grants and Local Institutional Strengthening.
Subproject Grants: will provide grants to pre-existing, rural community
associations in the 54 targeted municipalities to finance an estimated 760
small-scale sustainable production, natural resources management or
conservation subprojects, identified by these groups as priority
investments to improve community well-being. The grants will include
financing of necessary technical assistance and training. A maximum of
US$3,500 of grant financing over three years will be available per
participating household. The average size of a grant project is expected
to be on the order of US$37,600, though larger grants would not be
excluded where justified. The maximum individual grant would not exceed
US$150,000. Subproject funds will be disbursed directly to community
associations with legal status and verified capacity to manage funds.
This subcomponent will also provide those cross-cutting services required
to ensure the functioning and impact of the local capacity building and
subproject grants subcomponents. These include: (a) land and resource
access conflict resolution assistance, consisting of rapid diagnostics in
each municipality over communal forests and water sources and support to
informal (local) and formal (CONTIERRA) efforts to resolve such conflicts;
(b) strategic regional services such as subject matter specialists to
provide specific, short term assistance on project needs and, as jointly
developed with the Instancias Locales, technical assistance to address
needs that are broader than single subprojects such as improving marketing
and commercialization opportunities for 'green' produce, applied research
and market studies, and formation of strategic alliances between local and
national farmers' organizations, exporters and international trade
promotion groups; (c) training for municipal-level promoters, leaders, and
service providers in participatory planning and the project cycle,
biodiversity and environmental management, organization development,
marketing, non-farm income generation and informal savings and credit
schemes; and (d) community-interchange program to allow local leaders and
participants in subprojects to visit and exchange learning with other
successful communities.
Local Institutional Strengthening: will provide grant resources to
participating municipalities to finance specialized technical assistance,
training and other services as needed. The Project Coordination Unit (PCU)
will maintain a roster of pre-qualified service providers and facilitate
the contracting of these services. Municipal capacity assessments will be
conducted for each municipality to ensure their ability to administer
funding. The grants will assist municipalities, their communities and
local organizations, and participating GOG agencies in participatory
planning, formulation and execution of local projects and programs for the
use and management of natural resources. Technical assistance will be
provided to: (a) develop consensus on a municipal development agenda which
incorporates natural resources management concerns; (b) strengthen
municipal-level forums (Instancias Locales, see Annex 2) in local
development and natural resources planning; (c) strengthen an estimated
850 community associations in participatory planning and proposal
development and provide assistance in obtaining legal status; and (d)
- 5-



build the capacity of MAGA and MARN Departmental Coordinators and INAB
Regional/Subregional staff to carry out their roles in the implementation
of the program; this latter would include purchase of vehicles, computer
equipment and training in participatory planning, conflict management and
environmental management.
Component 2 (Biodiversity Conservation) will finance activities to
strengthen local and national capacity to conserve natural habitats
containing globally important biodiversity and other areas providing
locally and nationally important environmental services. The component
comprises activities for:
Protection of Sites of Global Importance: consisting of a set of
inter-related activities to strengthen local and national institutional
capacity for conservation and co-management of natural resources in target
areas, including (i) regional coordination of planning for development and
conservation of targeted protected areas; (ii) strengthening of CONAP;
(iii) expansion of the SIGAP; (iv) strengthening traditional tenure and
management systems for natural resources; (v) strengthening local capacity
for management of natural resources; and (vi) special studies of
biodiversity and conservation. Local biodiversity protection and
supporting natural resources management subprojects will be financed
through subproject grants made under Component 1.
Inter-cultural Communications: to increase public awareness of
environmental issues, values, and management practices and to share this
knowledge across the cultures of the Western Altiplano. Specific
activities to be financed would include: (i) development of an
environmental communications strategy; (ii) development of multilingual
materials for radio, video and other communications media (including
printed materials) in the nine principal languages of the region on
environmental issues relevant to the seven environmental protection target
areas; (iii) community environmental communications programs to stimulate
awareness of environmental issues and draw on traditional knowledge; (iv)
formal environmental education in collaboration with the Ministry of
Education to develop a multilingual training program on environmental
education and pilot this in primary schools.
Biodiversity Conservation Monitoring and Evaluation: to strengthen CONAP's
biodiversity monitoring and evaluation capacity by establishing a
comprehensive biodiversity information system for the Western Altiplano.
CONAP will implement these activities and (i) upgrade its GIS with new
equipment, computer programs, and data; (ii) update ecosystem maps for
INAB; (iii) establish a central database on protected areas within the
SIGAP and other areas of natural habitat under other types of protective
and use regimes (this system will have linkages to Western Altiplano
regional offices and form part of a national system).
Component 3 (Environmental Services Markets)
In collaboration with the Grupo Interinstitucional de Acompanamiento
(GIA), which formed to coordinate efforts and share experiences on
environmental services in Guatemala, the Component will (i) develop the
framework for policies and markets for environmental services, through the
elaboration of a National Strategy for Environmental Services; (ii)
provide local and foreign technical assistance for research and special
studies and training for local and national officials working in areas
related to development of environmental services policy, legal framework
and pilot programs; and (iii) design and implement pilot projects aimed at
developing capacity, methodologies and instruments for market-based
- 6 -



incentives for provision of environmental services.    The development of
environmental services markets is seen as an essential element of a longer
term strategy to achieve the sustainable use and conservation natural
resources.
Component 4 (Administration, Supervision, Monitoring and Evaluation)
The Project Management Component will finance (i) project administration
and planning; (ii) program monitoring and evaluation; (iii) incremental
PCU salaries and operating costs, vehicles and equipment; and (iv) such
studies as required for purposes of project design, implementation, and
follow up.
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
BORROWER $8.46
IBRD $32.82
IDA
LOCAL COMMUNITIES $6.15
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY $8.00
Total Project Cost $55.43
6. Implementation
Implementation Period: Five years
Executing Entities:
Community Associations: are legally constituted groups of rural citizens
with common interests who identify, prepare, implement, operate and
maintain community subprojects;
Instancias Locales: are municipal-level entities, operating within the
framework of the municipal Consejos de Desarrollo Local, which represent
indigenous villages and communities, producer groups, and NGOs with a
local presence, the municipal government, and local civil society bodies
linked to "wise use of resources" (parcialidades, traditional religious
fraternities, councils of elders, principales, shamans, and auxiliary
mayors). Their role is to facilitate the participatory development of
municipal-level "sustainable development agendas", set local financing
priorities, promotion, and monitoring of program activities. The
municipal technical units would function as their technical secretariat.
Project Coordination Unit: will be responsible for the execution of all
project activities, with the exception of the Component 1 (Sustainable
Livelihood) Municipal Grants under the Local Institutional Strengthening
Subcomponent and Subproject Grants subcomponent, would be carried out
directly through the PCU in concert with the GOG implementing agencies.
Subproject Cycle:
Community Associations determine their local priorities, develop
subproject proposals and submit them to the Instancias Locales;
Instancias Locales, in regularly scheduled public meetings, review,
prioritize and approve subprojects within a pre-determined resource
envelope;
PCU (through a registry of private service providers) technically
evaluates approved subprojects and confirms compliance with operational
guidelines before releasing funds;
-7-



Subproject grant agreements are signed between the PCU and the community
association, detailing the terms for financing, execution, ownership,
operation and maintenance of the subproject;
Funds for subproject implementation are transferred directly to the bank
account of the community association;
Community associations are responsible for contracting goods, works and
technical assistance for subproject execution, bear responsibility for
operation and maintenance of all investments, and may request technical
assistance to develop administrative capacity, and operation and
maintenance programs and techniques.
Project Oversight: The project implementing agency is the Ministry of
Agriculture Livestock and Food (MAGA). Two other GOG national level
agencies, the National Protected Areas Council (CONAP) and the National
Forestry Institute (INAB), will also participate in project implementation
and supervision. CONAP will assume responsibility for activities related
to biodiversity and protected areas, and INAB will do so for activities
related to forestry and environmental services. A Memorandum of
Understanding (MOU) will be signed among the three agencies detailing
their mutually agreed roles and responsibilities.
Project Coordination: A Project Coordination Unit (PCU) will be
established within MAGA and located in the Western Altiplano
(Quetzaltenango) to provide for overall coordination of component
activities and carry out project management functions. Specifically, the
PCU will be responsible for implementation, coordination and promotion,
preparation of annual work programs, budgets, procurement and financial
management, general supervision, and monitoring and evaluation. The PCU
will also have some limited technical and implementation responsibilities,
in terms of administering and supervising contracts for the implementation
of support services, intercultural communication, and other cross-cutting
institutional strengthening activities. The PCU will be responsible for
preparing Annual Operating Plans (POAs), satisfactory to the Bank. All
project activities involving MAGA, MARN, CONAP or INAB staff (or as
institutions) will be planned jointly.
Project Operational Procedures: The functions and responsibilities of the
PCU and project management will be governed by the Project Operational
Manual, which will include detailed guidelines for the preparation of the
POA, staffing and assignments with specific responsibilities, supervision,
community subproject guidelines and procedures, flow of funds, special
accounts, budgeting, auditing and reporting, as well as procurement and
disbursement procedures. The Operational Manual would be updated
according to project circumstances and project strategies, implementation
experience and project objectives, and activities set forth in the PAD and
Project Legal Agreement. A Project Operational Manual, acceptable to the
World Bank, will be a condition of Project Effectiveness.
Monitoring and Evaluation Arrangements: The PCU will be responsible for
ensuring that project results and impacts are monitored. Detailed project
performance monitoring indicators and a draft Monitoring and Evaluation
proposal have been prepared and will be reviewed at appraisal and
finalized prior to Project Negotiations. A Mid-Term Review would be
carried out to provide an in-depth evaluation of project performance and
outcomes based on the agreed targets presented in Annex 1.
Accounting, Financial Reporting and Auditing Arrangements: During project
preparation, an assessment of the capacity of MAGA to implement
Bank-approved procurement was initiated and will be finalized at
appraisal. The draft procurement plan, which also proposes specific
- 8 -



actions to be taken before effectiveness, will be presented by Government
at appraisal. Both the draft and the appraisal mission procurement
assessment report will be sent to the office of the Bank's Regional
Procurement Advisor (RPA) for comments upon return of the appraisal
mission. Subproject beneficiaries and service providers will be required
to submit proof of expenditures and reports on advances to request
subsequent disbursements. Annual, independent technical audits of a
sampling of subprojects will be contracted by the PCU each year. A
special sub-unit in the PCU, solely responsible for review and approval of
statements of expenditures, will be established.
7. Sustainability
Incentives for stakeholders to implement the project are considered to be
the most important investment in the sustainability of project outcomes.
The project will establish partnerships with stakeholders (e.g.,
communities, indigenous groups, the private sector, local municipal
governments, and NGOs) for local planning, subproject identification,
selection and implementation. These groups will benefit from investments
under the project through capacity-building and training, helping to
ensure that project objectives are owned locally and nationally, with the
capacity in place to replicate the successful experiences and processes
elsewhere in the region and country. The project would model
decentralized, demand-driven development processes and private sector
services delivery in agriculture, forestry and biodiversity conservation,
thus making up for the near total absence of any such public services in
these sectors. The degree to which these processes are successful and take
hold among the beneficiaries will be a measure of project success and
sustainability.
The project will improve the ability of national and local agencies (i.e.,
MAGA, MARN, CONAP, INAB, NGOs and private groups) to integrate natural
resources and biodiversity conservation values into development planning
at all levels. The project will furnish and make available to local
governments and communities planning information (e.g., GIS) previously
held in tight control by centralized agencies in the capital.
Decentralized regional MAGA, MARN, CONAP, and INAB personnel will have
been exposed to participatory resources management approaches and,
together with the private technical service providers, will be better
placed to contribute technical services to the rural populations in the
project area.
The project's gender focus (during preparation, grant resources to support
MAGA in articulating a gender policy were secured) and diffusion of
culturally appropriate information should make a permanent contribution to
the capacity of rural women and indigenous people to gain greater
acceptance and contribute to the regional economy and the care and
conservation of natural resources.
The project will help ensure financial sustainability beyond the project
period by developing cost recovery and financing mechanisms to recoup the
management costs of protected areas (through tourism, concessions and user
fees) and capture payments for conservation of environmental capital and
services.   In addition, it will develop the institutional capacity,
methodologies and instruments for accessing other demand-driven rural
development funding sources (e.g., FIS, FONAPAZ, FSDC) to finance local
productive and natural resource management needs. The most durable
investments are represented by the improved production and resource
conservation practices it will foster, test and mainstream, combined with
-9-



the institutional structures to carry them on into the future.
Government support beyond the project phase is nominally assured by the
current decentralizing natural resource and rural development and agrarian
policies. The project builds on these concepts and will test implementing
mechanisms for their application. It is hoped that these will be
successful and can become a model for continued practice in the future.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
Natural Resource Management. Bank experience demonstrates that fundamental
to the success of this type of program are: (i) long-term security of
land tenure/resource access; (ii) assurance of local buy-in (ownership) of
project activities coupled with strengthening of local management capacity
in regards to the forests, watersheds, land/soils, habitats and
biodiversity upon which people rely or live around; (iii) mechanisms for
managing resource-demand and access conflict; (iv) decentralizing
decisions and support systems responsive to local demands and needs; and
(v) providing all actors with enhanced access to useful and up-to-date
information, training and technical assistance which expands the range of
alternatives open to them. Project design builds on these principals and
on the positive pilot community forests/natural resources planning and
management experiences of local governments and NGOs (HELVETAS, Movi
Mundo), other international donors (GTZ), and GoG agencies (INAB/BOSCOM)
in the Western Altiplano and supports mainstreaming these successful
models within the GOG's line agencies (MAGA, MARN, CONAP, and INAB).
Agricultural Services Provision. Extension programs worldwide are being
decentralized and privatized and general management reforms are being
introduced. Successful rural extension programs include: (i) decentralized
services, allowing for local innovation and adaptation in response to
locally identified needs; (ii) involve farmers in planning, implementing,
and financing services to assure program relevance and effectiveness;
(iii) emphasize involvement of producer organizations in providing
services for small farmers; (iv) strengthen producer organizations; (v)
provide alternatives from which farmers can select and adapt the practices
and systems most relevant to their conditions; (vi) link farmers to
private sector activities in input sales and product marketing; (vi)
facilitate horizontal and vertical interactions at various levels between
farmers, researchers, policy-makers and the private sector; (vii) make
coordinated use of all available communications channels (especially
radio) for efficiently and effectively transmitting information; and
(viii) include new technology and adaptive research as a complementary
activity to extension. The above-mentioned lessons and prescriptions, are
equally relevant to adaptive research, small enterprise support and
agro-enterprise development activities and are included in the project
design.
An information campaign, important to ensure transparency and effective
dissemination of the program objectives, is incorporated in the project
design.
Productive subprojects must be subject to rigorous selection criteria,
provide services for a significant proportion of community members, and
assure operational sustainability and maintenance by establishing the
collection of user fees where appropriate.
Participation by beneficiaries in the selection, financing, execution, and
operation and maintenance of subprojects has ensured that investments meet
genuine community needs, led to cost savings, and has increased community
'ownership' leading to improved sustainability of investments. This
- 10 -



methodology will be continued under the new project.
Poverty targeting mechanisms that are simple, verifiable and based on
objective criteria, can foster transparency, minimize political
interference in project resource allocation and ensure that project
resources reach the poorest areas. The project allows communities to
self-select through the demand-driven mechanism for subprojects.
Biodiversity Conservation. Through an extensive portfolio of GEF and IBRD
biodiversity conservation projects in Central America, the Bank has solid
experience in the execution of conservation projects in the region.
Emerging lessons include: (i) the value of biological corridors to protect
reserves that are otherwise "isolated islands"; (ii) the importance of
incorporating local communities and local governments into biodiversity
conservation planning; (iii) the need for financial mechanisms to fully
cover operational costs; and (iv) the importance of institutional
strengthening of the agencies responsible for conservation.
9. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues     :  There are no significant environmental issues in
this project. Activities are being designed to have positive long term
impacts on the environment.
10. Contact Point:
Task Manager
James W. Smyle
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: 202-473-7382
Fax: 202-522-3132
11. For information on other project related documents contact:
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
- 11 -



