ISDS
THE WORLD BANK GROUP                                            AWorld Frceol Poverty
In'foShop
Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet (Initial)
Date ISDS Prepared/Updated: 01/23/2003                               25383
Section I - Basic Information                                 January 23, 2003
A. Basic Project Data
Country: GUATEMALA                                Project ID: P064883
Global Supplemental ID: P068292
Project: WESTERN ALTIPLANO NATURAL                Task Team Leader: James W. Smyle
RESOURCES MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Authorized to Appraise Date: January 22, 2003     IBRD Amount ($m): 32.82
Bank Approval: May 15, 2003                       IDA Amount ($m):
Global Supplemental Amount ($m): 8.00
Managing Unit: LCSER                              Sector: Sub-national govemment administration
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)  (50%); Agro-industry (30%); Agricultural extension
Status: Lending                                  and research (10%); Crops (10%)
Theme: Biodiversity (P); Environmental policies and
institutions (P); Indigenous peoples (S);
Decentralization (S); Climate change (S)
I.A.2. Project Objectives:
Project Development Objective. The project aims to improve the management and conservation of
natural resources and biodiversity and the incomes of the people who depend upon these resources, in the
Western Altiplano of Guatemala.  The project would help to alleviate rural poverty, reduce pressures
upon and improve management of the natural resources base by : (a) increasing social capital around
natural resources management; supporting communities, organizations and local authorities (traditional
and municipal) to jointly define and implement a local development vision which takes natural resources
management and sustainability objectives into account; (b) increasing opportunities to sustainably
improve productivity and diversify farming and other (off-farm) livelihood systems; (c) extending and
strengthening ongoing efforts of indigenous communities to establish permanent conservation areas
within broader zones of biodiversity of global importance and to maintain the habitats which sustain this
diversity; and (d) establishing and piloting a framework for environmental services markets to sustain
local incentives for conservation. The proposed project will form a part of the Government's program of
interventions in the implementation of the Peace Accords for the Western Altiplano. As some 95% of
the population of the proposed project area is indigenous, the proposed project can also be considered an
indigenous peoples development project.



2
ISDS
Global Development Objective, The proposed project would improve management of natural resources
and conservation of globally important biodiversity within the framework of the Mesoamerican
Biological Corridor.
I.A.3. Project Description:
The total project cost is US$55.4 million, of which the World Bank will finance US$32.82 million and
the GEF US$8.0 million.
Component 1 (Sustainable Livelihoodsjs oriented toward improving the welfare of the rural poor
through promotion of sustainable use and conservation of natural resources. The component consists of
two subcomponents: Subproject Grants and Local Institutional Strengthening.
Subproject Grants: would provide grants to pre-existing, rural community associations in the 54 targeted
municipalities to finance an estimated 760 small-Ratinable production, natural resources
management or conservation subprojects, identified by these groups as priority investments to improve
community well-being. The grants would include financing of necessary technical assistance and
training. Up to US$3,500 of grant financing over three years would be available per participating
household. The average size of a grant project is expected to be on the order of US$37,600, though
larger grants would not be excluded where justified. The maximum individual grant would not exceed
US$150,000. Subproject funds would be disbursed directly to community associations with legal status
and verified capacity to manage funds.
This subcomponent would also provide those cross-cutting services required to ensure the functioning
and impact of the local capacity building and subproject grants subcomponents. These include: (a) land
and resource access conflict resolution assistance, consisting of rapid diagnostics in each municipality
over communal forests and water sources and support to informal (local) and formal (CONTIERRA)
efforts to resolve such conflicts; (b) strategic regional services such as subject matter specialists to
provide specific, short term assistance on project needs and, as jointly developed withAIhMincias
Locales, technical assistance to address needs that are broader than single subprojects such as improving
marketing and commercialization opportunities for 'green' produce, applied research and market studies,
and formation of strategic alliances between local and national farmers' organizations, exporters and
international trade promotion groups; (c) training for municipal-level promoters, leaders, and service
providers in participatory planning and the project cycle, biodiversity and environmental management,
organization development, marketing, non-farm income generation and informal savings and credit
schemes; and (d) community-interchange program to allow local leaders and participants in subprojects
to visit and exchange learning with other successful communities.
Local Institutional Strengthening: will provide grant resources to participating municipalities to finance
specialized technical assistance, training and other services as needed. The Project Coordination Unit
(PCU) will maintain a roster of pre-qualified service providers and facilitate the contracting of these
services. Municipal capacity assessments will be conducted for each municipality to ensure their ability
to administer funding. The grants would assist municipalities, their communities and local organizations,
and participating GOG agencies in participatory planning, formulation and execution of local projects
and programs for the use and management of natural resources. Technical assistance would be provided
to: (a) develop consensus on a municipal development agenda which incorporates natural resources
management concerns; (b) strengthen municipal-level forums (nstancias Locales, see Annex 2) in local
development and natural resources planning; (c) strengthen an estimated 850 community associations in
participatory planning and proposal development and provide assistance in obtaining legal status; and (d)
build the capacity of MAGA and MARN Departmental Coordinators and INAB Regional/Subregional
staff to carry out their roles in the implementation of the program; this latter would include purchase of



3
ISDS
vehicles, computer equipment and training in participatory planning, conflict management and
environmental management
Component 2 (liodiversity Conservation)would finance activities to strengthen local and national
capacity to conserve natural habitats containing globally important biodiversity and other areas providing
locally and/or nationally important environmental services. The component comprises activities for:
Protection of Sites of Global Importance consisting of a set of inter-related activities to strengthen local
and national institutional capacity for conservation and co-management of natural resources in target
areas, including (i) regional coordination of planning for development and conservation of targeted
protected areas; (ii) strengthening of CONAP; (iii) expansion of the SIGAP; (iv) strengthening traditional
tenure and management systems for natural resources; (v) strengthening local capacity for management
of natural resources; and (vi) special studies of biodiversity and conservation. Local biodiversity
protection and supporting natural resources management subprojects would be financed through
subproject grants made under Component 1.
Inter-cultural Communications to increase public awareness of environmental issues, values, and
management practices and to share this knowledge across the cultures of the Western Altiplano. Specific
activities to be financed would include: (i) development of an environmental communications strategy;
(ii) development of multilingual materials for radio, video and other communications media (includiig
printed materials) in the nine principal languages of the region on environmental issues relevant to the
seven environmental protection target areas; (iii) community environmental communications programs to
stimulate awareness of environmental issues and draw on traditional knowledge; (iv) formal
environmental education in collaboration with the Ministry of Education to develop a multilingual
training program on environmental education and pilot this in primary schools.
Biodiversity Conservation Monitoring and Evaluation to strengthen CONAP's biodiversity monitoring
and evaluation capacity by establishing a comprehensive biodiversity information system for the Western
Altiplano. CONAP will implement these activities and (i) upgrade its GIS with new equipment, computer
programs, and data; (ii) update ecosystem maps for INAB; (iii) establish a central database on protected
areas within the SIGAP and other areas of natural habitat under other types of protective and use regimes
(this system will have linkages to Western Altiplano regional offices and form part of a national system).
Component 3 (Environmental Services Markets)
The Component will in collaboration with tiiupo Interinstitucional de Acompanamzento (GIA)
which formed to coordinate efforts and share experiences on environmental services in Guatemala, (i)
develop the framework for policies and markets for environmental services, through the elaboration of a
National Strategy for Environmental Services; (ii) provide local and foreign technical assistance for
research and special studies and training for local and national officials working in areas related to
development of environmental services policy, legal framework and pilot programs; and (iii) design and
implement pilot projects aimed at developing capacity, methodologies and instruments for market-based
incentives for provision of environmental services. The development of environmental services markets
is seen as an essential element of a longer term strategy to achieve the sustainable use and conservation
natural resources.
Component 4 (Administration, Supervision, Monitoring and Evaluation)
The Project Management Component will finance (i) project administration and planning; (ii) program
monitoring and evaluation; (ii) incremental PCU salaries and operating costs, vehicles and equipment;
and (iv) such studies as required for purposes of project design, implementation, and follow up.
I.A.4. Project Location: (Geographic location, information about the key environmental and social



4
ISDS
characteristics of the area and population likely to be affected, and proximity to any protected areas, or sites
or critical natural habitats, or any other culturally or socially sensitive areas.)
The Project will be located in the Western Altiplano region of Guatemallhe Western Altiplano is
characterized culturally by its majority indigenous (Mayan) population, and geographically as
encompassing the departments of Solola, El Quiche, Totonicapan, Quetzaltenango, San Marcos, and
Huehuetenango. The great majority (90-95%) of primary project beneficiaries will be members of one of
13 Mayan ethno-linguistic groups (K'iche, Mam, Jalcalteco, Ixil, Tzutzujil, K'akchik'el, Chuj,
Kanj'obal, Sacapulteco, Uspanteco, Aguacateco, Sicapanense, and Tectiteco). At the same time, ladino
community members will be provided with equal access to project resources. The project as a whole can
be considered an Indigenous Peoples Development Plan (see PAD, Annex 1 1).
The project has four types of primary beneficiaries: i) communities in 54 municipalities in the Western
Altiplano where some 760 local subprojects would be financed; ii) municipal corporations that would
receive capacity building assistance for planning and development; iii) communities that manage and
benefit from communal forests and other conservation regimes; and iv) communities near and within the
priority areas for 'biodiversity conservation which would receive assistance in natural resource
management, conservation, and be eligible to access subproject grants. The 54 municipalities were
targeted based on: GOG's Poverty Reduction Strategy; watershed management priorities; presence and
degree of vulnerability of biodiversity of global importance; and absence of other large public or
donor-financed projects with similar objectives. A minimum of 60% of grant financing would go to
households with less than I hectare of land, and a minimum of 30% to women.
Direct beneficiaries of productive and natural resources management investment grants will primarily be
poor rural farming households whose livelihood strategies are based on: (i) maize and bean production,
generally on very small (< 0.7 ha) hillside plots; and (ii) sales of seasonal labor in coastal plantations,
small-scale vegetable and coffee production, and semi- and unskilled labor in larger towns and cities (or
illegal emigration to the United States). Female-headed households in particular will be targeted. Other
direct beneficiaries include farming households with up to 10 hectares of land and micro-enterprises with
potential to contribute to the diversification of the local economy and job creation.
Direct local benefits are expected to include: (i) increased household incomes among small farming and
landless households and local micro-entrepreneurs; (ii) increased ability of local people and
organizations to manage their own development programs and relations with central government and
other institutions; and (iii) improved management of natural resources leading to more sustainable and
stable production systems and a more amenable environment for human habitation. At the regional and
national levels, beneficiaries include private sector and NGO staff who will be provided with additional
training and employment as service providers for project activities. Central, regional and departmental
government agencies (MAGA, MARN, CONAP, and INAB) will benefit from strengthened capacity to
manage decentralized development, technical training, improved relationships with indigenous
communities, and replicable models for rural development and biodiversity conservation. Downstream
consumers of environmental services, particularly water, will also benefit by: (i) stabilizing forest cover
and watersheds; (ii) demarcating and establishing community co-management plans for protected areas,
(iii) improving local and national capacity to sustainably manage community forests and protected areas;
(iv) improving government agency capacity to support decentralized development; (v) developing
incentives to maintain protected areas and natural habitats in the long-term; and (vi) improving the
quality, quantity, and sustainability of environmental services produced in the region.
Global benefits will include the protection and conservation of globally important biodiversity.



5
ISDS
B. Chieck Environmental Classification: B (Partial Assessment)
Comments.
C. Safeguard Policies Triggered
Policy                                Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP/GP 4.01)                     * Yes C No
Natural Habitats (OP/BP/GP 4.04)                             * Yes   No
Forestry (OP/GP 4.36)                                        0 Yes C No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                    * Yes ) No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                * Yes I-) No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                 * Yes C, No
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                        S Yes * No
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37)                                  O Yes * No
Projects in International Waterways (OP/BP/GP 7.50)         0: Yes 0 No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP/BP/GP 7.60)*                  C Yes * No
*By supporting the proposedproject, the Bank does not intend to prejudice thefinal determination of the parties' claims
on the disputed areas
Section II - Key Safeguard Issues and Their Management
D. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues. Please fill in all relevant questions If information is not available,
describe steps to be taken to obtain necessary data.
II D. I a. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the proposed project. Identify and
describe any potential large scale, significant and/or irreversible impacts.
Overall, the proposed project is an environmental project, with GEF investments oriented entirely to
conservation of global biodiversity but also with IBRD and GOG resources targeted to realization of
environmental goals. The entire project description can thus be referred to for a review of the expected
positive environmental and social impacts of the project. We would highlight among these
*      Support for environmental and natural resources planning;
*      Improvements in agricultural and livestock management practices;
*      Support for protected areas and biodiversity conservation,
*      Promotion of environmental services;
*      Promotion of natural resource management targeted to indigenous people; and
*      Gender focus of project.
While all project activities are aimed at enhancing environmental quality, the productive and resource
management subprojects to be financed within Component I (community subprojects) are most subject
to potential environmental damage. Component 2 will create new and strengthen existing protected areas
and biodiversity, within the national regulations cited above. Component 3 is entirely environmentally
positive.
Subprojects will be screened according to these criteria and, should environmental issues arise, they will
be addressed within the subprojects' design. Based upon the screening, subprojects will be required (and
assisted) to include environmental mitigation measures, including plans to reduce or replace the use of
toxic agricultural inputs; change or modify cultivation practices; change or modify grazing sites and



6
ISDS
practices; change or modify forest, soils and water uses; change or modify disposal practices for solid
wastes; and/or change or modify the degree and nature of forest exploitation. These mitigation plans for
the subprojects will be reviewed first by the local technical promoter, then by the local review committee
(Instancia Local before being submitted to the PCU for higher level technical feasibility and
environmental review and approval.
No subproject financing will be approved for the purchase of highly toxic agricultural inputs, clearing of
forested land, inappropriate (e.g., clear cut felling) and excessive (with degrading results) exploitation of
forests or which would lead to contamination of water courses and/or inappropriate disposal of solid and
liquid wastes (as from coffee processing plants). The client-prepared environmental analysis proffers lists
of the kinds of problems which might be confronted and recommends appropriate mitigating measures to
be applied in the project, and included in the Project Operational Manual.
1.D.1b. Describe any potential cumulative impacts due to application of more than one safeguard policy or
due to multiple project component.
N/A; see l a above.
II.D. 1 c Describe any potential long term impacts due to anticipated future activities in the project area.
N/A; see 1 a above.
Il.D.2. In light of !, describe the proposed treatment of alternatives (if required)
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01)Simplified environmental screening and assessments will be
required for all subprojects to be financed under the project. Standard formats and checklists will be
developed to facilitate preparation and review of assessments. These measures will be reviewed and
cleared by the Bank at appraisal and will be included in the Project OornEtl Manual. A detailed
environmental analysis,Analisis Ambiental del Altiplano Occidental de Guatemala y del Proyecto
MIRNA (prepared by CODERSA) was submitted to the Bank in October 2000. In accordance with the
Bank's Information Disclosure Policy (BP 17.50), copies of this report (in Spanish) are available for
public viewing at the MIRNA office in Guatemala City and a cbpy will be forwarded to the Bank's
InfoShop at appraisal. The key findings and recommendations from this report are reflected in the project
design. Additional studies have yielded important information (see PAD, Annex 8). The Policy and
Institutional Analysis study is of particular significance, as it reveals that Guatemala has, on balance, a
very satisfactory set of policies in regard to natural resources management, but almost no capacity to see
them implemented This provides a strong justification for the institutional strengthening activities
proposed in the project.
Natural Habitat Policy (OP 4.04)The project (through its primarily GEF-financed Component 2) is
designed to maximize protection of existing remaining natural habitats and increase the amount and
representivity of all such habitats within the national protected areas system (SIGAP). Component 1,
through which rural sustainable livelihoods will be enhanced, has criteria which strictly prohibit project
financing from encouraging further incursions into and conversion of natural habitats, including forests,
upland meadows and dry forests and wetlands. Checklists and screening mechanisms governing the
selection of demand-driven local subprojects will filter out any proposals which could be harmful to such
natural habitats. On the contrary, community-managed forests and private conservation efforts will be
encouraged and supported, financially and with expert technical assistance and information. Information
on all the relict natural habitats within the Western Altiplano will be generated, stored within the
monitoring data base (GIS) and divulged through the environmental information and public education
programs (in indigenous languages wherever possible).



7
ISDS
Forestry (OP 4.36). The project will: (i) support community-based forest management processes and
practices which would retain as much natural forest as possible in areas where such forests still exist and
are viable; (ii) improve the environmental aspects and reduce waste and unsustainable practices of
current forest use and management practices, seeking to diversify current forest use patterns into more
sustainable non-timber/non-consumptive uses including development of environmental services markets;
(iii) stimulate the revegetation of degraded lands and watersheds with natural and planted forests,
wherever conditions allow for this to occur in a sustainable and efficient manner; (iv) contribute to the
monitoring of existing forest cover within the project area (baseline) and changes in this cover, assisting
MAGA, CONAP and [NAB to address any incentives and identifiable causes which lead to forest
conversion and degradation; (v) work with municipal governments and communities in improving the
management of existing and encouraging expansion of forests, wherever such expansion is viable and
sustainable (e.g., for the generation of chargeable environmental services); and (vi) protect samples of
rare and threatened forest types within protected areas and parks and in general address all manner of
threats to existing forests (fire, poor grazing practices, unsustainable extraction of forest materials)
through improved management capacity building at the regional (INAB), municipal and community
levels.
Regarding extraction of forest-based products (including timber, stakes, firewood, forest litter used as
farm fertilizer, medicinal plants, etc.), the project will promote sustainable practices through financing
community forest management plans, provide communities with forestry specialized technical assistance,
and support traditional management approaches which have shown to retain viable forest stands while
allowing for low-intensity use of the forests. During preparation, exhaustive analysis and consultations
were carried out on national policy and legal frameworks; forest land tenure and conflicts; cultural,
social, environmental and economic values of forests in the project area; and institutional capacity
around forests.
Pest Management (OP 4.09):The project does trigger this Bank OP, in that almost all commercial
farmers and gardeners in the project area use chemical inputs, such as chemical fertilizers, pesticides and
herbicides. The use of chemical inputs in traditional corn, beans and squash ordpa)(and in
production for home consumption is negligible; rather, traditional organic inputs such as those obtained
from the forest floor, are preferred. The incidence of malpractice in regard to the application of chemical
inputs is high. The project's aim will be to raise agricultural productivity within the project area while
also substituting for natural resources-degrading practices and reversing their effects (erosion,
contamination, mining of fertility, and replacement of forest with agricultural and livestock production).
This process will take time, as well as require investments in public environmental education.
Community subprojects with be screened for environmental compliance and farmers trained in
appropriate applications of chemicals as needed. Thus, the project is expected to contribute to an overall
reduction in the volume and toxicity of the chemical inputs, and do so gradually by substituting toxic
substances for less toxic ones, large and inappropriate applications for more appropriate quantities, and
generally promote sustainable practices (e.g., integrated pest management) over those deemed
environmentally unsustainable. In addition, no procurement of agrochemicals within the WHO Class I or
2 list would be allowed and, where agrochemical usage is an issue, all relevant subprojects will be
required to include such elements as soils testing to reduce over-fertilization, training on appropriate use
and storage and disposal of agrochemicals and containers, cleaning of equipment and personal
precautions to be taken. Strong gains will be made in these objectives through the environmental
education and information programs, the local-level extension and advisory services.
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03 and draft OP 4.1lffuring preparation, the project contributed to
financing a series of workshops in the project area on indigenous (Mayan) natural resources planning and
management practices. The results of these workshops, the Social Assessment and the close participation
of the indigenousPlan de Accion Forestal Mayc(PAF-Maya) in the project preparation process, have



8
8                             ~~~~~~~~~~~ISDS
been drawn into the project design and are reflected in the project delivery and management structure,
through which decisions and proposals are generated and decided upon at the local level, with the full
participation of local village and community authorities and representatives, including the women. (See
PAD, Annex 11)
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20) Some 90-95% of rural people in the project area belong to Mayan
indigenous ethnic groups. As such, the project should be regarded as an Indigenous Peoples Development
and Participation Plan (IPDP), and has been designed as per the Bank's definitions and policies set out in
OD 4.20. In addition, based upon the Social Assessment and its recommendations, and in compliance
with the Bank's OD 4.30, a stand-alone IPDP has been prepared (see PAD, Annex 11). Most important
for the project design is the commitment for the project to work within traditional Mayan cultural and
natural resources and land use practices to achieve improvements in income and in natural resource
conservation. A copy of the IPDP (in Spanish) will be placed in the Bank's InfoShop before the end of
project appraisal.
Involuntary Resettlement (OD 4.30 and draft OP 41h2):projectwould not support any
involuntary relocation of people as defined in the Bank's OD 4.30 and the Draft OP 4.12 paragraph 2A
Nevertheless, a Process Framework has been prepared which summarizes current GOG legal provisions
and instruments regarding rights of populations in and around protected areas. The Process Framework
also provides guidelines and outlines meantsuch as extra assistance in preparation of proposals and
access to subproject funds)for addressing potentially adverse economic impacts that mighltesult from
project-supported implementation of existing and new, collaboratively designed management plans that
include restriction of access to national protected areas and natural resources protected under other local
regimes. A copy of the Process Framework document (in Spanish) is in the Project files and will be
available through the Bank's InfoShop after project appraisal.
II.D.3. Describe arrangement for the borrower to address safeguard issues
Environmental Assessment/Pest ManagementThe subproject environmental screening measures and
processes which will be detailed in the Project Operational Manual and implemented under the project
for both Components I and 2 fully comply with the requirements of OP 4.01 for the minor impacts that
might be expected under this project.
Natural Habitats Checklists and screening mechanisms governing the selection of demand-driven
community subprojects will filter out any proposals that could be harmful to such natural habitats.
Community-managed forests and private conservation efforts will be encouraged and supported,
financially and with expert technical assistance and information. Information on all the relict natural
habitats within the western Altiplano will be generated, stored within the monitoring data base (GIS) and
divulged through the environmental information and public education programs (in local indigenous
languages and dialects, wherever possible).
Indigenous Peoples The Project team has drafted a stand-alone IPDP with a number of measures to
ensure that the project will work within traditional Mayan cultural and natural resources and land use
practices to achieve improvements in income and in natural resource conservation.
Safeguard policies will be reviewed and assessed with the Borrower during regularly scheduled Bank
supervision missions, with recommendations made (as needed) to improve safeguard monitoring.
II.D.4. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for consultation and disclosure on
safeguard policies, with an emphasis on potentially affected people.



9
ISDS
The project is designed to be responsive to local needs as defined by the beneficiaries. Local
self-development is supported through beneficiary identification, design, and implementation of
subprojects. The sustainability of local organizations' ability to continue the type of activities and
technologies supported by the project is buttressed through the project's local organizational
strengthening initiatives.
In project preparation: Representatives of stakeholders at all levels (e.g., GOG, municipal mayors,
community auxiliary mayors, producer cooperatives and associations, communal forest management
committees, local pro-development committees, Mayan elders, women's groups, and small local NGOs)
participated in the design of the project through a series of local stakeholder/beneficiary workshops in the
project area, subsequent consultations and verification meetings, and in field visits.
In project implementation. All subprojects will be based on community-driven development initiatives,
with stakeholders and beneficiaries active in their planning and implementation. Protected area
management and biodiversity conservation activities necessarily require strong local involvement and
will draw on local knowledge and indigenous resource management practices and experience. All
activities will be designed to ensure the participation of community organizations and other civil society
groups (e.g., Mayan elders, ex-combatants, women, and displaced peoples). Much of the support services
provided to these beneficiary groups will be provided by local firms and NGOs.
In project oversight and monitoring:Stakeholders will also participate in project oversight and
guidance, help assure transparency of project objectives and activities, and monitor project outcomes
through their representatives on the Program Advisory Group and municipal-level Instancias Locales.
In project monitoring and evaluation. Impacts of the subprojects and the institutional strengthening
activities supporting them will be measured through participatory monitoring based on indicators
discussed and designed by direct beneficiaries and withinA#mdas Municipales de Desarrollo
Sostenible and theInstancias Locales. The impacts of conservation activities financed under the project
will be measured through participatory monitoring by the most immediate beneficiaries of these activities
(e.g., the communal forest and protected areas committees and members of adjacent communities) as
well as through data gathering among indirect beneficiaries (e.g., downstream water users)
A wide variety of actors participated in project preparation, and the consultative and collaborative
processes used in that phase will be maintained throughout project implementation as part of project
monitoring and on-going collaborative efforts. As part of preparation, a multidisciplinary team carried
out an analysis of local stakeholders and held regional consultation workshops and focus groups with a
broad range of local stakeholder representatives (e.g., communal forest managers, selected mayors,
auxiliary mayors, indigenous leaders, women, and Mayan ancdadino community representatives) in the
departments of Sololi, Quiche, San Marcos, Huehuetenango, and Quetzaltenango. The input of producer
associations was solicited through consultations with RADEAS (department-level producer associations)
and through field visits with producer association leaders.
Consultations were also held with COPMAGUA (a national indigenous organization), ASOREMA (the
coordinating board for NGOs working in environmental and sustainable development issues), private
sector producer associations (AGEXPRONT, ANACAFE, Quetzaltenango regional potato producers
association), and key national and international NGOs (PAF-Maya, Saq'be Ixil, PRODESAGRO,
Defensores de la Naturaleza, Caritas parochial rural assistance offices, HELVETAS, CARE, CRS,
UNDP) through individual meetings and through workshops. Project experience and lessons from many
NGOs working in the Westem Altiplano were also incorporated into the project design. TNC and
FLACSO collaborated directly in the design process. Coordination and, where possible, collaboration
with NGOs working in the Western Altiplano will be facilitated through periodic meetings as agreed
during the project's stakeholder consultation workshop in September 2000. The majority of the technical



10
ISDS
and institutional strengthening services contracted through project funds will be provided by qualified
NGOs and other civil society organizations.
E. Safeguards Classification Category is determined by the highest impact in any policy. Or on basis of
cumulative impacts from multiple safeguards. Whenever an individual safeguard policy is triggered the
provisions of that policy apply.
] SI. - Significant, cumulative and/or irreversible impacts; or significant technical and institutional risks
in management of one or more safeguard areas
[X] S2. - One or more safeguard policies are triggered, but effects are limited in their impact and are
technically and institutionally manageable
[ ] S3. -No safeguard issues
[ ] SF. - Financial intermediary projects, social development funds, community driven development or
similar projects which require a safeguard framework or programmatic approach to address
safeguard issues.
F. Disclosure Requirements
Environmental Assessment/Analysis/Management Plan:          Expected      Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                               10/30/2000
Date of "in-country" disclosure                                           10/30/2000
Date of submission to InfoShop                              2/15/2003
Date of distributing the Exec. Summary of the EA to the ED
(For category A projects)
Resettlement Action Plan/Framework:                         Expected      Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Indigenous Peoples Development Plan/Framework:              Expected      Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                               10/30/2000
Date of "in-country" disclosure                                           10/30/2000
Date of submission to InfoShop                              2/15/2003
Pest Management Plan.                                       Expected      Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Dam Safety Management Plan:                                 Expected      Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                 Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected, please explain why.
Signed and submitted by       Name                                        Date
Task Team Leader:             James W. Smyle                              January 10, 2003
Project Safeguards Specialists 1:
Project Safeguards Specialists 2:
Project Safeguards Specialists 3



11
ISDS
Approved by:                   Name                                           Date
Regional Safeguards Coordinator: Juan D. Quintero                             January 22, 2003
Sector Manager/Director:       John Redwood                                   January 22, 2003
For a list of World Bank news releases on projects and reports, click here
II-- "c 1~ 10       M  rs-E|iMAcPjo _ L5H-OiWCAIEV  E 1



