                                                                  87059
                     PES Learning Paper 2008-1


Assessing the Potential for Payments for Watershed Services
         to Reduce Poverty in Highland Guatemala

                Stefano Pagiola, Wei Zhang, and Ale Colom




                                July 2008

     Latin America and Caribbean Sustainable Development Department
                               World Bank
                            Washington DC, USA
Abstract	  
It has often been assumed that payments for watershed services (PWS) would go mostly to poor
land users, thus contributing to poverty reduction, but there has been little empirical
verification to date. This paper uses data from highland Guatemala to assess the potential for
PWS to reduce poverty by examining whether the recipients of payments for environmental
services are likely to be poor. The watersheds in which PWS would be feasible due to the
presence of downstream water users are mapped, and compared to maps of poverty rates and
densities. Poverty rates vary substantially in areas where PWS could be developed. The total
number of poor that could potentially be reached if PWS mechanisms were developed in all the
water supply areas is 1.76 million, or 34 percent of the country’s poor (excluding Petén).

Authors	  
Stefano Pagiola is a senior environmental economist and Wei Zhang is a consultant, Environment
Department, World Bank. Ale Colom is an independent consultant. 	  

Keywords
Payments for environmental services (PES), mapping, environmental services, watershed,
poverty, Guatemala

Acknowledgements
Work on this paper was initiated in conjunction with the preparation of a proposed World Bank
project, the Western Altiplano Natural Resources Management Project, that would have piloted
the use of PES in Guatemala. However, the National Assembly never voted on the project, and it
was ultimately cancelled. The research for this paper was financed in part by a grant from the
Norwegian Trust Fund for Environmentally and Socially Sustainable Development. A poster based
on this paper was presented at the Annual Meeting of the American Agricultural Economics
Association, Orlando, Florida, July 27-29, 2008.

Cover	  photo
Agricultural area in the Guatemalan highlands (Stefano Pagiola).




PES	  Learning	  Papers	  
PES Learning Papers draw on the World Bank’s extensive experience in supporting programs of Payments
for Environmental Services (PES). They are part of a larger effort by the World Bank to provide open
access to its research and make a contribution to development policy discussions around the world.
The PES Learning Paper series disseminates the findings of work in progress to encourage the exchange of
ideas about PES. An objective of the series is to get the findings out quickly, even if the presentations are
less than fully polished. The papers carry the names of the authors and should be cited accordingly. The
findings, interpretations, and conclusions expressed in this paper are entirely those of the authors. They
do not necessarily represent the views of the International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development/World Bank and its affiliated organizations, or those of the Executive Directors of the World
Bank or the governments they represent. The boundaries, colors, denominations, and other information
shown on any map in this work do not imply any judgment on the part of The World Bank concerning the
legal status of any territory or the endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.
      Assessing the Potential for Payments for Watershed Services
               to Reduce Poverty in Highland Guatemala
                     Stefano Pagiola, Wei Zhang, and Ale Colom


                                   Introduction
       Payments for Environmental Services (PES) have come into increasing use as a
conservation instrument in developing countries, particularly in Latin America
(Landell-Mills and Porras, 2002; Pagiola and others, 2002a; Pagiola and Platais, 2007;
Wunder, 2005; Wunder and others, 2008). PES programs seek to capture part of the
benefits derived from environmental services (such as clean water) and channel them
to natural resource managers who generate these services, thus increasing their
incentive to conserve them. Many have assumed that these payments would go mostly
to poor land users, and thus contribute to poverty reduction (Kerr, 2002; Landell-Mills
and Porras, 2002; Pagiola and others, 2002; Grieg-Gran and others, 2005; Pagiola and
others, 2005; Ravnborg and others, 2007). There has been little empirical verification
of this assumption to date, however. In this paper, we assess the potential for PES to
reduce poverty by examining whether the recipients of payments for environmental
services are likely to be poor.
       Because most land users in upper watersheds and other marginal areas are
thought to be poor, and because most environmental services are thought to come
from such areas, it is natural to assume that most PES recipients would be poor. We
use data from highland Guatemala to examine this assumed close spatial correlation
between areas of high poverty and areas that provide environmental services. We first
identify specific watersheds in which PES mechanisms could potentially be developed,
based on the presence of significant downstream water uses such as hydroelectric
power (HEP) generation, domestic water supply, and irrigation. Conservation
payments from water users will only be received by land users in watersheds that
provide water to those users. We then compare these areas with the spatial
distribution of poverty in the country, allowing us to ask two questions that are
central to the likely impact of PES on poverty. First, how many of the potential
providers of water services are poor? The local poverty impact of a particular PES
mechanism on poverty will depend on whether potential providers are poor or not.
Second, how many of the poor are potential water service providers? Even if most
potential PES recipients are poor, it may be that few of the poor are potential PES
recipients. The potential impact of PES on poverty at a national scale will depend on
whether many of the poor are in fact in areas where PES mechanisms might be
implemented. To our knowledge, this is the first effort to systematically assess the
potential for PES and compare it to poverty levels at a countrywide scale.
       Our focus in this paper is on PES for water services, which constitutes the most
common form of PES program, and one with substantial potential for future growth
(Pagiola and Platais, 2007). We shall use the term payments for water services (PWS)
to distinguish such programs from PES programs more generally.

                                          1
                      Payments for Environmental Services
        The PES approach is aimed at addressing the classic problem of environmental
externalities. Land uses can provide a variety of environmental services ranging from
the regulation of hydrological flows to biodiversity conservation and carbon
sequestration. However, land users typically receive no compensation for the
environmental services they generate for others. As a result, they lack incentives to
provide these services, which will tend to be under-provided. The PES approach seeks
to address this problem directly, by establishing a mechanism through which service
users can compensate land users that provide the desired service, or that adopt land
uses that are thought to provide it (Pagiola and Platais, 2007; Wunder, 2005).1
Payments for Environmental Services are a market-based instrument to improve the
provision of indirect environmental services in which service users pay service
providers to provide a well-defined service (or land use that provides it) in a
conditional and voluntary transaction. The PES approach is attractive in that it (i)
generates new financing, which would not otherwise be available for conservation; (ii)
is likely to be sustainable, as it depends on the mutual self-interest of service users
and providers and not on the whims of government or donor funding; and (iii) is likely
to be efficient, in that it conserves services whose benefits exceed the cost of
providing them, and does not conserve services when the opposite is true (Pagiola and
Platais, 2007).
       Interest in the use of PES has been especially high in Central and South
America. Costa Rica and Mexico have the most elaborate PES programs, offering
payments in large areas nationwide. Costa Rica’s Programa de Pago por Servicios
Ambientales (PPSA) program pays land users to conserve forests, establish
plantations, or adopt agroforestry practices (Pagiola, 2008). Mexico’s Pago por
Servicios Ambientales Hídrologícos (PSAH) program pays forest communities to
conserve forests (Muñoz and others, 2006). These two programs are unlike most other
PES programs in Latin America, however, in that they are ‘government-financed’ or
‘supply-side’ PES programs (Pagiola and Platais, 2007; Engel and others, 2008)
financed primarily by the countries’ governments rather than directly by service
users—by allocating part of fuel tax revenues in the case of Costa Rica, and by
allocating part of water fee revenues in the case of Mexico. Another large-scale
government-financed PES program is found in China: the Sloping Land Conversion
Program (SLCP, also known as ‘Grain for Green’) pays farmers to retire erosive
agricultural land and reforest it (Bennett, 2008).
       Other PES programs have been developed at a local scale, usually in specific
watersheds, with financing from service users. In Ecuador, Quito’s water utility and
electric power company pay to conserve the watersheds from which they draw their
water (Echavarría, 2002a). In Costa Rica, the public service utility of Heredia pays for
watershed conservation with funds from a special fee on consumers (Barrantes and

1
    Some use the term PES much more generally, to refer to any market-based instrument, or
    indeed any mechanism that provides an incentive for conservation. We use the term here
    much more narrowly, and our conclusions as to the possible links to poverty only apply to
    this specific instrument.

                                              2
Gámez, 2007). Many small towns have similar schemes, including Pimampiro, Ecuador
(Wunder and Albán, 2008); San Francisco de Menéndez, El Salvador (Herrador and
others, 2002); and Jesús de Otoro, Honduras (Mejía and Barrantes, 2003).
Hydroelectric power producers in Costa Rica (Pagiola, 2008) and Venezuela (World
Bank, 2007), are also paying to conserve their watersheds, as are irrigation systems in
the Cauca Valley of Colombia (Echavarría, 2002b).
       As these examples indicate, use of PES has been focused primarily on water
services—explicitly so in the case of most locally funded PES mechanisms, where
water users have been the primary, if not the sole source of funding. Among the
national programs, Mexico’s PSAH Program (as its name implies) focuses on water
services (other, smaller programs pay for land uses designed to preserve biodiversity
or sequester carbon). Costa Rica’s PSA Program formally tries to generate four
services: water, biodiversity, carbon, and scenic beauty. However, water services are
becoming increasingly important in the PSA Program because of the introduction of
additional funding from a water tariff. As noted, in this paper we shall refer to PES
programs that focus on water as PWS.
        A few PES projects have focused on biodiversity, almost always with funding
from outside the country—usually from the Global Environment Facility (GEF) or from
conservation NGOs such as Conservation International, The Nature Conservancy (TNC),
or the Worldwide Fund for Nature (WWF). A major limitation of most such funding is
that it is generally only short-term.
      There are also a growing number of projects that focus on carbon
sequestration, buyers who need to buy carbon credits to meet commitments under
the Kyoto Protocol’s Clean Development Mechanism (CDM) or national laws (World
Bank, 2008). In Latin America, the World Bank’s BioCarbon Fund, for example, has
signed Emission Reduction Purchase Agreements (ERPAs) with projects in Colombia,
Costa Rica, Honduras, and Nicaragua. The potential for land-use based carbon
sequestration under the CDM is limited, however, by restrictive rules on eligibility and
by low overall ceilings on the amount of emissions credits that can be generated in
this manner. There have also been projects that sell carbon sequestration services to
the voluntary (or ‘retail’) market, which is much less restricted, but is also smaller
and tends to pay less (World Bank, 2008).

                                  PES and poverty
        The PES approach was conceptualized and undertaken as a mechanism to
improve the efficiency of natural resource management, and not as a mechanism for
poverty reduction. However, many proponents have argued that PES can also have
positive impacts on poverty (Landell-Mills and Porras, 2002; Pagiola and others,
2002a). Pagiola and others (2005) examined the main linkages that have been
hypothesized to exist between PES and poverty. They identify three key questions: (1)
Who are the actual and potential participants in PES programs, and how many of them
are poor? (2) Are poorer households able to participate in PES programs? And (3) are
poor households affected indirectly by PES programs? In this paper, we focus on the
first of these questions.

                                           3
       Because environmental services tend to be site-specific, PES programs are
almost invariably spatially targeted. In particular, because of their focus on water
services, PWS programs are usually targeted to areas that are important for water
supply. Mexico’s PSAH program, for example, based its definition of eligible areas on
areas located in the recharge area of overexploited aquifers, in watersheds with high
water scarcity, or in areas with high flood risk (Muñoz and others, 2006). Costa Rica’s
PPSA program has hitherto been targeted primarily based on biodiversity
considerations, although agreements with individual water users have resulted in
specific watersheds being targeted for conservation (Pagiola, 2008). The introduction
of the water tariff is making water services more prominent among targeting criteria.
A quarter of the revenue from the water tariff is earmarked for use in the PSA
program, and this revenue must be used in the same watershed in which it has been
generated (Pagiola, 2008). Small-scale PWS mechanisms are almost all limited to the
specific watersheds supplying water to the users providing financing.
       The main mechanism by which PWS programs are assumed to contribute to
poverty reduction is through the payments they make, which are thought to go mainly
to poor land users. This hypothesized impact depends on the presumption that the
land users in upper watersheds who would be recipients of PWS payments would tend
to be among the poorer members of society. It has long been argued that land users in
marginal areas such as the steep slopes of upper watersheds tend to be poor (CGIAR,
1997; Heath and Binswanger, 1996). Nelson and Chomitz (2007) refer to this
hypothesized link between poverty, environmental degradation, and hydrological
impact as the ‘forest-hydrology-poverty nexus’.
        In Guatemala, Nelson and Chomitz (2007) find that the most hydrologically
sensitive watersheds (defined as watersheds in which the interface between
agriculture and forest is found on slopes of 8 percent or more and represents a
significant proportion of the watershed’s area) also tend to have the highest
concentration of poverty. The 77 most sensitive watersheds had a poverty rate of 70
percent and included a third of the country’s poor. They find a similar result in
Honduras, although the relationship there is less pronounced.
       Although these findings are tantalizing, they do not take into account the
extent to which watersheds provide services. First, some hydrologically sensitive
watersheds may not have potential for being included in a PWS program as they may
have very few downstream water users. Second, the role of PWS is not limited to
avoiding deforestation so as to avoid further loss of ecosystem services. It may also
include restoration of ecosystem services in watersheds where they have already been
lost or degraded. Indeed, these longer-settled watersheds may be more important
from a water service perspective because of their greater concentration of population
and other water users. These watersheds, however, may have much lower
concentrations of poor inhabitants. Thus in Costa Rica’s densely populated Cordillera
Volcanica Central area, many landowners are relatively well-off urban dwellers. As a
result, a large proportion of participants in Costa Rica’s PPSA program in this area
were found to be urban dwellers with substantial non-agricultural income (Ortiz and
others, 2003; Miranda and others, 2003).


                                          4
       Our focus here is on watershed-scale PES mechanisms in which service users
make payments to providers. PES programs that are financed by the government
rather than users, such as the national-scale programs in Costa Rica and Mexico, are
able to—and often required to—specifically address poverty and other social criteria.
Thus, the delineation of eligible areas in Costa Rica’s PPSA program is based, in part,
on an explicit poverty criterion. This is possible because the bulk of its funding comes
from a fuel tax. Likewise, Mexico’s PSAH program, which is financed by a share of the
revenue from water fees, gives additional points to applications from poorer ejidos,
thus increasing their chance of being accepted and receiving payments. The vast
majority of PES mechanisms, however, are local—typically at the scale of a
watershed. Funding generated specifically from service users is all explicitly targeted
to meeting service user needs. Within this context, poverty objectives can be
addressed only indirectly.
       There is a clear need, therefore, to have a better sense of who the potential
participants are. As PWS programs are tied to areas with substantial downstream
benefits, they cannot be targeted to areas of high poverty. The composition and
structure of the population in the upper watershed will matter both to the success of
the PWS program itself and for its impact on poverty levels.
        In this paper, we extend the work of Nelson and Chomitz (2007) by explicitly
examining watersheds that are important for water service provision, and so have
significant potential for development of PWS mechanisms. We then examine both the
poverty rate and the poverty density in these watersheds.

                   Mapping areas that provide water services
       Mapping the areas that supply water services links the supply and demand of
services in a spatially explicit way, allowing us to identify and prioritize areas with
potential for PWS implementation. We mapped the areas that provide water services
(‘water supply areas’) first by identifying the location of the intakes from which users
obtain their water. We then delineated the portions of the watershed that contribute
to those intakes using the closest 100m contour line up to the limit of the watershed,
based on the principle that ‘water flows downhill’.2
       We use the watershed map of Guatemala developed by Nelson and Chomitz
(2007) to ensure comparability with the poverty map they prepared (see below). They
generated a 100-meter hydrologically correct elevation surface by interpolating
contour lines and spot heights in combination data on rivers and lakes.3
      We focus on the larger, formal sector water users. There is also a considerable
amount of direct use of water by rural households. Transaction costs make it
impractical in most cases to base PWS mechanisms on such dispersed users. We focus

2
    See Pagiola and others (2007a) for additional details.
3
    This map differs slightly from the watershed map produced by the Ministry of Agriculture,
    Livestock, and Nutrition (MAGA), but the differences are too small to materially affect the
    results of this analysis. Neither the MAGA map nor Nelson and Chomitz’s (2007) map would
    be detailed enough to allow planning of specific mechanisms.

                                               5
solely on users of surface water, as groundwater flows are insufficiently understood to
allow the recharge areas of specific wells to be mapped with confidence. We limited
our analysis to the highland areas of Guatemala, omitting the northern Petén
department. Petén accounts for about a third of Guatemala’s land area, but only 3
percent of its population and 4 percent of the poor.
       For each user, we also collected information on the nature and magnitude of
their water use. This information allows us to construct indices of the relative
importance or “value” of water supply areas. At present these indices are use-
specific, due to the very different nature of the uses. These indices give a broad
sense of the extent to which payments might be made.
Hydroelectric power producers
       HEP producers have a high potential for PWS because of the vulnerability of
their activities to sedimentation and lack of water. Indeed, HEP producers are well
represented in current PWS mechanisms. In Costa Rica, for example, many public-
sector and private sector HEP producers are paying for conservation of the watersheds
from which they draw their water through the country’s PSA Program, generating
payments of about US$0.5 million and conserving about 18,000 ha annually (Pagiola,
2008). Other HEP producers have arranged bilateral payment deals with landowners
(Rojas and Aylward, 2002). In Venezuela, power company CVG-Edelca will be paying
0.6 percent of its revenue (about US$2 million annually) to conserve the watershed of
the Río Caroní, where 70 percent of the country’s HEP is generated (World Bank,
2007).
       HEP producers are the easiest water users to map, as their location and
installed generating capacity is well documented (Figure 1A). Moreover, the number
of such users is small. The shading in Figure 1A reflects the importance of each water
supply area, in terms of installed generating capacity per hectare. It is interesting to
note that the highest value areas are not those in the watershed with the largest HEP
plant, but rather in watersheds with medium-sized plants. Because of its large size
(545,000 ha), the water supply area serving the largest HEP plant (Chixoy, 300MW) has
a value index of only 0.55KW/ha. The highest-value water supply area, at 3.45KW/ha,
is the 13,100 ha upper watershed of Río Las Vacas, which provides water to the 45MW
Las Vacas plant.
Domestic water supply systems
       Domestic water supply systems have also been frequent participants in PES
mechanisms in Latin America. Urban areas that are paying to conserve their water
supply areas range from large cities like Quito, Ecuador (Echevarría, 2002a), to mid-
size towns like Heredia, Costa Rica (Barrantes and Gámez, 2007), and to poor rural
townships like Pimampiro, Ecuador (Wunder and Albán, 2008).




                                           6
A: Hydroelectric power generation                              B: Domestic water supply




     C: Large-scale irrigation                                      D: Coffee mills

               Figure 1: Water supply areas for principal surface water users


                                             7
       There are large number of domestic water supply systems in Guatemala, with
as much as 70 percent of households having access to piped water (World Bank, 2004).
These systems are operated by a wide variety of agencies, as Guatemala is the only
Central American country that does not have a national public corporation that
manages domestic water supply in most urban areas (Walker and Velásquez, 1999).
The domestic water supply sector is comprised of three components: (a) service to
the Guatemala City metropolitan area, provided mainly by the Municipal Water Firm
of Guatemala City (Empresa Municipal de Agua de Guatemala, EMPAGUA); (b) other
urban areas, served by municipal governments, either directly or through public
corporations; and (c) rural areas served by Community Based Organizations (Foster
and Araujo, 2004). This study focuses on urban water supply systems that serve 1,000
household and more, mainly due to data availability constraints. Data on the location
of water intakes were obtained by contacting EMPAGUA and municipal governments
directly. Usable data were obtained for EMPAGUA and for 47 municipal water supply
systems.
       The water supply areas serving domestic water supply systems are shown in
Figure 1B. In comparison to water supply areas serving HEP plants, which average
about 70,000 ha, the water supply areas serving domestic water supply systems tend
to be small, with an average size of less than 11,000 ha (Table 1 below). On average,
these water supply areas serve 1.08 households per hectare. The water supply areas
serving EMPAGUA are even smaller, with a mean size of 4,100 ha, but their value is
much greater, as they serve 11.53 households per hectare on average.
Irrigation
      Irrigation systems have been among the earliest to make direct payments for
watershed conservation, in Colombia’s Cauca Valley (Echevarría, 2002). In general,
however, they are very poorly represented among current PES mechanisms.
       Guatemala has a relatively small irrigated area of 130,000 ha (FAO, 2007)
divided into private, state, and small-scale ‘minirriego’ systems. Documentation of
water withdrawal and intake location of irrigation systems was even more limited
than for domestic water supply. We focus on larger systems, with a minimum of 500
ha under irrigation. As with municipal water systems, most information was obtained
by contacting water users directly. Here, too, only approximate information could be
obtained.
       The water supply areas serving large irrigation systems are shown in Figure 1C.
These areas vary widely in size, with an average area of about 64,000 ha (Table 1
below). On average, these water supply areas serve 0.14 ha of irrigated area per
upstream hectare. Again, the most important water supply areas are not necessarily
those that serve the largest irrigated areas.
Other water users
       Industrial users have also been participants of PWS programs. For example,
bottler Florida Ice & Farm is paying for watershed protection in Costa Rica (Pagiola,
2008). In Guatemala, the use of water by industrial users is very poorly documented.
Moreover, these users proved very resistant to attempts to gather information.
                                         8
Because of this, we were only able to gather data on a small proportion of all users,
primarily coffee mills. The water supply areas (see Figure 1D) serving these mills have
an average area of about 21,000 ha (Table 1). Their mean value in terms of
production is 37.6 quintals (qq) per hectare.4
Summary
       We identified about 1.9 million ha in highland Guatemala with significant
potential for development of PES mechanisms due to the presence of significant
downstream water uses. This area is under-estimated in that data could only be
obtained for a subset of all users. In addition, our analysis does not include relatively
smaller users, who can undertake PES mechanisms on small scale. For example,
several small communities along the edge of the Pico Bonito National Park in
Honduras are paying to conserve their water sources (EcoLogic, 2006). On the other
hand, the area of PWS potential over-estimates the area in which PWS mechanisms
could actually be implemented. Water users may only be interested in paying for the
services if there is an actual or perceived threat and if cost of payment is smaller
than the cost of alternatives solutions. Furthermore, institutional constraints (such as
insecure land tenure and collective action problems among service users) and
technical constraints (such as the lack of monitoring) could also pose obstacles to the
establishment of PWS programs in many cases.

                                     Mapping poverty
       With about 56 percent of its population under the poverty line, Guatemala has
one of the highest poverty rates in Central America (World Bank, 2004). Poverty is
predominantly rural and extreme poverty is almost exclusively rural, with over 81
percent of the poor living in rural areas. Poverty is a national problem, with relatively
high levels throughout the country, but with pockets of particularly high poverty. A
‘poverty belt’ runs through the northern and northwestern regions.
       We use the watershed-level poverty map for Guatemala developed by Nelson
and Chomitz (2007), based on a poverty map developed by a team from the National
Institute of Statistics (INE), the Presidency’s General Planning Secretariat
(SEGEPLAN), and the University of Rafael Landívar (URL), using the methodology
developed by Poggi and others (1998). Essentially, the approach uses detailed data
from small-sample household budget surveys from 1988-89 to obtain a predictive
relationship of poverty rates, and then applies the relationship to municipio-level
data (the highest available level of disaggregation) from the 1994 census to estimate
spatially-specific poverty rates across the country. Similar approach have been
applied in many countries (Bedi and others, 2007, compile examples from 12
countries). Nelson and Chomitz allocated population from this municipio-level map to
the watershed map they had developed (see above). Where watershed boundaries
intersected municipio boundaries, population was pro-rated to each watershed
assuming a uniform population density.


4
    1 quintal (qq) is equivalent to 45.45 kilograms or 100 lbs.

                                               9
          A: Poverty incidence in highland Guatemala




           B: Poverty density in highland Guatemala
Figure 2: Spatial distribution of poverty in highland Guatemala


                              10
      Figure 2 shows the resulting watershed poverty maps for highland Guatemala. The
top panel shows poverty incidence: the proportion of the population in the watershed
whose income is below the poverty line. The bottom panel shows poverty density: the
number of poor people per hectare. These maps show that poverty is a national problem
in Guatemala, with relatively high poverty rates in many areas, especially the northern
and northwestern regions. Areas of high poverty incidence are spatially autocorrelated,
as are areas of high poverty density.5 However, areas with high poverty rates are not
necessarily areas of high poverty density, and vice versa.6 Previous efforts to map
poverty have found similar results. Areas with high poverty rates often have low
population density, and thus a small absolute number of poor people. Poverty density is
often highest in or near urban areas, but the concentration of better-off households in
these areas means that poverty rates tend to be lower.
       Two weaknesses of this approach need to be highlighted. First, conversion of the
municipio-level poverty map to watersheds assumes that both population density and
poverty rates are uniform across the municipio. If people are concentrated in flatter
areas, the population of watersheds with steep slopes will tend to be over-estimated.
Conversely, if most better-off people live in flatter areas, the poverty rates in such
areas will tend to be under-estimated. These weaknesses were already present in the
original watershed poverty map, but are magnified in our analysis as we focus on
portions of each watershed. As such, we are unable to look into within-watershed
variations in poverty between water supply areas and non-water supply areas. Second,
the information available does not allow us to distinguish landless households. This is an
important limitation, as PWS payments are payments to land users. In Guatemala, about
54 percent of the rural population are landowners, 19 percent are tenants, and 27
percent are landless. Among the rural poor, 59 percent are landowners, 20 percent are
tenants, and 21 percent are landless (World Bank, 2004). It seems likely that the
landless poor will tend to cluster in areas with reasonable potential for employment,
either in agriculture or in other sectors. These would seem unlikely to be found in the
upper parts of watersheds.

                        Are potential service providers poor?
       The first question we examine is whether most potential participants in PWS
mechanisms are poor. In Figure 2A, the map of water supply areas is compared to the
map of poverty incidence in highland Guatemala. As can be seen, poverty rates in the
water supply areas vary substantially. While some water supply areas have poverty rates
as high as 97 percent, others have low poverty rates (Table 1). In general, water supply
areas located in the north and northwest tend to have high poverty rates. The water
supply areas for HEP have relatively high poverty rates of 67 percent on average, but
with a very high variance. Poverty rates are lowest (29 percent)in the EMPAGUA water
supply areas, because of their proximity to the Guatemala City metropolitan area.

5
    Moran’s index of spatial autocorrelation is I=0.35 for poverty incidence and I=0.29 for poverty
    density. Both are significantly different from zero at the 0.01 level.
6
    Pearson's product-moment coefficient between poverty rate and poverty density is only 0.11,
    indicating a week positive correlation.

                                                11
Table 1: Poverty incidence and density in water supply areas
                                 Mean size         Poverty rate (%)           Poverty density (poor/ha)
Type of water user                  (ha)         Mean     Min     Max          Mean      Min      Max
HEP producers                      70,000         67        0       97           1.12    0.01      9.55
                                 (141,000)       (21)                           (1.35)

Domestic water supply
! Municipal systems                 11,000         56         0      91           1.50      0.01      9.55
                                   (16,000)       (23)                           (1.57)
! EMPAGUA systems                    4,100         29         1      57           1.04      0.01      2.09
                                    (4,800)       (16)                           (0.72)

Irrigation systems                  64,000         51       11       82           0.75      0.15      2.33
                                   (73,000)       (17)                           (0.43)

Industrial users                    21,000         57         0      86           0.83      0.01      2.00
                                   (36,000)       (27)                           (0.32)

All water supply areas                             62         0      97           1.03      0.01      9.55
                                                  (21)                           (1.07)

Entire country (except                             65         0      98           0.83      0.01      9.55
  Petén)                                          (19)                           (0.98)
Notes:   Standard deviation in parentheses.

       Figure 3 shows the distribution of watersheds with water supply areas according
to their poverty rates. As can be seen, most watersheds have relatively high poverty
rates. Over a quarter have poverty rates above 80 percent and almost 50 percent have
poverty rates above 70 percent. The overall average poverty rate in water supply areas
is only 44 percent (total number of poor in water supply areas, 1.76 million, divided by
total number of people living in water supply areas, 3.97 million), however, which is
lower than the national average of 53 percent (Petén excluded).7
       All water supply areas are not equivalent. Some have substantial potential for
PWS because of the importance of downstream water uses, while others have limited
potential. Figure 4 plots poverty rates in the water supply areas against indicators of the
importance of the areas. These plots indicate that there is essentially no correlation
between the importance of a water supply area and the poverty rate of people living
there. Some areas with very high value have high poverty rates (for example, the water
supply area of the Santa Maria and Canadá HEP plants, which generates 0.64 KW/ha, has
an average poverty rate of 67 percent), while others have much lower poverty rates (for
example, the water supply area of the Jurun Marinal and El Salto plants, which
generates 0.85 KW/ha, has an average poverty rate of less than 1 percent).

7
    There are also missing values of poverty for watersheds that are mostly scattered along the coastline.

                                                    12
                             30


                             25
      Number of watersheds

                             20


                             15


                             10


                              5


                              0
                                  0-10   10-20   20-30   30-40     40-50    50-60   60-70   70-80   80-90   90-100
                                                                 Poverty rate (%)

Figure 3: Distribution of watersheds that contain water supply areas according to
                                their poverty rates




Figure 4: Relationship between poverty rate and importance of water supply areas




                                                                     13
               0.7




                                                                                 0.29
                                                                               0.09

                                                                      0.09
                                                             0.15

                                                      1.35
                     1.03         0.21
                                0.04
        1.14
                                                                       Poverty rate
    0.05
                                                     Water users             Missing value
                                         KW/ha       HEP                     0.00 – 0.25
                                         hh/ha       Domestic water          0.25 – 0.50
                                       Irrig ha/ha   Irrigation              0.50 – 0.75

                                         qq/ha       Coffee mills            0.75 – 0.86

           Water supply areas

      Figure 5: Poverty rate and water supply areas near Sierra de las Minas

       The area of the Sierra de las Minas mountain range illustrates the divergence
between the value of water use and poverty (Figure 5). To the south of the mountain
range, the Motagua River valley has a large concentration of high-value water users,
including several HEP plants (with more planned), large commercial irrigation
systems, agro-industrial producers, and several bottlers (including Coca Cola, Pepsi
Cola, and several beer and rum producers). These users draw their water either from
surface sources flowing south from the Sierra de las Minas, or from groundwater fed
from the same area. There is clearly substantial potential to develop PWS mechanisms
in this area, although problems of collective action are likely to arise. Indeed, the
WWF and a local NGO, the Foundation for the Defense of Nature (Fundación
Defensores de la Naturaleza, FDN), are working to do this (WWF, 2006). Poverty rates

                                             14
in this area, however, are very low, so any payments are unlikely to be received by
poor households (indeed, the primary objective of the Water Fund established by the
WWF is to finance conservation activities in the Sierra de las Minas Biosphere Reserve,
not to pay landholders to change land uses). Conversely, the northern slope of the
Sierra, which drains to the Río Polochic, has very high poverty rates, being settled
mainly by smallholder farmers belonging to indigenous groups. This area, however,
has very low potential for PES as shown by our analysis (the only water user of any
size is a coffee mill, which draws its water from a small water supply area).

          How many of the poor are potential service providers?
       We now turn to the question of the number of poor people who might
potentially be reached by PWS. Figure 2B compares the water supply areas with the
poverty density map of highland Guatemala. As in the case of poverty rates, the
poverty density in water supply areas varies substantially, from almost 10 poor people
per hectare, to none. The average number of poor people per hectare in water supply
areas is about 1, being slightly higher in the water supply areas of domestic water
supply systems and HEP producers, and slightly lower in those of irrigation systems
and industrial users.

                                 50


                                 40
          Number of watersheds




                                 30


                                 20


                                 10


                                  0
                                      0-0.5   0.5-1       1-2         2-3     3-4   >4
                                                  Poverty density (poor/ha)
Figure 5: Distribution of watersheds that contain water supply areas according to
                              their poverty densities

       Figure 5 shows the number of watersheds in water supply areas according to
their poverty density. The pattern is the opposite of that in Figure 3: most watersheds
that contain water supply areas have low poverty density. Over a quarter of
watersheds have less than 0.5 poor/ha, and almost two-thirds have less than 1
poor/ha. The average poverty density of 0.95 poor/ha in watersheds with water
supply areas is slightly more than the average poverty density in the country
(excluding Petén) of 0.75 poor/ha, but the difference is not significant at the 5
percent level.



                                                            15
                                            Discussion
       Our results do not support the commonly held image of most potential PES
recipients as poor. The image holds true in some cases, but not all. While there
certainly are many watersheds with potential for PWS with high poverty rates, there
are also many such watersheds with very low poverty rates.
      The total number of poor that could potentially be reached if PWS mechanisms
were developed in all the water supply areas is 1.76 million, or 34 percent of the
country’s poor (excluding Petén). This is, of course, an upper bound.
       PWS are unlikely to be developed everywhere. In some cases, the potential
damage to water services may be low, because of the nature of the watershed or of
the water users’ infrastructure; alternatively, water users may have cost-effective
engineering solutions to such problems. In others, collective action problems may
impede the development of PWS mechanisms. Presumably water users would be most
interested in establishing PWS mechanisms in high-value water supply areas; they
would presumably also be willing to pay more to protect such areas. However, as was
shown, poverty is not correlated with the value of the service provided by a given
water supply area.
       In some cases, targeting of PES programs may go beyond targeting individual
watersheds to targeting specific areas within those watershed. Within a watershed,
some lands may be particularly important from the perspective of generating the
desired environmental services (for example, riparian lands often play an important
role in preserving water quality, and steeper slopes in avoiding sedimentation). Which
area is critical depends on the specific service being sought, and so may vary from
case to case. If payments are targeted to such areas, poorer households will receive
payments only to the extent that they have land within them. However, to date few
PES programs have been targeted to this degree. Costa Rica’s PSA program, for
example, only targets individual watersheds to a limited extent, and does not target
specific areas within those watersheds (Pagiola, 2008). Most PES programs, including
Costa Rica’s PSA program, are evolving towards more targeted approaches, so this
issue will become more salient. In Mexico, the pilot PES program in the Coatepec
watershed targets specific areas within the watershed (Muñoz and others, 2006).
      As PWS are payments for land use, only landholders will be eligible. Poor
households that are landless will by definition not be able to participate, no matter
how PES is targeted.8 To date, few PES programs have been implemented in areas
where land rental is common, so it is difficult to predict how participation might be


8
    The landless poor may experience indirect impacts through labor markets—benefitting if
    implementation of PWS mechanisms results in increased labor demand, or being harmed if it results
    in reduced demand. The potential for adverse effects through reduced labor demand is particularly
    significant in Guatemala, where many of the poor depend on agricultural employment (World Bank,
    2004). However, the relatively small areas in which PWS might be employed mean that even if
    PWS-supported practices are less labor intensive the overall effect on labor markets will likely be
    small. Even in Costa Rica, with a relatively large area under PES contracts, a GCE analysis found
    very limited labor market impacts (Ross and others, 2007).

                                                 16
affected in such areas, and whether poorer households would be particularly
affected.
       Even in cases where PWS mechanisms emerge and poor households are eligible
to participate because they manage land in target areas, other obstacles may arise.
Pagiola and others (2005) point out that, even if they are eligible, poor households
will only participate in a PWS mechanism if they are both interested and able to do
so. They may not be interested, for example, if the payment offered is insufficient to
compensate them for the opportunity cost of the foregone land uses. To the extent
that poorer households have less land, they may use what they have more intensively,
and thus have a higher opportunity cost of land than better-off households.
Alternatively, if their land is less productive, they may have a lower opportunity cost
and so be more interested in participating at a given payment levels. Perhaps more
important, poorer households may be less able to participate. They may lack titles to
their land, for example. If participation requires making up-front investments (for
example, to reforest degraded areas), they may be less able to finance these
investments.
       In at least two cases, the results thus far are promising. Pagiola and others
(2007b, 2008) found that poorer households were able to participate to a substantial
degree in a PES program being implemented by the GEF-financed Regional Integrated
Silvopastoral Ecosystem Management Project at sites in Colombia and Nicaragua—
indeed, by some measures they participated to a greater extent than better-off
households. This is a particularly promising result in that the Silvopastoral Project
provides a strong test of the ability of poorer households to participate as it requires
participants to make substantial and complex land use changes. Nevertheless, one
should not jump to the sanguine conclusion that all poor farm households everywhere
will always be able to participate in PES programs. Both PES programs and local
conditions differ from case to case, and there may well be cases where otherwise
eligible poor households may find it difficult or impossible to participate.
       As Pagiola and other (2005) note, the extent to which poorer households are in
fact able to participate in a given PWS mechanism depends on the specific
characteristics of both the households and the PWS mechanisms. It is possible to
design PWS mechanism so as to reduce obstacles to the participation of poorer
households, but not all PWS mechanisms may make the effort to do so. In fact, some
PWS mechanisms may actively avoid enrolling poorer households because of the
higher transactions costs that may be involved. Wunder and Albán (2008), for
example, note that the PROFAFOR program that pays landholders in Ecuador to
reforest has introduced a minimum contract size of 50 ha.
       In considering how to best design a PES program so as to improve its poverty
impact, it is important not to fall into the trap of considering the program as being
primarily a poverty reduction tool. Making poverty reduction objectives predominate
is understandably attractive, but would prove ultimately self-defeating. PES programs
will not be sustainable unless service recipients are satisfied that they are receiving
the services they are paying for. Subordinating the objective of generating services to
that of poverty reduction risks failing to deliver on the services, and thus undermining

                                          17
the very basis of the program. Once service users cease paying, neither poverty
reduction nor resource management objectives will be reached. Thus there are many
things that PWS mechanisms cannot do, no matter how desirable they might be from a
poverty reduction perspective. They cannot, for example, target their interventions
to areas of high poverty, as these may not be the areas that generate the desired
services. Within an area that generates services, they can try to design the payment
mechanism so as to allow the poor to participate. PWS programs also cannot choose
to promote particular land use practices solely on the basis of the poor being able to
undertake them. But they can seek to provide support to poor land users, including
technical assistance or access to inputs and credit, so that they can adopt the desired
land use practices.
       Participation is a threshold issue; anyone who does not participate is unlikely
to benefit from a PWS mechanism. For poor households that do participate in a PWS
program, the actual impact on their well-being will depend on how the payment
offered compares to the cost of participation (the opportunity cost of the foregone
land use, plus any out of pocket costs resulting from participation).9 This is an area in
which empirical data is particularly scarce, as opportunity costs on individual holdings
are very difficult to estimate. Whatever its amount, PWS payments may also be
attractive to poorer households because they are fixed, as long as they comply with
the terms of their contract. In contrast, other revenue sources they may have access
to may well vary substantially based on factors completely outside the household’s
control. Revenue from farming activities, for example, will depend on the weather
and on market conditions. Having part of their income not affected by such factors
may thus be very attractive to poorer households.

                                             Conclusions
       As an initial effort to compare potential for PES to poverty, the analysis is
necessarily crude. Improvements are needed in both the mapping of water supply
areas (primarily by filling gaps in the information available on many water users and
delineating hydrologically correct water supply areas) and the spatial mapping of
poverty (by increasing the resolution, improving mapping along watershed rather than
administrative boundaries, and distinguishing land users from landless poor).
       Maps of water supply areas such as those developed here can be useful tools in
targeting efforts to develop PES mechanisms, by identifying the areas that supply
services, and gauging the relative importance of each areas. Combining such maps
with poverty maps can provide an additional targeting criterion, allowing
governments and donors to prioritize areas where PES has the highest potential of
both improving service provision and reducing poverty. It can also provide useful
information on the issues that might arise in implementing a PES mechanism.
Attempting to do so in an area with many poor people will face problems that may
not arise in an area with relatively better off people.

9
    As participation in a PES program is voluntary, it is probably safe to assume that participants will
    be at least no worse off by joining than they would be by not joining. Were this not the case, they
    could simply decline to participate.

                                                  18
                                         References
Barrantes, G., and L. Gámez. 2007. “Programa de pago por servicio ambiental hídrico de la
   Empresa de Servicios Públicos de Heredia.” PES Learning Paper No.2007-1S. Washington:
   World Bank.
Bedi, T., A. Coudouel, and K. Simler (Eds). 2007. More Than a Pretty Picture: Using Poverty
   Maps to Design Better Policies and Interventions. Washington: World Bank.
Bennett, M.T. 2008. “China's sloping land conversion program: Institutional innovation or
   business as usual?” Ecological Economics, 65(4):699–711.
CGIAR (Consultative Group on International Agricultural Research). 1997. “Report of the study
   on CGIAR research priorities for marginal lands.” Rome, Italy: CGIAR.
Echevarría, M. 2002a. “Financing watershed conservation: The FONAG water fund in Quito,
   Ecuador.” In S. Pagiola, J. Bishop, and N. Landell-Mills (Eds.), Selling Forest
   Environmental Services: Market-Based Mechanisms for Conservation And Development.
   London: Earthscan.
Echevarría, M. 2002b. “Water user associations in the Cauca Valley: A voluntary mechanism to
   promote upstream-downstream cooperation in the protection of rural watersheds.” Land-
   water linkages in rural watersheds case study series. Rome: FAO.
EcoLogic. 2006. “Case study: Village-led watershed management in Honduras.” Paper
   presented at the 4th World Water Forum, Mexico City, Mexico, 16-22 March, 2006.
Engel, S., S. Pagiola, and S. Wunder. 2008. “Designing payments for environmental services in
   theory and practice: An overview of the issues.” Ecological Economics, 65(4):663–674.
FAO (Food and Agriculture Organisation). 2007. AQUASTAT main country database. Rome:
   FAO. (Accessed Sept. 2007.)
Foster, V., and M.C. Araujo. 2005. “Does infrastructure reform work for the poor? A case
   study from Guatemala.” Policy Research Working Paper No.3185. Washington: World Bank.
Grieg-Gran, M., I.T. Porras, and S. Wunder. 2005. “How can market mechanisms for forest
    environmental services help the poor? Preliminary lessons from Latin America.” World
    Development, 33(9):1511–1527.
Heath, J., and H. Binswanger. 1996. “Natural resource degradation effects of poverty and
   population growth are largely policy-induced: The case of Colombia.” Environment and
   Development Economics, 1(1):65-84.
Herrador, D., L.A. Dimas, and V.E. Méndez. 2002. “Pago por servicios ambientales en El
   Salvador: Oportunidades y riesgos para pequeños agricultores y comunidades rurales.”
   FORD Foundation Payment for Environmental Services in the Americas Project. San
   Salvador: Fundación PRISMA.
Kerr, J. 2002. “Watershed development, environmental services, and poverty alleviation in
   India.” World Development, 30:1387-1400.
Landell-Mills, N., and I. Porras. 2002. Silver Bullet or Fools' Gold? A Global Review of Markets
   for Forest Environmental Services and their Impact on the Poor. London: IIED.
Mejía, M.A., and G. Barrantes. 2003. “Experiencia de pago por servicios ambientales de la
   Junta Administradora de Agua Potable y Disposición de Excretas (JAPOE) de Jesús de
   Otoro, Intibucá, Honduras.” Tegucigalpa: PASOLAC.



                                               19
Miranda, M., I.T. Porras, and M.L. Moreno. 2003. “The social impact of payments for
   environmental services in Costa Rica: A quantitative field survey and analysis of the Virilla
   Watershed.” Markets for environmental services No.1. London: IIED.
Muñoz, C., A. Guevara, J.M. Bulás, J. M. Torres, and J. Braña. 2006. “Pagar por los servicios
   hidrológicos del bosque en México.” In: S. Pagiola, J. Bishop, and N. Landell-Mills (Eds.),
   La Venta de Servicios Ambientales Forestales, 2nd edition. Mexico: INE.
Nelson, A., and K. Chomitz. 2007. “The forest-hydrology-poverty nexus in Central America: An
   heuristic analysis.” Environment, Development and Sustainability, 9(4):369-385.
Ortiz Malavasi, E., L.F. Sage Mora, and C. Borge Carvajal. 2003. “Impacto del programa de
    pago de servicios ambientales en Costa Rica como medio de reducción de la pobreza en
    los medios rurales.” Documento de Trabajo No.8. San José: RUTA.
Pagiola, S. 2008. “Payments for environmental services in Costa Rica.” Ecological Economics,
   65(4):712–724.
Pagiola, S., and G. Platais. 2007. Payments for Environmental Services: From Theory to
   Practice. Washington: World Bank.
Pagiola, S., N. Landell-Mills. and J. Bishop. 2002. “Making market-based mechanisms work for
   forests and people.” In: S. Pagiola, J. Bishop, and N. Landell-Mills (Eds.), Selling Forest
   Environmental Services: Market-Based Mechanisms for Conservation And Development.
   London: Earthscan.
Pagiola, S., A. Arcenas, and G. Platais. 2005. “Can payments for environmental services help
   reduce poverty? An exploration of the issues and the evidence to date from Latin
   America.” World Development, 33(2):237–253.
Pagiola, S., A. Colom. and W. Zhang. 2007a. “Mapping environmental services in highland
   Guatemala.” PES Learning Paper No.2007-4. Washington: World Bank.
Pagiola, S., A.R. Rios, and A. Arcenas. 2007b. “Poor household participation in Payments for
   Environmental Services: Lessons from the Silvopastoral Project in Quindío, Colombia.” ES
   Learning Paper No.2007-5. Washington: World Bank.
Pagiola, S., A.R. Rios, and A. Arcenas. 2008. “Can the poor participate in payments for
   environmental services? Lessons from the Silvopastoral Project in Nicaragua.”
   Environment and Development Economics, 13(3):299–325.
Poggi, J., J.O. Lanjouw, J. Hentschel, and P. Lanjouw. 1998. “Combining census and survey
   data to study spatial dimensions of poverty.” Policy Research Working Paper No.1928.
   Washington: World Bank.
Rojas, M., and B. Aylward. 2002. “The case of La Esperanza: A small, private, hydropower
   producer and a conservation NGO in Costa Rica.” Land-water linkages in rural watersheds
   case study series.” Rome: FAO.
Ross, M., B. Depro, and S.K. Pattanayak. 2007. “Assessing the economy-wide effects of Costa
   Rica’s Payments for Environmental Services Program.” PES Learning Paper 2007-3.
   Washington: World Bank.
Walker, I., and M. Velásquez. 1999. “Regional analysis of decentralization of water supply and
   sanitation services in Central America and the Dominican Republic.” Environmental Health
   Project Activity Report No.65. Washington: USAID.
World Bank. 2004. “Poverty in Guatemala.” Washington: World Bank.
World Bank. 2007. “Venezuela Expanding Partnerships for the National Parks System Project:
   project appraisal document.” Report No.37502-VE. Washington: World Bank.

                                              20
World Bank. 2008. State and Trends of the Carbon Market 2007. Washington: World Bank.
Wunder, S. 2005. “Payments for environmental services: Some nuts and bolts.” CIFOR
  Occasional Paper No.42. Bogor: CIFOR.
Wunder, S., and M. Albán. 2008. “Decentralized payments for environmental services: The
  cases of Pimampiro and PROFAFOR in Ecuador.” Ecological Economics, 65(4):685–698.
Wunder, S., A. Engel, and S. Pagiola. 2008. “Taking stock: A comparative analysis of payments
  for environmental services programs in developed and developing countries.” Ecological
  Economics, 65(4):834–852.
WWF (World Wide Fund for Nature). 2006. The Water Fund: Sierra de las Minas, Guatemala.
  Guatemala City: WWF Central America.




                                             21
