                                                                86278

                   PES Learning Paper 2007-4


Mapping Environmental Services in Highland Guatemala

              Stefano Pagiola, Wei Zhang, and Ale Colom




                           December 2007

   Latin America and Caribbean Sustainable Development Department
                             World Bank
                          Washington DC, USA
Abstract	  
This paper uses data from Guatemala to map areas that are important for the provision of
indirect ecosystem services—services whose benefits are enjoyed at some distance from the
ecosystem that provides them, such as watershed services (enjoyed downstream) or biodiversity
conservation (enjoyed globally). These services are usually externalities from the perspective of
land users, and so tend to be under-provided. Mapping the areas that supply such services links
the supply and demand of ecosystem services in a spatially explicit way, allows the identification
and prioritization of areas of conservation interest.

Authors	  
Stefano Pagiola is senior environmental economist and Wei Zhang is consultant in the
Environment Department, World Bank. Ale Colom is an independent consultant.

Keywords
Environmental services, mapping, watershed, biodiversity, Guatemala

Acknowledgements
Work on this paper was financed in part by a grant from the Norwegian Trust Fund for
Environmentally and Socially Sustainable Development. The opinions expressed in this paper are
the authors’ own and do not necessarily represent those of the World Bank Group or the
Government of Norway.

Cover	  photo
Volcán del Fuego, Guatemala (Stefano Pagiola).




PES	  Learning	  Papers	  
PES Learning Papers draw on the World Bank’s extensive experience in supporting programs of Payments
for Environmental Services (PES). They are part of a larger effort by the World Bank to provide open
access to its research and make a contribution to development policy discussions around the world.
The PES Learning Paper series disseminates the findings of work in progress to encourage the exchange of
ideas about PES. An objective of the series is to get the findings out quickly, even if the presentations are
less than fully polished. The papers carry the names of the authors and should be cited accordingly. The
findings, interpretations, and conclusions expressed in this paper are entirely those of the authors. They
do not necessarily represent the views of the International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development/World Bank and its affiliated organizations, or those of the Executive Directors of the World
Bank or the governments they represent. The boundaries, colors, denominations, and other information
shown on any map in this work do not imply any judgment on the part of The World Bank concerning the
legal status of any territory or the endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.
               Mapping Environmental Services in Guatemala
                      Stefano Pagiola, Wei Zhang, and Ale Colom


                                   1. Introduction
      The Millennium Ecosystem Assessment (MA) has highlighted the importance of
the services that natural and managed ecosystems provide, and the threats they are
experiencing (MA, 2005).
       To be able to address the threats, it is important to improve our understanding
of ecosystems, the services they provide, and the threats they face. A critical aspect
that has often been neglected to date is the spatial aspect of services.
       In this paper, we use data from Guatemala to map areas that are important for
the provision of indirect ecosystem services—services whose benefits are enjoyed at
some distance from the ecosystem that provides them, such as watershed services
(enjoyed downstream) or biodiversity conservation (enjoyed globally). These services
are usually externalities from the perspective of land users, and so tend to be under-
provided. Mapping the areas that supply such services links the supply and demand of
ecosystem services in a spatially explicit way, allowing us to identify and prioritize
areas of conservation interest.

                              2. Ecosystem services
       The MA classifies the services that ecosystems can provide into four broad
categories: provisioning services, regulating services, cultural services, and supporting
services (Figure 1A) (MA, 2005). This typology separates services along functional
lines. These categories illustrate the diverse ways in which ecosystems contribute to
human welfare.
        We focus here on services whose benefits are enjoyed outside the ecosystems
that provide them—what economists call indirect benefits (Figure 1B). In the MA’s
classification, these are primarily regulating and supporting services, as well as some
cultural services. There are two reasons for doing so.
   ! First, because of the physical distance between the ecosystems that provide
        the service and the service users, it is often far from obvious where the
        services originate. One cannot harvest a crop without knowing where it grows;
        but it is perfectly possible to enjoy clean water without having the faintest
        idea of where it came from.
   ! Second, and again because of the physical distance between the ecosystems
        that provide the services and the service users, most indirect services are
        externalities from the perspective of the ecosystem managers. Ecosystem
        managers are typically neither compensated for providing the services, nor
        penalized for not doing so. As a result, they tend to ignore these services in
        making their management decisions.



                                           1
                            A.The Millennium Ecosystem Assessment




Source: Millennium Ecosystem Assessment, 2003.

                                      B. Total Economic Value




                           Figure 1: Typologies of ecosystem services

       In most cases, the main external services of interest are water, biodiversity
conservation, and carbon sequestration. Our analysis focuses on water services, for
several reasons. First, water is a critical factor in economic growth and human
welfare. Insufficient and/or irregular flow and poor quality water constitute major
sources of human health and development problems and constraints in many
developing countries. Second, biodiversity conservation priorities have been the focus
of considerable work in recent years, which has included at least some basic mapping
work in most countries, in the context of National Biodiversity Strategy and Action
Plan (NBSAP) processes or their equivalent. Carbon sequestration services, on the
other hand, are not spatially specific. A molecule of carbon removed from (or
prevented from entering) the atmosphere anywhere in the world, by whatever means
is equivalent to any other carbon dioxide molecule. The only spatial aspect of this
service is the need to document that areas afforested or reforested under the Clean
Development Mechanism (CDM) were without tree cover prior to 1990. Third, unlike
biodiversity conservation and carbon sequestration, many water uses have tangible
(and sometimes rivalrous) use value. Due to the spatial nature of the flow of the
service, beneficiaries and their demand are relatively easy to identify and evaluate
(Pagiola and Platais, 2007), offering a potential for using market-based mechanisms to
equalize the spatially linked service supply and demand.
      Recognition of the problem posed by the degradation of ecosystem services and
of the failure of past approaches to dealing with it has led to efforts to develop
systems in which land users are paid for the environmental services they generate,

                                                 2
thus aligning their incentives with those of society as a whole (Landell-Mills and
Porras, 2002; Pagiola and others, 2002a; Wunder, 2005). The central principles of this
Payment for Environmental Services (PES) approach are that those who provide
environmental services should be compensated for doing so and that those who
receive the services should pay for their provision (Pagiola and Platais, 2007). This
approach has the further advantage of providing additional income sources for poor
land users, helping to improve their livelihoods. Several countries are already
experimenting with such systems, many with World Bank assistance. Implementation
of PES mechanisms has been essentially ad hoc until now, focusing on low-hanging
fruit. Mapping and estimating the relative values of areas that are important for
service provision will allow a more systematic approach to the implementation of PES
mechanisms.

                                 3. Methodology
      Our analysis is comprised of two components. First, we mapped the areas that
provide water services (‘water supply areas’) by identifying the specific location of
the intakes used by major users (‘takepoints’) to obtain their water and then
delineating the portions of the watershed that contribute water to those intakes.
Second, we estimated an index of the value of each water supply area using various
measures of the magnitude of the service they provide.
      We focus on the larger, formal sector water users. There is also a considerable
amount of direct use of water by rural households. Transaction costs make it
impractical in most cases to base PES mechanisms on such dispersed users.
       In mapping the areas that provide water services, we focus on surface water
sources, omitting underground tapping and extraction of groundwater sources, as the
understanding of belowground waterflows is insufficient to allow recharge areas for
specific wells to be identified. Information on groundwater use is also more difficult
to obtain.

Identifying water supply areas
       Mapping water supply areas begins by identifying the specific location of the
water takepoints from which users obtain their water. As water use in Guatemala is
highly decentralized, this was generally accomplished by contacting the users
directly. Unfortunately, in many cases it proved impossible to obtain more than a
general location, so that assumptions had to be made to plot a specific location from
the available data. These assumptions are detailed in the discussion of individual
water users.
       Once the location of the water takepoints was identified, we delineated the
approximate water supply area for each takepoint using the closest 100m contour line
up to the limit of the watershed, based on the principle that ‘water flows downhill’
(Figure 2). In cases where water is extracted from a river whose tributaries stretch
over multiple distinct watersheds that are all part of a larger drainage basin, all
upstream watersheds in addition to the proportion of the watershed above the intake
are included in the water supply area. The approach offers a practical and much less


                                          3
expensive alternative to conducting hydrological survey for a quick assessment of
water service supply. It tends to over-estimate the size of the water supply area, by
including some lateral areas at altitudes close to that of takepoint from which water
would likely drain past the takepoint.
    ! Where multiple takepoints were used by a given user, we took the lowest
       takepoint if they were located in the same watershed, or repeated the process
       for each takepoint if they were located in separate watersheds.
    ! In some cases, multiple users are located in the same watershed. For example,
       the Canadá and Santa Maria hydroelectric power (HEP) plants are both located
       on the Río Samalá, about half a kilometer apart. In this case, we delineated a
       single water supply area, using the contour line closest to the plant furthest
       downstream. When the two users are located far apart, however, separate
       water supply areas are delineated. For example, the Matanzas HEP plant, on
       the Río Matanzas, has its own water supply area. Río Matanzas ultimately flows
       into the Río Chixoy, and thence to the Chixoy HEP plant about 40km
       downstream. In this case, a separate water supply area is delineated for
       Matanzas, which is fully contained within the boundaries of the Chixoy water
       supply area.




                         Figure 2: Delineating water supply areas

       We use the watershed map of Guatemala developed by Nelson and Chomitz
(2002). They generated a 100-meter hydrologically correct elevation surface by
interpolating contour lines and spot heights in combination with lakes and river data.
This map differs slightly from the watershed map produced by the Ministry of
Agriculture, Livestock, and Nutrition (Ministerío de Agricultura, Ganadería y


                                          4
Alimentación, MAGA), but the differences are too small to materially affect the
results.1
      The study area is limited to the highland areas of Guatemala, omitting the
northern Petén department (Figure 3). Petén accounts for about a third of
Guatemala’s land area, but only 3 percent of its population and 4 percent of the poor.

                                                                                                                                           Cuba

                                                                                                                     Cayman Is.


                                                          Mexico                                                                     Jamaica

                                                                               Belize


                                                                   Guatemala

                                                                                        Honduras

                                                                          El Salvador

                                                                                                  Nicaragua
                                        Petén


                                                                                                        Costa Rica


                                                                                                                      Panama               Colombia




                                                                                                               -
                           Study area




                                                                                 0           45          90                    180             270

                                                                                                               Kilometers




                                                Figure 3: Study area

Estimating the value of water supply areas
       All water supply areas are not equally valuable. The value of each water supply
area is estimated using information on the nature and magnitude of each individual
water use. Data were obtained from governmental and non-governmental sources, as
well as collected in the field. The lack of legislation regulating the use of
underground sources for industrial and domestic use renders very difficult the
collection of information on the subject. It proved particularly difficult to obtain
information on water quantities and sources used by private individuals and
companies. Part of the work also consisted of organizing existing data on agri-
industrial and industrial processing, irrigation, energy generation, and domestic use

1
    We chose to use the Nelson and Chomitz (2002) watershed map so that we could also use their
    poverty map of Guatemala and undertake analyses of how service supply areas relate to poverty
    (Pagiola and others, 2007). If we had used the MAGA watershed map, we would not have been able
    to examine how areas that are important for service provision compare to areas of high poverty.


                                                      5
that weren’t in formats compatible for geographic analysis, or that were available in
scattered and incompatible forms. When possible, available data was corroborated
with information from observations in the field or verified by telephone or in person.
       One possible approach to estimate the value of individual water supply areas is
to use the actual water use by downstream users. While this approach has its
attractions, it also faces significant limitations. First, the amount of water use says
little about the value of such use. Some uses are very valuable, such as human
consumption, others less so. In many countries, for example, agriculture is by far the
largest user of water, but a variety of subsidies and other distortions means that this
use is often very inefficient. The marginal value of an additional cubic metre of water
may be very high in some uses, and very low in others. Second, although water
volume used seems to provide an index which is comparable across users, this is not in
fact the case. Consumptive water uses (for example, irrigation or domestic supply)
cannot be compared directly to non-consumptive uses (such as HEP generation). Even
among consumptive uses, some generate significant return flows (thus reducing their
net use) while others do not.
       In this study, we used indices that directly reflect the benefits that water
provides. Because of the different nature of each water use, each set of users has its
own value index. That for HEP plants, for example, is based on the installed
generating capacity of each plant, while that for domestic water supply systems is
based on the number of households served, while that for irrigation systems is based
on the area irrigated. These value indices give a broad sense of the relative
importance of each water supply area. Unfortunately, the indices are
incommensurate, and so cannot be added together to obtain a single unified index.
Ideally, the marginal value of an additional cubic meter of water in each use would be
estimated, but estimating these values is far beyond the scope of the present study.
Using the prices paid by users for their water would not resolve the problem, as many
users pay nothing and others pay administratively determined prices that are un-
related to either the cost of provision or the value of use.
      The indices are then expressed in per hectare terms by dividing by the size of
the corresponding water supply areas.
   ! Where a given user drew water from several distinct water supply areas, we
      prorated the total value across each area according to their contribution to
      total use.
   ! When multiple users (of a given kind of use) are located in the same
      watershed, the value index for the water supply area reflects their combined
      use. Thus the value index for this water supply area of the Canadá and Santa
      Maria HEP plants on the Río Samalá is based on its contribution to both plants
      together.
   ! However, when the users are located far enough apart that separate water
      supply areas are delineated, the value index for the water supply area that
      serves both users reflects their combined use, but that for the broader water
      supply area only reflects the value of the use by the downstream user. Thus in
      the case of the Matanzas and Chixoy HEP plants on the Río Matanzas, the value


                                          6
      index for the Matanzas water supply area reflects the fact that this area also
      contributes to Chixoy, but the value index for the rest of the Chixoy water
      supply area is based on its contribution to Chixoy alone.

                    4. Mapping water service supply areas
       Guatemala receives about 111 billion m3 of water annually, giving an average
availability of 8,600 m3 per person per year (FAO, 2007). The country is divided into
three broad hydrological basins (López Choc, 2002; Cobos, 2002). Watersheds that
drain to the Pacific Ocean are generally small and have steep slopes. Watersheds that
drain towards the Caribbean tend to be larger; they include Guatemala’s longest
river, the Río Motagua. Watersheds in the northeast of the country drain towards the
Río Usumacinta in Mexico, and then on to the Gulf of Mexico. Total water withdrawal
were estimated to be about 2 billion m3 in 2000, or less than 2% of the country’s total
renewable water resources. Among the major sectors, agriculture accounts for over
80.5 percent of withdrawals, followed by industrial users (13.5 percent) and domestic
users (6.5 percent) (FAO, 2007).
      Detailed data tables are provided in Appendix 1. Maps for each service are
shown in Appendix 2.

Hydroelectric power producers
       HEP producers are the easiest water users to map, as their location and
installed generating capacity is well-documented, and in most cases can easily be
verified from available on-line satellite imagery. Moreover, the number of
hydroelectric plants is small (Appendix Table 1). Most HEP plants are operated by the
state-owned National Institute for Electrification (Instituto Nacional de
Electrificación, INDE). There are also several privately-operated HEP plants.
       Map 1 shows the location of the 17 HEP plants in Guatemala, and the water
supply areas that feed them. The shading reflects the importance of each water
supply area, in terms of installed generating capacity per hectare. The mean size of
HEP water supply areas is 70,000 ha, but there is considerable variation (s.d.=141,000
ha). The largest water supply area, at over 0.5 million ha, serves the 300MW Chixoy
plant. If this area is omitted, the average size of the remaining water supply areas
drops to 32,000 ha. Three other water supply areas cluster at about 100,000 ha, with
one at just under 40,000 ha and all others smaller than 25,000 ha. The smallest area,
at under 4,000 ha, serves the 3.9MW San Isidro plant. Although the largest plant has
the largest water supply area, the size of the plant is generally uncorrelated with the
size of the water supply area.
       The mean value of these water supply areas is 1.04KW/ha, but again there is
very high variability (s.d.=1.04KW/ha). It is interesting to note that the highest value
water supply area is not the one serving the largest hydroelectric plant (Chixoy).
Because of its large size (545,000 ha), the value of this water supply area is only
0.55KW/ha. The water supply areas of medium-sized plants tend to be of much higher
value. Thus the highest-value water supply area, at 3.45KW/ha, is the 13,100 ha
upper watershed of Río Las Vacas, which provides water to the 44MW Las Vacas plant.


                                           7
In second place is the water supply area for the 90MW Aguacapa and 8.2MW Poza
Verde plants, which generates 2.68KW/ha. The smallest water supply area, that of
the San Isidro plant, has a value of 1.03KW/ha, very close to the mean. The smallest
plant, the 0.7MW Chichaic plant, is associated with the lowest watershed value of
0.04KW/ha, because its 17,300 ha water supply area is larger than that of several
other plants.

Domestic water supply systems
      There is a large number of domestic water supply systems in Guatemala, with
as much as 70 percent of households having access to piped water (World Bank, 2004).
Guatemala is the only Central American country that does not have a national public
corporation that manages domestic water supply in most urban areas (Walker and
Velásquez, 1999). The domestic water supply sector is comprised of three
components:
   ! service to the Guatemala City metropolitan area, provided mainly by the
      Municipal Water Firm of Guatemala City (Empresa Municipal de Agua de
      Guatemala, EMPAGUA);
   ! other urban areas, served by municipal governments, either directly or through
      public corporations; and
   ! rural areas served by Community Based Organizations (Foster and Araujo,
      2004).
       This study focuses on urban water supply systems, mainly due to data
availability constraints. The coverage of water supply systems in rural areas is in any
case much lower. No ministries have explicit oversight authority over the water
sector. As a result, information on domestic water supply systems is very hard to
obtain. Except for the systems operated by EMPAGUA, most water supply systems are
very poorly documented. To accommodate the uneven quality of available data, we
conducted separate analyses for systems run by EMPAGUA and by the municipalities.
       We contacted 273 of the 331 municipalities in Guatemala to collect data on
their water supply systems. As with other water users, we omitted systems that rely
solely on wells. Since information is not available on relative dependence on surface
vs. ground sources, our focus on surface sources may lead to overestimation of the
values of water supply areas for those systems that rely on both types of sources. We
focused on relatively larger systems using a cut-off of 1,000 households served.
      Among those contacted, 199 municipal systems rely, either solely or partly, on
surface water sources. Of these, 85 (43 percent) had water systems serving more than
1,000 households. In most cases, specific takepoint locations were not available—only
the name of the river or stream on which they are located. We assumed that
takepoints are located at the closest upstream point of the named river to the urban
centers served, thus allowing us to roughly delineate water service supply areas to




                                          8
many municipal systems.2 Detailed data on names of surface water sources were only
available for 42 municipalities; and for another 5 municipalities we assumed they
drew water from the only nearby river. Thus, we were able to delineate water supply
areas for a total of 47 municipal systems. The municipal water supply systems and
their water supply areas are shown in Map 2 and Appendix Table 2.
       As can be seen in Map 2, the water supply areas serving domestic water supply
systems tend to be small. With an average size of less than 11,000 ha, they are
generally much smaller than the water supply areas serving HEP plants, although that
is not true in all cases. This is partly due to the concentration of population in
Guatemala’s highland areas, so that most water supply systems draw water from the
upper part of watersheds. As with HEP water supply areas, there is substantial
variation in size (s.d.=16,000 ha), with supply areas ranging in size from 600 ha
(serving Catarina, San Marcos department) to almost 73,000 ha (serving Almolonga,
Quetzaltenango department) (Table 2 below).
       The value index in the case of water supply areas that provide water for
domestic use is the number of households served. Data on the number of households
served by municipal systems in 2001 were obtained from the National Institute for
Municipal Development (Instituto Nacional de Fomento Municipal, INFOM). On
average, water supply areas serve 1.08 households per hectare. The highest-value
water supply area serves 35,000 households in Santa Lucia Cotzumalguapa, Escuintla
department, or 6.41 households per hectare. In this case, the highest-valued areas
tend to be those serving the largest number of households. This correspondence is
partly due to the small size of their water supply areas. Indeed, the laregst water
supply area (serving 1,800 households in Almolonga) has the lowest value among the
47 systems analyzed, amounting to 0.02 households served per hectare. In contrast,
the smallest water supply area (serving 1,200 households in Catarina) has a much
higher value at 2.1 households served per hectare, making it the 7th highest-value
water supply area.
       The five systems operated by EMPAGUA serve most of the capital, currently
serving about 85 percent of Guatemala City’s water users (World Bank, 2005). The
balance is provided by a private firm, Aguas de Mariscal, which supplies about 10
percent of Guatemala City, and some smaller firms and private wells, which supply
the remaining 5 percent (World Bank, 2005; Martínez Tuna, 2002). Unregulated
tapping of groundwater sources is also common in the Guatemala City metropolitan
area but had to be omitted from the analysis because of data unavailability.
EMPAGUA’s water supply systems and their corresponding water supply systems are
shown in Map 3 and Appendix Table 3.
       The EMPAGUA systems are served by water supply areas that are much smaller
than those serving municipal systems. The mean size of EMPAGUA’s water supply
areas is 4,100 ha (s.d.=4,800 ha), only 37 percent of that of other municipal systems.

2
    This assumption may have resulted in a slight over-estimation of areas, as some systems are likely
    to draw their water from points higher up in the watershed (to reduce the chances of
    contamination, or to take advantage of gravity flows).


                                                  9
The largest water supply area (13,100 ha) serves both the La Brigada and Lo de Coy
systems, while the smallest water (121 ha) serves the El Cambray system (the town’s
oldest, with one takepoint operating since 1786), generating a value of 2.85
households per hectare.
       As with municipal water supply systems, the value index for the EMPAGUA
systems is the number of households served. The situation is complicated in this case
because multiple water sources supply a single population. Each of EMPAGUA’s five
systems serves distinct areas of the Metropolitan area, but no data were available on
the number of households served by individual systems. To estimate the number of
households served by each system, we divided system-specific production volumes by
the monthly average consumption level of 20 m3 per household (Foster and Araujo,
2004).3 We develop weighting factors based on river capacities to prorate the relative
contribution of each takepoint to total production of each system.
       Although the water supply areas of the EMPAGUA systems are much smaller
than those of municipal systems, their value is much greater. The mean value of
EMPAGUA’s water supply areas is 11.53 households per hectare (s.d.=13.48). The
highest value of 55.37 households per hectare is generated in the watershed of Río
Canalitos and Quebrada Agua Tibia that serves the Ilusiones system. The high value is
due both to the small size of the water supply area and the relatively higher source
river capacity of Río Canalitos. The lowest-value water supply area (0.51 households
per hectare) also serves the Ilusiones system, with both relatively low source river
capacity and large size of water supply area contributing to the small value.

Irrigation
        As of 1997, Guatemala has 130,000 ha of irrigated land (FAO, 2007),
approximately 80 percent of which is privately owned (MAGA, 1993). Irrigation
systems in Guatemala are classified as private, state, and “minirriego” systems (with
irrigated areas between 5 and 50 ha). The largest private irrigation systems are
dedicated to export products: sugar cane fields and banana plantations (FAO, 2007).
Private systems are subdivided in two categories: (a) large, individual farms owned by
a person, family or company, and (b) communal systems, where many small scale
farmers organize themselves to manage a water source for production purposes.
Irrigation in large private farms is characterized by gravity systems, where water is
tapped from rivers, collected in temporary earth dams and channels that are rebuilt
and cleaned after each rainy season. Other systems include the use of pumps, drip
irrigation, and sprinklers. The use of wells is known but not documented. State
irrigation systems are characterized by the use of small, permanent concrete dams
and channels, as well as the use of pumps to reach areas above river levels. Gravity
systems predominate in this group (MAGA, 1993).

3
    While imperfect, this approach results in a reasonable estimate of the total number of households
    served. The population of the Guatemala metro region is 2.5 million (INE, 2006), and the average
    household size is 4.7 people (Valladares Cerezo, 2003), giving about 530,000 households. About 74
    percent of water users in Guatemala City are served by EMPAGUA (Martínez Tuna, 2002), or about
    390,000 households, which is very close to the figure we obtain of 360,000 households.


                                                 10
       Documentation of water withdrawal and intake location of irrigation systems
was even more limited than for domestic water supply systems. As with municipal
water systems, most information was obtained by contacting water users directly.
Here, too, only approximate information could be obtained, and even that for only a
small portion of all irrigation systems. We focused on larger systems, with a minimum
of 500 ha under irrigation.
       The location of irrigated area was estimated by the approximate location of
villages or farms. As in the domestic water supply case, we assume that intakes are
located near the irrigated areas. Using available data, we proceeded to delineate the
service supply areas unless it was impossible to pinpoint from which river water is
withdrawn.
        The irrigated areas for which data were available and their water supply areas
are shown in Map 4 and in Appendix Table 4. The size of the irrigated area provides
the value index for these water supply areas.
        The water supply areas serving irrigation systems vary widely in size, ranging
from a minimum of 2,900 ha to a maximum of 234,000 ha, with an average area of
about 64,000 ha (s.d.=73,000 ha). Again, the most important water supply areas are
not necessarily those that serve the largest irrigated areas. In fact, the largest water
supply area only generates a value of 0.02 ha of irrigated area per hectare. The
second largest water supply area corresponds to the lowest value of 0.01 ha of
irrigated area per hectare (tied with another two water supply areas). The highest-
value water supply area (0.68 ha of irrigated area per hectare) serves an irrigated
area of 8,770 ha in the Coyolate watershed. The mean value of the water supply areas
to irrigation systems included is 0.14 ha of irrigated area per upstream hectare.

Other water users
       Use of water by industrial users is very poorly documented. Moreover, these
users proved very resistant to attempts to gather information. Because of this, we
were only able to gather data on a small proportion of all users. Moreover, these
other users include a wide variety of uses, making it difficult to generate a single
value index.
       We obtained information for 1,236 entities that use water to process
agricultural products, among which 376 were identified in specific watersheds by
location, along with data on production and employment, including 347 coffee mills,
14 sugar mills, 6 rice mills, 6 cardamom mills, and 3 dairy plants. Specific spatial
information on the location of water intakes was generally not available for these
entities. However, descriptive information of coffee mills and sugar mills indicate
that they normally tapped rivers and streams located within the farm property. Based
on this, we were able to identify 107 coffee mills and 2 sugar mills that were located
along rivers or streams. We based delineation of upstream water supply areas on the
assumption that water intakes coincide with mill locations (Appendix Table 5 and
Maps 5A and 5B).




                                          11
       We also identified the locations of 19 bottled water and soft and alcoholic
drink producers in Guatemala City and the Motagua watershed. However, production
data were not available.
       Value indices for these industrial users would ideally be based on value of
production, but we were unable to obtain such data. Using available data, we
calculated the value indices, based either on permanent employment or on seasonal
production quantities. A small fraction of industrial users also reported on their hire
of seasonal workers, but this is omitted in the value index calculation. In most cases,
the job generation capacity of an industrial user is positively correlated with the
production quantity according to our sample.
       As in the case of other users, the water supply areas serving industrial users
vary significantly in size, ranging from a minimum of 345 ha to a maximum of 146,700
ha, with an average area of about 21,000 ha (s.d.=36,000 ha). The mean value in
terms of production quantity (quintals) per hectare is 37.6 (s.d.=166.1).4 The mean
value in terms of jobs generated per hectare is 1.07 (s.d.=4.49). Like the other uses,
large water supply areas tend to have smaller values. For instance, both the smallest
production quantity value (0.1 qq/ha) and the smallest job value (0.0005 jobs/ha) are
found in the largest water supply area, whereas the highest-value water supply area
in terms of both production quantity (816.8 qq/ha) and jobs generated (21.04
jobs/ha) has the second smallest size of 712 ha.

                                 4. Mapping biodiversity
      To complement our map of water services, we also secured information on
areas that are important for biodiversity. As a first approximation of the areas that
are important for biodiversity conservation, we use the country’s protected areas
system. There is no obvious value index for land that is of biodiversity importance.
Here we use the World Conservation Union (IUCN)’s classification of protected areas
as a crude ranking of importance. IUCN has defined a series of six protected area
management categories, based on primary management objective. A summary of
categories and their definitions is provided below (IUCN, 1994).
       We collected from various sources geospatial data on protected areas and
biological corridors. The map is shown in Map 6.
   ! Established protected areas: As of 2003, there are 120 official protected areas,
       covering over 3 million ha, or 29 percent of total land area (CONAP, 2003),
       much higher than the 8.6 percent average in Central America and the
       Caribbean region, or the 10.8 percent worldwide average (UNEP-WCMC, 2003).5
       Of these, 11 protected areas, covering over 2.5 million ha, are located in the
       Petén region.


4
    1 quintal (qq) is equivalent to 45.45 kilograms or 100 lbs.
5
    The number of protected areas is given as 156 in some sources. The discrepancy arises from
    whether protected area complexes that include a core zone, various multiple use zones, and a
    buffer zones are counted as a single protected area or several separate ones.


                                               12
    !     Areas of special protection (Area de Protección Especial): This class of areas
          refers to areas of high biodiversity that are in the process of being declared
          protected areas. As of 2007, there are 19 such areas (CONAP, 2007). Note that
          the list is evolving as existing areas being declared as protected areas and new
          areas of conservation interest being identified and added.
    !     Proposed protected areas and biological corridors from the “Central American
          Vegetation/Land Cover Classification and Conservation Status” dataset. These
          data were developed by the Regional Environmental Program for Central
          America (Programa Ambiental Regional para Centroamérica, PROARCA), as part
          of their effort to improve protected area management in the Mesoamerican
          Biological Corridor (MBC).

Table 1: IUCN protected area categories
Categories       Definition
        Ia       Strict Nature Reserve: protected area managed mainly for science
        Ib       Wilderness Area: protected area managed mainly for wilderness protection
        II       National Park: protected area managed mainly for ecosystem protection and
                 recreation
        III      Natural Monument: protected area managed mainly for conservation of
                 specific natural features
        IV       Habitat/Species Management Area: protected area managed mainly for
                 conservation through management intervention
        V        Protected Landscape/Seascape: protected area               managed      mainly   for
                 landscape/seascape conservation and recreation
        VI       Managed Resource Protected Area: protected area managed mainly for the
                 sustainable use of natural ecosystems
Source:       IUCN, 1994.
      We use the 2000 GIS map of Guatemala’s protected areas prepared by
PROARCA. This map, which contains 94 named established protected areas including
12 areas of special protection, provides a more comprehensive coverage of the
country’s protected area system than the map currently available from the World
Conservation Monitoring Centre’s (UNEP-WCMC) World Database on Protected Areas
(WDPA).6 Detailed information on each site is summarized in Appendix Table 6. We
extract geospatial data on proposed protected areas and biological corridors from the
“Central American Vegetation/Land Cover Classification and Conservation Status”
dataset, which is disseminated by the Center for International Earth Science
Information Network (CIESIN) at Columbia University.



6
    There are minor discrepancies between the PROARCA map and the WCMC map in the management
    categories of different protected areas. For instance, Laguna Lachuá national park is defined as a
    category I management area in the PROARCA map but a category II area in the WCMC map. We
    maintain the PROARCA classification, which presumably reflects local knowledge and perception
    more accurately.


                                                 13
       The protected areas in the study area tend to be more numerous but smaller in
size than those in the Petén region. There are 5 category I areas (covering 27,700 ha),
5 category II areas (covering 10,000 ha), 6 category III areas (covering 320,000 ha), 7
category IV areas (covering 24,100 ha), 6 category V areas (covering 4,300 ha), 2
category VI areas (covering 181,400 ha), 25 areas categorized as buffer zone (covering
158,000 ha), and 38 areas without any category information (covering 272,000 ha)
(Figure 4). The areas of special protection are not assigned to any category in this
dataset.
       The largest protected area in the study area is Sierra de las Minas, covering
240,000 ha including the associated buffer zone. Watersheds in the Sierra de las Minas
range serve two HEP plants, dozens of large and medium-size industries, large
irrigated areas, and over 200 communities. However, these areas face aquifer
depletion, industrial misuse of water supplies, sedimentation, and pollution from
agricultural runoff (WWF, 2007).

                 Number of areas                          350            Total area ('000 ha)
  40
                                                          300
  30                                                      250
                                                          200
  20
                                                          150

  10                                                      100
                                                           50
   0                                                        0
       I    II   III   IV    V     VI   Buffer No               I   II    III   IV   V      VI Buffer No
                                         zone info                                              zone info
                  Protection category                                       Protection category

                 Figure 4: Distribution of protected areas in the study area

                                          5. Discussion
       Several important results emerge from this mapping work. The first and most
important is that water services are very site specific. Some areas provide water to
important water users, and some do not. Moreover, the value of water supply areas
varies widely from case to case. Figure 5 shows how the value index for different
water uses varies with the size of the water supply area. With some exceptions, water
supply areas with high value indices tend to be small, whereas large-sized water
supply areas are almost unanimously found to be of low value. These counterintuitive
findings emphasize the importance of mapping work such as that carried out in this
study, which allows water supply areas to be both identified and valued. Without such
an analysis, there is a substantial likelihood that conservation efforts may be mis-
directed, being used either in areas which do not contribute to water service
provision, or to areas that are less important than others.




                                                     14
                                               A. Hydroelectric power producers (installed capacity)
                      4.00                                                                                    4.00
                                      Las Vacas (45MW)
                      3.50                                                                                    3.50

                      3.00                          Aguacapa (90MW) and                                       3.00
Value index (KW/ha)




                                                       Poza Verde (8MW)              a. Porvenir (2.3MW)
                                                                                     b. Chichaic (0.7MW)
                      2.50                                                                                    2.50
                                                                                     c. San Isidro (4MW)
                                      Secacao (16.5MW)
                      2.00                                                                                    2.00

                      1.50       Pasabien (12MW)                                                              1.50
                                       Matanzas (11.7MW)          Jurun Marinala (60MW)
                      1.00        c                                and El Salto (5.5MW)                       1.00
                                          Bobos (10MW)                             Canada (47.5MW) and                              Chixoy (300MW)
                      0.50                                                          Santa Maria (6MW)
                                                                                                              0.50
                                      a       Capulin (40MW)           Esclavos (14MW)
                                      b
                      0.00                                                                                    0.00
                             0             25,000        50,000         75,000       100,000        125,000     150,000
                                                                                                                500,000   525,000              550,000

                                                                        Size of Water Supply Area (ha)


                                              B. Domestic water supply systems (households served)




                                                               C. Irrigation systems (area irrigated)




                                 Figure 5: Relationship between size of water supply area and value index


                                                                                               15
        As already noted, the most important water supply areas for any given use, on
a per hectare basis, are not necessarily these associated with the largest service use,
with the notable exception of the water supply areas of the EMPAGUA systems.
Smaller areas serving more modest users can have higher values per hectare. This is
most obvious in the case of HEP plants, in which the value of the water supply area
serving Chixoy is much less than that of areas serving smaller HEP plants. Thus
prioritization of interventions should not be based solely on the magnitude of
downstream water uses, but needs to also consider the size of the water supply area.
       In addition, the impact of land management on watershed hydrology and
sedimentation are usually observed more clearly in smaller-scale watersheds (Faurès,
2004). Interventions in smaller watersheds will thus tend to be more likely to be
based on a strong understanding of how upstream land use affects downstream water
users.
        As Table 2 shows, the average size of water supply areas varies by user. On
average, HEP plants have the largest water supply areas (70,000 ha), followed by
irrigation systems (64,000 ha) and industrial users (21,000 ha). Domestic water supply
systems, on the contrary, tend to be fed by much smaller water supply areas (11,000
ha). This is especially true for the EMPAGUA systems, which are supplied by water
supply areas of only 4,100 ha. In all cases, however, there is substantial variability.


Table 2: Size of water supply areas
                                          Standard                                Total      Number
                               Mean       deviation    Minimum     Maximum        area          of
                               (ha)         (ha)         (ha)        (ha)         (ha)        areasa
HEP producers                  70,000      141,000        3,800      545,000     966,000        14
Domestic water supply
! Municipal systems            11,000       16,000          600       72,800     431,000        38b
! EMPAGUA systems                4,100       4,800          121       13,100      70,500        17
Irrigation systems             64,000       73,000        2,900      234,000     899,000        14
Industrial users               21,000       36,000          345      147,000     525,000        25
Notes:   a. Water supply areas that service multiple plants are counted once.
         b. Systems are served by multiple water supply areas. Each water supply area is accounted
         separately.


       Comparison of the value of water supply areas across users is not feasible, as
different value indices are used to measure the relative importance of supply areas
for each group (Table 3). However, we find significantly larger variances in the two
value indices for industrial users than for other users.




                                                 16
Table 3: Value of water supply areas
                                                                                            Number
                                               Standard                            Total       of
                         Units         Mean    deviation   Minimum   Maximum       value     areasa
HEP producers          KW/ha            1.04       1.04      0.04         3.45      14.62      14
Domestic water
supply
! Municipal systems    HH/ha            1.08       1.43      0.02         6.41      41.07      38b
! EMPAGUA systems      HH/ha           11.53      13.48      0.51       55.37     196.07       17
Irrigation systems     Ha/ha            0.14       0.20      0.01         0.68       1.91      14
                               c
Industrial users       qq/ha           37.62     166.07      0.10      816.82     902.85       24
                                   c
                       Jobs/ha          1.07       4.49       0.0       21.04       23.58      22
Notes:    a. Water supply areas that service multiple plants are counted once.
          b. Systems are served by multiple water supply areas. Each water supply area is accounted
            separately.
          c. Alternative indices of value.


        Many water supply areas provide water to more than one kind of user. Map 7
shows the overlaps across water supply areas. The map allows us to identify areas
that provide service to multiple user groups. The majority of the overlapped areas
supply water to two user groups, with a small number of areas providing water for
three kinds of users. The water supply areas of HEP and irrigation systems overlap the
most, amounting to 192,000 ha, mostly in the mid-southern region. In the second
place are industrial users and irrigation systems, whose water supply areas overlap on
179,000 ha. Moreover, there are 104,000 ha of water supply area that feeds three
user groups, industrial users, irrigation systems, and HEP simultaneously, followed by
18,800 ha overlapped by industrial users, irrigation systems, and domestic supply
systems. No areas supply to all four user groups. As can be seen, many of the overlaps
are concentrated in the mid-southern region of the study area, where all four types of
users are present. Since the water supply areas of irrigation systems and industrial
users are mostly located in the south, their water supply areas tend to overlap more
with other user groups than HEP and domestic supply systems. HEP plants are most
likely to have water supply areas that are not shared with any other users.

                                          6. Conclusions
      This approach taken in this study focuses on tying together the demand side
(water users) and supply side (upstream land management problems) of the water
equation, offering a systematic view of the spatial distribution of uses and the sources
of their water. The kind of decision tool can help target limited conservation
resources to land use management that provides the most benefit.
      The results illustrate the high spatial heterogeneity of water services, an
important factor to be considered in designing any intervention. Two hydrologically


                                                  17
similar watersheds may differ dramatically in their value in terms of the water
services they provide, depending on whether or not there are important water users
downstream.
       As an initial effort to develop a geo-referenced database of water services, the
analysis is necessarily crude. This paper illustrates the methodologies for conducting
water service mapping and valuing analysis. As discussed in section 3, this study has
encountered considerable data limitations, primarily centered on water intake
locations and water demand measurement. Except in the case of HEP, the resulting
maps thus provide only a partial view of water supply areas in the country. The
results could be substantially improved by
   ! conducting a systematic inventory of water users, which would collect both the
       location of water takepoints and at least basic information on the nature and
       extent of their water use7; and
   ! improving procedures to delineate water supply areas, by more carefully
       tracing flows.
       The most important weakness of the current mapping exercise is the inability
to include groundwater uses. While data are available on the location of many wells
and on the uses that these wells contribute to (with the same quality issues as we
have on surface water uses), the lack of information on how groundwater flows
currently prevents us from identifying the recharge areas that contribute to specific
wells.
       Even with these weaknesses, data such as these provide a potentially useful
tool to prioritize areas in which interventions might be needed. All watersheds are
not equal. Some have many high-value uses downstream, while others have few or
none. Even within watersheds that have high-value uses downstream, there is
considerable variability in their relative importance. These mapping data provide at
least a first cut at which areas are most important.
      Such mapping work is likely to be particularly useful in identifying areas that
have potential for development of PES mechanisms. To date, PES implementation has
been essentially opportunistics, focusing on a few ‘low hanging fruit.’ Mapping data
such as these open the way for a more systematic assessment of potential.
   ! They indicate areas of high value to downstream water users, where the
      potential for a deal may be particularly high.
   ! When data on other services are also available (such as the biodiversity data
      shown here), they allow areas that are important for multiple services to be
      identified. ‘Bundling’ payments for multiple services may be necessary if the
      value of a single service is insufficient to justify conservation measures;
      alternatively, bundling services may result in higher payments to upstream land
      users.



7
    Such data would also allow additional analyses, such as understanding the pattern of withdrawals
    in areas where total water supply is insufficient to satisfy the needs of all users.


                                                18
!   They also indicate areas where PES mechanisms may be harder to develop,
    because of the presence of multiple downstream water users. When multiple
    users with similar needs draw from the same water supply area, each will have
    an incentive to attempt to free-ride on the efforts of others; when multiple
    users with different needs draw from the same water supply areas, their
    requirements and priorities may be incompatible.
!   When spatial data on poverty are also available, they allow an assessment of
    how PES might affect the poor (Pagiola and others, 2007).




                                      19
                                        References
Cobos, C.R. 2002. “El agua: Situación actual y necesidades de gestion.” Facultad de Ciencias
    Ambientales y Agrícolas, Documento Técnico No.5. Guatemala: Universidad Rafael
    Landivar.
CONAP (Consejo Nacional de Áreas Protegidas). 2003. “Informe nacional de áreas protegidas
    de Guatemala.” Guatemala: CONAP.
CONAP (Consejo Nacional de Áreas Protegidas). 2007. “Áreas de protección especial.”
    Guatemala: CONAP.
FAO (Food and Agriculture Organisation). 2007. AQUASTAT main country database. Rome:
    FAO. (Accessed Sept. 2007.)
Foster, V., and M.C. Araujo. 2004. “Does infrastructure reform work for the poor? A case
    study from Guatemala.” Policy Research Working Paper No.3185. Washington: World Bank.
Faurès, J.M. 2004. “Land-water linkages in rural watersheds: Implications for payment
    schemes for environmental services.” Paper presented at the Regional forum on Payment
    Schemes for Environmental Services in Watersheds, Arequipa, Peru, 9-12 June 2003.
Foster, V. and M.C. Araujo. 2005. “Does infrastructure reform work for the poor? A case study
    from Guatemala.” Policy Research Working Paper No. 3185. Washington: World Bank.
INE (Instituto Nacional de la Estadística). 2006. “Proyecciones de población y lugares poblados
    con base al XI Censo de Población y VI de Habitación 2002, periodo 2000-2020.”
    Guatemala: INE.
IUCN (World Conservation Union). 1994. Guidelines for Protected Areas Management
    Categories. Cambridge and Gland: IUCN.
López Choc, F. 2002. “Capital hidrico y usos del agua: Guatemala.” Proyecto Dialogo Regional
    de Agua y Clima. Guatemala: Comité Regional de Recursos Hidráulicos.
MA (Millennium Ecosystem Assessment). 2003. Ecosystems and Human Well-being: A
    Framework for Assessment. Washington: Island Press.
MA (Millennium Ecosystem Assessment). 2005. Ecosystems and Human Well-being: Current
    State and Trends. Washington: Island Press.
MAGA (Ministerio de Agricultura, Ganadería y Alimentación). 1993. “Desarrollo del Valle de
    Río Polochic a base de recuperación de tierras medidas de manejo y conservación.”
    Proyecto PNUD/OSP/GUA/88/003. Guatemala: MAGA.
Martínez Tuna, M. 2002. “Valoración económica del agua en la ciudad de Guatemala.”
    Guatemala: FLACSO.
Nelson, A., and K. Chomitz. 2002. “The forest-hydrology-poverty nexus in Central America: An
    heuristic analysis.” Washington: World Bank.
Pagiola, S., and G. Platais. 2007. “Payments for environmental services: From theory to
    practice.” Washington: World Bank.
Pagiola, S., N. Landell-Mills, and J. Bishop. 2002. “Making market-based mechanisms work for
    forests and people.” In S. Pagiola, J. Bishop, and N. Landell-Mills (Eds.), Selling Forest
    Environmental Services: Market-Based Mechanisms for Conservation And Development.
    London: Earthscan.
UNEP-WCMC (United Nations Environment Programme-World Conservation Monitoring Centre).
    2007. World Database on Protected Areas (WDPA). Available at http://www.unep-
    wcmc.org/wdpa/ (accessed September 2007).



                                              20
Valladares Cerezo, C.E. 2003. “Guatemala City, Guatemala.” In UN-Habitat (ed.), Global
    Report on Human Settlements 2003, The Challenge of Slums. London: Earthscan, London.
Walker, I., F. Ordoñez, P. Serrano, and J. Halpern. 1999. “Pricing, subsidies, and the poor:
    Demand for improved water services in Central America.”Policy Research Working Paper
    No.2468. Washington: World Bank.
Walker, I. and M. Velásquez. 1999. “Regional analysis of decentralization of water supply and
    sanitation services in Central America and the Dominican Republic.” Environmental Health
    Project Activity Report No.65. Washington: USAID.
World Bank. 2005. “Guatemala Country Economic Memorandum: Challenges to higher
    economic growth.” Report No. 29145- GT. Washington: World Bank.
Wunder, S. 2005. “Payments for environmental services: Some nuts and bolts.” CIFOR
    Occasional Paper No.42. Bogor: CIFOR.
WWF (World Wildlife Fund). 2006. “The Water Fund: Sierra de las Minas, Guatemala.”
    Guatemala City: WWF Central America.




                                             21
                                     Appendix 1: Data tables

Appendix Table 1: Hydroelectric power plants and their water supply areas
                                          Generating Water supply         Value
                                            capacity        area          index
Plant            River                        (MW)          (ha)        (KW/ha)
Chixoy                  Chixoy                                300.0            545,000              0.55
                                                                                         a
Matanzas                Matanzas                                11.7            19,700              1.14
Aguacapa                Aguacapa                                90.0
                                                                                36,600b             2.68
Poza Verde              Aguacapa                                 8.2
Jurun Marinala          Michatoya                               60.0
                                                                                77,100b             0.85
El Salto                Michatoya                                5.5
Canadá                  Samalá                                  47.5
                                                                                83,700b             0.64
Santa Maria             Samala                                   6.0
Las Vacas               Las Vacas                               45.0             13,100             3.45
Secacao                 Trece Aguas                             16.5              7,500             2.19
Esclavos                Los Esclavos                            14.0           110,700              0.14
Pasabien                Pasabien                                12.0              8,900             1.35
Bobos                   Bobos                                   10.0             12,400             0.80
Capulín                 Osuna                                   40.0             22,500             0.18
San Isidro              San Isidro                               3.9              3,800             1.03
Porvenir                Cabuz Tzoc Chapa                         2.3             17,300             0.13
Chichaic                Cahabon                                  0.7             17,300             0.04
Notes:       a. This area is located within the watershed that serves Chixoy; its importance also
                reflects its contribution to Chixoy.
             b. These water supply areas serve several users.
Sources:     Location of national hydroelectric power plants: personal communication with Ing.
             Arturo Ajcajabón of Instituto Nacional de Estadística (INDE) in 2004
             Location of private hydroelectric power plants: personal communications in 2004 with Ing.
             Rodrigo Tormo (Secacao), San Isidro and Matanzas by Ing. Rafael López, and descriptive
             locations for all other private HEP (Las Vacas, El Capulín, Río Bobos, and El Canadá) by Ing.
             Alonso, Ing. Renato Patzán, and Ing. Florencio Gramajo




                                                    22
Appendix Table 2: Domestic water supply systems and their water supply areas
                                             Households             Value index
                                             served per     Total   (Households
                                               system     upstream served per
Municipality                Department         (2001)     area (ha)      ha)
Santa Lucia Cotzumalguapa     Escuintla         35,000     5,459         6.41
Chiquimula                    Chiquimula        13,248     3,117         4.25
Momostenango                  Totonicapan       10,000     2,436         4.10
Retalhuleu                    Retalhuleu         4,787     1,323         3.62
Jutiapa                       Jutiapa            4,500     4,552         0.99
Palin                         Escuintla          4,152     8,266         0.50
Teculutan                     Zacapa             4,100    19,904         0.21
Fray Bartolome de las Casas   Alta Verapaz       4,030     5,671         0.73
Morales                       Izabal             3,260     6,197         0.53
Palencia                      Guatemala          3,000     1,885         1.59
San Sebastian                 Retalhuleu         2,320    10,901         0.21
Gualan                        Zacapa             2,150     7,385         0.29
San Antonio Suchitepequez     Suchitepequez      2,060     6,465         0.32
Solola                        Solola             2,010    14,879         0.14
Nuevo Progreso                San Marcos         1,849      791          2.34
Jacaltenango                  Huehuetenango      1,828    11,412         0.16
Panajachel                    Solola             1,813     8,008         0.23
Chichicastenango              Quiche             1,800     5,493         0.33
Almolonga                     Quetzaltenango     1,774    72,780         0.02
Río Hondo                     Zacapa             1,700    11,066         0.15
Totonicapan                   Totonicapan        1,535     2,867         0.56
San Carlos Alzatate           Jalapa             1,515     4,340         0.35
Santa Catarina Pinula         Guatemala          1,510     2,020         0.75
Zaragoza                      Chimaltenango      1,495      568          2.63
Cuyotenango                   Suchitepequez     1,285     34,753         0.04
Tactic                        Alta Verapaz       1,262     3,646         0.35
Catarina                      San Marcos         1,200      572          2.10
Río Bravo                     Suchitepequez      1,183    20,066         0.06
Soloma                        Huehuetenango      1,180      993          1.19
San Juan La Laguna            Solola             1,100     1,308         0.84
Mataquescuintla               Jalapa             1,099     1,113         1.03


                                           23
Appendix Table 2: Domestic water supply systems and their water supply areas
                                             Households             Value index
                                             served per     Total   (Households
                                               system     upstream served per
Municipality                Department         (2001)     area (ha)      ha)
Zacapa                               Zacapa                      1036     3,472            0.30
Cubulco                              Baja Verapaz                1,000    1,060            0.94
Asuncion Mita                        Jutiapa                     3,492
                                                                                           0.12
Santa Catarina Mita                  Jutiapa                     1,651   42,566a
La Esperanza (2 towns)               Quetzaltenango              2,739   10,064a           0.30
Santo Domingo Xenacoj (2
                                                                 2,000
towns)                               Sacatepequez                         3,554a           1.92
Santiago Sacatepequez                Sacatepequez                4,817
San Andres Itzapa                    Chimaltenango               3,178
Parramos                             Chimaltenango               1,406
Jocotenango                          Sacatepequez                3,000
                                                                         39,950a           0.43
Antigua Guatemala                    Sacatepequez                4,407
San Antonio Aguas Calientes          Sacatepequez                3,125
Alotenango                           Sacatepequez                2,137
Notes:    a. Multiple systems share the same water supply area
Sources: Number of households served provided by Instituto Nacional de Fomento Municipal (INFOM,
         2004)
         Location of sources based on personal communications from individual systems




                                                 24
Appendix Table 3: EMPAGUA systems
                                                                                  Value index
               Production   Households                                Water       (Households
                per day     served per       River/creek where        supply       served per
Systems           (m3)        system         takepoints located      area (ha)         ha)
Lo de Coy        140,000      210,000     Río Pansalic                  1,324            2.67
                                          Río Las Flores                   843           2.44
                                                     a
                                          Río Xaya                       8,709           9.63b
                                          Río Pixcayaa                  13,079          13.69b
La
Brigada           40,000       60,000     Río La Brigada                   189           7.80
Santa
Luisa             10,000       15,000     Quebrada La Manguita             128          16.03
                                          Quebrada La Piedrona             888           2.22
                                          Quebrada San Antonio             455          17.49
                                          Río Acatan                       244          12.29
Ilusiones         25,000       37,500     Río Los Ocotes                 7,987           0.51
                                          Río Teocinte                   9,355           0.52
                                          Río Canalitos and
                                          Quebrada Agua Tibia              516          55.37
El
Cambray           25,000       37,500     Río Pinula                     1,078          27.18
                                          Riachuelo Panasequeque         3,841           2.04
                                          Quebrada Agua Bonita             121           2.85
Notes:      a. Shared with La Brigada system.
            b. The value reflects households served by both La Brigada and Lo de Coy systems
            c. Only surface source water is considered
Source:     Description of EMPAGUA systems provided by Leonel Vásquez Maldonado of EMPAGUA (May
            2003 and February 2004)




                                                25
Appendix Table 4: Irrigation systems and their water supply areas
                                                      Water
                                         Irrigated   supply        Value index
                                            area      area     (Irrigated area per
Watershed Sub-watershed                     (ha)       (ha)            ha)
Achiguate      Guacalate                          10,390    56,020        0.20a
Coyolate       San Cristóbal                       8,770    12,947         0.68
Acomé          Catchment area Acomé
                                                   5,500    12,786         0.43
               /Agüero /Cabeza de Toro
Motagua        Catchment area Motagua              5,000      n/a          n/a
Grande de      Catchment area Grande de
                                                   3,613   234,353         0.02
Zacapa         Zacapa
Coyolate       Catchment area Coyolate             2,880      n/a          n/a
Motagua        Catchment area Motagua              2,700      n/a          n/a
Maria Linda    Naranjo                             2,400      n/a          n/a
Motagua        Jones/Santiago/Catchment
                                                   2,348    26,235         0.09
               area Motagua
Salinas        Salamá                              1,500    31,761         0.05
Coyolate       Catchment area Coyolate             1,500      n/a          n/a
Achiguate      Democracia (Achiguate)              1,490    98,629         0.02
Ostua Guija    Lago Guija 2                        1,408      n/a          n/a
Grande de      Catchment area Grande de
                                                   1,274      n/a          n/a
Zacapa         Zacapa
Lago Atitlán   Quiscab                             1,046     6,968         0.15
Motagua        Bobos                               1,000      n/a          n/a
Los Esclavos   Catchment area Los Esclavos         1,000   199,531         0.01
Achiguate      Achiguate                           1,000      n/a          n/a
Motagua        Teculután                            769     19,904         0.04
Motagua        Catchment area Motagua               760       n/a          n/a
Nahualate      Catchment area Nahualate             750    110,500         0.01
Nahualate      Catchment area Nahualate             750       n/a          n/a
Nahualate      Ixtacapa                             750       n/a          n/a
Ocosito        Sumula                               700       n/a          n/a
Suchiate       Catchment area Suchiate              700       n/a          n/a
Paz            Catchment area Paz                   650       n/a          n/a
Motagua        Catchment area Motagua               629       n/a          n/a
Maria Linda    Michatoya                            600       n/a          n/a


                                             26
Appendix Table 4: Irrigation systems and their water supply areas
                                                      Water
                                         Irrigated   supply        Value index
                                            area      area     (Irrigated area per
Watershed Sub-watershed                     (ha)       (ha)            ha)
Maria Linda     Catchment area Maria Linda                540         2,884                    0.19
Maria Linda     Catchment area Maria Linda                540        66,377                    0.01
Achiguate       Catchment area Ceniza                     500        19,623                   0.04b
Notes:     a. This water supply area serves two irrigation systems in sub-watersheds Democracia and
              Guacalate of watershed Achiguate. The value reflects its contribution to the irrigation
              system in the Democracia sub-watershed (1,490 ha of irrigation area).
           b. This water supply area serves two irrigation systems in the sub-watersheds Democracia
              and Ceniza. The value reflects its contribution to the irrigation system in the Democracia
              sub-watershed (1,490 ha of irrigation area).
           c. Only surface source water is considered
Sources:   MAGA data




                                                   27
Appendix Table 5: Industrial users and the water supply areas
                                                                       Water           Value indices
                                                Total        Total     supply
                                  Number     production    permanent    area        Production    Jobs
Department      Municipality      of mills   (quintals)       jobs       (ha)        (qq/ha)      /ha
Sugar mills
Escuintla       Masagua              1         581,284        14,976      712         816.8      21.044
Escuintla       Escuintla            1            1,021        9,420     4,077          0.3       2.310
Coffee mills
Guatemala       Petapa               1                 -           -    21,090             -             -
Escuintla       Palin                1          15,000           300    12,532          1.2       0.024
Sacatepequez    Jocotenango          1          60,000            30    17,818          3.4       0.002
Jalapa          San Luis             1          13,333            25    10,265          1.3       0.002
                Jilotepeque
Huehuetenango   San Pedro Necta      1          23,111            12    12,101          1.9       0.001
Alta Verapaz    Cahabon              1            3,000           12     3,072          1.0       0.004
Santa Rosa      Nueva Santa          1            4,000           12                    0.3       0.001
                Rosa                                                   30,253a
Santa Rosa      Pueblo Nuevo         1            1,000            8     2,571          0.4       0.003
                Vinas
Santa Rosa      Pueblo Nuevo         1            5,000            8     3,323          1.5       0.002
                Vinas
Santa Rosa      Santa Maria          1               500           3    1,309a          0.5       0.003
                Ixhuatan
Huehuetenango   Cuilco               2            8,319            -     5,150          1.6              -
Baja Verapaz    Purulha              2            2,400            -     3,447          0.7              -
Santa Rosa      Casillas             2            6,500           20      345          18.9       0.058
Santa Rosa      Cuilapa              2          11,500            19                    0.7       0.002
                                                                       87,381a
Huehuetenango   La Democracia        2          11,399             7     8,211          1.4       0.001
                and La Libertad
Chiquimula      Esquipulas           4          41,000            30     2,513         16.3       0.012
Baja Verapaz    Purulha              5            4,600          225    11,928          0.4       0.019
                                                                                a
Santa Rosa      Cuilapa              5          32,000            53    9,150           4.1       0.007
Santa Rosa      Santa Cruz           6          14,500            73                    0.1      0.0005
                Naranjo                                                146,701
Santa Rosa      Santa Cruz           8          14,800            79                    2.1       0.009
                Naranjo                                                10,466a
Jalapa and El   Mataquescuintla     10          83,126           256     5,969         13.9       0.043
Progreso        and San Agustin
                Acasaguastla




                                                28
Appendix Table 5: Industrial users and the water supply areas
                                                                        Water        Value indices
                                               Total       Total        supply
                                 Number     production   permanent       area     Production       Jobs
Department    Municipality       of mills   (quintals)      jobs          (ha)     (qq/ha)         /ha
Jalapa        Mataquescuintla       20         217,243           479     15,918       13.7         0.030
Santa Rosa    Pueblo Nuevo          29          47,055            92    99,091         0.6         0.001
              Vinas, Cuilapa,
              Barberena,
              Chiquimulilla
Notes:        a. This water supply area serves multiple industrial users. The values reflect its
                 contribution to all users.
              b. Only surface source water is considered
Sources:      Personal communication with individual users




                                               29
Appendix Table 6: Protected areas and formal buffer zones
                                                                 IUCN       Areac        Year
Protected area                             Category            categoryb    (ha)     establishedd
A. Protected areasa
Abaj Takalik                    Area of special protection     Nd             133
Astillero Municipal de Tecpán   Regional Park                  IV            1,601      2000
Atitlán                         Multiple Use Area              III         118,992
Bocas del Polochic              Wildlife Refuge                III          23,419      1996
Cerro San Gil                   Protected reserve for spring   Nd           43,337      1996
Chocón Machacas                 Protected Biotope              II            7,859      1989
Cordillera Alux                 Protected reserve for spring   Nd            4,417
Cumbre Alta                     Area of special protection     Nd            8,295
El Espino                       Private Natural Reserve        V              255       1997
El Higuerito                    Private Natural Reserve        V              823       1995
Iximché                         Cultural Monument              II              10
K'antí Shul                     Private Natural Reserve        V             1,149      1999
Lago de Güija                   Area of special protection     Nd            1,392
Laguna Chichoj                  Area of special protection     Nd              50
Laguna de Ayarza                Area of special protection     Nd            1,408
Laguna el Pino                  National Park                  I              500       1955
Laguna Lachuá                   National Park                  I             9,776      1975
Laguna Yolnabaj                 Area of special protection     Nd             377
Los Altos de San Miguel
                                Regional Park                  IV           12,056      1997
Totonicapán
Manchón Guamuchal               Private Natural Reserve        V             1,648      1998
Mario Dary                      Protected Biotope              II            1,159      1977
Montaña Espíritu Santo          Area of special protection     Nd            8,261
Monterrico                      Multiple Use Area              III           2,766      1977
Pachuj                          Private Natural Reserve        V              414       1996
Parque Regional Municipal de
                                Regional Park                  IV            5,658      1998
Quetzaltenango
Punta de Manabique              Wildlife Refuge                III         131,906
Quiriguá                        Cultural Monument              II              33       1979
Río Dulce                       National Park                  I            13,560      1955
Río Sarstún                     Multiple Use Area              III          40,781
San Rafael Pixcayá              Area of special protection     Nd             154
Santa Elena                     Private Natural Reserve        V               47       1997
Semuc Champey                   Natural Monument               II             964
Sierra Caral                    Area of special protection     Nd           20,678
Sierra Chinajá                  Area of special protection     Nd           12,678



                                                  30
Appendix Table 6: Protected areas and formal buffer zones
                                                            IUCN       Areac        Year
Protected area                          Category          categoryb    (ha)     establishedd
Sierra de las Minas          Biosphere Reserve            VI          147,088      1989
Sierra de los Cuchumatanes   Area of special protection   Nd           97,619
Sierra de Santa Cruz         Area of special protection   Nd           44,818
Sipacate-Naranjo             National Park                I             1,782      1969
Tewancarnero                 Regional Park                IV             499       1996
Visis Cabá                   Biosphere Reserve            VI           34,312      1997
Volcán Acatenango            No-hunting zone              Nd            3,154      1956
Volcán Agua                  No-hunting zone              Nd            3,748      1956
Volcán Alzatate              No-hunting zone              Nd             514       1956
Volcán Amayo                 No-hunting zone              Nd             606       1956
Volcán Cerro Redondo         No-hunting zone              Nd              39       1956
Volcán Chicabal              Regional Park                IV            1,253      1956
Volcán Chingo                No-hunting zone              Nd             351       1956
Volcán Coxliquel             No-hunting zone              Nd             746       1956
Volcán Cruz Quemada          No-hunting zone              Nd             146       1956
Volcán Culma                 No-hunting zone              Nd              17       1956
Volcán El Tobón              No-hunting zone              Nd             234       1956
Volcán Fuego                 No-hunting zone              Nd            4,526
Volcán Ixtepeque             No-hunting zone              Nd             203       1956
Volcán Jumay                 No-hunting zone              Nd             952       1956
Volcán Jumaytepeque          No-hunting zone              Nd             115       1956
Volcán Lacandón              No-hunting zone              Nd            1,868      1956
Volcán Las Víboras           No-hunting zone              Nd             298       1956
Volcán Moyuta                No-hunting zone              Nd             313       1956
Volcán Pacaya                National Park                I             2,047      1956
Volcán Quetzaltepeque        No-hunting zone              Nd             318       1956
Volcán San Antonio           No-hunting zone              Nd              36       1956
Volcán Santo Tomás           No-hunting zone              Nd            3,150      1900
Volcán Suchitán              Regional Park                IV            2,545      1956
Volcán Tacaná                No-hunting zone              Nd             950       1956
Volcán Tahual                No-hunting zone              Nd             437       1956
Volcán Tajumulco             No-hunting zone              Nd            4,136      1956
Volcán Tecuamburro           No-hunting zone              Nd            1,523      1900
Volcán y Laguna de Ipala     Multiple Use Area            III           2,291
Zunil                        Regional Park                IV             468       1996




                                             31
Appendix Table 6: Protected areas and formal buffer zones
                                                                      IUCN       Areac        Year
Protected area                               Category               categoryb    (ha)     establishedd
B. Buffer zones
Sierra de las Minas                                                              94,525
Volcán Acatenango                                                                 4,433
Volcán Agua                                                                       9,725
Volcán Alzatate                                                                   1,731
Volcán Amayo                                                                      2,074
Volcán Cerro Redondo                                                                335
Volcán Chingo                                                                       825
Volcán Coxliquel                                                                    943
Volcán Cruz Quemada                                                                 731
Volcán Culma                                                                        436
Volcán El Tobón                                                                     907
Volcán Fuego                                                                      9,366
Volcán Ixtepeque                                                                  1,664
Volcán Jumay                                                                      1,813
Volcán Jumaytepeque                                                                 732
Volcán Lacandón                                                                   2,972
Volcán Las Víboras                                                                2,150
Volcán Moyuta                                                                       730
Volcán Quetzaltepeque                                                               781
Volcán San Antonio                                                                   65
Volcán Santo Tomás                                                                4,771
Volcán Tacaná                                                                     1,998
Volcán Tahual                                                                     2,450
Volcán Tajumulco                                                                  8,693
Volcán Tecuamburro                                                                3,606
Notes:     Nd = not defined
           a
             All 69 protected areas are designated areas.
           b
             Information on IUCN management categories from the PROARCA map does not always agree
           with that from the UNEP-WCMC map. We adopt the PROARCA definitions in this study.
           c
             For sites with formal buffer zones, areas of sites reported in sub-table A do not include
           those of the corresponding buffer zones. The areas of the buffer zones are reported in sub-
           table B.
           d
             Supplementary information obtained from UNEP-WCMC protected areas database.
Sources:   2000 GIS map of Guatemala’s protected areas prepared by PROARCA.
           UNEP-WCMC protected areas database, whose original source is the GIS dataset from Mapa
           Digital de Áreas Protegidas, CONAP, 1999.




                                                  32
        Appendix 2. Maps of service areas




Map 1: Hydroelectric power plants and their water supply areas



                          33
Map 2: Municipal water supply systems and their water supply areas




                            34
Map 3: Guatemala City water supply systems and their water supply areas




                               35
Map 4: Irrigation systems and their water supply areas




                      36
Map 5a: Industrial users and their water supply areas




                      37
Map 5b: Industrial users and their water supply areas




                      38
Map 6: Protected areas and biological corridors




                      39
Map 7: Overlap of water supply areas




                 40
