Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
GRANT NUMBER H526-0-HT 
 
Financing Agreement 
 
(Additional Financing for the Transport and Territorial Development Project) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF HAITI 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated December 16, 2009 
 
Page  2
FINANCING AGREEMENT 
 
Agreement dated December 16, 2009, entered into between REPUBLIC OF 
HAITI (
“Recipient”) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(“Association”) for the purpose of providing additional financing for the Original Project 
(as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) ( “Agreement”).  The Recipient and the 
Association hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
—
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement.  
 
ARTICLE II — FINANCING 
 
2.01. 
The Association agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions 
set forth or referred to in this Agreement, a grant in an amount equivalent to 
seven million six hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR7,600,000) 
(“Financing”) to assist in financing the project described in Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement (“Project”). 
 
2.02. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.   
 
2.03. 
The Maximum Commitment Charge Rate payable by the Recipient on the 
Unwithdrawn Financing Balance shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per 
annum. 
 
2.04. 
The Payment Dates are January 15 and July 15 in each year. 
 
2.05. 
The Payment Currency is Dollars. 
 
ARTICLE III 
—
PROJECT 
 
3.01. 
The Recipient declares its sustained commitment to the objective of the Project.
 
To this end, the Recipient, through MTPTC, shall continue to carry out under this 
Financing, the following: 
 
(a) 
Part 1.1; Part 3; and Part 4 of the Project; and 
 
Page  3
2
(b) 
the coordination of the overall Project implementation, in accordance 
with the provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions. 
 
3.02. 
Except as the Recipient and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Recipient 
shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV 
—EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 
 
4.01. 
Without prejudice to the provisions of the General Conditions, the Effectiveness 
Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement, but in no 
case later than the eighteen (18) months after the
 Association’s approval of the 
Financing which expire on June 8, 2011.
 
4.02. 
For purposes of Section 8.05 (b) of the General Conditions, the date on which the 
obligations of the Recipient under this Agreement (other than those providing for 
payment obligations) shall terminate is twenty years after the date of this 
Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE V 
—
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
 
5.01. 
The Recipient’s Representative is its Minister of Economy and Finance. 
 
5.02. 
The Recipient’s Address is: 
 
Ministère de l’Economie et des Finances 
Palais des Ministères 
Port-au-Prince 
Republic of Haiti 
 
Facsimile: (509) 22 99 17 32 
 
5.03. 
The Association’s Address is: 
 
International Development Association 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 INDEVAS 
 248423 
(MCI) 
 1-202-477-6391 
 Washington, 
D.C. 
 
Page  4
3
AGREED at the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day 
and year first above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF HAITI 
 
By /s/ Raymond Joseph 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By /s/ Yvonne M. Tsikata 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  5
4
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 
The Project maintains as its objective to assist the Recipient in: (i)
 
lowering the marketing costs for small producers by piloting a territorial 
development approach focused on the Selected Micro-regions; and (ii) rebuilding 
selected infrastructure in areas of the Recipient’s territory struck by natural 
disasters. 
 
The Project consists of the following activities ascribed to Part 1.1; Part 
3; and Part 4 of the Original Project, as set forth below: 
 
Part 1
:
Improvement of Key Transport Corridors 
Enhancing key transport infrastructure in the Recipient’s territory through: 
 
1.1. 
improvement of the two transport corridors of 
Carrefour La mort 
–
St. 
Raphael
 and 
Forêt des Pins – Anse-à-Pitre
,
totaling about 100 
kilometers, through the carrying out of civil works and the provision of 
technical advisory services in relation thereto; and 
 
1.2. 
carrying out priority civil works and providing related technical advisory 
services on the two transport corridors for: 
 
(a) 
emergency road maintenance; 
 
(b) 
mechanized road maintenance, including the re-profiling and 
grading of gravel roads; and 
 
(c) 
routine road maintenance and all technical advisory services 
needed to establish and capacitate the community-based micro-
enterprises expected to perform said activities, including the 
monitoring and supervision of the works performed.
 
Part 2
:
Territorial Development 
Fostering new initiatives for the development of productive investments able to 
promote rural growth through: 
 
2.1. 
the provision of: (a) support for the territorial planning process leading to 
the identification of priority investments by, 
inter alia
,
TCDs; and (b) 
specific technical advisory services and support for institutional 
strengthening in respect of all relevant actors, participants and 
stakeholders in this process; and 
Page  6
5
2.2. 
the provision of support for: (a) the identification and preparation of 
investment proposals; and (b) the implementation of Subprojects through 
the provision of grants therefor. 
 
Part 3
:
Project Administration, Monitoring and Evaluation
Ensuring optimal execution of Project activities by providing support for the 
Project’s:  
 
3.1. 
administration, including the acquisition of goods in relation thereto;  
 
3.2. 
monitoring and evaluation, including the environmental management and 
the impact evaluation in relation thereto; and  
 
3.3. 
efficient implementation, through the building of relevant capacity in all 
participants thereto, including the Executing Agencies and their relevant 
regional offices. 
 
Part 4
:
Post-Natural Disaster Reconstruction of Selected Infrastructure
Supporting the rehabilitation of selected infrastructure damaged by the 
occurrence of natural disasters through the carrying out of: 
 
4.1. 
design and studies for civil works to repair damaged infrastructure, 
including the technical advisory services related to the monitoring and 
supervision of the civil works being carried out; and 
 
4.2. 
civil works to: (a) rehabilitate selected transport infrastructure damaged 
by natural disasters; and (b) protect roads from erosion, including slope 
stabilization works. 
 
Page  7
6
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Project Execution 
 
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. Institutional 
Arrangements
 
The Recipient shall maintain all the institutional arrangements set forth in the 
Original Financing Agreement with respect to 
MTPTC’s implementation of the 
Project. 
B. Implementation 
Documents
 
1.  
(a) 
The Recipient, through MTPTC, shall carry out the Project in accordance 
with the Current Operational Manual consisting of different schedules 
setting forth the rules, methods, guidelines, specific development plans, 
standard documents and procedures to be followed and maintained for 
the carrying out of the Project under this Financing. 
 
(b)  
Specifically, the Recipient shall ensure that: 
 
(i) 
all of the procurement of goods and works under the Project be 
carried out in accordance with the provisions of Section III of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, the Procurement Guidelines, and 
the Current Operational Manual; and 
 
(ii) 
all contractors and consultants providing goods or carrying out 
works and services under the Project shall carry out their 
activities under the Project with due diligence and efficiency and 
in accordance with sound technical, economic, financial, 
managerial, environmental and social standards and practices 
satisfactory to the Association, including in accordance with the 
provisions of the ESMF, the RPF
 
and the Anti-Corruption 
Guidelines applicable to recipients of Loan proceeds other than 
the Recipient, and the applicable provisions of the Current 
Operational Manual. 
 
2. 
In the event that any provision of the Current Operational Manual shall conflict 
with any provision of this Agreement, the terms of this Agreement shall prevail. 
 
3. 
The Current Operational Manual shall only be amended from time to time
 
in
 
consultation with, and after approval of, the Association. 
 
Page  8
7
C. Anti-Corruption 
 
The Recipient shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 
 
 
D. Safeguards 
 
1. 
The Recipient shall ensure that the Project and its respective parts are carried out 
in compliance with the ESMF. 
 
2. 
The Recipient shall ensure  further that the terms of reference of any consultancy  
work that may be required during Project implementation in relation with the 
preparation of additional environmental studies or mitigation measures, actions 
and policies under the ESMF or any advice associated therewith and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of this Financing shall duly incorporate any and all 
pertinent  and up to date Association-financed  Project operational requirements 
in each such respect, as shall be deemed satisfactory to the Association. 
 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation 
A. Project 
Reports 
 
1. 
The Recipient shall maintain the same arrangements for Project monitoring, 
reporting and evaluation as are set forth in the Original Financing Agreement. 
 
2. 
The performance indicators under which the progress of the Project shall be 
monitored and evaluated shall be updated for purposes of this Financing and set 
forth in the Current Operational Manual.  
 
3. 
For purposes of Section 4.08 (c) of the General Conditions, the report on the 
execution of the Project and related plan required pursuant to that Section shall 
be furnished to the Association not later than January 31, 2014. 
 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits 
 
1. 
The Recipient shall maintain and cause to be maintained a financial management 
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.09 of the General 
Conditions. 
 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Recipient shall, 
for its respective Parts of the Project, maintain all arrangements related to the 
preparation and submission to the Association of interim unaudited financial 
reports for the Project as are set forth in the Original Financing Agreement.  
 
Page  9
8
3. 
The Recipient shall maintain all arrangements related to the carrying out of audits 
for: (a) the consolidated Financial Statements in respect of the Original Project; 
and (b) the separate Financial Statements in respect of the Project, all in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 4.09 (b) of the General Conditions, and 
as further set forth in the Original Financing Agreement.   
 
Section III. 
Procurement
A. General 
 
1.
 
Goods and Works.
 
All goods and works required for the Project under this 
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Financing shall be 
procured in accordance with Section I of the Procurement Guidelines (as defined 
in the Appendix hereto) and with the provisions of the Original Financing 
Agreement. 
 
2.
 
Consultants’ Services.
 
All consultants’ services required for the Project under 
this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Financing shall be 
procured in accordance with Sections I and IV of the Consultant Guidelines (as 
defined in the Appendix hereto) and with the provisions of the Original 
Financing Agreement. 
 
3. 
Definitions.
 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Association of 
particular contracts, refer to the corresponding method described in the 
Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
 
B. 
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions 
 
The Procurement Plan reflecting the arrangements under this Financing shall set 
forth all contracts, including those which shall be subject to the Association’s 
Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the 
Association. 
 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Financing 
 
A. General 
 
1. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with 
the provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such 
additional instructions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Recipient 
(including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May 
2006, as revised from time to time by the Association and as made applicable to 
this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as 
set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 
Page  10
9
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Financing
 (“Category”), the allocations of the 
amounts of the Financing to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to 
be financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category: 
 
Category
Amount of the Financing 
Allocated  
(expressed in SDR
)
Percentage of  
Expenditures  
to be Financed
(1) Goods, works and 
 
consultants’ services for: 
 
(a) Part 1.1 of the Project 
 
(b) Part 1.2 of the Project 
 
4,730,000 
 
0
100% 
 
100% 
(2) Goods, works and 
 consultants’ 
services 
 
(including for Subprojects) 
 
for: 
 
(a) Part 2.1of the Project 
 
(b) Part 2.2 of the Project 
 
0
0
100% 
 
100% 
(3) Goods and consultants’ 
 
services for Part 3 of the 
 Project 
 
150,000 
100% 
(4) Goods, works and 
 
consultants’ services for Part 
 
4 of the Project  
 
2,690,000 
100% 
(5) Unallocated 
 
30,000 
 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
 7,600,000 
 
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period 
 
1.
 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement.  
 
2.
 
The Closing Date is July 30, 2013. 
Page  11
10 
 
APPENDIX 
 
Section I. 
Definitions 
 
1. 
“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and 
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006. 
 
2. “BMPAD” 
means 
Bureau de
 Monétisation des Programmes d’ Aide au 
Développement,
 an entity of the Recipient for the administration of foreign aid 
and the management of development projects financed through such aid, 
established by Law  of the Recipient dated December 27, 2007 and published in 
the Recipient’s official gazette “
Le Moniteur
”
on
January 04, 2008. 
 
3. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
 
4. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004 and 
revised in October 2006. 
 
5. 
“Current Operational Manual” means the manual referred to in Section I.B.1 of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, updated on October 15, 2009 for purposes of this 
Financing. 
 
6. 
“Environmental and Social  Management Framework”  and “ESMF” mean the 
environmental management framework of the Recipient 
incorporated in the 
Current Operational Manual 
as a schedule thereto, disclosed to the general 
public on February 03, 2006, and updated for purposes of this Financing on 
December 15, 2008, and which sets forth the guidelines, procedures, and all the 
detailed elements to be considered and addressed for mitigating potential harmful 
effects of Project implementation, including the Resettlement Policy Framework 
(
as hereinafter defined). 
 
7. 
“Executing Agencies” means collectively MTPTC, FER (both as hereinafter 
defined) and BMPAD or successor entities to any one among them, as shall be 
deemed satisfactory by the Association. 
 
8. “FER” 
means 
Fonds d’Entretien Routier, 
the Recipient’s road maintenance fund 
established by Law of the Recipient, dated December 18, 2002 and published in 
the Recipient’s official gazette “
Le Moniteur
”
on
July 24, 2003, as referred to in 
Section 3.01(c) of the Original Financing Agreement. 
 
Page  12
11 
 
9. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Development Association 
 
 
General Conditions for Credits and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended 
through October 15, 2006), with the modifications set forth in Section II of this 
Appendix. 
10. “MTPTC” 
means 
Ministère des Travaux Publics, Transports et Communications, 
the Recipient’s Ministry of Public Works, Transport and Communications. 
 
11. 
“Original Financing Agreement” means the financing agreement for a transport 
and territorial development Project between the Recipient and the Association, 
dated April 18, 2006, (Grant No. H213-0-HA) as amended to the date of this 
Agreement. 
 
12. 
“Original Financing” means the financing provided for the implementation of the 
Original Project under the Original Financing Agreement. 
 
13. 
“Original Project” means the Project described in the Original Financing 
Agreement. 
 
14. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in 
October, 2006. 
 
15. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Recipient’s procurement plan for the Project, 
under this Financing, dated October 21, 2009 and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of 
the Procurement Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as 
the same shall be updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of 
said paragraphs. 
 
16. 
“Resettlement Policy Framework” and “RPF” mean  the resettlement policy 
framework prepared by the Recipient in respect of persons potentially displaced 
on account of Project implementation and disclosed to the general public on 
February 03, 2006, as updated for purposes of this Financing on December 15, 
2008. 
 
17. 
“Selected Micro-regions” means the micro-regions of 
Dondon-St.
 Raphaël
 and 
Thiotte-Anse-à-Pitres, 
respectively, as described further in the Current 
Operational Manual. 
 
Page  13
12 
 
18. 
“Subproject” means either: 
 
(a) 
a productive infrastructure investment that is aligned with the Project’s 
development objective, determined eligible under the Current 
Operational Manual and whose preparation and ensuing implementation 
will be financed out of the proceeds of the Original Financing; or 
 
(b)  
a safeguard-related investment able to mitigate possible adverse effects 
of the Project, determined eligible under the Current Operational Manual 
and whose preparation and ensuing implementation will be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Original Financing; or 
 
(c) 
any other productive investment, as well as any other environmental and 
social investment for which only the costs of identification and 
preparation thereof will be financed out of the proceeds of the Original 
Financing, all as referred to in Part 2.2 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
 
19. “TCD” 
means 
Table de
 Concertation Départementale
,
the Recipient’s 
departmental discussion roundtable addressing issues of territorial planning. 
 
Section II.   
Modifications to the General Conditions 
 
The modifications to the General Conditions for Credits and Grants of the Association, 
dated July 1, 2005 (as amended through October 15, 2006) are as follows:   
 
1. 
Section 2.07 is modified to read as follows: 
 
“Section 2.07. 
Refinancing Preparation Advance 
 
If the Financing Agreement provides for the repayment out of the 
proceeds of
 
the Financing of an advance made by the Association or the Bank 
(“Preparation Advance”), the Association shall, on behalf of the Recipient, 
withdraw from the Financing Account on or after the Effective Date the amount 
required to repay the withdrawn and outstanding balance of the advance as at the 
date of such withdrawal from the Financing Account and to pay all accrued and 
unpaid charges, if any, on the advance as at such date. The Association shall pay 
the amount so withdrawn to itself or the Bank, as the case may be, and shall 
cancel the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the advance.” 
 
Page  14
13 
 
2. 
Paragraph (l) of Section 6.02 is modified to read as follows: 
 
“Section 6.02. 
Suspension by the Association 
 
... (l) 
Ineligibility
.
The Association or the Bank has declared the Project 
Implementing Entity ineligible to receive proceeds of any financing made by the 
Association or the Bank or otherwise to participate in the preparation or 
implementation of any project financed in whole or in part by the Association or 
the Bank, as a result of a determination by the Association or the Bank that the 
Project Implementing Entity has engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, coercive or 
collusive practices in connection with the use of the proceeds of any financing 
made by the Association or the Bank.” 
 
3. 
The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or 
deleted as follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in 
alphabetical order to the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered 
accordingly: 
 
(a) 
The term “Project Preparation Advance” is modified to read “Preparation 
Advance” and its definition is modified to read as follows:  
 
“‘Preparation Advance’ means the advance referred to in the Financing 
Agreement and repayable in accordance with Section 2.07.
 
