                                                                                 46844

                                      DATA SHEET

                                   PROJECT PAPER

Date: November 19,2008                         Task Team Leader: Nicolas Peltier-
Country: Haiti                                 Thiberge
Project Name: Transport and Territorial        Acting Sector ManagedDirector:
Development Project - Project                  Emmanuel JamedLaura Tuck
Restructuring                                  Country Director: Yvonne Tsikata
Proiect ID: PO95523                            Environmental category: B
Borrower: Government o f Haiti
Responsible agency: Ministry o f Public Works, Transport and Communications (MTPTC)


*
Revisedestimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$m)
FY               FY07        FY08        FY09          FYlO          FYI1     FY12
Annual           0.2         2.0         6.3           4.5           2.0       1.o
                             2.2         8.5          1 13.0        I15.0    I 16.0
Current closing date: June 1, 2012
Revised closing date [ifapplicable] : June 1, 2012     -
Indicate ifthe restructuring is:

Board approved           X
RVP approved            -

Does the restructuredproject require any exceptions to Bank policies?    -Yes XNo
Have these been approved by Bank management?                             -  Yes -No
I s approval for any policy exception sought from the Board?             -Yes &No

Revisedproject development objective/outcomes:

The proposed revised Project Development Objective is: "lower the marketing costs for
small farmers intwo selected micro-regions (marketing costs are those costs incurred in
the aggregate o f functions involved inmoving goods from producer to consumer) and
rebuildselected infrastructure inareas struck by natural disasters"

Does the restructuredproject trigger any new safeguard policies? Ifso, indicate which
one(s) : OP4.37Safety of Dams

                              RevisedFinancing;Plan (US$m.)
                   Source                         Local         Foreign        Total
Borrower
IBRD/IDA
Others                                       I l2           1 4           Il6


                                            HAITI
         TRANSPORT AND TERRITORIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
                        RESTRUCTURING(Grant 34938-HT)



                                    PROJECT PAPER




1.      This Project Paper seeks the approval of the Executive Directors to introduce the
following changes in the Haiti, Transport and Territorial Development Project, IDA
Grant 34938-HT, P095523, and the accompanying amendments to the project's grant
agreement.

2.       The proposed changes follow the occurrence of the series of hurricanes and
tropical storms that struck Haiti in 2007 and 2008, causing major damages, particularly
on transport infrastructure. The Haitian Government and IDA have identified the
Transport and Territorial Development Project as a possible vehicle to channel funds for
reconstruction works. The proposed amendments to the project's grant agreement aim at
reallocating project resources to these reconstruction activities, by creating a new
component entitled "post natural disasters' reconstruction of selected infrastructure", with
a total financing amount o f US$8 million. Initial project activities will be kept
unchanged. Provided country environment and project performance allow for it, an
additional financing will be processed in late FY09 or early FYlO to compensate for this
reallocation and allow all initial activities to be financed. This additional financing may
also cover any possible increase o f the price o f road works, following the increased cost
o f gasoline. If an additional financing cannot be processed, a second restructuring,
involving substantial modifications of the initial result framework, would be processed.

Backgroundand Reasonsfor Restructuring

3.       The Haiti - Transport and Territorial Development Project was approved by the
World Bank Board of Executive Directors on April 11, 2006 and became effective on
December 13, 2006. The 8 month delay between the Board and Effectiveness dates is due
to the time required by the Haitian Parliament to ratify the grant agreement. The project's
original objectives were to "lower the marketing costs for small farmers in two selected
micro-regions (marketing costs are those costs incurred in the aggregate o f functions
involved in moving goods from producer to consumer)". The selected micro-regions
                                                                               '
include in particular the communes o f Dondon-Saint Raphael in the North o f the country
and the communes of Thiotte -Anse d Pitre inthe South-East.

4.       The project was originally designed with three components. Component 1 entitled
"road rehabilitation and maintenance" aims at improving transport conditions through
selected interventions on roads and critical points that are essential to the rural economy.
The project finances the cost of the works, maintenance costs for the repaired roads,
related technical and economic studies, and supervision. Component 2 finances the

"Territorial Development Window", a consultative process with local stakeholders to
identify investment priorities based on a multi-sector territorial development strategy for
the micro-regions. Component 3 finances expenditures for project administration,
including environmental management, monitoring and evaluation as well as the project's
impact evaluation. The project is financed through a US$16 million IDA grant.

5,     To date, despite longer-than-expected implementation delays, the project has
performed in a satisfactory manner. Disbursements reach US$1.98 million and
commitments US$3.84 million. Progress on each o f the components is as follows:

    0  Sub-component 1.1. Road Improvement. The engineering design studies of the
       two selected transport corridors are being prepared and should be completed by
       the end of 2008. A bridge (Pont Limite) is being replaced through an ad'hoc
       cooperation agreement between the MTPTC and the French Government (Centre
       National des Ponts de Secours), involving partial financing from this project. In
       the Northern micro-region, the project initially aimed at financing the
       rehabilitation o f the 39 km road Carrefour La Mort - Saint-Raphael (Route
       Nationale No.3 / RN3). However, road standards had to be upgraded, following
       the decision of other donors to rehabilitate the rest ofthe itinerary, thus converting
       the RN3 in a major transport corridor that should become an alternative itinerary
       to the RN1 to connect Port-au-Prince to Cap Haitian, the country's two main
       cities. This upgrading o f road standards requires a significant budget increase, but
       the EU has accepted to finance a greater portion of the RN3. As a consequence,
       the project is still financing the design study for the section Carrefour La Mort -
       Saint Raphael but it will only finance the works for section Carrefour La Mort -
       Barriire Battant (section 1 o f the RN3), while the EU will finance rehabilitation
       works on Barriire Battant - Saint Raphael (section 2). On the other hand, the
       Agence Franqaise de De'veloppement (AFD) will finance the rehabilitation of the
       road Saint-Raphael - Hinche (section 3). Meanwhile, the European Union (EU) is
       currently financing the rehabilitation of the sections Hinche   - Mirebalais (section
       4) and Mirebalais - Port-au-Prince (section 5). A joint bidding process was
       coordinated between the Haitian Government, the AFD and IDA for the
       engineering design studies of the road Carrefour La Mort - Saint-Raphael -
       Hinche, allowing the selection of a unique consulting firm, thus ensuring better
       coordination and economies o f scale.

    0  Sub-component 1.2. Road Maintenance.The Road Maintenance Fund (Fonds
       d 'Entretien Routier / FER) has reached a significant implementation capacity and
       started financing routine, periodic and emergency road maintenance activities on
       selected transport infrastructure, with financing from the proceeds o f a gasoline
       tax (collected and transferred to the FER by the Ministry o f Finance). None of the
       maintenance activities considered under the project has been initiated by the FER.
       The FER will essentially intervene at a later stage once the rehabilitation works
       scheduled under Sub-component 1.1, have been completed. However, the role o f
       the FER in the national road maintenance policy remains uncertain given some
       reforms envisaged by the Ministry of Public Works,                    Transport and
       Communications (MTPTC) to develop force account maintenance practices. IDA,
       together with other donors, has engaged a policy dialogue with MTPTC to clarify
       this issue and ensure the sustainability of project activities and, more broadly, the

                                              2

        efficiency of the national road maintenance policy. As a result of this policy
        dialogue, a detailed Road Maintenance Strategy has been prepared with funding
        from the EU, and several new maintenance contracts are being financed by the
        FER.

    0   Component 2. Territorial Development Window. Two international NGOs
        have been contracted to be the "facilitators" o f the Territorial Development
        Window inthe two micro-regions and they have initiatedthe consultative process.
        In the Northern micro-region where this process is the most advanced, a
        development plan for the micro-region has been drafted, 10 productive initiatives
        have been screened by the Territorial Development Window and 3 have been
        prioritized for implementation. In the Southern micro-region, the participatory
        planning process is under way, and 3 productive initiatives have beenreviewed in
        October 2008.

    0   Component 3. Project Administration. A baseline survey has been completed.
        This survey is currently being complemented, with funding from an UNAIDS
        grant (HIV/AIDS Transport Incentive Fund), to monitor the incidence o f
        HIV/AIDS in the micro-regions, and implement some mitigation measures to
        limit the spreading of the epidemics that may be caused by improved transport
        conditions. Haiti, with a 3.8 percent HIV adult prevalence rate has the highest rate
        for any country inthe world outside o f Sub-Saharian Africa.

6.      Implementationdelays were principally caused by the additional coordination that
was required consecutive to the new planned interventions of AFD and EU on the RN3.
However, the main Project Implementing Agency (Unite` Centrale d'Exe`cution)was also
slow in strengthening its execution capacity by recruiting additional staffs, as agreed at
appraisal. For this reason, the project's implementation performance was downgraded to
"Moderately Satisfactory" in October 2007, until this recruiting i s completed. Six
additional staffs have been selected by the UCE in June 2008 o f which five are being
recruited, including two road engineers who will be responsible for following on the
proposed reconstruction activities.

7.      Reason for restructuring is the need to reallocate project resources to
reconstruction activities following the occurrence o f the hurricanes and tropical storms
that struck Haiti in2007 and 2008:

    0   Tropical Storm Noel (October 2007): The storm resulted in flash floods and
        mudslides that hit the Western part of the country, causing 66 deaths, 17
        unaccounted for, and 120 injured. 14,776 families lost their house (2,801 houses
        were completely destroyed and 12,020 seriously damaged). In addition, about
        24,000 hectares of cultivated areas were destroyed and 10,000 cattle killed. As
        defined by the National System for Risks and Disasters' Management, a response
        plan was prepared and implemented by the Civil Protection Directorate o f the
        Haitian Ministry of Interior, in coordination with the MTPTC and with the
        international community (UNDP, EU, MINUSTAH, Red Cross and other NGOs,
        World Bank). As a result key emergency activities were implemented, such as the
        preventive evacuation o f 14,000 people, a thorough damage assessment and
        selected emergency interventions to restore key basic services. On December 12-

                                              3

        19, 2007, a World Bank mission travelled to Haiti in order to help the MTPTC
       assess the damages on transport infrastructure (as well as other infrastructure, in
       coordination with the Ministry o f Agriculture) and prioritize the reconstruction
       activities. Priority reconstruction activities for a total of about US$25 million
       were identified at the time. An official letter requesting the reallocation of US$8
       million from the Transport and Territorial Development project to finance
       reconstruction activities was subsequently sent to IDA by the Haitian Ministry of
       Economy and Finance on March 13,2008. A second mission was fielded on June
        9-13, 2008 to help the MTPTC and the UCE design appropriate technical
        solutions for the selected reconstruction works. Other Bank missions were also
       organized in the context o f the Haiti - Emergency Recovery and Disaster
       Management Project to which an additional financing o f US$7.4 million was
        approved by the Board o f Directors on January 16, 2006 to finance other
       reconstruction works (drainage, irrigation, schools, health, community centers) in
       the affected areas.

    0  Hurricanes and Tropical Storms Fay, Gustav, Hanna and Ike (August-September
       2008): Damages are o f considerable extent and almost all parts o f the country
       have been affected by at least one of the four storms, According to the
        Government and the UnitedNations' Office for the Coordination o f Humanitarian
       Affairs (OCHA), 793 people have been killed and 301 injured. An estimated
        11,000 houses have been destroyed and 35,000 damaged. Taking into account
       pre-disaster baseline data, contingency planning, and the impact o f hurricane
       Jeanne in 2004, an estimated 850,000 to 1 million people were affected
       throughout the country by the combined impact o f the storms. According to the
        Government, 151,000 peoples are currently displaced, out of which 111,000
       people are staying in temporary shelters throughout the country. The extensive
       damage is apparent in all major sectors and in particular in agriculture,
       infrastructure, health and education. The impact o f these storms, in particular the
       impact of Gustav and Hanna, constitutes the fourth greatest catastrophe to occur
       in Haiti since the beginning of the 20thcentury interms of number of households
       affected. Damages to the transport sector have been particularly severe, causing
       several Haitian regions to be completely isolated and the economy to be almost
       paralyzed. A preliminary assessment was performed by a World Bank mission,
       comprised of civil engineers from the region o f Guadeloupe. The mission
       identified damages on priority bridges and roads for a total amount of US$37.7
       million. This list was complemented by the MTPTC to include other second-
       priority damages for a total amount o f US$90 million. Based on the result o f this
       assessment, a US$20 million Emergency Bridge Reconstruction and Vulnerability
       Reduction Project has been prepared. Another Bank mission visited Haiti on
       October 22-31, 2008 in order to negotiate this emergency project and provide
       technical assistanceto the Government. This mission also supervisedand updated
       the list of reconstruction works that had beenidentifiedafter Noel.

8.       The overall country environment of Haiti has improved significantly in recent
years. In particular, the authorities have made significant progress in stabilizing the
security situation, as well as restoring political institutions and improving governance and
transparency in public sector operations. Democratic institutions have been reinforced

                                               4

through peaceful elections held for President, Parliament and newly-created local
governments. The Preval government has beeninplace since mid-2006, and despite some
political tension, the coalition o f political parties has held together. The President has
made security gains and the fight against corruption central to his agenda. Additionally,
extensive measures have been taken to promote the transparent and efficient use of public
resources, with the objective o f improving confidence inthe government and the business
climate. Stepped up operations by the Haitian National Police and the United Nations
Stabilization Mission in Haiti to combat criminal gangs have improved the security
situation considerably since end-2006. These achievements on the security and
governance fronts have facilitated significant economic results. Economic growth has
increased from negative 3.5 percent in FY 2004 to 3.2 percent in FY 2007, implying
positive real per capita GDP growth for the first time in several years. Despite these
positive results, rising world prices for food and oil have become a new threat since 2007.
Price increases have caused great hardship in the country, and triggered violent protests
inearly April 2008, which ledthe Senate to vote Prime MinisterJacques-Edouard Alexis
out o f office on April 12. Calm has returned but the situation is volatile and uncertain.
After, the rejection by the lower house of the President's first two nominations for the
post of Prime Minister, Ms.Michelle Pierre Louis was appointed Prime Minister of Haiti
on July 3 1, 2008.

ProposedChanges

9.      The proposed change i s to add a fourth component entitled "Post natural
disasters' reconstruction of selected infrastructure" to the project. This component
would finance the reconstruction works for selected transport infrastructure and other
investments to protect roads from erosion (eg. slope stabilization), as well as all related
design studies and supervision costs. A list o f priority reconstruction activities has been
prepared in coordination with the MTPTC and the Ministry o f Agriculture, for a total o f
about US$25 million. Within this list, a prioritization exercise, based on the results of
field visits and dialogue with Government officials, was conducted to identify an
indicative list of reconstruction works with the highest priority, for a total amount of
about US$8 million (see table below). This list was updated to account for the further
damages caused by the FGHI (Fay, Gustav, Hanna and Ike) storms. The proposed
component would finance this list of priority activities. Nevertheless, this list o f works is
indicative and some substitution o f activities could be performed, subject to the non-
objection of IDA, in case new priorities would emerge (for example as a consequence o f
a new natural disaster or incase o f modification o f other donors' interventions).

10.     The prioritized list of proposed reconstruction activities was elaborated, taking
into account the interventions o f other donors (in particular the EU allocated EUR3
million to finance emergency and reconstruction works) as well as other WBG
interventions (such as the Haiti - Emergency Recovery and Disaster Management Project
and its additional financing, as well as the new Haiti - Emergency Bridge Reconstruction
and Vulnerability Reduction Project). Reconstruction activities are expected to be
implemented over an estimated period of 24 months (engineering design studies and
works).



                                               5

                               Table: Indicative list of prioritized reconstruction works.



Ganthier, RN8, PaP-Malpasse            Bridge reconstruction   450,000
Riv Gauche, RD42. Jacmel-Lavallee       Bridge. reconstruction 2,800.000  High-
Raqmond, RD41, Jacmel-Marigot           Road repair, drainage  130,000   Medium      High    Medium      High
Cayes Jacmel, RD41, Jacmel-Marigot      Road reconstruction    120,000   ~ ~ d i uHi&~        High       High
Tesser, RD41, Jacmel-Marigot               Roadprotection      165,000   Medium      Ifigh   ~ ~ d j u n ~High
                                           against erosion
Marigot, RD41, Jacmel-Marigot              Roadprotection      470,000   Medi~m      High     Iligh      High
                                           against erosion
Torbeck, RD25, Les Cayes-Port Salut        Reconstruction,      50,000   ~ ~ d i uHigh  ~    Medium      High
                                              drainage
Pont Madame, RN7, Les Cayes-Aeroport       Roadprotection       40,000    High       High     Hi&        High
                                           against erosion
Bananier,RN8, Les Cayes-Camp Perrin          Roadrepair         70,000    High       High    Very High  Vory High
St. Louis du S., RN2, Aquin-Les Cayes      Reconstruction       95,000     High      1ligh   Medium       High
Rh. D o h , RL Les Cayes-Maniche        Reconstructionbridge   900,000   Medium    Very High Very High   High
                                           and access road
Ste Helene, RL Les Cayes-Maniche           Drainage, Road      120,000   Medium      High    Medium       High
                                            reconstruction
D o h , RL Les Cayes-Maniche                  Drainage         240,000   Medium      High    M e d ~ u ~ High
BarrageDubreuil, RLTorbeck-Duck              Dam repair        650,000   Very High Very%Migh  High      Verykgh
Riv Bianche                              Slope stabilization   1,690,000  High       Kg!n      High    Migh
TOTAL                                                          7,990,000
             Source MTPTC, IDA.


             11.      The proposed new component would be implemented by the main project's
             implementation agency (Unite` Centrale d'Exe`cution / UCE) in MTPTC. In order to be
             able to cope with the additional work burden, the UCE is being staffed with additional
             professionals who will be incharge o f the reconstruction works. Additional budget for an
             amount of US$lOO,OOO is being reallocated to component 3 (project administration) to
             finance the incurred additional operational costs. Slope stabilization activities will be
             coordinated by the UCE with the Ministry of Agriculture. Road reconstruction will be
             coordinated with the FER since repaired sections are expected to enter the list o f priority
             roads eligible to FER'Sfinancing for road maintenance.

             12.      Implementation procedures for the new reconstruction activities will be the same
             as for initial project activities. This applies inparticular to: (i) financial management, (ii)
             disbursement arrangements, (iii)procurement, (iv) environmental safeguards; and (v)
             social safeguards.

             13.      A revised cost table has been prepared to illustrate the proposed reallocation of
             grant resources (see below). This table does not include resources from the additional
             financing to be processed in late FY09 or early FY10 to compensate sub-component 1.1.
             from the proposed reallocation.




                                                               6

                         Table: Proposed reallocation of grant resources (SDR million).
                    Component / Sub-component                      Initial allocation Proposed revisedallocation
                                                                                               -
1.1. Improvement of two transport corridors                                7.5                   2.3
1.2 Road maintenance                                                       0.4                   0.4
2.1. Territorial planning process                                          0.3                   0.3
2.2. Financing of prioritized productive investments                       1.7                   1.7
3. Project administration, M&E                                             1.2                   1.3
1.Post naturaldisasters' reconstruction ofselected infrastructure                                5.1
5. Unallocated                                                             0.1                   0.1
TOTAL AMOUNT                                                              11.2                  11.2

         14.       Considering the implementation delays o f the road works under sub-component
         1.1., no additional financing should be needed until the 4th Quarter o f FY09 or the lSt
        Quarter o f FY10. A revised disbursement schedule has been prepared (see table below).

        (FY09-FY lo). Therefore, the project's closing date remains unchanged (July 1,2012).
        Reconstruction activities are expected to take place over a period of about 24 months




                                                   FYO6    FY07    FY08        FY09   FYlO      FYI1      FY12
Initialprojecteddisbursement                        0.5     2.5     5.0         3.0    2.0       2.0       1.o
Revisedprojecteddisbursements                       0.0     0.2     2.0         6.3    4.5       2.0       1.o

        Analysis

         15.       The proposed changes are consistent with the initial list o f interventions agreed
        for the project. In particular, the project envisaged the rehabilitation of key transport
        corridors but also spot interventions (bridge reconstruction, drainage improvement, road
        repair) on critical points that are key to ensuring the transitability and bring access to
        local populations. The indicative list o f reconstruction activities includes essentially spot
        interventions that would have been eligible under sub-component 1.1. should these
        activities had been localized in the two selected micro-regions and financing had been
        available. However, an amendment to the grant agreement i s needed since the proposed
        activities would not intervene in the two micro-regions selected as project areas but,
        instead, in the areas that have been the most struck by the tropical storm Noel,
        particularly the South-Western and Southern parts o f the country.

         16.       Spot interventions on critical points usually have high rates of return and,
        therefore, the project's economic evaluation i s likely to remain the same or even improve,
        as a result of the proposed changes. No major change to the original economic, financial,
        technical, institutional, or social aspects o f the project as appraised is expected.

        17.        The proposed changes only involve the reconstruction of existing infrastructure
        and, therefore, the proposed works are not expected to have any significant
        environmental impact. In most cases, the proposed works will limit the effect of erosion
        (eg. reconstruction o f drainage, stabilization of slopes) and the net environmental impact
        i s therefore expected to be positive. The environmental classification of the project
        remains unchanged ("Category                   B"), The project's      Environmental and Social
        Management Framework (EMF) is been updated to include the new activities that are
        resulting from the proposed restructuring. In particular, specific arrangements are being

                                                              7

          included to account for the inclusion o f dam repair works which may trigger the
          safeguards policy OP4.37. No major resettlement is expected from the proposed new
          reconstruction activities. If some resettlements occur, they will be handled under the
          project's existing Resettlement Policy Framework. This framework is being amended so
          that its scope extends to the new activities.

           18.        The proposed restructuring does not involve any exception to Bank policies.

          ExpectedOutcomes

           19.        The proposed changes affect the project's development objective since additional
          activities were added, that take place in areas that were not initially considered. The full
          accomplishment o f the project's original objectives will be contingent on an additional
          financing to be processed in late FY09 or early FY10 - provided country environment and
          project performance allow for it - to compensate the project for the financing resources
          that are reallocated to the new reconstruction activities. Reasons for not having processed
          an additional financing in FY08 include: (1) non-availability of IDA resources in FY08;
          and (2) waiting for the results of the on-going engineering design studies and costs'
          updating for the two road corridors scheduled to be rehabilitated. If an additional
          financing         cannot be processed, a second restructuring,        involving substantial
          modifications o f the initial results framework, would be proposed.

          20.         The proposed revised Project Development Objective is: "lower the marketing
          costs for small f m e r s in two selected micro-regions (marketing costs are those costs
          incurred in the aggregate o f functions involved in moving goods from producer to
          consumer) and rebuild selected infrastructure in areas struck by natural disasters".

          21.         Results o f the new proposed component "post natural disasters' reconstructiono f
          selected infrastructure" will be monitored through two additional indicators added to the
          project's results framework. Target values and monitoring arrangements are indicated in
          the table below.

                           Table: Results'arrangementsfor the new proposedcomponent.
    Components' Ressults                'I                                       DataCoflection
          kidimtors            b4Wiine                                             ~ n ~ ~ e n t ~
Cornoonent 4 oost natural     I
disasters' reconstruction of
selected infrastructure

DNo spot interventionson
 transport infrastructure                                                           MTPTC       MTPTC / UCE

 affected by natural disasters                                                     operational
                                                                                     report

DNumber o f days of road
 closure per year on                                                                MTPTC       MTPTC / UCE
 reconstructedroad segments                                                        operational
                                                                                     report


          Benefitsand Risks

        22.          A number of risks associated to the proposed changes have been identified and
        mitigation measures have been proposed. Some o f these risks are specific to the new


                                                         8

proposed component. Others relate to the broader impact of project restructuring on the
other components and on the project's development objective. The overall risk rating for
the project is kept unchanged (High). A list of these identified risks and proposed
mitigationmeasures is presentedinthe table below.

                   Table: Identified risksand proposedmitigationmeasures.
                   RISK                           Risk Minimization Measures             Rating
Overall Country Risk                                                                      High
The UCE lacks implementationcapacity     Additional professionalsin charge of the
to handle the additional reconstruction  reconstruction activities are beingrecruitedby Substantial
activities or is focusingmore attention  UCE. Technical support will be provided to
on larger-scaleprojects.                 UCE during supervisionmissions.

The combinedeffect of reconstruction     Proposedinterventions have beenprioritized
 interventionsis marginalcomparedto      after a thorough damage assessment and are     Moderate
the scale of the damages.                focusing on high impact spot interventions on
                                         selected critical transport infrastructure.
                                         Proposedinterventions are focused in selected
                                         areas affected by the tropical storm (South
                                         West and South) in order to get a "critical
                                         mass" of investments. Close coordinationwith
                                         other donors will help leverage additional
                                         fundine.
Private construction firms are saturated Procurement processeswith particular
by the multiplicity of regular and       attention given to publicity and openedto        High
reconstructioncivil works and are not    smaller-sizefirms to increase competition.
interested in smaller-sizeactivities.
Reconstructionsactivities are redundant  Close coordination is ensuredwithin an           Low
with the interventionsof other donors or informal "round table" openedto all donors
with other WBG initiatives.              active in the transport sector. Internal
                                         coordinationhas been done, particularly with
                                         the IDA-financed Emergency recoveryand
                                         Disaster Management Project.
An additional financing cannot be        Projectperformanceis closely monitored         Moderate
processed because the country            through frequent supervision missionsand
environment or the project performance   technicalguidance is provided to the UCE. A
does not allow for it.                   secondrestructuringwould be processed in
                                         case an additional financing could not be
                                         envisaged. This restructuringwould draw
                                         consequences for the project's results
                                         framework.




                                                  9

