Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.:  AB4363 
Operation Name 
Thailand Public Sector Development Policy Loan 
Region 
EAST ASIA AND PACIFIC 
Sector 
General public administration sector (100%) 
Project ID 
P114154 
Borrower(s) 
The Kingdom of Thailand 
Implementing Agency 
Ministry of Finance 
Date PID Prepared 
November 30, 2008 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
February 10, 2009 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
March 30, 2009 
1. 
Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
 
The proposed Development Policy Loan (DPL) seeks to support the Government of Thailand’s public 
sector reform program aimed at improving expenditure management and revenue administration along 
with strengthening civil service performance and service delivery. In recent years the Government has 
put in place some systems and procedures aimed at engendering greater efficiency and effectiveness in 
the delivery of services to citizens. The DPL will assist the Government in refining and further 
deepening these reforms to assist in the transformation of the Thailand public sector management system 
to a performance oriented one. Public sector reform is an area of core World Bank expertise and 
therefore the World Bank will be able to effectively engage with the Government on this reform 
program through this operation. 
 
2. Proposed objective(s) 
 
The DPL program seeks to strengthen (i) budget formulation and planning, (ii) budget execution and 
cash management, (iii) revenue policy and administration, and (iv) service delivery and civil service 
management.  
 
3. Preliminary 
description 
 
The proposed DPL has two components:  
·
Component A: Improving Expenditure Management, Revenue Administration, Fiscal Reporting, and 
Auditing Procedures
This component focuses on Improving expenditure planning, aligning budgetary resources to 
development priorities, and improving budget reporting.  The expected outcome of this component is 
to (i) increase consistency and linkage between government policies and budgetary allocations and 
ensuring realistic allocations are made to sectors within an appropriate legislative framework; (ii) 
Page  2
ensure structure of budget provides for appropriate allocation for productive sectors and social 
sectors, based on government policies; (iii) improve timeliness of reporting and flexibility in budget 
execution; (iv) increase accuracy of consolidated financial management reports; (v) better cash 
management and increased cross-checks on revenue collection and expenditure execution; (vi) 
differentiate tiers of management can have accurate and appropriate financial management reports in 
a
timely manner; and (vii) increase the transparency and accountability of the public procurement 
thereby improving effectiveness and value for money of public resources. 
 
·
Component B: Improving Public Service Delivery
This component focuses on strengthening the performance management framework.  The expected 
outcome of this component is to 1) improve performance of the public sector towards better quality 
of service delivery to citizens; and 2) streamline bureaucratic procedures, fewer direct interactions 
between taxpayers and tax officials, and wider tax base. 
 
4. Environment Aspects 
 
There is no foreseen environmental impact from the reform program proposed, and Thailand has 
adequate environmental controls in place. There is a legal framework governing the Environment Impact 
Assessment (EIA) and Initial Environmental Examination (IEE) in project deliveries. The proposed 
policy support mainly focuses on the public sector performance enhancement to ensure efficiencies 
 
5. Tentative financing 
Source: ($m.) 
Borrower 0 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
500 
 Total 
500 
 
6. Contact point 
 
Contact: Mathew A. Verghis 
Title: Lead Economist 
Tel: 5778+8331 / 66-2-2686-8331 
Fax: 614-0395 
Email: Mverghis@worldbank.org 
Location: Bangkok, Thailand (IBRD)
 
