                                        Document of
                                    The World Bank




                                                          Report No: ICR2998




             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                              (IBRD-77230)

                                          ON A

                                          LOAN

                           IN THE AMOUNT OF US$1BILLION

                                         TO THE

                                KINGDOM OF THAILAND

                                          FOR A

                PUBLIC SECTOR REFORM DEVELOPMENT POLICY LOAN

                                      March 21, 2014




Poverty Reduction and Economic Management Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region
               CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

         (Exchange Rate Effective 28 February 2014)

              Currency Unit = Thai Baht (THB)
                     1.00 = US$ 0.031
                   US$ 1.00 = THB 35.52

                     FISCAL YEAR
                 October 1 – September 30




          ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ADB       Asian Development Bank
ASEAN     Association of Southeast Asian Nations
DPL       Development Policy Loan
GFMIS     Government Financial Management Information Systems
IFI       International Financial Institutions
IMF       International Monetary Fund
JICA      Japan International Cooperation Agency
M&E       Monitoring and Evaluation
MOF       Ministry of Finance
OECD      Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
OPSPQ     Operations Policy and Quality
PD        Program Document
PDM       Public Debt Management
PDMO      Public Debt Management Office
PDO       Program Development Objective
PEFA      Public Expenditure and Financial Accountability
PFM       Public Financial Management
PSRDPL    Public Sector Development Policy Loan
RTG       Royal Thai Government
TKK       Thai Kem Kaeng




               Vice President:    Axel van Trotsenburg
             Country Director:    Ulrich Zachau
               Sector Director:   Sudhir Shetty
            Task Team Leader:     Mathew A.Verghis
            ICR Team Leader:      Douglas M. Addison
                         THE KINGDOM OF THAILAND
      PROPOSED PUBLIC SECTOR REFORM DEVELOPMENT POLICY LOAN (PSRDPL)


                                                               CONTENTS




Data Sheet
B. Key Dates .................................................................................................................................... i
C. Ratings Summary ........................................................................................................................ i
D. Sector and Theme Codes............................................................................................................ ii
E. Bank Staff ................................................................................................................................... ii
F. Results Framework Analysis ..................................................................................................... iii
G. Ratings of Program Performance in ISRs .................................................................................. v
H. Restructuring (if any) ................................................................................................................ vi

1. Program Context, Development Objectives and Design ............................................................ 1
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes ............................................................ 10
3. Assessment of Outcomes .......................................................................................................... 14
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome ......................................................................... 20
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................................... 20
6. Lessons Learned........................................................................................................................ 23
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners........................... 23

Annex 1. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes............................. 24
Annex 2. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................................... 25
Annex 3. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ..................................... 26
Annex 4. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................................... 39

Map IBRD 33495
A. Basic Information
                                                                           Public Sector
Country:                Thailand                 Program Name:
                                                                           Development Policy
Program ID:             P114154                  L/C/TF Number(s):         IBRD-77230
ICR Date:               03/21/2014               ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                           KINGDOM OF
Lending Instrument:     DPL                      Borrower:
                                                                           THAILAND
Original Total
                        USD 1,000.00M            Disbursed Amount:         USD 1,000.00M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         USD 1,000.00M
Implementing Agencies:
 Office of Civil Service Commission
 Bureau of Budget
 Ministry of Finance
 Revenue Department
 Office of National Economic and Social Development Board (NESDB)
 Office of Public Sector Development Commission
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                                 Revised / Actual
      Process             Date              Process             Original Date
                                                                                     Date(s)
Concept Review:         12/10/2008    Effectiveness:             08/31/2012           08/09/2012
Appraisal:              05/05/2009    Restructuring(s):                               11/30/2012
Approval:               11/18/2010    Mid-term Review:
                                      Closing:                   09/30/2012           06/30/2013

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                        Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                     Moderate
Bank Performance:                                Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                            Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
           Bank                 Ratings                 Borrower                  Ratings
Quality at Entry:             Satisfactory       Government:                     Satisfactory
                                                 Implementing
Quality of Supervision:  Moderately Satisfactory                                 Satisfactory
                                                 Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                                     Overall Borrower
                         Moderately Satisfactory                                 Satisfactory
Performance:                                     Performance:

                                                 i
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
     Implementation                            QAG Assessments (if
                               Indicators                                                 Rating:
      Performance                                      any)
 Potential Problem Program                            Quality at Entry
                           No                                                   None
at any time (Yes/No):                                 (QEA):
 Problem Program at any                               Quality of Supervision
                            No                                               None
time (Yes/No):                                        (QSA):
DO rating before
                            Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                         Original             Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                         92                      92
General industry and trade sector                                          8                       8


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Administrative and civil service reform                                    17                     17
Infrastructure services for private sector development                      9                      9
Macroeconomic management                                                    8                      8
Managing for development results                                           33                     33
Public expenditure, financial management and procurement                   33                     33

E. Bank Staff
         Positions                          At ICR                                  At Approval
Vice President:             Axel van Trotsenburg                    James W. Adams
Country Director:           Ulrich Zachau                           Annette Dixon
Sector Manager:             Mathew A. Verghis                       Vikram Nehru
Program Team Leader:        Mathew A. Verghis                       Mathew A. Verghis
ICR Team Leader:            Mathew A. Verghis
ICR Primary Author:         Douglas M. Addison




                                                     ii
F. Results Framework Analysis

Program Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)

The objectives of the PSRDPL are to assist the Royal Thai Government (RTG) in its response to
the financial crisis and to support institutional development in the public sector by: (i) improving
the effectiveness of the public financial management framework through better governance and
accountability; (ii) enhancing the skills and performance of the civil service; and (iii) improving
quality and timeliness of service delivery.

Revised Program Development Objectives (if any, as approved by original approving authority)

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                                     Original Target           Formally       Actual Value Achieved
      Indicator           Baseline Value              Values (from          Revised Target        at Completion or
                                                  approval documents)            Values             Target Years
                   GDP [growth] is at least one percent higher in 2009 relative to [what it would have been] without
Indicator 1 :
                   [the] stimulus.
Value
(quantitative or
Qualitative)
Date achieved
Comments           Achieved. GDP projections for 2009 by the Government, IMF and the World Bank before the
(incl. %           stimulus package was announced were a contraction of around 3 to 3.5 percent of GDP. The actual
achievement)       outcome was a contraction of 2.3 percent.
                   Reduction in the difference between budget requests by sector ministries and outer year budget
Indicator 2 :
                   projection in the MTEF.
Value
(quantitative or
Qualitative)
Date achieved
Comments
                   Achieved. Difference between budget requests by sector ministries and outer year budget
(incl. %
                   projection reduced from 62.3% of FY13 budget to 48.5% of FY14 budget.
achievement)
                   Results of ex-post assessment of expenditure programs and projects for FY09 inform budget
Indicator 3 :
                   allocations for FY11.
Value
(quantitative or
Qualitative)
Date achieved
Comments
                   Achieved. Results from the ex-post assessment of expenditure programs and projects for FY09
(incl. %
                   were used to inform budget allocations for FY11.
achievement)
                   Improvement in PEFA score on multi-year perspective in budget planning from current "C" in
Indicator 4 :
                   2009 to "B" by 2011.
Value
(quantitative or
Qualitative)
Date achieved
Comments           Achieved. PEFA indicator PI-12, on multi-year perspective in budget planning, improved to B in
(incl. %           2011 from C in 2009. The key factor was a reduction of about 20 percent in the difference between
achievement)       outer-year MTEF estimates and agency requests.

                                                       iii
                                                     Original Target            Formally      Actual Value Achieved
      Indicator           Baseline Value              Values (from          Revised Target       at Completion or
                                                  approval documents)            Values             Target Years
Indicator 5 :      Consolidated financial statement certified by the Office of the Auditor General for FY11 by 2012.
Value
(quantitative or
Qualitative)
Date achieved
Comments           Partially achieved. At the end of September 2013, the government financial statements for FY09
(incl. %           were certified by the Office of Auditor-General. MOF has submitted the government financial
achievement)       statements for FY10-12 to the Auditor-General for auditing.
                   Improvement in PEFA score on effectiveness of internal controls improve from C+ in 2009 to B in
Indicator 6 :
                   2011.
Value
(quantitative or
Qualitative)
Date achieved
Comments           Achieved. PEFA indicator PI-20 on effectiveness of internal controls improved from C+ in 2009 to
(incl. %           B in 2011. Based on Comptroller General's audit rating of high compliance with the internal control
achievement)       framework.
Indicator 7 :      Budget-to-actual reports prepared and published for the first time starting FY12.
Value
(quantitative or
Qualitative)
Date achieved
Comments
(incl. %           Achieved. Budget to actual reports are being prepared at the aggregate level.
achievement)
Indicator 8 :      Reduced reconciliation errors in consolidated financial reports.
Value
(quantitative or
Qualitative)
Date achieved
Comments
(incl. %           Achieved. Reconciliation errors reduced allowing for OAG certification of audit reports for FY11.
achievement)
                   Improved transparency by providing public access to the year-end financial statements, in addition
Indicator 9 :      to the current public access to the annual budget documentation, in-year budget execution reports
                   and external audit reports by 2011.
Value
(quantitative or
Qualitative)
Date achieved
Comments
                   Achieved. Thailand publishes the end-year financial statements on the Comptroller General's
(incl. %
                   Department website in addition to other required documents.
achievement)
Indicator 10 :     Reduction in interaction between tax payer and collector, reducing avenues for rent-seeking.
Value
(quantitative or
Qualitative)
Date achieved
Comments
                   Achieved. By implementing the e-filing system, the need for most taxpayers and tax collectors to
(incl. %
                   interact has been eliminated.
achievement)
Indicator 11 :     In FY10, each of 40 the agencies [will] reduce their service delivery time, processes, and/or costs


                                                        iv
                                                      Original Target    Formally     Actual Value Achieved
       Indicator           Baseline Value              Values (from    Revised Target   at Completion or
                                                   approval documents)     Values         Target Years
                    by 5-10 percent relative to FY09.
Value
(quantitative or
Qualitative)
Date achieved
Comments            Partially achieved. Between 2009 and 2012, number of procedures and number of days for starting
(incl. %            a business were reduced. Relative costs for starting a business, obtaining electricity, paying taxes,
achievement)        and cost per shipping container also reduced.
                    From FY11, more than half of the agencies use the new form for reporting systems of OPDC that
Indicator 12 :      develops the respective KPI's for the Ministerial and Departmental 4-year Operational Plan, thereby
                    reducing overlap between OPDC and BOB reporting systems.
Value
(quantitative or
Qualitative)
Date achieved
Comments
(incl. %            Achieved. All central government agencies are now using the new integrated forms.
achievement)
                    Increased flexibility within the civil service cadre's as evidenced by staff being able to transfer to
Indicator 13 :
                    different agencies within the same technical specialization field by 2010.
Value
(quantitative or
Qualitative)
Date achieved
Comments            Achieved. The OCSC has established the HIPPS and New Wave programs consistent with the 2008
(incl. %            Law that have allowed for greater staff mobility and deployment across agencies within the same
achievement)        specializations.
Indicator 14 :      Pay differentials between staff [are] subject to performance assessments by 2012.
Value
(quantitative or
Qualitative)
Date achieved
Comments
                    Achieved. In 2012 the Office of the Civil Service Commission introduced a performance
(incl. %
                    assessment system which provides for variable pay increase based on staff performance.
achievement)


(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)


G. Ratings of Program Performance in ISRs

            Date ISR                                                                           Actual Disbursements
 No.                                    DO                                  IP
            Archived                                                                              (USD millions)
   1       06/25/2012              Satisfactory                       Satisfactory                          0.00
   2       01/27/2013              Satisfactory                       Satisfactory                        200.00




                                                           v
H. Restructuring (if any)

                            ISR Ratings at   Amount
                  Board
 Restructuring              Restructuring Disbursed at Reason for Restructuring & Key
               Approved PDO
    Date(s)                                Restructuring           Changes Made
                  Change     DO      IP in USD millions
                                                         The extension enables the
                                                         withdrawals to be more aligned
                                                         with the implementation of the
                                                         RTG's investment plans for
                                                         FY2013. The extension also helps
  11/30/2012        N         S       S        100.00
                                                         lower the cost of swapping the
                                                         PSRDPL proceeds from US
                                                         dollars to Thai Baht for the RTG.
                                                         The baht swap market is quite thin
                                                         and is therefore volatile.




                                            vi
1. Program Context, Development Objectives and Design

The Public Sector Development Policy Loan (PSRDPL) is an interesting case study of how political
uncertainty and institutional constraints can delay the use of funds despite high technical capacity
and a wide consensus on the need for reforms supported by the loan. In many countries, policy
actions are delayed or incomplete but funds are disbursed rapidly, in one go, after Board approval. The
situation was the opposite in Thailand: the Government quickly completed each agreed action but was
slow to use the funds. As a consequence, the PSRDPL stands out with regard to time elapsed between
loan appraisal loan effectiveness. Elements of the story appear throughout the ICR template but most
particularly in Section 1.7. Political uncertainty also affected the design. Abstracting from the politics,
the Government might have been willing to consider a programmatic Development Policy Loan (DPL)
with smaller individual loans. What is interesting in this case is that the reforms were sustained despite a
single operation and delays in accessing the funds.

The PSRDPL marked the start of a re-engagement between the World Bank (IBRD) and the
Government of Thailand. This loan became the first major World Bank loan to Thailand since
2003, and the first policy based loan since the aftermath of the 1997 Asian financial crisis. Like
many South East Asian economies, Thailand had been reluctant to borrow from the international financial
institutions after the 1997 crisis. The World Bank (IBRD) therefore provided little financing to Thailand.
The relationship changed in the summer of 2008 when the Government of Thailand approached the Bank
to explore the possibility of budget support. Specifically, a request was received by the Bank for a
PSRDPL—building on the Bank’s support in this area since the financial crisis—to support a more
expansive policy engagement in this crucial reform area and at the same time to support the budget with
the aim of increasing public sector investment that had been lagging since the 1997 crisis.

The PSRDPL was a stand-alone DPL which was prepared in 2008 and approved in November 2010.
The objectives of the PSRDPL were originally focused on institutional development in the public sector.
This was to be achieved by: (i) improving the effectiveness of the public financial management
framework through better governance and accountability; (ii) enhancing the skills and performance of the
civil service; and (iii) improving quality and timeliness of service delivery.

The PSRDPL was quickly modified by the World Bank team to help the authorities deal with the
emerging Global Financial Crisis and ensuing global recession. As the global crisis became more
apparent in 2009, the PSRDPL was doubled in size to US$1 billion and modified to include support to the
Royal Thai Government (RTG) in its response to the crisis.

The PSRDPL was developed and implemented in an extended period of political and
macroeconomic uncertainty. Much of the design for the policy actions in the PSRDPL was conceived
in 2008. In December 2008, a new coalition Government led by the Democrat Party took office after the
previous ruling party was dissolved by the Constitutional Court. The opposition subsequently staged a
series of massive protests. In 2009, these led to the cancellation of an Association of Southeast Asian
Nations (ASEAN) +6 summit in Pattaya and riots in Bangkok. In April and May 2010, an outbreak of
violence that led to nearly 100 deaths and over one thousand injured. By March 2011, after the November
2010 Board approval, large political protests were again organized in advance of elections. In July 2011,
a new Prime Minister was elected in time to preside over the most debilitating flooding seen in the
preceding 70 years. More large opposition protests occurred in June 2012 and November 2012. The
macroeconomic situation was equally uncertain. At the time the DPL was being developed, the world
economy had lurched from a food and fuel price crisis to a global financial crisis to a deep global
recession. The new situation was clearly pernicious in its effects but its depth and duration were



                                                     1
unknown. Frequent revisions in forecasts by the IMF and by investment firm analysts are but one
manifestation of this uncertainty.

The PSRDPL was also developed in a climate of general reluctance on the part of many officials
and citizens to expose the Government to foreign influence. This reluctance is one of the legacies of
the 1997-98 Asian Currency Crisis. This motivated the inclusion in the 2007 Constitution of an article
requiring two Parliamentary reviews of any foreign treaty, including borrowing from the international
financial institutions (IFI). 1 The first review determines whether or not to authorize negotiations while
the second review determines whether or not to accept the outcome of negotiations. In this context, the
World Bank team cautioned that “There is also a risk that borrowing from IFIs will be politicized even if
the underlying reform programs and the stimulus package are uncontroversial.

The same Constitutional article also requires public hearings before proposed treaties can be
concluded and full disclosure of the details of each concluded treaty. As a consequence, the PRSDPL
is one of a few that includes documentation of consultations with the citizens over the merits of the loan
and its purpose. 2 The text also provides a summary prepared by the Ministry of Finance of the key
recommendations that came out of those consultations. Equally impressive is the Thai implementation of
a website (www.tkk2555.com) that allowed citizens to monitor progress of each Thai Kem Kaeng (TKK)
project over time. The consultations and transparency may have ameliorated some of the doubts about
borrowing externally.

1.1 Context at Appraisal

The PSRDPL was appraised on May 5-7, 2009. The Bank’s PSRDPL Team assessed that economy
was beginning to recover from the global financial crisis, although the political strife and substantial
dependence on exports highlighted that the recovery was still fragile. In this context, the Government
was advancing plans for a three year economic stimulus program worth US$40 billion to be financed
primarily from domestic financial markets with limited borrowing from ADB, IBRD, and JICA. The
team therefore assessed that the rationale for the PSRDPL remained valid: to assist the Royal Thai
Government (RTG) in its response to the financial crisis and to support institutional development in the
public sector.

At the time of appraisal, Thailand was a middle income country with a population of 66 million and
a per-capita GNI of US$3,824 (2009). According to preliminary results from the 2010 census, 44
percent of the population lives in urban municipalities. Socio-economic indicators were comparable to
the average for East Asian countries.3 Thailand’s economy is dominated by services, which accounted for
45 percent of GDP and 40 percent of employment in 2009. Sixty eight percent of GDP was exported in
2009, of which 75 percent was manufactures and 15 percent was food stuffs.

Thailand has had considerable success in its economic development, with sustained strong growth
and impressive poverty reduction. In the decade that ended in 1995, the Thai economy was one of the
world’s fastest growing at an average rate of 8-9 percent per year. After recovering from the Asian Crisis
of 1997-1998, the Thai economy took off again, with growth averaging about 5 percent in the period
2002-2007 despite a massive tsunami in December 2004. As a result of this sustained growth, the
incidence of poverty fell from 42 percent in 1988 to about 9 percent in 2008. Thailand’s economic


1
  See Article 190 of the 2007 Constitution.
2
  In fact, the consultations were held in three different locations to ensure wide public access.
3
  The 2010 UNDP non-income human development index for Thailand was 0.683 compared to an East Asian and
Pacific average of 0.692 (includes Hong Kong SAR, China, Korea, Japan and Singapore).


                                                    2
growth subsequently slowed because of weak private consumption and investment demand, largely due to
the Global Financial Crisis and ongoing political uncertainty.

The benefits of success have not been shared equally in Thailand. Some regions, particularly the
North and Northeast, have not caught up to the rest of the country in terms of poverty reduction. 4
Although regional disparities are a natural part of the development process, the challenge for the
authorities was (and still is) to promote inclusive development through economic integration. Despite the
gains in reducing poverty, income inequality remains high and intractable. This implies the need to
develop policies and programs to connect the fast growing urban areas with lagging regions, promote
more equitable delivery of public services—especially education—and target interventions toward the
poorest households and regions.

                             Table 1. Key Macroeconomic Indicators (2008-12)

                                                                     2008         2009       2010         2011      2012
 Real GDP
  Real GDP growth (%)                                                  1.7         -0.9        7.3          0.3       6.5
  Real export growth (%)                                               5.1        -12.5       14.7          9.5       3.1
 Inflation
  Headline consumer price inflation (%, p.a.)                          5.5         -0.9        3.3          3.8       3.0
  Core consumer price inflation (%, p.a.)                              2.4          0.3        1.0          2.4       2.1
 External Account
  Growth of US$ exports (%)                                           15.9        -14.0      27.1          14.3       3.1
  Trade balance (Billions of USD)                                     17.3         32.6      29.8          17.0       6.0
  Current account balance (Billions of USD)                            2.2         21.9      10.0           4.1      -1.5
  Current account balance (as % of GDP)                                0.8          8.3       3.8           1.2      -0.4
  International reserves (Billions of USD)                           111.0        138.4     172.1         175.1     181.6
  International reserves (as Months of Imports)                       11.3         10.3      10.2           9.6      11.8
  Total debt service ratio (%)                                         8.2          7.5       4.7           3.4       4.2
  of which: Public (including BOT)                                     0.7          0.7       0.6           0.6       0.6
 Government Finance (fiscal year)
  Revenue and grants (as % GDP)                                       17.0         15.6       16.9         18.0      17.4
  Expenditures (as % GDP)                                             17.3         20.3       18.9         19.9      20.0
  Overall cash balance (as % GDP)                                     -0.3         -4.7       -2.0         -1.9      -2.6
  Total public debt outstanding (as % GDP)                            35.3         41.7       39.5         40.0      41.1
 Monetary Statistics
  Broad money (% change)                                               9.2           6.8       10.9        15.1      10.4
  Prime rate (%, e.o.p. minimum)                                      6.75         5.85        6.12        7.25      7.00
  Prime rate (%, e.o.p. maximum)                                      7.00         6.25        6.50        7.63      7.38
  Exchange rate (Baht per 1 USD)                                     33.36        34.34       31.73       30.49     31.08
Sources: Bank of Thailand and World Bank staff calculations with the exception   of export growth which   comes from World
Development Indicators. Estimates for 2012 are preliminary.

At the time of appraisal, the main development challenges in Thailand were sharp contractions in
exports and expectations of a sharp slowing of real GDP growth. Strong export growth helped keep
real GDP recover from the Asian Financial Crisis. As the impact of the Global Financial Crisis spread,
Thai exports plunged in the fourth quarter of calendar 2008 (first quarter FY09). 5 By the end of calendar
year 2009, US dollar exports had contracted by 14.0 percent compared to positive growth of 15.9 percent
in 2008. At the time, the World Bank 6 and IMF expected real GDP growth in 2009 to contract by
approximately 3 percent, assuming an effective stimulus program is put in place, due to the impact of



4
  National Economic and Social Development Board and World Bank, 2005.
5
  The Thai fiscal year starts October and ends in September.
6
  World Bank, 2009. Thailand Economic Monitor, June.


                                                           3
political tensions and an extended Global Financial Crisis. 7 This expectation was an important factor in
the decision to continue forward at appraisal. By contrast, the most recent, ex-post estimates from the
Bank of Thailand are contained in Table 1. Real exports in 2009 did contract sharply by 12.5 percent, but
real GDP was more resilient than expected and contracted by only 0.9 percent.

The economic downturn had a clear and negative impact on budgetary revenues. In the first six
months of FY09, Government revenue amounted to THB588.6 billion (US$16.8 billion), down by 13
percent from the same period in FY08. In fact, ex-post estimates indicate revenues and grants fell to 15.6
percent of GDP in FY09, down from 17.0 percent of GDP in FY08.

After seeing the initial impact of the emerging Global Financial Crisis, the authorities set out to
stimulate the economy in FY09 through additional spending on transfers and subsidies of around 1
percent of GDP. 8 This was approved in a supplementary budget in early January. Total spending
increased by 14.8 percent over the previous year bringing total expenditures to THB955.9 billion or 20.3
percent of GDP, up from 17.3 percent of GDP in FY08.

As a consequence of falling revenues and increased outlays, the fiscal deficit increased to THB367.3
billion by the first half of FY09, up from THB155.9 billion in FY08. The IMF projected that the
central Government budget deficit would worsen from 0.4 percent of GDP in FY08 to 4.6 percent of GDP
in FY09. 9 As Table 1 shows, their estimate was highly accurate. The larger deficit also contributed to
more domestic borrowing, elevating public debt to 41.7 percent of GDP in FY09 from 35.3 in FY08.

At the time of appraisal, the Government was planning a second economic stimulus program. This
program was known as the TKK, meaning “Strong Thailand” and was introduced in May 2009. The
TKK was meant to cover FY10-12 at a cost of THB 1.4 trillion (average of 4.8 percent of GDP per year).
It included measures to reduce tax liabilities and accelerate previously planned public investments, mainly
for infrastructure, that could not be accommodated in the budget and/or spending by state owned
enterprises and Government agencies. The Government also launched a debt refinancing scheme that
converted expensive informal sector loans to more affordable loans from state owned banks.

The authorities proposed that the TKK stimulus be financed outside the budgetary framework due
to the limits imposed by the Public Debt Management (PDM) Act. Since the budget for FY10 was
prepared at the height of the financial crisis, revenue estimates were low and greatly constrained
expenditures because the domestic borrowing ceiling imposed by the PDM Act effectively limits
expenditures to 125 percent of expected revenues.10 In light of this constraint to the budget envelope, and
wishing not only to maintain the level of public investments but also to provide a boost that would
stimulate the economy, the Government decided to finance the TKK program outside the normal
framework. Thus the domestic borrowing authority for initial TKK expenditures came from an
Emergency Decree passed in May 2009. 11 The authorities sought additional external financing worth
US$2 billion (0.5% of GDP 12) from the World Bank, the ADB and JICA for portions of the investment
program that could not be accommodated under the constraint on domestic borrowing set by the PDM


7
  IMF, 2009. Country Report No. 09/261.
8
  Ibid. Tax expenditures added another 0.5 to 0.7 percent of GDP.
9
  Ibid.
10
   Section 21 of the Public Debt Management Act (2005) stipulates that borrowing may not exceed 20 percent of
annual budgetary appropriations.
11
   The alternative would have been to amend the threshold in the PDM Act. Not doing so may have been
understandably expedient but may also have opened the door to subsequent use of emergency decrees.
12
   See Table 4 in the Program Document.


                                                       4
Act. The total external support was well within the limit set by the PDM Act (2005) requiring that
foreign borrowing shall not exceed 10 percent of the annual budgeted appropriation. The Act also
stipulates that foreign borrowing may not be used to finance budget deficits. 13 This implies that
expenditures financed from foreign borrowing are necessarily outside the budget. This requirement also
complicated implementation since normal budgetary mechanisms for allocation across uses and
disbursement of funds were not available. It is worth noting that, while off-budget, (i) the funds did flow
through government accounts and (ii) projects funded from the DPL were executed through the normal
PFM systems of Thai agencies. The main difference is that projects funded from external sources such as
the DPL are chosen by committee, rather than by the Budget Bureau. This creates delays and precludes
transparent debate and ratification by Parliament.

Price changes were relatively benign. Following the removal of capital controls in March 2008, the
Baht initially appreciated in the first quarter of 2008. Global risk aversion subsequently contributed to a
stronger dollar and the baht has depreciated in line with other regional currencies. Table 1 shows that
headline consumer price inflation (period average) was 5.5 percent in 2008, up from 2.25 percent in 2007,
reflecting the rapid run-up in global oil and commodity prices. Inflationary pressures moderated
significantly since the fourth quarter of 2008 due to a declining trend in global oil prices. The IMF had
projected a period average headline inflation rate of 0.5 percent for 2009. 14 In fact, headline inflation
actually fell by 0.9 percent. In December 2008, the central bank reduced the policy rate by 100 basis
points to 2.75 percent, citing a moderation in inflationary pressures and slowing real growth. The rate
was lowered by another 150 basis points to 1.25 percent in April 2009. These changes contributed to the
reductions in the prime lending rate reported in Table 1.

The economy began to display signs of a rapid recovery shortly after appraisal. The expectation of
the World Bank team at the time of appraisal, as expressed in the draft PD, was that a slow recovery
would begin in 2010. Real GDP was forecast to grow by 1.7 percent that year. 15 In fact, officials were
asserting in the press as early as July 2009 that the economy had probably begun a recovery and by
September 2009 they were confirming this.16 Table 1 shows that the recovery was quite rapid: real GDP
growth in 2010 was 7.3 percent, 5.6 percentage points higher than originally forecast. Real exports had
also rebounded strongly, growing at 27.1 percent in US dollar terms. These improvements allowed the
highly buoyant Government revenue effort to reach 16.9 percent of GDP in 2010, essentially the same
effort of 17.0 percent of GDP seen in 2008. Moreover, net portfolio outflows became net inflows from
2010 onward as many of the wealthier economies reduced their interest rates well below Thai deposit
rates. The exchange rate (nominal and real) appreciated in response. External reserves remained strong
throughout the crisis with ample coverage in terms of imports and in terms of short-term debt obligations.

1.2 Original Program Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)

The development objectives of the PSRDPL, as approved, were to (a) assist the RTG in its response to the
financial crisis and (b) to support institutional development in the public sector by: (i) improving the
effectiveness of the public financial management framework through better governance and
accountability; (ii) enhancing the skills and performance of the civil service; and (iii) improving quality
and timeliness of service delivery.




13
   Public Debt Management Act, 2005, section 22.
14
   Ibid.
15
   The IMF expected a lower growth rate of 1.0 percent in 2010. (IMF WEO, April 2009, p. 73.)
16
    The Nation, July 1, 2009 and September 22, 2009.


                                                       5
The DPL operation was a core element of the World Bank’s Country Interim Country Partnership
Strategy Note (October 2010, Report No. 48799-TH). The Strategy Note had two pillars: (i) assisting the
country to recover from the financial crisis; and (ii) helping improve Thailand's competitiveness and
sustainable development. The PSRDPL operation was at the center of the Bank’s support in responding to
the crisis, while the public sector reforms contributed to the sustainability component of the second pillar.

1.3 Revised PDO

The PDOs were not revised.

1.4 Original Policy Areas Supported by the Program (as approved)

The program included four policy areas. These are briefly described below.

(i)     Mitigating the impact of the global financial crisis through fiscal stimulus and investing in
        infrastructure for long term growth.

The program document explained the need for economic stimulus in a very clear manner. The main
activity in this area was therefore the implementation of the FY09 stimulus program.

(ii)    Improving expenditure planning, aligning budgetary resources to development priorities within
        the Strategic Performance Based Budgeting Framework.

According to Section V of the program document, at the time of appraisal, Thailand had a good budgetary
system which, with further improvements, could be made even better. Among other things, budget
documentation should include more information on the previous year out-turn and the intended use of
funds in the upcoming budget.

The main activity in this policy area was the adoption of the constitutionally mandated Public Financial
Act. The Act includes rules for medium term financial planning, guidelines for estimating expenditures,
rules for determining the amount of emergency contingency funds, and rules requiring the inclusion of
additional information in the annual budget documents, including an economic overview, the fiscal
impacts of tax exemptions, and justification for multi-year obligations. Other activities included increased
policy focus on budget formulation through the adoption of revised costing norms and a performance
assessment rating tool.

(iii)   Enhancing effectiveness of budget execution, timeliness of financial reporting, strengthening
        revenue administration and public procurement.

The program document describes a fairly strong set of systems for budget execution and monitoring.
Several aspects had, however, been targeted for further improvement including revenue administration,
procurement transparency, internal controls, and external audit.

Activities in this policy area included improved fiduciary controls, better monitoring and reporting of
public finances, increased transparency and disclosure in the use of public resources, submission of Royal
Decree on Procurement, simplified procedures for taxpayer compliance, and an improved external audit
system. In many cases, the reforms involved cutting technology including electronic real-time monitoring
of accounts, geographic information systems for project performance monitoring, electronic based
procurement, and improvements to an electronic revenue system installed in 2007.




                                                     6
(iv)    Strengthening the performance management framework, and improving quality and timeliness
        of service delivery.

The program document (paragraph 126 and Table 8) indicates that the reference to service delivery is
focused on reducing the costs of doing business. The program document indicates the RTG has put in
place a good system for results based management. No serious deficiencies were observed but a few
opportunities for improvement were noted, notably with regard to the civil service—greater employee
freedom to work for a variety of agencies in their career could help break a perceived “silo mentality” and
help improve coordination across agencies.

Activities in this policy area included steps taken by nine working committees to reduce the cost of doing
business (shortened service delivery times, streamlined procedures, reduced costs) across a wide range of
Government agencies, the negotiation of performance agreements for Government agencies, the
harmonization of key performance indicators, and implementation of the Second Strategic Plan for the
Thai Public Sector Development. Activities also included adoption of a new Civil Service Act,
implementation of a new grading structure for the civil service, and the adoption of a Royal Decree on the
integrated administration of the provinces and provincial clusters. These reforms are expected to reduce
rigidities in the civil service structure and improve incentives and performance monitoring for civil
servants.

The program document includes an extra annex (Annex 4) that contains a useful, detailed summary of the
Government’s public sector reform program.

1.5 Revised Policy Areas

The policy areas were not revised.

1.6 Design options

Initial conditions at appraisal ruled out the use of a programmatic series of DPLs. The Bank usually
prefers a programmatic series because this helps ensure that reforms are sustained. At the time of
preparation, the team was re-engaging after a long hiatus with a Government that was somewhat wary of
external borrowing. Moreover, as noted above, substantial political uncertainty further complicated the
situation. In this context, a single DPL seemed preferable to a programmatic series of operations even
though, under other circumstances, the Government might have been willing to consider a programmatic
DPL with smaller individual loans. In addition, a single tranche option seemed appropriate since the
authorities fully expected to make use of the funds in support of the TKK. The language of the loan
agreement, however, allowed for some flexibility noting that the loan is allocated in a single tranche from
which the Borrower may make withdrawals (plural) from the loan proceeds.

1.7 Other significant changes

There was a significant change in the schedule. Design, scope and scale, implementation arrangements
and funding allocations all remained unchanged.

The schedule at the time of the December 2008 Concept Note was ambitious, in line with perceived
need coming from the emerging Global Financial Crisis. According to the timetable in the concept
note version of the Program Document, the team expected to obtain authorization for appraisal in
February 2009 and then proceed to the Board in March 2009. This schedule could have been feasible: all




                                                    7
the agreed policy actions had been completed by December other than the FY09 stimulus that was
announced in February 2009.

Political uncertainty required a change of schedule. As depicted in the timeline in Figure 1, the first
Parliamentary approval (to engage in negotiations) was issued on March 24, 2009. Loan appraisal and
subsequent negotiations were conducted on May 5-7, 2009. A long delay by Parliament in providing the
second approval for the DPL, due the ongoing political uncertainty, resulted in a management decision to
delay further processing the DPL for submission to the Board. 17 In fact, there was a 15 month lag
between the May 2009 appraisal and the Parliamentary approval on August 17, 2010.

                                                                                                        Figure 1: PSRDPL Timeline




                                           1rst Parliamentary Approval                                                    2nd Parliamentary Approval                                                                     Loan Agreement is Signed
                                                 (Mar. 24, 2009)                                                                (Aug. 17, 2010)                                                                               (May 18, 2012)

              Concept Note Review                                                Appraisal & Negotiations                                                     WB Board Approval                                                                  Loan Effectiveness Declared
                 (Dec. 10, 2008)                                                      (May 7, 2009)                                                            (Nov. 18, 2010)                                                                          (Sep. 9, 2012)
     Jan-08
              Mar-08
                       May-08




                                                           Jan-09
                                                                    Mar-09
                                                                             May-09




                                                                                                                 Jan-10
                                                                                                                          Mar-10




                                                                                                                                                                       Jan-11
                                                                                                                                                                                Mar-11




                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Jan-12
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Mar-12




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Jan-13
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Mar-13
                                                                                                                                   May-10




                                                                                                                                                                                         May-11




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               May-12




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     May-13
                                Jul-08
                                         Sep-08




                                                                                      Jul-09
                                                                                               Sep-09




                                                                                                                                            Jul-10
                                                                                                                                                     Sep-10




                                                                                                                                                                                                  Jul-11
                                                                                                                                                                                                           Sep-11




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Jul-12
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Sep-12
                                                  Nov-08




                                                                                                        Nov-09




                                                                                                                                                              Nov-10




                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Nov-11




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Nov-12
                         PM Wongsawat                                                     PM Vejjajiva                                           PM Shinawatra                                                  Protests                                    GFC                             Floods

World Bank management determined that resumption of DPL processing would require a second
review by the Operations Committee. Between May 2009 and the second Parliamentary approval in
August 2010, political tensions had not abated, thus reducing the ability to the World Bank to engage
effectively with the Government. A mass rally in favor of new elections was staged in December 2009.
Many parts of Bangkok was paralyzed between March and May as protestors asked for the removal of the
then serving Prime Minister and continued to seek new elections. As noted earlier, this was stopped only
after troops were called in. In addition, the Government faced a challenge to its borrowing plans by late
May 2009, just a few weeks after appraisal, as the parliamentary opposition sought a review by the
Constitution Court of the legality of the emergency decree in support of the FY10-12 TKK. 18 The
opposition questioned whether the Government’s plans were in accordance with Article 184 of the
Constitution, which allows for such borrowing on an emergency basis, and it also suggests that the
Government was trying to borrow more than it needs.19 With this combination of events, and knowing
the political situation had not been resolved, the management decision to hold a second OC review for the
DPL was understandable and justified.


17
   This is documented in the September 10, 2010 distribution memorandum for a second OC review meeting.
18
   Economic Intelligence Unit, June 2009.
19
   The TKK was subsequently found legal by the court.


                                                                                                                                                       8
Within this same time period, the impact of the global crisis came and went: RTG officials were
quoted in the press in July and September 2009 as saying the economy was rebounding. 20 By April 2010,
the Finance Minister announced that revenues had improved enough that the Government could abandon
its earlier plans for domestic borrowing. There were no announcements, however, that the FY10-12 TKK
would be discontinued. 21 In addition, the Government maintained its intention to borrow from the World
Bank, the Asian Development Bank and the Japan International Cooperation Agency because it sought
long-term funds capital imports, notably for rail-system investment. 22

The OC review on September 17, 2010 authorized the team to proceed without modifications. As
noted in the September 10, 2010 distribution memorandum to the OC members, the delay in processing
the operation provided an opportunity to consider the standard assessment of the prior actions as well as
the progress in the forward-looking reform program discussed during negotiations. There no backsliding,
despite the political instability, and the reform momentum had been sustained with the implementation of
nearly the entire program. Additional progress was made after appraisal and negotiations: (i) the
introduction of a performance-based pay system for the civil service; and (ii) the certification of the
Government Accounts by the Auditor General for the first time since 2005 following improved
reconciliation of accounts. The distribution therefore asked for guidance on the following:

        It is not possible to renegotiate the loan as this would require new Parliamentary
        approval. But as mentioned, there has been good progress in the reform program. Does
        the OC agree that the continued implementation of reforms in a difficult political
        environment is justification to proceed even though the negotiated prior actions are now
        somewhat dated?

The minutes from the meeting did not specifically address this question. Nor did they address whether
support for a stimulus remained necessary, presumably because the FY10-12 TKK had only just begun.
It can be inferred then that the OC members concluded the PDOs and associated policy actions remained
appropriate.

Further modifications to the schedule were required after Board approval. The PSRDPL was
approved by the Board in November 2010. The December 15, 2010 Monthly Operational Summary
included the expectation that the loan agreement would be signed quickly, by late January 2011.
According to interviews, this did not happen until May 18, 2012 for several reasons. First, Government
officials were distracted by the political instability leading up to the July 2011 elections. Second, the
incoming Government requested a review of the external borrowing from ADB, JICA and the World
Bank that took several months. Third, shortly after the new Government took office, the worst floods in
70 years wreaked extensive damage throughout the country, drawing attention away from the TKK and
many other activities. Moreover, according to the IMF, the authorities had delayed the infrastructure
projects underlying the TKK due to the ongoing political crisis.23 This would have reduced expenditures
and thus reduced the need for external financing.

The World Bank pressed the Government for a decision to retain or release the funds. The World
Bank team regularly asked the Government if it intended to use the funds. By February 2012, the team


20
   The Nation, July 1, 2009 and September 22, 2009.
21
    One of the reviewers contributing to the second OC Review asked on September 16, 2010 whether it would make
sense to explicitly state what might motivate the RTG to cancel the TKK, given the uncertain economic situation in
Thailand.
22
   The Nation, April 28, 2010.
23
   IMF Country Report No. 13/323, page 39.


                                                        9
indicated it would cancel the loan and reallocate the funds elsewhere if it did not get a decision to sign the
loan by May. This led to a March 26, 2012 request for an extension to the closing date (originally August
16, 2012) and the May 18 loan agreement. The loan was subsequently declared effective on September 9,
2012.


2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Program Performance

Prior (policy) actions 2 through 5 had been completed by the time of the 2008 Concept Review meeting.
Prior action 6 was completed in December 2008. Prior action 1 was added after the Concept Review
stage, announced in February 2009 and completed by September 2009.

                 Table 2: List of Prior Actions and Conditions from Legal Agreement

                                                 Single Tranche
                                  Actions and Conditions                                       Status
 Condition: Maintenance of an adequate macroeconomic policy framework                         fulfilled
 Prior Action 1: Parliament has approved, and its Government is implementing, an              fulfilled
 economic stimulus package for its Fiscal Year 2009 to mitigate the impact of the global
 financial crisis.
 Prior Action 2: The Borrower’s Bureau of the Budget has (a) revised costing norms for        fulfilled
 its Medium Term Expenditure Framework under its budget for Fiscal Year 2008; and (b)
 taken steps to ensure that the Performance Assessment Rating Tool is implemented in all
 Government agencies.
 Prior Action 3:                                                                              fulfilled

 a) The Ministry of Finance has: (i) piloted the use of the e-financials accounting module
 for direct financial reporting from the Government Fiscal Management Information
 System (GFMIS); (ii) begun undertaking daily reconciliations between the GFMIS and
 the Treasury Reserve Account and targeted training; and (iii) introduced e-token
 interface with the GFMIS for secure data access for management reporting by budget
 entities.

 (b) The Bureau of the Budget has piloted an e-budget system in the Government’s line
 ministries for improving links between sector policies and budget requests.
 Prior Action 4: Nine working committees constituted by the Borrower and representing         fulfilled
 forty Government agencies have taken necessary actions to: (a) shorten their service-
 delivery times; (b) streamline processes; and (c) and reduce the costs of interacting with
 Government in ten distinct areas in which they deal with private businesses.
 Prior Action 5: The Borrower’s Office of Public Sector Development Commission and            fulfilled
 the Bureau of the Budget have harmonized their reporting systems to facilitate the
 formulation of key performance indicators for a four year ministerial and departmental
 operational plan covering all Government agencies.
 Prior Action 6: The Borrower’s Parliament has promulgated the Civil Service Act of           fulfilled
 2008, and the Borrower’s Office of the Civil Service Commission has taken necessary
 action to implement a new grading structure across the entire civil service with effect
 from December 11, 2008.




                                                         10
2.2 Major Factors Affecting Implementation:

Institutional development in the public sector.

Implementation of the DPL program aimed at institutional development in the public sector was
strong. This was the result of strong consensus and commitment across three different Governments,
sound background analysis, and a design that was highly compatible with the Government’s own, wider
program of public financial management reforms summarized in Annex 4 of the PD. The risks identified
at appraisal were relevant and the mitigation measures were effective.

The program content benefitted from a broad level of consensus among all political parties. As
noted in the PD, “Thailand …has a strong bureaucracy which has not been significantly impacted by the
political uncertainties and recognizes the importance of continued reforms to enhance Thailand’s
competitiveness, and reduce poverty and inequality. As a result—and even over the past several years of
political instability and frequent changes in Government—Thailand has continued to move ahead with the
design and implementation of a steady stream of reforms across a broad range of issues and areas,
including poverty reduction, the financial and corporate sectors, improving the business and investment
environments, trade, public sector, governance and social protection. The longevity of the reform
movement speaks to the extent to which the changes have been owned by senior members of the
bureaucracy and the professionalism of the top tier of the Thai civil service, as well as to a broad level of
consensus about these reforms among all political parties.”

The program was backed by sound and timely analysis and technical assistance. The design of the
operation is underpinned by findings of the Public Expenditure and Financial Accountability (PEFA)
assessment (2009), analytical work being undertaken in context of an on-going Public Expenditure
Review (underway in 2010), and a review of the Results-Based Management system in Thailand, as well
as from technical assistance under the Country Development Partnership with Thailand on Governance
and Public Sector Reform. In addition to the substantial analytical work undertaken, the World Bank and
the MOF also collaborated extensively on improving the public financial management system for timely
and transparent implementation of the TKK. Preparation of the PSRDPL also benefited from work by
other institutions including the IMF and the OECD. In addition, extensive engagement has been
maintained with Government on the public sector reform program through the country development
partnership. Through this, technical assistance was provided for all areas covered under the DPL. The
program document highlights the key areas of technical assistance in the section that relates to the World
Bank contributions to the reform program.

The program design was highly compatible with the Government’s own wider program of public
financial management reforms. This was made possible not only by the analytical work but also the
World Bank’s long association with the Government’s reform effort since 2001 onward. This wider
Government program included reforms in public expenditure management, revenue management, civil
service reform, decentralization, and cross-Government accountability and transparency. Box 1 and
Annex 5 provide details on World Bank support to the Government program.

The risks identified at appraisal were relevant and the mitigation measures were effective. While
all policy actions had been completed in advance of appraisal and negotiations, several relevant risks to
the continued advancement of the reform program, were identified. The risk of loan politicization was
discussed in detail prior to and after appraisal. Several mitigating factors were noted: (i) the original
request for the loan was reaffirmed each time the Government changed; (ii) the Ministry of Finance
(MOF) had carried out public consultations on the operation and solicited comments on its website; (iii)
the loan was submitted to the World Bank Board only after the two required parliamentary approvals
were received; and (iv) the stand-alone design of the operation would have been helpful to the


                                                     11
Government and/or the Bank in limiting the consequences of any remaining political risk.
Implementation risks were judged to be minimal due to the long-established program of public financial
management reforms spanning multiple Governments. Implementation risks were assessed as inevitable
given the ongoing political turmoil, even though there was widespread consensus in favor of the reforms.
Macroeconomic risks were judged to be low, particularly because the economy had started a strong
recovery from the Global Financial Crisis.

Assisting the Royal Thai Government in its response to the financial crisis

Implementation of the program aimed at assisting the Royal Thai Government in its response to the
Global Financial Crisis was satisfactory. There was strong consensus over time and across each of the
three different Governments that stimulus measures were needed to help ease the impact of the Global
Financial Crisis. The design of the FY09 policy action was supported by analytical work and the action
was effectively implemented by the authorities well before appraisal and negotiations. Any concern
about risk was moot. In this sense, program implementation was highly satisfactory. The original
intention of the authorities, and the expectation of the World Bank, however, was that the DPL funds
would be fully utilized in FY11 in support of the FY10-12 TKK stimulus program. As noted in Section
1.7 above, this did not happen mainly due to political uncertainties. The assessment in the program
document, that implementation risk due to political turmoil was inevitable, is applicable to this outcome.
Mitigating measures were not possible.

The design of the agreed policy action for implementation of a stimulus program in FY09 was
backed by solid analytical work. The team made good use of existing macroeconomic data, household
poverty data to establish the need for an economic stimulus. The team also made good use of the Public
Expenditure Review underway in 2010 to examine the level and composition of public expenditures in
FY09, including the first stimulus program, and for planned spending under the second stimulus
program. 24

The Government moved quickly in 2009 to adopt and implement an economic stimulus program. It
then followed up with a second, three-year program of continued stimulus through FY12. Thus the
degree of commitment was clear: the prior action was met and exceeded. The Bank team was able to
rapidly assist in this process and scale-up due to its long-standing engagement with the RTG over many
years.

The DPL did support a FY13 stimulus effort even though it could not support the TKK as intended.
The RTG had observed the economy beginning to slow: according to the IMF, real GDP growth
decelerated from 6.5 percent in 2012 (rebounding from the 2011 floods) to only 3.1 percent in 2013. The
Government therefore announced a third infrastructure oriented stimulus package of 300 billion baht, or
2.5 percent of GDP for the FY13 budget. 25 Thus, the PSRDPL loan did support the Government’s
stimulus efforts, albeit far later than envisioned. While this was a welcome outcome, it is also the case
that the funds were disbursed into a fiscal framework that had evolved beyond what the team had so
carefully scrutinized in the period 2008-10. In particular, there had not been any new, formal analytical
products produced by the DPL team that included an examination of the level and composition of the
FY13 budget and the third stimulus program. 26



24
   The Public Expenditure Review was published in 2012 as Report No. 67486.
25
   Bank of Thailand, Annual Report, Thailand’s Economic Conditions in 2012, page 45.
26
   Selected aspects of the 2013 budget were reviewed in the World Bank’s December 2012 edition of the Thailand
Economic Monitor.


                                                      12
Immediately before appraisal, in April 2009, the main question regarding risk was highly
appropriate: whether the political situation and macroeconomic policy stance could justify budget
support. 27 At the time, the team continued to expect a real contraction in the economy throughout the
remainder of 2009, followed by very low growth in 2010. The team also noted good progress by the
Government of the day in consolidating its political position. Thus, they proposed a Board date in early
July 2009. As noted earlier, however, political uncertainty caused a delay in bringing the DPL to the
Board and caused further delays in the use of the DPL funds.

Mitigating measures against disbursement delays may not have been possible. Delays in using DPL
funds create an opportunity cost to the extent that the funds could be put to better use in other countries. 28
Thus, some protection against unusually long delays would seem prudent. Under normal circumstances,
such protection comes from quickly signing the loan agreement and cancelling loans that go unused
beyond the closing date which is set at 90 days past the signing of the loan agreement. In Thailand’s case,
the loan agreement was substantially delayed by events largely beyond the control of the Bank or the
authorities and the closing date was extended by mutual agreement between the Bank and the Borrower.

The DPL design allowed flexibility in the disbursement of funds. The loan was disbursed in several
installments, despite the one tranche design, in order to help the Government manage pressure on
the exchange rate. Table 3 shows that the DPL was disbursed in five pieces between September 2012
and June 2013. This was done because the authorities wished to use all means possible to reduce
pressures appreciating the exchange rate. According to the IMF, Thailand experienced a surge in capital
inflows that was stronger than that experienced in the region, beginning in 2012 and peaking in the first
quarter of 2013. 29 In the first four months of 2013, the surge led to a sharp appreciation of the Baht (7
percent with respect to the U.S. dollar), which became the strongest performing currency in the region.
One way to fight this pressure would have been to disburse the DPL in Baht. This option was explored
by the team and the authorities but rejected as infeasible or too expensive. The Government therefore
chose the other option, to spread the disbursement of the DPL funds over time.

                                     Table 3: PSRDPL Loan Withdrawals

                           Disbursement #           Amount (USD)              Release Date
                                 1                   100,000,000               09/26/2012
                                 2                   100,000,000               01/23/2013
                                 3                   100,000,000               04/03/2013
                                 4                   197,500,000               06/12/2013
                                 5                   500,000,000               06/27/2013

In this context, the PSRDPL is almost unique among World Bank DPLs. On the one hand, it is a
clear outlier with regard to processing time with 1,192 days between appraisal and effectiveness. In a
sample of 562 DPLs, only the Dominican Republic Power Sector DPL had a similar delay (1,254 days).30
On the other hand, according to OPSPQ, the PSRDPL is one of a very few single tranche operations that
were disbursed using multiple withdrawals. Interestingly, the US$400 million Public Sector Reform
Loan to Thailand in 1999 was also a single-tranche operation disbursed in multiple installments. The



27
   Distribution memorandum, April 27, 2009.
28
   There are two opportunity costs. The first is the direct cost of not being able to allocate US$1 billion to other
countries. The second is the cost of keeping US$1 billion in liquid assets rather than long-term investments for
more than two years.
29
   IMF Country Report No. 13/323, page 4.
30
   The sample mean was 175 days and the median was 140 days.


                                                           13
authorities chose to withdraw that loan’s proceeds in two installments one year apart ($200 million in July
2000 and $196 million in July 2001) in order to match its budgetary requirements.31

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization:

The content M&E design was appropriate for the institution building objectives but minimal use
was made of quantifiable outcome indicators that were benchmarked for easy monitoring of
progress. The outcome indicators for institution building objectives were drawn directly from the
Government’s own PFM program. This facilitated the selection of indicators. Most of the indicators
chosen, however, lacked quantifiable measures that were benchmarked at the start of the program and
used to monitor progress over time. In at least one case, the outcome indicator also exceeded the capacity
of the Government to produce the required data. The outcome indicator for the fourth prior action sought
evidence of reduced costs of doing business across 40 agencies in terms of time, number of procedures
and monetary costs. Interviews with government officials indicated that they could not track each of
these cost measures across all 40 agencies.

The M&E design did use benchmark data from the 2009 PEFA exercise, with the expectation that
progress could be inferred from the outcome of a second exercise scheduled for 2012. This proved
problematic, as it has elsewhere, because the expected second PEFA exercise did not take place. The
team has, however, conducted internal follow-up assessments using criteria that are identical to those used
in the PEFA. The team prepared the internal assessments based on information from authorities,
consulted with them, and mutually agreed on the assessments. The results are recorded in Table 4.

The M&E design for assisting the Government in its response to the Global Financial Crisis was
not appropriate. Only one indicator was chosen and the construction of the indicator is problematic
because it requires knowledge of the counterfactual: what would GDP growth have been without the
2009 stimulus? This is difficult to assess, particularly given the debate in the economic literature about
the size of Keynesian multipliers. The choice of GDP outcomes is also problematic with regard to
attribution: this variable is not under the full control of the Government. Viable options might have been
linked to budgetary targets and service oriented targets taken from relevant safety net and stimulus
programs.

2.4 Expected Next Phase/Follow-up Operation (if any):

The DPL was a stand-alone operation.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

Rating: Satisfactory

The Program Development Objectives were highly relevant to country priorities and the World
Bank’s assistance strategy at the time of appraisal. By March 2009, the Government had sought
external assistance from the World Bank and other donors for its FY09 stimulus program. By May 2009,
it had discussed the need for external financing for the FY10-12 TKK stimulus program. The decision to
implement such a program was wise given the subsequent slow recovery from the Global Financial Crisis


31
     From comments received in advance of the second OC review.


                                                       14
seen in most of Thailand’s export markets. The original objective to provide support for institutional
strengthening was also highly relevant, and all the more so in the context of a needed stimulus. Both
objectives were highly congruent with the Bank’s Interim Country Partnership Strategy. The program
design was fully appropriate given the strong consensus within both political parties on the need for a
stimulus and on the need for continued institutional strengthening, backed by a well-established program
of public financial management reforms. Implementation was satisfactory. On the one hand, the prior
actions were completed early and well. Moreover, there is clear evidence in the PD and elsewhere that
the reform program was subsequently sustained and deepened

3.2 Achievement of Program Development Objectives

Rating: Satisfactory

All of the PDO indicators were achieved by the end of FY12. The objective of a positive impact on
growth from the 2009 stimulus was met, although the outcome may be attributable to other forces beyond
the direct control of the Government. As Table 4 shows, all but two of the outcomes associated with
institutional strengthening were fully achieved. The outcome indicator for certification of the consolidated
financial statement associated with prior action 2 was partially achieved, as was the outcome indicator for
reducing the cost of doing business via prior action 4.

According to team interviews and the authorities, the PDO achievements were positive: the
investment climate (excluding political uncertainty) improved as a result of streamlined procedures and
reduced costs in many agencies, fiscal discipline has been maintained, the results-based management
system ensures compliance with rules and regulations, the Government continues to improve the GFMIS
and make progress with e-procurement.

The overarching objectives of financial recovery and continued institutional strengthening appear
to be on sustainable paths. The economy began recovering from the Global Financial Crisis in late
2009 and growth has been positive since then, as shown in Table 1. Analysis by World Bank and IMF
staff suggest that real growth will continue at a rate of at least 4-5 percent per annum over the next five
years while the stock of debt will gradually decline from 41 percent of GDP in 2013 to 34 percent of GDP
by 2018. 32 The institutional strengthening objectives are clearly sustainable, even if subject to short-run
political shocks, given the long-established nature of the Government’s own, wider PFM reform program
which has continued across three different Governments.

The links between policy actions and PDO indicators were generally clear. Table 4 includes
explanations of how the policy actions and PDO indicators are linked. In almost all cases, the linkages
are clear and direct. There are only two exceptions. First, while the objective of a positive impact on real
GDP growth from the 2009 stimulus was met, the outcome may be attributable to other forces beyond the
direct control of the Government. Second, the content of the fourth prior action and its outcome indicator
were essentially identical.

On balance, a rating of satisfactory is warranted.

3.3 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Rating: Satisfactory



32
     IMF Country Report No. 13/323, Table 2.


                                                     15
The operation‘s objectives, design, implementation, and outcomes were highly relevant to Thailand’s
objectives and circumstances at the time of the global financial crisis. The PSRDPL was also fully
consistent with the Bank‘s interim CPS in Thailand. The operation’s policy actions were fully consistent
with the development policy agenda across three different Governments, resulting in strong country
ownership and policy outcomes that are likely to be sustained.

3.4 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

The PSRDPL may have contributed to poverty reduction through two channels: (i) through the
impact of the prior action requiring the adoption and implementation of the FY09 stimulus program; and
(ii) through improvements in public financial management that would boost the effectiveness of
Government fiscal programs.

                              Table 4: Key Outcome Indicators (as of December 2013)

         Policy Action                   Outcome Indicator                        Causal Link                       Outcome Status
Economic recovery underway supported by fiscal stimulus that helps mitigate the impact of the financial crisis, including progress with
implementation of public investment programs to foster long-term economic growth.
Prior Action 1: Parliament has     GDP [growth] is at least one         Budgetary expenditures              Achieved. GDP projections for
approved, and the Government       percent higher in 2009 relative      contribute to real GDP growth       2009 by the Government, IMF
is implementing, an economic       to [what it would have been]         through a Keynesian multiplier      and the World Bank before the
stimulus package for its Fiscal    without [the] stimulus.              effect. Attribution is a problem,   stimulus package was
Year 2009 to mitigate the impact                                        however, because there are          announced were a contraction of
of the global financial crisis.                                         many other forces contributing      around 3 to 3.5 percent of GDP.
                                                                        to real GDP growth.                 According to the National
                                                                                                            Economic and Social
                                                                                                            Development Board (August
                                                                                                            2013), the actual outcome was a
                                                                                                            contraction of only 2.3 percent.
                                                                                                            Thus, this outcome was
                                                                                                            achieved, to the extent that the
                                                                                                            counterfactual is accurate.
                                                                                                            The recovery has been sustained
                                                                                                            through 2013.


A more accountable and efficient public financial management system through improved fiduciary controls, better monitoring and
reporting of public finances, increased policy focus on budget formulation, increased transparency and disclosure of the use of public
resources, and enhanced external audit capability.
Prior Action 2: The Bureau of      Improved links between multi-        Better budgets and budget           Achieved.
the Budget has (i) revised         year estimates and subsequent        forecasts make it easier for        (i) The sum of the absolute value
costing norms for its Medium       setting of annual budget ceiling     implementing agencies to link       of the difference between
Term Expenditure Framework         as determined by: (i) reduction      plans to policies and easier to     FY2013 budget requests by
under its budget for Fiscal Year   in the difference between budget     efficiently execute their plans.    sector ministries and outer year
2008; and (ii) taken steps to      requests by sector ministries and                                        budget projection based on
ensure that the Performance        outer year budget projection in                                          MTEF 2012 was 62.3% of the
Assessment Rating Tool (PART)      the MTEF; (ii) results of ex-post                                        FY2013 budget. The sum of
is implemented in all              assessment of expenditure                                                FY2014 differences based on the
Government agencies.               programs and projects for FY09                                           FY2013 MTEF was reduced to
                                   inform budget allocations for                                            48.5% of the FY2014 budget.
                                   FY11 and; (iii) improvement in                                           (ii) Results from the ex-post
                                   PEFA score on multi-year                                                 assessment of expenditure
                                   perspective in budget planning                                           programs and projects for FY09
                                   from current “C” in 2009 to “B”                                          were used to inform budget
                                   by 2011.                                                                 allocations for FY11.
                                                                                                            (iii) The score for PEFA
                                                                                                            indicator PI-12, on multi-year
                                                                                                            perspective in budget planning,
                                                                                                            improved to B in 2011 from C in
                                                                                                            2009. The key factor for



                                                                       16
         Policy Action                     Outcome Indicator                        Causal Link                       Outcome Status
                                                                                                             improving this performance
                                                                                                             score is a reduction of about 20
                                                                                                             percent in the difference
                                                                                                             between outer-year MTEF
                                                                                                             estimates and agency budget
                                                                                                             requests.
                                                                                                             The assessment for 2011 was not
                                                                                                             vetted by the PEFA Secretariat
                                                                                                             and is unpublished.
Prior Action 3:                      Consolidated financial statement      The use of better tools and       Partially achieved. At the end
                                     certified by the Office of the        procedures such as the e-finan-   of September 2013, the
a) The Ministry of Finance has:      Auditor General for FY11 by           cials accounting module, e-       government financial statements
                                     2012.                                 budget module, daily reconcil-    for FY09 were certified by the
(i) piloted the use of the e-                                              iation and secure data access,    Office of Auditor-General.
financials accounting module for                                           will improve Government           MOF has submitted the
direct financial reporting from                                            capacity to complete financial    government financial statements
the Government Fiscal                                                      reports sooner and with fewer     for FY10-12 to the Office of
Management Information                                                     errors. This, in turn, will       Auditor-General for auditing.
System (GFMIS);                      Improvement in PEFA score on          increase the confidence of the    Achieved. Improvement in the
                                     effectiveness of internal controls    Government that it can provide    score for PEFA indicator PI-20
(ii) begun undertaking daily         improve from C+ in 2009 to B in       timely public access to its       on effectiveness of internal
reconciliation between the           2011.                                 financial statements.             controls from C+ in 2009 to B in
GFMIS and the Treasury                                                                                       2011. This increase is
Reserve Account and targeted                                                                                 predicated on the Comptroller
training; and                                                                                                General’s audit statements that
                                                                                                             rate compliance with the internal
(iii) introduced e-token interface                                                                           control framework (based on the
with the GFMIS for secure data                                                                               Committee of Sponsoring
access for management reporting                                                                              Organizations of the Treadway
by budget entities.                                                                                          Commission) as high.
                                                                                                             The assessment for 2011 was not
(b) The Bureau of the Budget                                                                                 vetted by the PEFA Secretariat
has piloted an e-budget system                                                                               and is unpublished.
in the Government’s line             Budget-to-actual reports                                                Achieved. Budget to actual
ministries for improving links       prepared and published for the                                          reports are being prepared at the
between sector policies and          first time starting FY12.                                               aggregate level.
budget requests.                     Reduced reconciliation errors in                                        Achieved. Reconciliation errors
                                     consolidated financial reports.                                         reduced allowing for OAG
                                                                                                             certification of audit reports for
                                                                                                             FY11.
                                     Improved transparency by                                                Achieved. Thailand publishes
                                     providing public access to the                                          the end-year financial statements
                                     year-end financial statements, in                                       on the Comptroller General’s
                                     addition to the current public                                          Department website in addition
                                     access to the annual budget                                             to current public access to the
                                     documentation, in-year budget                                           annual budget documentation,
                                     execution reports and external                                          in-year budget execution reports
                                     audit reports by 2011.                                                  and external audit reports
                                                                                                             available on other websites.
                                     Reduction in interaction between                                        Achieved. By implementing the
                                     tax payer and collector, reducing                                       e-filing system, the need for
                                     avenues for rent-seeking.                                               most taxpayers and tax
                                                                                                             collectors to interact has been
                                                                                                             eliminated. This reduced
                                                                                                             opportunities for rent-seeking as
                                                                                                             well as compliance costs for
                                                                                                             taxpayers and administrative
                                                                                                             costs for the Revenue
                                                                                                             Department. The number of e-
                                                                                                             filing users has been increasing
                                                                                                             significantly from 7.7 million in
                                                                                                             2010 to 11.8 million in 2013.
Improved service delivery through increased public monitoring and oversight over quality and timeliness of services delivered by
public agencies, and enhanced internal performance measurement and monitoring by aligning budget monitoring tools with service
delivery indicators.
Prior Action 4: Nine working         In FY10, each of 40 the agencies      Decisions by the nine working     Partially achieved. Initial costs
committees constituted by the        [will] reduce their service           committees should lead to         associated with each agency




                                                                          17
         Policy Action                      Outcome Indicator                       Causal Link                       Outcome Status
Government and representing          delivery time, processes, and/or     reductions in the cost of doing    were not benchmarked and data
forty Government agencies have       costs by 5-10 percent relative to    business.                          on costs in FY10 were not
taken necessary actions to:          FY09.                                                                   available. Alternative data
                                                                                                             prepared for the World Bank
(a) shorten their service-delivery                                                                           publication, Doing Business
times;                                                                                                       shows positive results in several
                                                                                                             categories. Between 2009 and
(b) streamline processes, and                                                                                2012, there were reductions in
                                                                                                             the number of procedures and
(c) reduce the costs of                                                                                      number of days for starting a
interacting with Government in                                                                               business. There were reductions
ten distinct areas in which they                                                                             in relative costs for starting a
deal with private businesses.                                                                                business, obtaining electricity,
                                                                                                             paying taxes, and cost per
                                                                                                             shipping container.
Prior Action 5: The Office of        From FY11, more than half of         If reporting systems are           Achieved Government
Public Sector Development            the agencies use the new form        harmonized across agencies,        integrated different reporting
Commission and the Bureau of         for reporting systems of OPDC        then forms used for reporting      systems and established the
the Budget have harmonized           that develops the respective         can be made identical.             Government Evaluation System
their reporting systems to           KPI’s for the Ministerial and                                           in 2011/12. All agencies at the
facilitate the formulation of key    Departmental 4-year Operational                                         Central Government level are
performance indicators (KPIs)        Plan, thereby reducing overlap                                          now using the new integrated
for a four year ministerial and      between OPDC and BOB                                                    forms.
departmental operation plan          reporting systems.
covering all Government
agencies.


A better performing public administration with reduced rigidities in the civil service structure, improved incentives for civil servants,
and establishment of a performance monitoring framework for the civil service.
Prior Action 6: The Parliament       Increased flexibility within the     One of the objectives of the       Achieved. The OCSC has
promulgated the Civil Service        civil service cadre’s as             Civil Service Act (2008) is to     established the HIPPS and New
Act in 2008, and the Office of       evidenced by staff being able to     make it easier for staff to        Wave programs consistent with
the Civil Service Commission         transfer to different agencies       transfer between agencies. This    the 2008 Law that have allowed
has taken necessary action to        within the same technical            should reduce rigidities in the    for greater staff mobility and
implement a new grading              specialization field by 2010.        civil service structure.           deployment across agencies
structure across the entire civil                                                                            within the same specializations.
service with effect from             Pay differentials between staff      One of the objectives of the       Achieved. In 2012 the
December 11, 2008.                   [are] subject to performance         Civil Service Act (2008) is to     Office of the Civil Service
                                     assessments by 2012.                 link staff remuneration to staff   Commission introduced a
                                                                          performance. Individual staff      performance assessment system
                                                                          responding to performance          which provides for variable pay
                                                                          based pay should collectively      increase based on staff
                                                                          contribute to better public        performance. Departments are
                                                                          administration.                    given a total wage bill increase
                                                                                                             envelope (6 percent in 2012)
                                                                                                             which they then distribute to
                                                                                                             staff based on performance
                                                                                                             assessments.



The PD provides a candid assessment of the impact of the 2009 stimulus. The first stimulus package,
while unlikely to have had a large impact on overall GDP, may have helped limit the impact of the crisis
on the poor. Disbursements under the first stimulus package are estimated at 0.8 percent of GDP between
March and September of 2009. The stimulus package contained a number of measures that likely reached
vulnerable households. The old-age pension may have been especially effective, since the elderly are
over-represented among the poor and the measure specifically targeted those individuals not receiving
formal pensions. Khandker, Koolwal, Haughton, and Jitsuchon (2012) carried out some rather careful
analysis of the impact of three components of the FY09 stimulus program on poverty. 33 They found that


33
  These were: (i) the extension of free public education to 15 years in the 2009 school year; (ii) the distribution of
500 baht allowances for a period of six months to senior citizens of 60 years or older who do not receive support


                                                                         18
each of the three programs had a positive but small impact on urban households and no impact on rural
households.

The PD noted that that the FY09 stimulus measures could have been better targeted. The group
judged likely to be most affected by financial crisis was the urban informal sector – contract workers in
factories, tourism and construction. For timeliness of implementation, the Government chose to use
existing mechanisms – such as the social security system – for reaching the beneficiaries of the
consumption measures of the stimulus package. This resulted in benefits falling disproportionally on the
urban formal sector despite an attempt to target the stimulus to the poor in the informal sector. An ex-post
analysis by Haughton and Khandker (2012) confirms this assessment. They found that the main losers
were residents of Bangkok, especially those aged 20–29, and those working in the informal sector in sales
and services. Surprisingly, for most other groups, real consumption per capita rose in 2009 relative to
2008.

Regarding the second channel, several of the PFM reforms should have contributed to poverty
reduction through better public service delivery. In particular, prior action 4 required that 40
Government agencies should reduce the costs of doing business by agreeing to shorten their service-
delivery times, streamline processes, and reduce the costs to citizens of interacting with the Government
tax collection offices. The incentives to improve service delivery should have been increased by prior
action 2, requiring the use of performance assessment tools, by prior action 5, requiring harmonized
reporting tools, and by prior action 6 requiring the introduction of performance based remuneration for
the civil service. Unfortunately, while these expectations are logical, there have been few if any empirical
assessments of the impact of such reforms on poverty in Thailand or anywhere else. Some studies34 have
found a correlation between the quality of public financial management and income per capita but this
does not imply anything about causation. In addition, poverty and income per capita are only loosely
correlated. This, however, should not detract from the intrinsic value of improved service delivery as
perceived by the population at large.

The PSRDPL was not expected to have any impacts with regard to gender aspects or social impact and
there is no evidence that such an impact occurred.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

The impact of PSRDPL policy actions on long-term capacity and institutional development are
expected to be substantial. As noted in section 2.2 above, the policy actions build on a long-standing
program of institutional strengthening and are embedded in a long-term program of PFM reforms. The
agency performance agreements backed by better monitoring and evaluation systems should be especially
powerful in motivating better public service delivery. In addition, the Government continues to
implement the performance based remuneration system. 35 Finally, it is the teams’ assessment that the
Government continues to further strengthen its PFM systems.




from other Government institutions, and who register at local administration offices; and (iii) the provision of one-
time 2000-baht subsidies (Saving the Nation checks) to workers who were contributing to the Social Security Fund,
to state enterprise employees, and to civil servants who were earning less than 15,000 baht per month.
34
    An example is de Renzio, Andrews, and Mills, 2011.
35
   It should be noted that new empirical evidence from Thailand and elsewhere suggests pay for performance is not
as motivating as originally expected.


                                                         19
(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative, if any)

N.A.

3.5 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

N.A.


4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

Rating: Moderate

The political turmoil documented in the program document resumed at the time of this Implementation
Completion Review. It is not possible to predict how it will be resolved or when. The ongoing political
contest does pose a risk for the pace of implementation of new reforms but it should not impact the
sustainability of reforms implemented thus far. According to interviews with the team, it does appear that
the PFM reform program outcomes supported by the PRSDPL will be maintained, without substantial
changes other than continued improvements, regardless of which party or leader is in power at any given
moment. Reforms that lead to better public service delivery are likely to be supported under almost any
circumstance and all the more so when they have been vetted by Parliament twice and by the public in
three consultative meetings. There are no economic threats to the sustainability of the reform program:
Thailand has maintained adequate internal and external buffers and is expected to maintain a reasonably
strong macroeconomic stance over the medium-term, particularly as the world economy recovers from the
Global Financial Crisis. For these reasons, a moderate risk rating is selected.


5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

Rating: Satisfactory

The World Bank responded quickly to changing circumstances. The World Bank originally expected
to bring a US$500 million DPL to the Board that focused exclusively on institutional strengthening in
support of the Government’s public investment program. This was to be achieved through a deepening of
an already successful program of PFM reforms. When the magnitude of Global Financial Crisis and its
probable impact on Thailand became apparent, the World Bank responded quickly by doubling the size of
the loan, by negotiating an additional prior action for the adoption and implementation of a stimulus
program in 2009, and by including in the program document a fuller assessment of poverty and social
impacts of the global economic crisis, the steps that Government is taking to strengthen and expand
coverage of social protection programs, and the expected impact of the reforms supported under the
Government’s program through this DPL, including the impact on rural and urban populations.

The overall quality of entry for the PSRDPL was satisfactory. The analysis of the evolving
macroeconomic situation was quite adequate and in line with similar analyses produced by other
international financial institutions at the time. Similarly, the design of the operation was well informed
by a variety of analytical work conducted inside and outside the World Bank. The choice of policy


                                                   20
actions was focused and limited to areas of consensus and ability. The fiduciary and disbursement
arrangements were standard with the exception of the clause allowing this single tranche operation to be
disbursed either through a single withdrawal or through multiple withdrawals. As noted in Section 2.3
above, the design of the implementation and monitoring arrangements, made in collaboration with the
authorities, was very effective. The risk assessment was accurate and including mitigating measures for
all relevant risks. There were two unaddressed issues. One was that delays were created within the
Ministry of Finance because the PDM Act precluded the use of normal budgetary procedures in allocating
externally sourced funds as noted in Section 1.1 above. The other was that of implementation delays and
what do if they were excessive (as they proved to be) when mitigating measures were not possible due to
the nature of the political turmoil.

(b) Quality of Supervision

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

The quality of supervision for institution building was satisfactory. The Bank had a long-standing
program of support for PFM reforms (see Box 1 in the PD) which the team leveraged well in its
supervision efforts. This surely helped facilitate the rapid implementation of the agreed policy actions. In
addition, the team was attentive to Government needs in carrying the reform effort forward after the DPL
had been approved. Two Implementation Status Reports were completed, one in June 2012 before the
loan was made effective, and one in January 2013 after the loan had been partially disbursed. Both were
frank in assessing that some PDO indicators had not been completed at the time and that the borrower had
asked for technical assistance to complete some aspects of its forward looking reform agenda beyond the
already completed policy actions. Interviews with the team indicate that the necessary technical
assistance was secured, via two trust funds, and good progress has been maintained.

The World Bank may have over-estimated the urgency of the Government’s need for external
funding for stimulus purposes. The need for external borrowing diminished in 2010 as the economy
quickly rebounded from the contraction in 2009. On April 28, 2010, the Finance Minister announced that
the economic recovery had contributed to rising tax receipts and the Government was also in a position to
redeem Government bonds worth TBH42 billion in advance—yet he also maintained the Government’s
intention to borrow externally from the ADB, JICA and the World Bank for infrastructure projects. It is
possible that this would have occurred except for the transition to a new Government. Interviews with the
team indicate that the new Government, after examining the purpose of the external borrowing, also
preferred to maintain its access to the funds. It is remarkable then that the subsequent Government did not
draw on the loan after the devastating flooding in 2011 that caused 815 deaths and approximately
US$47.5 billion in damages. In fact, the authorities preferred to use their own resources, particularly the
Central Fund Contingency, for immediate flood relief. The DPL resources were subsequently used for
projects related to health, education and the rehabilitation of infrastructure.

The PRSDPL may have contributed to macroeconomic stability even though the authorities did not
make rapid use of the PRSDPL funds. Traders in the financial markets could gain confidence from
observing the Bank’s willingness to enter into the Thai environment despite the ongoing uncertainty, with
knowledge that the DPL provided a financial buffer and comfort to the authorities that funds could be
drawn down quickly if the Central Funds resources fell short.

On balance, a combined rating of moderately satisfactory is warranted.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory


                                                    21
5.2 Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance

   Rating: Satisfactory

Government performance has generally been quite adequate. Ownership and commitment to
achieving development objectives was high. The program supported by the DPL benefited from steady
implementation with all but two PDO indicators fully achieved, while the remaining two indicators were
partially achieved. The beneficiary/stakeholder consultations and involvement were exemplary. The
PDMO held three public consultations and put the DPL document on the web to solicit comments.
Additionally, the DPL had to receive Parliamentary approval twice. Coordination with other donors and
stakeholders was quite adequate. The PDMO coordinated the policy actions well and fiduciary controls
were found to be quite adequate. After closing the DPL, budget levels for key reform areas have been
maintained: the GFMIS is being upgraded, procurement systems are moving to e-procurement, the civil
service law is being implemented, and the focus on doing business better has been maintained.

There were a few weak areas. One was the PDM Act requirement that precludes the use of external
resources for financing budget deficits, thus implicitly moving the use of DPL funds off-budget. This
created extra delays in allocating and disbursing funds, as noted in Section 1.1. Another was the quality
of the enabling environment including supportive macroeconomic, sector, and institutional policies.
Overall, such an enabling environment exists. Yet, institutional fragmentation made coordination of
cross-cutting PFM reforms more difficult than necessary and did create some delays in the follow-on
program. A third was the adequacy of monitoring and evaluation arrangements. There was good
potential for more of the outcome indicators to use quantifiable measures that could have been
benchmarked at the start of the program and monitored for progress as the program proceeded.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance

   Rating: Satisfactory

Implementation of projected policy actions was delegated directly to the individual agencies. Their
commitment to achieving the PSRDPL development objectives was high and effective. The reform
program has been internalized into each agency’s operational outcomes and they continue to implement
the program. Beneficiary/stakeholder consultations and involvement were highly appropriate. In addition,
each implementing agency followed the requirements under the Good Governance Decree 2003 for
beneficiary and stakeholder consultations. Each implementing agency appointed staff to function as focal
points who worked very closely on the implementation. This helped ensure high readiness for
implementation, implementation arrangements and appointment of key staff. Implementation issues were
resolved on a timely basis. The focal points coordinated the reform program, and ensured timely
provision of information. Fiduciary systems and controls were adequate.

Weaknesses at the agency level mirror those at the Government level. While the Government had
responsibility for the policy aspects of M&E arrangements, the agencies had operational responsibilities.
These were well focused on compliance but more concern for good outcomes was needed. Inter-agency
coordination was also in need of strengthening.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

   Rating: Satisfactory



                                                   22
6. Lessons Learned

The Thailand PSRDPL offers three inter-related lessons that could be useful in situations of substantial
and ongoing uncertainty. First, reforms with wide support can be implemented and maintained even
during periods of substantial political turmoil. While simply stated, such support is not casually achieved.
The Thai outcome was the consequence of several factors: a) the long-standing program of PFM support
established in 2001; b) highly desirable objectives such as better public service delivery; c) the selection
of policy actions that were limited to areas of consensus and ability; d) the Constitutionally mandated
consultations on external treaties (including DPL agreements); and e) the Constitutional mandate for two
Parliamentary approvals.

Second, while it is common to observe that political turmoil and/or political transitions can affect the pace
of DPL program implementation, the Thai case shows something different: these problems can also
substantially delay loan utilization well past the date of Board approval even when the macroeconomic
framework is acceptable. This can result in the funds being used to support a budget that may not have
been as well scrutinized as the budget the funds were intended for. In addition, and this is applicable
generally, long delays in the utilization of funds have opportunity costs to the extent that there may be
better uses for the funds in other developing countries. Moreover, holding a large volume of funds
unused in liquid assets, even for several months, can create an additional opportunity cost in earnings
foregone. In this context, there may be some value to the Bank in considering alternative instruments
when there is considerable uncertainty (as there was in this case) as to whether the government actually
needed the money as opposed to a credible signal of access to funding if and when needed. In such cases,
a DPL-DDO might be a viable option.

A third lesson is evident as well. Sustained engagement with the Thai authorities over many years,
despite the lack of a borrowing program since 1999, allowed Bank to quickly respond to the emerging
global financial crisis and recession. The Bank has remained engaged on public finance management
reforms since 2001 and had managed to influence reforms through TA and close collaboration. When the
crisis broke out and authorities requested support, the Bank could identify high value reforms quickly and
scale up support. This is an important point when internal Bank monitoring systems focus mainly on
lending volumes.

Fourth, it is important to avoid using outcome indicators that are not under the full control of the
authorities. This is evident in from the lack of a second PEFA exercise which would have yielded the
data needed for some of the outcome indicators. A related point is that it may be possible to use
indicators drawn from the PEFA framework without relying on the actual conduct of a PEFA exercise.


7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a) Borrower/Implementing agencies


(b) Cofinanciers


(c) Other partners and stakeholders
(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)




                                                     23
       Annex 1. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members
                                                                                    Responsibility/
           Names                             Title                    Unit
                                                                                      Specialty
Lending
Ahsan Ali                    Lead Procurement Specialist             EASR1     Procurement
Ratchada Anantavrasilpa      Senior Financial Sector Specialist      EASFP     Financial sector
Kirida Bhaopichitr           Senior Economist                        EASPT     Economic policy
Chinnakorn Chantra           Procurement Specialist                EASRP-HIS   Procurement
Michael Engelschalk          Senior Private Sector Development       CICTI     Private sector development
Frederico Gil Sander         Senior Economist                        EASPT     Economic policy
Lynn M. Gross                Program Assistant                       EASFP     Proof-reader
Clive G. Harris              Manager                                 WBIPP     Infrastructure
                                                                               Public financial
Malcolm R. G. Holmes         Consultant                              AFTP1
                                                                               management
Zhi Liu                      Lead Infrastructure Specialist          EASTS     Infrastructure
Angkanee Luangpenthong       Program Assistant                       EACTF     Program analysis
Chanin Manopiniwes           Infrastructure Economist                EASTS     Infrastructure
Saiyed Shabih Ali Mohib      Senior Economist                        EASPT     Public sector economics
Blanca Moreno-Dodson         Lead Economist                          PRMPS     Public sector policy
Vikram Raghavan              Lead Counsel                            LEGOP     Legal counsel
Ronald Points                Consultant                                ..      Financial management
Jitendra J. Shah             Lead Environmental Specialist           ECSEN     Environmental issues
                                                                               Public financial
David Shand                  Consultant                              ECSP4
                                                                               management
Vatcharin Sirimaneetham      Research Analyst                        EASPR     Economic policy
Ruangrong Thongampai         Temporary                               EASPR     Proof-reader
Thang-Long Ton               Economist                               EASPW     Economic policy
Nattaporn Triratanasirikul   Research Analyst                        EASPT     Public sector economics
Mathew A. Verghis            Sector Manager                          EASP3     Macroeconomics
                                                                               Public financial
Anthony John Wiggins         Consultant                              EASPV
                                                                               management
Supervision
Saiyed Shabih Ali Mohib      Senior Economist                        EASPT     Public sector economics
Kirida Bhaopichitr           Senior Economist                        EASPT     Economic policy



(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                                    Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
                 Stage                                                    USD Thousands (including
                                                No. of staff weeks
                                                                          travel and consultant costs)
Lending
                                Total:               106.41                         437.985
Supervision/ICR
                                Total:                44.71                         242.185




                                                     24
                     Annex 2. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

The Ministry of Finance has summarized the main messages received from the public consultations.
These were grouped into four main areas:

(i) Rationale for borrowing from abroad: Given the current economic situation in Thailand, most
participants agreed on the importance of borrowing to restore the economy and develop infrastructure in
Thailand.

(ii) Use of the funds: There should be a focus on value for money; since domestic borrowing is larger
than foreign borrowing, domestically financed spending should also be monitored closely and local
infrastructure projects should have high priority.

(iii) Debt management: Debt should be managed efficiently so as not to cause a fiscal burden in the
future

(iv) Monitoring: There should be close monitoring of the expenditures from loan proceeds to ensure
efficiency, transparency and accountability; expenditures financed by domestic debt should also be
monitored closely.




                                                   25
     Annex 3. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR




         Implementation Completion and Results Report
for the World Bank Public Sector Reform Development Policy Loan
                    to the Kingdom of Thailand




                  Public Debt Management Office
                         Ministry of Finance




                           March 20, 2014




                                   26
               The Global Financial Crisis during 2008 – 2009 has resulted in the collapse of
large financial institutions, and downturns in stock markets around the world. Thailand was also
suffered from decrease in exports, and higher unemployment rate, resulting in lower economic
growth. Thus, the government had policies to stimulate economic growth and domestic
investments by increasing government spending. The main sources of fund were from
Emergency Decree Stimulus Package II (TKK2012), the Capital Market Development Policy
Loan (CMDPL) from ADB in the amount of USD 300 million, and the Public Sector Reform
Development Policy Loan (PSRDPL) from the World Bank in the amount of USD 1 billion.


               The MOF and the related agencies have constructed a public sector reform
development policy matrix, which includes four key objectives including:          (1) Mitigating the
impact of the global financial crisis through fiscal stimulus and investing in infrastructure for long
term growth; (2) Improving expenditure planning, aligning budgetary resources to development
priorities within the strategic performance based budgeting framework; (3) Enhancing
effectiveness of budget execution, timeliness of financial reporting, strengthening revenue
administration and public procurement; and (4) Strengthening the performance management
framework, and improving quality and timeliness of service delivery. The World Bank PSRDPL
supported the government measures in boosting the economy during the crisis in the form of six
prior actions negotiated in 2009.


               We were able to achieve outcome indicators identified in this policy matrix.
Regarding the first objective, Thailand was able to recover from the recession. By the end of fiscal
year 2013, the government had disbursed under Emergency Decree THB 327,689 million or
approximately 93.9 percent of the total budget amount of THB 350 billion under the fiscal stimulus
package II program (TKK 2012) and under CMDPL and PSRDPL THB 24,939 million or 64.0
percent. The stimulus has contributed to the growth in real GDP during 2010-2013, except in
2011, when the massive flood hit the various parts of the country and caused the delays in many
projects. Because the government had to shift its focus to recovery and reconstruction projects
and reprioritize the projects in the pipeline, it caused a delay in budget allocation process as well
as disbursement lags from line agencies.




                                                 27
               The Bureau of Budget (BOB) was able to improve the expenditure planning and
reduced the difference between the sector ministries’ budget requests and the outer year budget
projection in the medium term expenditure framework (MTEF) from 62.3 percent of fiscal year
2013 budget (based on MTEF 2012) to 48.5 percent of fiscal year 2014 budget (based on MTEF
2013). The Comptroller General’s Department (CGD) has improved on its timeliness to submit
the government financial statements to the Office of the Auditor General (OAG) for auditing
purpose. The FY2008/09 financial statement was certified by the OAG; however, those of later
years are not yet certified. The CGD started to prepare budget-to-actual report, which compares
the planned budget and actual disbursement. The reconciliation errors have been reduced
significantly in the recent government financial statements and the prior year's errors have been
verified and corrected continuously. The training program for accounting staff of government
agencies has been redesigned to reflect their needs more effectively. An evaluation program was
launched to encourage the agencies to improve the quality of their accounting information
steadily.


               In order to improve the government’s transparency, the financial statements of
government departments and agencies are readily accessible from the entities' websites as a
crucial part of their annual report publication. The MOF has made available the location of the
projects along with their financial information. The CGD is currently undergoing its third phase
of e-Government Procurement system (e-GP) development to incorporate the electronic bidding,
electronic contract, and supplier grading system features, etc.


               The government agencies have shortened the public service delivery time. On
average, the processing time was reduced by 30-35 percent in relative to fiscal year 2003. More
than half of the agencies currently use the new form for reporting systems of the Office of the
public sector development commission (OPDC) that develops the respective key performance
indicators (KPIs) for the ministerial and departmental four-year operational plan. The
government employees can transfer among agencies that require a similar skill set and receive
their compensation based on their performance since 2010.




                                                28
               The performance-based pay has been applied in all civil service agencies since
2010 and brought about better performance of civil servants as well as efficiency of civil service.
Also salary increase is more flexible and fair. Complaints and grievances concerning unfair
treatment have been taken care of and considerations have been carried out in a more expeditious
manner. Civil servants feel secure from unfair treatment concerning human resource
management and compensation management has been administered more efficiently.


               There were some difficulties that deter us from the prompt implementation of the
projects under the PSRDPL. Besides the process under Article 190 of the constitution that
require MOF to submit the negotiation framework and draft loan agreement to joint parliament to
get approval which took approximately 2 years, the political change and the flood are among the
reasons. The major flood in late 2011 caused the damage of nearly THB 1.35 trillion. The
manufacturing and agricultural sectors were badly affected. The government had the priority of
rebuilding the residential areas and restoring the mentioned sectors first. When Thailand had a
new government in August 2011, the already approved projects were reevaluated based on their
necessity and urgency, and thus some projects were postponed. The disbursement of PSRDPL
was relatively slow due to political instability that caused the reevaluation and reprioritization of
the projects. Moreover, funds still available from the TKK 2012 and the loan, with the last
disbursement date in Aug 2012. Thus, we had to disburse these loans before we began disbursing
the PSRDPL in Sep 2012.


               The PSRDPL has been completed with the success and the ability of projects to
maintain benefit flows. It has enhanced the growth of Thai economy and its competitiveness, and
thus improved the living standard of the Thais. We would like to close the PSRDPL and deliver the
progress under the policy matrix as attached herewith. In consistent with the loan objectives, we
believe that these projects have strengthened the government’s effectiveness in many ways. The
projects that are approved under TKK stimulus are spread all over the various parts of the
country to make sure that the people in the rural areas have access to the public service. Also, the
projects have spurred the economic growth in the local areas, even for the small villages.




                                                 29
               As for the challenge in managing the World Bank loan, the MOF intended to
cover both the exchange rate and interest rate risks by doing swaps back to back with the
disbursement. However, due to the large magnitude of the loan and the low liquidity in the swap
market, the MOF will have to gradually cover the risk when the swap rate can yield the lower
cost of borrowing than the domestic rate. We would be interested in the loan with an affordable
swap option attached in the future. In particular, the option that the World Bank offered with the
PSRDPL was relatively expensive.


               As for the advantage of the World Bank loan, the PSRDPL was in the form of
program loan, which was supposed to be a quick disbursing loan. It has benefited many small
projects that needed funding, but could not otherwise have access to it. The loan has provided
Thailand with great flexibility in loan utilization, we however intend to spend the funds toward
the infrastructure projects that will benefit the remote areas and improve the quality of public
service.


               In addition, we need to improve on the monitoring and evaluation (M&E) aspects.
Due to our limited human resources, the project assessment is usually done by the outsourced
consultants. The M&E is crucial for developing a new project design as well as building a framework
for future project management. We hope that we will receive the kind support and cooperation from
the World Bank through technical assistances to help us develop efficient M&E aspects.


               Finally, we would like to express our gratitude to the World Bank for the
continued support. We are hoping to receive the cooperation from you in the future. Your kind
consideration regarding this matter would be appreciated.




                                                30
          Attachment to Annex 3: Development Policy Matrix

        Objectives                    Prior Actions*              Progress since May 2009               Results and                  Results and Outcome
                                                                                                         Outcome
                                 Negotiated in May 2009                                                                                 End of FY2013
                                                                                                        Indicators

Mitigating the impact of      Prior Action 1: Parliament has   Nearly all of the planned transfer   GDP is at least one     As of September 2013, the government
the global financial crisis   approved, and the                and tax measures and about half      percent higher in       disbursed budget under the Strong
through fiscal stimulus       Government is implementing,      of planned infrastructure projects   2009 relative to        Thailand 2012 Program (TKK2555) at
and investing in              an economic stimulus package     were disbursed in FY09 for an        without stimulus.       327,689 million baht or 93.9% of the
infrastructure for long       for its Fiscal Year 2009 to      overall disbursement rate of 83      Govt. forecast for      total budget amount (350 billion baht).
term growth                   mitigate the impact of the       percent. Progress has been           2009 GDP in April       The economic impact of TKK2555
                              global financial crisis.         slower in FY10 but measures          2009 was -3.0 to        spending supported economic recovery
                                                               taken to speed up implement-         -3.5, WB forecast       for Thailand. In this connection, real
                                                               ation together with seasonal         was -2.6 percent        GDP grew by 7.8%, 0.1% and 6.5%
                                                               factors could bring                  actual 2009 outcome     during 2010, 2011 and 2012,
                                                               disbursements back on track.         was -2.2. Recovery      respectively. Note: Low growth in 2011
                                                                                                    has been sustained      was due to the negative impact from
                                                                                                    in 2010.                flooding in Thailand.

Improving expenditure         Prior Action 2: The Bureau of    The Bureau of the Budget:            Improved links          (i) The sum of the absolute value of the
planning, aligning            the Budget has (i) revised       (i) introduced agency level          between multi-year      difference between FY2013 budget
budgetary resources to        costing norms for its Medium     ceilings in the top-down medium      estimates and           requests by sector ministries and outer
development priorities        Term Expenditure                 term expenditure framework           subsequent setting of   year budget projection based on MTEF
within the Strategic          Framework under its budget       which reduced the deviation          annual budget           2012 is around 62.3% of FY 2013
Performance Based             for Fiscal Year 2008; and (ii)   between the top-down and             ceiling as              budget. The sum of FY 2014 differences
Budgeting Framework           taken steps to ensure that the   bottom-up MTEF from more             determined by:          based on FY 2013 MTEF is, then,
                              Performance Assessment           than 5 percent in FY2009/10 to       (i) reduction in the    reduced to 48.5% of FY2014 budget.
                              Rating Tool (PART) is            less than 2 percent in               difference between
                                                                                                                            (ii) At the end of 2011, there was one
                              implemented in all               FY2010/11: (ii) six budget           budget requests by
                                                                                                                            more sub-dimension of PI-12 indicator,
                              Government agencies.             appropriation committees             sector ministries and
                                                                                                                            in addition to PI-12-ii, that was improved
                                                               formally considered PART             outer year budget
                                                                                                                            to the “B” level. Regarding PI-12-iv sub-
                                                               results to guide budget              projection in the
                                                                                                                            dimension, the majority of important
                                                               allocations; and (iii) completed     MTEF; (ii) results of
                                                                                                                            investments are selected on the basis of
                                                               guidelines for expenditure           ex-post assessment



                                                                                31
       Objectives                  Prior Actions*              Progress since May 2009              Results and                 Results and Outcome
                                                                                                     Outcome
                              Negotiated in May 2009                                                                                End of FY2013
                                                                                                    Indicators

                                                            policies and programs.              of expenditure         the Country Strategy.
                                                                                                programs and
                                                                                                                       There is no PEFA after 2009.
                                                                                                projects for
                                                                                                FY2008/9 inform
                                                                                                budget allocations
                                                                                                for FY2010/11.
                                                                                                Improvement in
                                                                                                PEFA score on
                                                                                                multi-year
                                                                                                perspective in
                                                                                                budget planning
                                                                                                from current “C” in
                                                                                                2009 to “B” by
                                                                                                2011.
                           Prior Action 3: a) The                                                                      (i) At the end of September 2013 (FY
Enhancing effectiveness                                     MOF was able to improve             Consolidated
                           Ministry of Finance has: (i)                                                                2012/13), the government financial
of budget execution,                                        reconciliation such that in 2010    financial statement
                           piloted the use of the e-                                                                   statements for FY2008/09 have been
timeliness of financial                                     the Auditor General certified for   certified by the
                           financials accounting module                                                                certified by the office of Auditor General
reporting, strengthening                                    the first time since introduction   Office of the
                           for direct financial reporting                                                              although MOF has proposed already the
revenue administration                                      of GFMIS the financial              Auditor General for
                           from the Government Fiscal                                                                  government financial statements for
and public procurement                                      statements, for FY2005; (ii)        the 2010/11 fiscal
                           Management Information                                                                      FY2009/10 and FY2010/11 and FY
                                                            MOF introduced real time            year by 2012.
                           System (GFMIS); (ii) begun                                                                  2011/12 to OAG for audit purpose.
                                                            Payment Order interface to the      Improvement in
                           undertaking daily
                                                            Government Fiscal Management        PEFA score on          (ii) There is no PEFA after 2009.
                           reconciliation between the
                                                            Information System – “web-          effectiveness of
                           GFMIS and the Treasury                                                                      (iii) CGD has prepared Budget-to-actual
                                                            online” – to improve accuracy       internal controls
                           Reserve Account and targeted                                                                reports.
                                                            and speed of budget execution;      improve from C+ in
                           training; and (iii) introduced                                                              (iv) Reconciliation errors have been
                                                            and (iii) implemented the           2009 to B in 2011.
                           e-token interface with the                                                                  reduced significantly in the recent
                                                            Executive Information System
                           GFMIS for secure data access                                                                government financial statements and the
                                                            for financial reporting to agency
                           for management reporting by                                          Budget-to-actual       prior year's errors have been verified and
                                                            level management; and (iv)
                           budget entities.                                                     reports prepared and   corrected continuously.
                                                            completed integration of GFMIS


                                                                             32
Objectives          Prior Actions*               Progress since May 2009               Results and                  Results and Outcome
                                                                                        Outcome
                Negotiated in May 2009                                                                                  End of FY2013
                                                                                       Indicators

             (b) The Bureau of the Budget     with e-Budget at BOB                 published for the       Financial statements of government
             has piloted an e-budget system                                        first time starting     departments and agencies are readily
             in the Government’s line                                              FY2011/12               accessible from the entities' websites as a
             ministries for improving links                                                                crucial part of their annual report
             between sector policies and                                                                   publication.
             budget requests.
                                                                                                           The training program for accounting staff
             MOF migrated the government      MOF prepared a comprehensive                                 of government agencies has been
             accounting system from cash      plan for accounting reform           Reduced                 redesigned to reflect their needs more
             basis to accrual                 including development of an          reconciliation errors   effectively. An evaluation program was
                                              accounting profession, to support    in consolidated         launched to encourage the agencies to
                                              the migration from cash to           financial reports       improve the quality of their accounting
                                              accrual reporting                                            information steadily.

                                                                                   Improved
                                              In order to improve transparency                             (v) The office of the Permanent
                                                                                   transparency by
                                              and management of the second                                 Secretary, Ministry of Finance has put in
                                                                                   providing public
                                              Fiscal Stimulus projects, MOF                                place the project financial management
                                                                                   access to the year-
                                              established in December 2009 a                               system, which allows the identification
                                                                                   end financial
                                              comprehensive Project Financial                              of each project on Google maps using
                                                                                   statements, in
                                              Management System which                                      GPS coordinates and their financial
                                                                                   addition to the
                                              publically identifies each project                           information.
                                                                                   current public access
                                              on Google maps using GPS
                                                                                   to the annual budget
                                              coordinates, and reports in real-
                                                                                   documentation, in-
                                              time on: (i) project financial
                                                                                   year budget
                                              information; (ii) procurement
                                                                                   execution reports
                                              documentation; and (iii) physical
                                                                                   and external audit
                                              progress of projects
                                                                                   reports by 2011.




                                                               33
Objectives           Prior Actions*               Progress since May 2009         Results and            Results and Outcome
                                                                                   Outcome
                 Negotiated in May 2009                                                                      End of FY2013
                                                                                  Indicators

             MOF implemented program for       MOF: (i) operationalized the e-                  (vi) e-GP applies for all government
             improving public procurement      Government Procurement system                    agencies, state enterprises and local
             comprising: (i) introduction of   in April 2010 including posting                  authorities. Each procurement agency
             electronic-based procurement      of procurement information by                    must register and fill in the electronic
             system; (ii) initiating the       public agencies on the internet;                 government procurement form through
             procurement monitoring system     and (ii) submitted procurement                   the CGD’s website. In detail, the
             by using the OECD-WB              decree to Council of State                       development of electronic government
             Baseline Indicator System                                                          procurement is divided into 3 phases.
             framework; and (iii) submitted                                                     Thailand is in the process of developing
             the Royal Decree on Public                                                         the 3rd phase of the Electronic
             Procurement to the State                                                           Government Procurement (e-GP) System
             Council in 2008                                                                    to include E-bidding, E-market, Supplier
                                                                                                grading system, Price Performance,
                                                                                                Certified Authority/digital signature, and
                                                                                                e-Contract.

                                                                                                All government agencies have to input
                                                                                                their procurement information through e-
                                                                                                GP Web-site. Also, according to
                                                                                                NACC’s regulation, suppliers are
                                                                                                required to register on e-GP in order to
                                                                                                get the important procurement
                                                                                                information such as bid announcement,
                                                                                                bid document, etc.
                                                                                                In term of rule’s amendment, CGD
                                                                                                already submitted procurement decree to
                                                                                                Council of State since 2008.




                                                               34
      Objectives                 Prior Actions*                Progress since May 2009             Results and                 Results and Outcome
                                                                                                    Outcome
                             Negotiated in May 2009                                                                               End of FY2013
                                                                                                   Indicators

                         In 2007 the Revenue                Revenue Department upgraded        Reduction in           By implementing the e-filing system the
                         Department allowed taxpayers       the e-filing application systems   interaction between    compliance costs of taxpayers and the
                         to obtain tax forms, file tax,     in 2009 system capacity to         tax payer and          administrative costs of the Revenue
                         request for tax refund, and make   deliver services in a timely and   collector reducing     Department, have been decreased. Also,
                         payments electronically, hence     effective manner                   avenues for rent-      the number of e-filing users has been
                         reducing compliance costs of                                          seeking                increasing significantly from 7,758,254
                         taxpayers and administrative                                                                 in 2010 to 8,403,939 in 2011, 9,623,590
                         costs of the revenue department                                                              in 2012 and 11,775,115 in 2013.
                         within an e-Revenue system




Strengthening the        Prior Action 4: Nine working                                          In FY2010, each of     The public agencies were able to reduce
                                                            The nine committees have
performance management   committees constituted by the                                         40 the agencies        work process and time duration by
                                                            continued to function and in
framework, and           Government and representing                                           reduce their service   30-35% during the past ten years and
                                                            2010, Thailand’s rank in Doing
improving quality and    forty Government agencies                                             delivery time,         extend this improvement to all work
                                                            Business was improved to 12.
timeliness of service    have taken necessary actions                                          processes, and/or      processes. After that, OPDC set up a key
delivery                 to: (a) shorten their service-                                        costs by 5-10%         performance indicator (KPI) success
                         delivery times; (b) streamline                                        relative to FY2009.    level of weighed average percentage of
                         processes, and (c) and reduce                                                                work processes and cycle time reduction
                         the costs of interacting with                                                                to stimulate public agencies to pay more
                         government in ten district                                                                   attention to service improvement.
                         areas of dealing in which they
                         deal with private
                         businesses.ove the business
                         climate.
                         All central government agencies
                                                            OPDC decentralized in 2009 KPI From FY2010/11,
                         covered by a system of
                                                            determination to four ministries more than half of the
                         Performance Agreements
                                                            – Ministry of Finance, Ministry  agencies use the new
                         stipulating agency outputs


                                                                             35
Objectives            Prior Actions*                Progress since May 2009             Results and        Results and Outcome
                                                                                         Outcome
                 Negotiated in May 2009                                                                      End of FY2013
                                                                                        Indicators

             against service delivery targets.   of Industry and Commerce,          form for reporting
                                                 Ministry of Energy, and Ministry   systems of OPDC
                                                 of Environment and Natural         that develops the
                                                 Resources                          respective KPI’s for
                                                                                    the Ministerial and
                                                                                    Departmental 4-year
                                                                                    Operational Plan,
                                                                                    thereby reducing
                                                                                    overlap between
                                                                                    OPDC and BOB
                                                                                    reporting systems.
                                                                                    (Baseline was 0 in
                                                                                    2008/9).
             Prior Action 5: The Office of       In 2009 a Public Audit and
             Public Sector Development           Evaluation Committee was
             Commission and the Bureau           established with participation
             of the Budget have                  by the concerned agencies to
             harmonized their reporting          review all the different RBM
             systems to facilitate the           systems and make concrete
             formulation of key                  recommendations how these
             performance indicators (KPIs)       systems could be linked and
             for a four year ministerial and     integrated so as to move to an
             departmental operation plan         integrated results management
             covering all Government             framework across the public
             agencies.                           sector. The Public Auditing and
                                                 Evaluation Committee in 2009
                                                 conducted a review of results
                                                 based management systems in
                                                 government in order to
                                                 consolidate and integrate them
                                                 appropriately



                                                                 36
Objectives           Prior Actions*                Progress since May 2009             Results and                  Results and Outcome
                                                                                        Outcome
                 Negotiated in May 2009                                                                                 End of FY2013
                                                                                       Indicators


             The Second Strategic Plan for      As part of the implementation of   Increased flexibility   The government employees can transfer
             the Thai Public Sector             the Thai Public Sector             within the civil        among agencies that require similar
             Development (2008-2012) was        Development (PSD) plan the         service cadre’s as      skill sets.
             approved by the Cabinet in         OPDC launched the Role of the      evidenced by staff
             August 2008. This strategy has     State analysis in 2010 across 13   being able to           The performance-based pay has been
             four key strategies: (i) develop   sectors of the economy             transfer to different   applied in all civil service agencies since
             service quality and work process                                      agencies within the     2010 and brought about better
             to best respond to public needs,                                      same technical          performance of civil servants as well as
             (ii) enhance a comprehensive                                          specialization field    efficiency of civil service. Also salary
             work modality with involvement                                        by 2010 and pay         increase is more flexible and fair.
             of all stakeholders, (iii) raise                                      differentials between   Outcome: Compensation management
             public sector’s competency and                                        staff subject to        has been administered more efficiently.
             productivity to be on par with                                        performance             Result: Complaints and grievances
             international standards, and                                          assessments by 2012     concerning unfair treatment have been
             (iv) strengthen ethics and good                                                               taken care of and considerations have
             governance.                                                                                   been carried out in a more expeditious
                                                                                                           manner.
             Prior Action 6: The
                                                                                                           Outcome: Civil servants feel secure from
             Parliament promulgated the         OCSC implemented performance
                                                                                                           unfair treatment concerning human
             Civil Service Act in 2008, and     based pay from April 2010,
                                                                                                           resource management.
             the Office of the Civil Service    thereby phasing out the common
             Commission has taken               ‘step wise’ compensation scheme
             necessary action to implement
             a new grading structure across
                                                OCSC established the Merit
             the entire civil service with
                                                System Protection Commission
             effect from December 11,
                                                (MSPC) to: (i) advise and
             2008.
                                                prevent government agencies
                                                from issuing or regulating
             The new range-based salary
                                                unmerited rules and regulations,
             structure aligned with the new
                                                (ii) consider appeals, and
             position classification was


                                                                37
Objectives                 Prior Actions*               Progress since May 2009            Results and            Results and Outcome
                                                                                            Outcome
                      Negotiated in May 2009                                                                         End of FY2013
                                                                                           Indicators

                  implemented to allow for           (iii) consider complaints
                  differentiated salary structures
                  across the 4 professional
                  streams.

                  Royal Decree on Integrated         Bureau of the Budget provided                       Provincial Administration has more
                  Administration for Provinces       allocations for Provincial                          involvement in the Budgeting System.
                  and Provincial Clusters (2008)     Administrative Organizations                        In addition to budgetary allocations for
                  was issued on December 25,         from FY2009/10 budget year –                        provincial clusters and provincial
                  2008 and Bureau of the Budget      in addition to provincial clusters,                 administration since 2008/2009,
                  provided budgetary allocations     consistent with the Royal Decree                    budgetary allocations for central agencies
                  for provincial clusters starting   on Integrated Administration for                    are required to be re-aligned with
                  FY2008/09 Budget.                  Provinces and Provincial                            provincial plans. Moreover, since
                                                     Clusters                                            FY2013, provincial plans are major
                                                                                                         factors in making budget decisions.


 *The prior actions in bold are associated with the World Bank PSRDPL.




                                                                      38
                            Annex 4. List of Supporting Documents

Bank of Thailand, Annual Report, Thailand’s Economic Conditions in 2012.

de Renzio, Andrews, and Mills, 2011., Does Donor Support to Public Financial Management Reforms in
Developing Countries Work? An Analytical Study of Quantitative Cross-Country Evidence, Working
Paper 329, Overseas Development Institute.

Economic Intelligence Unit, June 2009.

Haughton and Khandker, 2012. The Surprising Effects of the Great Recession: Losers and Winners in
Thailand in 2008–2009, Policy Research Working Paper 6255.

IMF, Country Report No. 09/261.

IMF, Country Report No. 13/323.

Khandker, Koolwal, Haughton, and Jitsuchon, 2012. Household Coping and Response to Government
Stimulus in an Economic Crisis: Evidence from Thailand, Policy Research Working Paper 6016.

National Economic and Social Development Board and World Bank, 2005. Thailand Northeast
Economic Development Report.

Royal Government of Thailand, 2005. Public Debt Management Act.

Royal Government of Thailand, 2007. Constitution of the Kingdom of Thailand.

The Nation, various issues. http://www.nationmultimedia.com/index.php

World Bank, 2009. Thailand Economic Monitor, June.

World Bank, 2010. Thailand: Public Sector Reform Development Policy Loan (PSRDPL), Report No.
48331-TH.

World Bank, 2012. Thailand: Public Finance Management Report, Report No. 67486.

World Bank, 2012. Thailand Economic Monitor, December.

World Bank, various review meeting minutes, project status reports and other loan memoranda.

United Nations Development Program, 2010. Human Development Report.




                                                 39
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  IBRD 33495
                                                                                        To
                                                                                         o
96E                                                                               Kengtung                                                                                  104E
                                             To
                                              o
                                         ng Pan
                                       Möng

20N                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      20N
                                                                                             Chiang
                                                                                             Rai
                                                                                                                                           LA O                                                                               Gulf
  YA N MAR
M YA   MAR                              Mae Hong Son
                                                                                                                                         PEO PLE'S                                   VIE TNA
                                                                                                                                                                                     VIET NA M
                                                                                             Phayao                                                                                                                             of
                                          Chiang Mai
                                                                                                                                              REP
                                                                                                                                         DEM. REP.                                                                           To nk i n
                                                                                                                  Nan
                                                                          Lamphun                                                                   o
                                                                                                                                                   To
                                   Doi Inthanon                                                                                                    Louangphrabang




                                                                                                                                 g
                                                                             Lampang




                                                                                                                               on
                                    (2,576 m)




                                                                                                                            ek
                                                                                                             an



                                                                                                                         M
                                                                                                    Phrae




                                                                                                            N
                                                  Piin g



                                                                             ng
                                                                           a ng
                                                                                                                                                            Nong

                                                                          W
                                                                                                                                                            Khai
                                                                                                   Uttaradit                         Loei      Udon
                                                                                                                                                                          Nakhon Phanom
                                                                                                                                               Thani

                                                                           Sukhothai                                                 Nong Bua                             Sakon
                                                                                                                                      Lamphu                             Nakhon
                                                       Tak                                           Phitsanulok


                                                    Kamphaeng
                                                                                                                                             K h o r a t Kalasin                Mukdahan
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  o
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Tri
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Quang Tri
                                     To
                                      o




                                                                                                                                                                                                    M
                                                                                                                                                 Khon




                                                                                                                                                                                                     ek
                                 Mawlamyinet              Phet                                                           Phetchabun
                                                                                     Ch




                                                                                                  Phichit




                                                                                                                                                                                                       ong
                                                                                                                                                 Kaen
                                                                                       ao




                                                                                                                                                          Maha



                                                                                                                    Pasak
                                                                                                                                                                           Roi Et
                                                                                          pra




16N                                                                                                                                                     Sarakham                                                                         16N
                                                                                              y




                                                                                                                                            Plateau
                                                                                             a




                                                                                                                          Chaiyaphum
                                                           Kha




                                                                                                                                                                        Yasothon
                                                            ha Kh




                                                                                                    Nakhon                                                                             Ch       Amnat Chareon
                                                               Kh aen




                                                                                                    Sawan                                                                                   i
                                                                                                                                                                                                  Ubon
                                                                   en g




                                                                            Uthai Thani                                                                                                           Ratchathani
                                                                                                                                                        n
                                                                                   Chai Nat                                                           Mu
                                                                                                                                                             Buri Ram
                                                                                                                                                                                    Si Sa Ket
                                                                                        Sing Buri            Lop Buri                       Nakhon                      Surin
                                                                                                                                            Ratchasima
                                                                 Ang Thong
                                                            Suphan Buri                                           Saraburi
                                                                    Ayutthaya                                        Nakhon Nayok
                                                    Kanchanaburi Pathum Thani                                            Prachin Buri

                                                                     Nakhon Pathom                       Nonthaburi                         Sa Kaeo
                                                                                                            BANGKOK
                                                                               Samut Sakhon          Chachoengsao
          An d a ma n                                                      Ratchaburi         Samut
                                                                                       Samut Prakan Chon
                                                                                       Songkram     Buri
             Sea                                                          Phetchaburi                                                                                                   CA MBO DIA
                                                                                                                                                                                               DI A
                                                                                                                    Rayong
                                                                                                                                                                        o
                                                                                                                                                                       To
                                                                                                                                  Chanta                           Phnom Penh
                                                                                                                                    Buri         Trat

12N                                                                                                                                  Ko Rong                                                                                             12N

                                                                                          Prachuap
                                                                                          Khiri Khan                                        Ko Kut



                                                                                                                                                                                                                      THAILAND
                                                                                                                  Gulf
                                                                           Chumphon
                                                                                                                   of
                                                  Ranong                                                       T hailand
                                                                                                  Ko Phangan
                                                                                                  Ko Samui
                                                                                                                                                                                104E
                                                                             Surat
                                                                             Thani

                                   Phangnga
                                                                                             Nakhon Si
                                                                                             Thammarat
                                                                                                                                                                                                   TH A I L A ND
                                                       Krabi
                             Ko Phuket
8N                                                                                                                                                                  8N                                  PROVINCE CAPITALS*
                                   Phuket

                                                                                                  Phattalung
                                                                                                                                                                                                        NATIONAL CAPITAL
                                                                          Trang
                                                                                                                                                                                                        RIVERS
                                                                                                            Songkhla
                                                                                                                                                                                                        MAIN ROADS
      0     50     100      150 Kilometers                                                                              Pattani
                                                                                                                                                                                                        RAILROADS
                                                            Ko Tarutao Satun
                                                                                                                                      Narathiwat
      0    25    50    75     100 Miles                                                                            Yala                                                                                 PROVINCE BOUNDARIES*
 This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.                                                                                                                                        INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
 The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
 shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank                                                                                o
                                                                                                                                             To
 Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any                                        o
                                                                                                        To
                                                                                                      Taiping
                                                                                                       aiping                                Bertam
                                                                                                                                             Bertam
 endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.                                                                                                                                          *Province names are the same as their capitals.
                                                                                       100E                           LAY SI
                                                                                                                   MA LAY SIAA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  JANUARY 2005
