Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 11548
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
SECOND URBAN AND REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 1990-ME)
JANUARY 12, 1993
Infrastructure and Energy Operations Division
Country Department II
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and mav be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



MEXICO
SECOND URBAN AND REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 1990-ME)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit               -    MXP  (Mexican Peso)
August  1981                             1 US$                 22   MXP
July    1989                             1 US$        =      2,800 MXP
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
BANOBRAS     Banco Nacional de Obras y Servicios Publicos          National Development Bank for
Public Works
FIDEIN       Fideicomiso de Conjuntos, Parques                     Trust fund for Industrial Estate
Ciudades Industriales y Centros Comerciales           Development
FIFAPA       Fondo de Inversiones Financieras para Agua            Investment Fund for Water Supply
Potable y Alcantarillado                              and Sewerage
FOGAIN       Fondo de Garantia y Fomento a la Industria            Small and Medium Industry
Pequefa y Mediana                                     Guarantee and Development Fund
FOMUN        Fondo de Fomento Municipal                            Municipal Development Fund
FONHAPO      Fideicomiso Fondo Nacional de Habitaciones            National Fund for Low-Cost Housing
Populares
MCMA         Area Metropolitana de la Ciudad de Mexico             Mexico City Metropolitan Area
PACDU        Programa de Acci6n Concertada para el                 Program of Concerted Action for
Desarrollo Urbano                                     Urban Development
SAHOP        SecretarIa de Asentamientos Humanos y Obras           Ministry of Human Settlements and
PNblicas                                              Public Works
SEDUE        Secretaria de Ecologia y Desarrollo Urbano            Ministry of Urban Development and
Ecology
SHCP         Secretaria de Hacienda y Crddito P,blico              Ministry of Finances
SPP          Secretaria de Programaci6n y Presupuesto              Ministry of Planning and Budget



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-General
Operations Evaluation
January 12, 1993
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:    Project Completion Report on Mexico
Second Urban and Regional Development Prolect (Loan 1990-ME)
Attached is a copy of the report entitled "Project Completion Report
on Mexico - Second Urban and Regional Development Project (Loan 1990-ME)"
prepared by the Latin America and Caribbean Regional Office with Part II
contributed by the Borrower.
This project suffered from difficult country conditions both
political and economic. During preparation of the project, the Bank failed to
obtain commitment for an approach which entailed a new lending system through a
large number of local borrowing institutions. The Government did not succeed to
gain the necessary support and understanding for this complex project at the
local level.   The results in physical investments were extremely limited.
Achievements of institutional targets were minimal and cost recovery performance
was poor. The studies that were to establish a programmatic approach to regional
development were not carried out. The policy impact of this project, for all
practical purposes, was nil.  Eventually, nearly half of the loan amount was
diverted to supplement housing programs under the Earthquake Reconstruction and
Rehabilitation Project (Loan 2665-ME) which remains perhaps the only significant
contribution of this project.
Overall,  the  project  is  rated  as  very  unsatisfactory,  its
institutional achievements as negligible, and its sustainability as unlikely.
The project is being audited in the framework of the Mexico Country
Study.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their officiaL duties. Its contents may not otherwise be discLosed without Wortd Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
SECOND URBAN AND REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 1990-ME)
Table of Contents
Page No.
PREFACE .................................................................                                                       i
EVALUATION SUMMARY .......................................................                                                       i
PART  I:         PROJECT  REVIEW  FROM  BANK'S  PERSPECTIVE .....................
Project  Identity ........................................................                                                      1
Project  Background ......................................................                                                      I
Project Objectives and Description ......................................   2
Project Preparation, Design and Organization ............................ .4
Project  Implementation ..................................................                                                      5
Project  Results .........................................................                                                      7
Project Risks and Possible Causes of Failure ............................   8
Cost-Recovery and Financial Performance .................................   9
Bank Performance ........................................................    10
Borrower's Performance ..................................................    10
Consulting Services .....................................................   10
Project  Documentation  and  Data ..........................................                                                    11
Lessons Learned .........................................................    11
PART  II:    PROJECT  REVIEW  FROM  BORROWER'S  PERSPECTIVE .................                                                   12
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION ....................................                                                          16
Table 1 Related Bank Loans .16
Table 2 Project Timetable .16
Table 3 Loan Disbursements .16
Table 4 Project Implementation .16
Table 5 Project Costs and Financing .17
Table 6 Project Results .18
Table 7  Status of Major Loan Covenants .18
Table 8 Use of Bank Resources .19
Table  9         Inflation  Rates ............................................                                                  20
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
SECOND URBAN AND REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 1990-ME)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Second Urban
and Regional Development Project in Mexico, for which Loan 1990-ME, in the
amount of US$164 million was approved on August 13, 1981. The Borrower was
BANOBRAS (Banco Nacional de Obras y Servicios Pliblicos) with the Mexican
Government acting as the Guarantor. Following the September 1985 earthquake,
an amount of US$81 million was reallocated towards the reconstruction program.
US$20 million were canceled. The loan was closed in July 1989 four years
behind schedule with the last disbursement made in September 1989.
This PCR was prepared jointly by the Infrastructure and Energy
Operations Division, Department II, Latin American and the Caribbean Region
Office (Preface, Evaluations Summary, Parts I & III) and by the Borrower (Part
II). The report is based, inter alia, on the Staff Appraisal Report, the
President's report, the Loan, Project and Guarantee Agreements, supervision
reports, internal Bank memoranda, and correspondence between the Bank and the
Borrower.






- ii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
SECOND URBAN AND REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 1990-ME)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
1.        Proiect Obiectives.  The objective of the project was to assist the
Government in its efforts to:  (a) establish an appropriate spatial strategy
by facilitating and harmonizing urban growth in one of the highest priority
development regions in the country; (b) set up a programmatic approach to
urban and regional development and; (c) develop the Isthmus of Tehuantepec
region's full economic potential in the interest of both the national economy
and the region's population. To this end, the project was to finance a
variety of housing, infrastructure, and credit operations in municipalities of
the three States of Chiapas, Tabasco and Veracruz.
2.        Implementation Experience.  From the outset, the project suffered
from difficulties in coordination between the Borrower, BANOBRAS (Banco
Nacional de Obras y Servicios Puiblicos), and the various executing agencies at
the federal, state and municipal government levels. Staffing was not adequate
to promote and coordinate project activities. Moreover, the project elicited
only little interest from state executing agencies and municipal authorities
since they were able to obtain funding for the same type of investments as the
ones eligible for project funding from other sources such as IDB or the same
BANOBRAS, at more advantageous conditions. As of the second year of
implementation, the project came to a virtual halt. Following the September
1985 earthquake, the Bank agreed to reallocate about half of the loan
resources (US$81.8 million) for housing reconstruction programs in Mexico
City, thereby complementing the resources made available under the Earthquake
Reconstruction and Rehabilitation Project (Ln. 2665-ME).1 Implemented in
conjunction with the latter project, this part was fully completed in 1989.
3.        Results.  All in all, the project achieved only a few tangible
results, most of which were limited to the area of infrastructure works. In
the Shelter and Related Activities component only about 6X of the originally
planned program was completed. Similarly low results were achieved in the
Urban Upgrading and Productive Activities components. Comparatively better
was the outcome in the City-wide Infrastructure component that could be
Y    A PCR for Loan 2665-HE is being issued separately.



- iii -
completed to about 80% of the original program. Conversely, the earthquake
housing reconstruction programs implemented, in association with Loan 2665-ME,
in Mexico City and the State of Jalisco were successfully completed.
4.        Lessons Learned.  Complex multi-sector, multi-agency and multi-
institutional projects have only a chance to succeed if they enjoy a
continuously strong political support on part of all the authorities involved
and can be carried out by dedicated institutions with adequate technical
implementing capacity. For the project under review, it would probably have
been preferable to set more modest targets, take a more cautious approach and
limit the scope of the project, possibly to one State and to a smaller number
of components.
5.        In view of the changes at the political level that took place
between appraisal and actual inception of implementation, the interests of the
project would probably have been better served if, rather than to pursue
objectives and execution arrangements that had become inadequate, a thorough
restructuring of the project had been undertaken at a very early stage of
implementation, as soon as the major shortcomings in project design became
apparent.
6.        Operations that involve primarily sub-lending activities should
only be carried forward on the basis of a comprehensive previous assessment of
the overall funding sources available for the sector and upon ascertaining
that the resources provided under the proposed operation are indeed
competitive with those from other sources.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
SECOND URBAN AND REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 1990-ME)
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1. Proiect Identity
Name          Second Urban and Regional Development Project
Loan No.       1990-ME
RVP Unit      Latin America and the Caribbean Region
Country Department II
Sector        Infrastructure and Energy
Subsector     Urban
2.  Proiect Background
2.01      Economic development in Mexico displays a high degree of spatial
concentration in terms of activities and population. A longstanding objective
of several successive Governments has been to prepare and implement strategies
that would aim at slowing down the growth of the Mexico City Metropolitan Area
(MCMA) as well as of Guadalajara and Monterrey, the country's other largest
cities, and fostering the development of urban centers in regions with
demonstrated economic potential. To attract industries and labor to these new
development poles, successive governments developed a series of instruments,
from tax incentives to differential interest rates for industrial credit, and
price subsidies for public utilities.
2.02      In 1976, the Government issued the Law of Human Settlements (Ley de
Asentamientos Humanos) as a legal basis for the implementation of its regional
development strategy.  Its objectives were to promote the development of
medium sized cities as an alternative to the explosion of the largest urban
centers, to increase rural/urban integration, to encourage local participation
in resolving urban problems, to enforce land use controls, to improve urban
services and to reduce the length of the journey to work within cities.  In
the National Urban Development Plan 'Plan Nacional de Desarrollo Urbano or
PNDU) prepared in 1987, the then Ministry of Human Settlements and Public
Works (Secretaria de Asentamientos Humanos y Obras Publicas or SAHOP) defined
the outlines for a spatial development strategy in thirteen integrated urban
regions, of which 10 were given high priority for their immediate development
potential. The Lazaro Cardenas Conurbation, one of the priority regions
identified, was selected for one of the first Bank supported urban projects in
Mexico (Loan 1554-ME) .1 The Isthmus of Tehuantepec Region was proposed by
the Government as the target of a next regional project.  This region,
2/ L5zaro CArdenas Conurbation Development Project (Ln. 1554-ME)
FY78, US$16.5 million. Closed June 1983. PCR: Nov. 1987.



- 2 -
straddling the States of Veracruz, Tabasco, and Chiapas, in addition to being
an area endowed with abundant agricultural and water resources, was the site
of various fast expanding petrochemical industries. Because of the massive
immigration of workers attracted by the employment prospects in the
petrochemical industry, the State and local governments were unable to satisfy
the demand for basic urban services and the situation, especially in the three
larger cities of Villahermosa, Coatzacoalcos, and Minatitlan, had become
extremely critical.
3. Proiect Obiectives and Description
3.01      Reflecting the Government's regional development objectives
outlined above, the project was to assist the Government in its efforts to:
(a) establish an appropriate spatial strategy by facilitating and harmonizing
urban growth in one of the highest priority development regions in the
country; (b) set up a programmatic approach to urban and regional development,
and (c) develop the region's full economic potential in the interest of both
the national economy and the region's population.
3.02      To this end, the project was to provide funding for the following
components:
(a) Shelter and Related Facilities, (US$270 million, or 571 of total
project cost):
-    development of sites and services projects for a total of
about 19,000 lots equipped with basic utilities as well
provision of credits to the beneficiaries for the purchase of
lots;
-    credits to families for the acquisition of building materials
and/or contracting of labor for construction of low-income
dwellings on the lots;
-    urban upgrading operations in low-income neighborhoods through
improvements in the water, sewerage, and storm drainage
networks, street paving, storm drainage and street lighting;
-    sub-loans to families for home improvements;
-    construction, equipment and operation of community centers.
(b) City-Wide Infrastructure, (US$119 million, or 25Z of total project
cost):
-    water supply works including the extension of distribution
networks and service connections, expansion of pumping



-3-
stations, construction of water mains, storage tanks and
treatment plants;
sewerage systems including the extension of collector networks
and service connections, and the construction of pumping
stations, treatment plants and discharge systems;
access roads to low-income neighborhoods;
extension of electricity and telephone networks.
(c) Municipal Facilities and Services, (US$41 million, or 9% of total
project cost):
-    construction of a wholesale market in Villahermosa and
construction or rehabilitation of retail markets;
-    construction or expansion of slaughter houses;
-    improvement of solid waste collection and disposal services.
(d) Production Credit and Other Production Activities, (US$34 million,
or 8% of total project cost:
-    sub-loans to artisans and small-scale enterprises;
-    construction of industrial estates;
-    training for the Borrower, housing corporations and other
implementing agencies in the areas of project management, and
financial and economic analysis;
-    creation of a technical and management training center in
Villahermosa.
(e) Studies and Support Activities, (US$5 million, or 1% of total
project cost):
-    project and final design studies in water supply, sewerage,
sanitation and related matters;
-    project and final design studies in shelter-related matters
and urbanization;
-    strengthening of managerial and financial capabilities of
water authorities, housing corporations, and municipalities;



- 4 -
-    project promotion activities for Parts A, C, and D, above.
4.    Proiect Preparation. Desitn and Organization
4.01      Preparation of the project was begun in Spring 1978.  The low-
income shelter, community facilities, productive credits and training
components were appraised in Fall 1979. Appraisal of the city-wide
infrastructure, water supply and sanitary sewage components was found
unsatisfactory and required a post-appraisal in February 1980.  Due to its
complexities, it took 15 months to prepare the project for Board presentation.
The latter took place in May 1981, but because of the time required to resolve
legal and institutional issues, the loan became effective only in
January 1982.
4.02      Overall coordination of project implementation was to be ensured by
BANOBRAS which for that purpose would set up a specific Project Implementation
Unit. The planning and design of each of the sub-components was to be
undertaken in each State by the state agencies responsible for sector
operations, and/or the participating municipalities.
(a)  Shelter and Shelter Related Facilities:  Sites and Services
projects were to be designed by the State Housing Corporations
which would allocate the serviced lots and building material
credits. Urban Upgrading Operations were to be planned by
municipalities for more than 14,000 families in existing poorer
neighborhoods. In areas where the land property situation was
unclear and full scale upgrading precluded, an intermediate
solution would consist in the provision of centrally located
community facilities with potable water and collective laundry
facilities.  Home improvement loans were to be provided for 10,000
families and to be administered through the State Housing
Corporations. The latter were to borrow the necessary funds from
BANOBRAS on terms satisfactory to the Government and the Bank.
(b)  City-wide Infrastructure:  The State Water and Sewage Authorities
were to design and implement projects under project agreements
(convenios) with SAHOP and in accordance with standards and
procedures agreed upon by the Bank for the Second Medium Size
Cities Water Supply and Sewerage Project-FIFAPA II (Ln. 1913-ME).3
Other infrastructure projects i.e., access roads to lowq-income
neighborhoods, electric power and telephone networks were to be
designed by the municipalities.
3 Second Water Supply Project - FIFAPA II (Ln. 1913-E) made in FY81 for US$125 million.



(c)  Municipal Facilities:  A Wholesale Market for Villahermosa and
about 10 Retail Markets were to be designed, built and/or
rehabilitated the participating municipalities. Municipalities
were also to assume responsibility for the construction of Fourteen
Slaughterhouses and prepare a series of operations to improve Solid
Waste Collection.
(d)  Productive Economic Activities:  Credits to Small-Scale Enterprises
and Artisans were to be administered by a separate unit in
BANOBRAS. Industrial Estates were to be planned by specific trusts
(Fideicomisos) established under the authority of the State
governors and overseen by the National Trust Fund for Industrial
Development (Fideicomiso de Conjuntos, Parques, Ciudades
Industriales y Centros Comerciales or FIDEIN).
(e)  Studies and Complementary Support Activities:  Several planning
studies were to help prepare further programs for the development
of the region. In addition, technical assistance was to be
provided to the various implementing agencies in accordance to
their needs.
4.03      In retrospect, the project design suffered from a series of
shortcomings some of which were difficult to anticipate out at the time of
preparation. However, while the project design fully blended in with the
regional planning philosophy of the Government in power during the period of
preparation (Lopez Portillo 1976-82), it was only marginally attuned to the
development concepts of the following Government (De La Madrid 1982-1988) that
became responsible for project implementation. Besides, although the project
concept was clearly understood at the level of the Borrower and the Federal
Government--at least during preparation--, this understanding was not shared
to the same degree by the State and local authorities, an elusive objective
anyway, given the volatility of local authorities. Finally, there was an
excess of confidence in the implementation capacity of the various executing
agencies, resulting in insufficient attention being paid to the arrangements
required to ensure the adequate identification and preparation of a subproject
portfolio beyond the slice identified at appraisal.
5. Proiect Implementation
5.01       From its beginning, the implementation of the project suffered
from difficulties in establishing adequate inter-institutional coordination.
The Project Implementation Unit in BANOBRAS was not suitably staffed and,
thus, was unable to appropriately promote and coordinate the project.
Coordination between the State implementing agencies level and the
municipalities was inadequate, if not totally lacking. By the middle of the
second year of implementation, the last of the civil works that had been
identified at appraisal was under execution. About 251 of the loan had been



disbursed, giving the illusion that the project was actually ahead of.
schedule. Hwever, at that point, no new projects had been identified and the
project portfolio was sesentially empty.
5.02      The reasons for this shortfall were multiple.  Municipalities
shoved little interest in submitting project proposals to the respective
States and to BANOBRAS because in the early 80's their fiscal revenues had
increased substantially or they were able to obtain concessionary funds for
these projects from the same BANOBRAS under the Government's municipal
assistance program (Fondo de Fomento Municipal or FOMUN) at an interest of
12%, a rate significantly lower than the 18% applicable under the project.
Financing of productive activities faced a similar constraint, with competing
funds from the Guarantee and Medium and Small Scale Industries Fund (Fondo de
Garantia y Fomento a la Industria Mediana y Pequena or FOGAIN), which provided
loans at lover interest rates. Likewise, the State Housing Corporations
demonstrated a noticeable lack of interest for the implementation of programs
intended for low and lowest-income households.
5.03      Hampered by coordination problems within BANOBRAS, and facing an
evident lack of interest on part of the State and local governments, the
project came to a virtual halt in 1984. The creation of a revolving fund
(Special Account) and the Bank's agreement to increase its share of funding
from 32Z to 70% for infrastructure works did not yield the expected results.
Further attempts to revive the project by extending the project area to
another five States did not bear fruit either. In the wake of the September
1985 earthquake, the Bank agreed to reallocate about half of the loan
resources (US$81.8 million) for housing reconstruction programs in Mexico City
and the State of Jalisco as a complement of the Earthquake Reconstruction and
Rehabilitation Project (Ln. 2665-ME).1 These programs implemented by the
National Fund for Low-Cost Housing (Fideicomiso Fondo Nacional de Habitaciones
Populares or FONHAPO) were successfully completed by the end of 1989, A
remaining total of US$19.8 million of unspent funds was canceled by end of
1987 at the request of the Government.
5.04      In hindsight, it would have been preferable to carry out a thorough
restructuring of the project, including the streamlining or even elimination
of some components as soon as the major shortcomings began to appear, rather
than to persist in attempting to salvage the original project design and
concepts. This is particularly relevant as at that time it was already
possible to draw the lessons from the--rather unsatisfactory--implementation
experience of the Lizaro CArdenas Conurbation Development Project
Al Earthquake Rehabilitation and Reconstruction Project (La. 2665-HE)
FY86, US$400 million. Closed in December 1990.



-7-
(Loan 1554-ME), whose design was in many points similar to that of this
project.
6. Project Result.
6.01       All in all, the project achieved only a f-w tangible results most
of which were limited to the area of physical infrastructure improvements. It
did not achieve any of the major objectives stated in the Staff Appraisal
Report (para. 3.02) and found its final vindication in the reallocation, in
1986, of half of the loan resources (US$81.8 million) to the earthquake
housing reconstruction programs in Mexico City and the State of Jalisco, which
were indeed quite successful.
(a)  Shelter and Shelter Related Facilities:  The city of Reforma, in
Chiapas, developed 300 single-family lots, though not for low-
income households. In the state of Tabasco, six small subdivisions
were developed and eventually occupied, but the terms of the sales
did not conform to the provisions of the Loan Agreement. In the
State of Veracruz, the State Housing Corporation undertook works on
a project of 305 lots. In total, only about 1,200 serviced lots
were completed, or less than 62 of the initial program.
Construction material loans for the 300 lots in Reforma were used
to build "core houses", that were far more expensive than had been
agreed upon and, thus were accessible only to families with an
income of five minimum salaries. In Tabasco, about 600
construction material loans were made for three subdivisions, but
were used to build houses of a type that did not conform to the
cost provisions of the Loan agreement. The total of 1,200 material
purchase credits represented only 8% of the original program of
15,000 such credits. Urban upgrading in the city of Reforma,
Chiapas, benefitted 1,300 urban families on a limited site by
improving water supply and storm drainage, representing a mere 9%
of the original program. No proposals for other infrastructure
improvements were ever identified in Tabasco and Veracruz. Results
of the home improvement loan component were equally poor and less
than 10% of the available funds were utilized.
(b) City-wide Infrastructure: This was the only component that was
implemented with relative success. Several projects were executed
in urban centers of the three States representing about 80Z of the
original objectives. Implementation suffered repeatedly from
delays and the last project was completed in 1987.
(c)  Kuricipal Facilities:  Aside from the wholesale market in
Villahermosa, no other market was built. Likewise, no
slaughterhouse and solid waste collection project could be
completed.
(d) Productive Economic Activities: The project of an industrial
estate in Villahermosa was abandoned. The credit program for



small-scale industries never got off the ground, because BANOBRAS
did not see fit to develop a suitable implementation scheme, and,
for the reasons mentioned above, actual demand was minimal.
(e) Studies and Complementary Support Activities: Some small project
identification studies were carried out by local consultants.
Related expenditure represented 1% of the original allocation.
6.02      The Staff Appraisal Report estimated that the project would have an
overall Economic rate of Return (ERR) of about 14%. Given the only partial
implementation of the project and the impossibility to obtain reliable data on
the actual results achieved between nine and six years ago, it did not seem
practical and/or feasible to compute the actual ERR obtained. Given the
nature of the components that were completed (primarily City-wide
Infrastructure), it can be inferred from the evaluation of similar projects in
Mexico and elsewhere that the ERR's of the individual sub-projects were
satisfactory and most likely above the 14% limit stated in the Staff Appraisal
Report.  Because the proportion of the project that was actually implemented
remained rather small, the project impact be it physical, institutional or
social, was marginal at best. Where the project made a significant impact,
however, was in its contribution to the earthquake housing reconstruction
program in Mexico City and the State of Jalisco.
7. Proiect Risks and Possible Causes of Failure
7.01.     The Staff Appraisal Report underscored that a multi-sectoral,
multi-city, and multi-state project like the proposed one was likely to
encounter a significantly higher share of problems than a project concerned
with a single sector or a smaller number of intermediaries. It estimated,
wrongly though, that the implementation of works could be expected to proceed
smoothly. The project risks were considered justifiable "because the project
would break new ground in the traditional pattern of urban projects in
Mexico", address needs "in a region that represents an unusual opportunity in
terms of its development potential", result in "an impact on the Government's
policy of decentralizing planning and financial responsibilities to state and
municipal authorities', and satisfy " last but not least, the political
urgency to improve the social conditions in a region of such importance to the
country". The risks were believed mitigated by " the commitment of the
federal, state and municipal authorities to this program and the high
professional level of Mexico's institutions and officials."
7.02      A first problem was that the project had been conceived under a
Government that placed high emphasis on planning and regional development
(President Lopez Portillo 1976-1982).  The following Government of President
De La Madrid (1982-1988), while not reneging openly the planning philosophy of
its predecessor, was pressed with more critical issues of macroeconomic
policies and management of the debt crisis. The shift in emphasis at the
federal level undoubtedly was reflected in a change of attitude at the levels
of State and local governments. Thus, at the critical moments of
implementation the project did not enjoy any longer the degree of political



9 
support and interest which it had elicited earlier. Moreover, elections at
both the state and municipal level brought new actors into play who did not
necessarily share the opinions of their respective predecessors even in regard
to technical arrangements, or simply were unaware of the discussions that had
taken place, or the understandings reached with the previous authorities. In
addition, because part of the oil export taxes was earmarked for local
government, the fiscal revenues of the latter increased significantly during
the early 80's as a result of the rise of oil prices on the world market.
(However, as of 1983, those revenues decreased sharply). Finally, in 1982,
the Government also amended Article 115 of the Constitution to expand the
competencies of the municipalities and increase their financial autonomy, a
move that clearly modified the attitude of local governments vis-a-vis
programs promoted and supported by Federal agencies.
7.03      In hindsight, the project clearly overestimated the capacity of the
Borrower, BANOBRAS, and the State and municipal governments to plan and
coordinate development programs of an almost unprecedented complexity. It
also failed to properly assess the risk presented by the parallel existence of
other sources of funding for identical purposes and accessible to both States
and municipalities under much less stringent conditions, both technical and
financial. This all the more so, as the proposed financial mechanisms
involved a clear break with the traditional patterns of finpncial
relationships between the Federal, State and Municipal Governments, and, for
the political authorities, were likely to entail yielding a significant share
of traditional patronage, power and influence.
8.   Cost-Recovery and Financial Performance
8.01      One of the major objectives formulated in the Appraisal Report was
to obtain high cost-recovery levels, 751 of the costs were expected to be
directly recovered from beneficiaries of facilities upgrading, 60% of
Community Centers, 502 for "Other" infrastructure, and 96% of all the
remaining components. In spite of expectations and based on a general review
of the situation it can be concluded that project cost-recovery, besides the
inexistance of adequate data for its evaluation, was in practice, dismal.
Following are the main reasons:
(a) the planned cost-recovery was based on the assumption that interest
rates, which were negative in real terms at the beginning of the project,
would gradually become positive. With the exception of credit to small
enterprises (Part D(1)(b)), whose lending rates to final beneficiaries were
adjustable, for the rest of sub-loan categories they were fixed rates at 15%
(9% for water and sewerage sub-projects). The country's deteriorating
financial situation and the ensuing acceleration of inflation (see Statistical
Information, Inflation Rates), coupled with lack of adjustment in the interest
rates, made the cost-recovery goal impossible to achieve; and
(b) sub-projects were supposed to be carried out by an ample spectrum
of organizations at the national, state, and municipal levels. Among them the
state housing institutes, water authorities, industrial development funds,



- 10 -
etc., all coordinated by a Project Unit in BANOBRAS. The diffused sub-project
management, compounded by reorganizations in BANOBRAS, and Project Unit
inadequacy, contributed not only to an inefficient management of the project
but to deficient sub-project records maintenance and insufficient information
to carry out a full cost-recovery analysis.
8.02      In spite of the poor cost-recovery performance, net transfer to
final beneficiaries was minimal. Besides implementation problems, described
in paras. 5.01 to 5.04, a multi-sectoral, multi-city and multi-state project
like this, encountered problems which were complicated by central government
subsidized funds in direct competition with the ones offered under the
program. Lack of sub-projects brought the program to a halt and cutbacks
reduced the completion rate to around 6% in Shelter and related activities.
Twenty five percent in Municipal Facilities and Services, 50% in City wide
infrastructure and almost zero in the rest of the components.
9. Bank Performance
9.01      Bank staff worked for almost two years with BANOBRAS and Federal,
State and municipal agencies in preparing the project. However, the time
spent with the municipalities was not sufficient to develop their
understanding of the benefits of this multi-pronged, integrated approach, or
to bring into the open their reservations or reluctance to participate in the
operation. Supervision was originally programmed at four-month intervals.
However, because of shortage of staff, it was reduced to one mission every six
months as of the end of 1983. This was clearly an inadequate frequency for a
project that was doing poorly. The shortage of staff was probably also the
reason why the Bank did not press more strongly for a restructuring of the
project. Persistent failure to rate this as a problem project is puzzling.
10. Borrower's Performance
10.01          BANOBRAS, with support from SAHOP at the Federal level, worked
satisfactorily to prepare the project. However, in its responsibilities as
the main implementation and overseeing agency, it was unable to muster
adequate staff and develop organizational structures that corresponded to the
complexity of the project. Moreover, although it was understood that unlike
regular government lending programs, this project required skillful promotion,
BANOBRAS failed to set up the required instruments. However, given the severe
limitations in staffing and skills in the various state agencies and
participating municipalities, it is doubtful that, even with a much greater
effort, BANOBRAS would have been able to overcome the project's built-in
deficiencies and the political realities referred to in paras. 7.02 and 7.03
above.
11. Consulting Services
11.1      Local consultants were to a limited extent engaged to reinforce the
institutional capacity for project execution at the level of BANOBRAS, and the
state and municipal authorities. Local design and consulting firms were used



- 11 -
to prepare final designs and engineering and/or architectural studies and, on
the whole, proved to have adequate experience and delivered work of
satisfactory quality.
12. Proiect Documentation and Data
12.01     Most data used for the preparation of the PCR was readily available
in Bank files. A comprehensive final report on the project was prepared by
BANOBRAS in 1989 and is on file. Data on the part of the loan allocated to
reconstruction operations in Mexico City are included in the PCR for the
Earthquake Reconstruction Project (Ln. 2665-ME), which is under preparation.
13. Lessons Learned
13.01     Complex multi-sector, multi-agency and multi-institutional projects
have only a chance to succeed if they enjoy a sontinuously strong political
support on part of all the authorities involved and can be carried out in a
framework of dedicated institutions with adequate technical implementing
capacity. Given the changing of the Mexican political scene at the time that
this project was prepared, it would have been advisable not to succumb to the
temptation of setting such ambitious objectives, take a more cautious approach
and limit the scope of the project, possibly to one State and to a more modest
number of components.
13.02     In view of the changes at the political level that took place
between appraisal and actual inception of implementation, the interests of the
project would have been better served if, rather than to pursue objectives and
execution arrangements that had become inadequate and obsolete, a thorough
restructuring of the project had been undertaken at a very early stage of
execution. It would have been particularly advisable to draw the necessary
lessons from the rather unsatisfactory implementation of the similarly
designed LAzaro CArdenas Conurbation Development Project (Ln. 1554-ME).
13.03     Operations that involve primarily sub-lending activities should
only be carried forward on the basis of a comprehensive previous assessment of
the overall funding sources available for the sector and upon ascertaining
that the proposed operation is indeed competitive with other available sources
of funding.



- 12 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
SECOND URBAN AND REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 1990-HE)
PART II:  PROJECT IJPTLEHENTATION FROM TEI BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
(Unofficial translation)
Background:
1.        Towards the middle of the 70's Mexico was confronted with an
economic recession that brought about a deterioration of most social
indicators, a sharp devaluation of the currency and a soaring inflation which
seriously reduced the purchasing power of the population as a whole. The
Gross Domestic Product (GDP) declined in those years while, in parallel, the
public sector deficit saw a significant increase.
2.        Facing these problems at the end of 1976 and beginning of 1977,
Mexico attempted to revert the situation by intensifying the production of
oil, a move that was considered to be the most efficient instrument to
generate the resources needed for fighting the recession and helping restart
the growth of the economy.
3.        The oil industry sector provided the basis for a period of dynamic
and sustained growth of the economy owing to then existing trends of rising
oil prices in the world market, and the Government committed substantial
investments resources to the sector financed primarily from external sources.
4.        Despite the efforts deployed in the area of population growth
control, in absolute numbers the population continued to increase at a high
rate. This entailed that every year the needs of an additional approximately
1.5 million people had to be attended.
5.        Aside from the problems related to the growth of the population in
general, additional acute problems resulted from the spatial distribution of
the population and, in particular, its tendency to concentrate in urban
centers. The imbalances in regional and sectoral development led to a strong
migratory move from rural to urban areas which is at the root of the current
problems of overconcentration of population in the metropolitan areas of
Mexico City, Guadalajara and Monterrey.
6.        To address the problems caused by the concentration of population
and economic activities in the latter cities as well as in others which were
about to be affected by the same phenomenon, the Government approved in 1978 a



- 13 -
National Urban Development Plan, the purpose of which was to establish a
hierarchy of priority development regions and urban areas based on their
capacity to absorb incremental population, their location in respect to
natural resources and their potential and/or prospects to generate employment
as a result of the dynamics of growth of the different sectors.
7.        Within the areas considered to be of high development priority was
included the area of the Coast of the Gulf of Mexico and the Isthmus of
Tehuantepec. This area encompassed a total of 242 municipalities, 3 of which
were located in the State of Veracruz, 6 in the State of Tabasco, 1 in the
State of Chiapas, and 230 in the State of Oaxaca.
8.        The intense industrial development prompted in this area by the
expansion of the activities of PEMEX, the national oil company, led over a
short period of time to the creation of about 10,000 new jobs of a wide
variety of qualifications and incomes. This in turn resulted in a growing
needs for urban infrastructure. The rapid expansion of the oil industry
related activities caused serious bottlenecks and distortions in the
availability and delivery of goods and services. The inflow of migrants to
the area heavily taxed the already insufficient systems of basic urban
services, housing, and regional infrastructure.
Identification. Preparation and Evaluation of the Pro,ram:
9.        To address the problems of urban development which the area of the
Coast of the Gulf of Mexico and the Isthmus of Tehuantepec was facing towards
the end of the 70s, the Government established the Program of Concerted Action
for Urban Development - PACDU (Programa de Acci6n Concertada Para el
Desarrollo Urbano), with the support of the Ministry of Finance - SHCP
(Secretarfa de Hacienda v Cr4dito Publico), the Ministry of Planning - SPP
(Secretarfa de Programaci6n v Presupuesto), the Ministry of Urban
Development - then SAHOP (Secretarfa de Asentamientos Humanos v Obras
Publicas), now SEDUE (Secretarfa de Desarrollo Urbano v Ecoloafa) and
BANOBRAS, and a later stage, as a source of financing, the International Bank
for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD).
10.       The PACDU program was prepared within the framework of the national
planning system and envisaged the active involvement of various state
governments and municipalities as well as of several decentralized public
entities and agencies. For the implementation of the program, SHCP required
BANOBRAS to enter into a Mandate Agreement with the Federal Government with a
view to create a mechanism through which financial resources could be
channelled to the participating agencies.
11.       Likewise, BANOBRAS was requested to negotiate with the IBRD a loan
of US$146 million which would provide part of the capital of PACDU program
whereas the remainder would be formed by contributions from the Federal
Government and other sources.



- 14 _
12.       To achieve its objectives PACDU was designed to provide support in
five main areas:
(a) assistance to low-income groups primarily through housing programs;
(b) development of infrastructure in urban areas targeted principally
at the extension and rehabilitation of water supply and sewerage
systems;
(c) strengthening of municipal services and construction of municipal
service facilities principally retail and wholesale markets,
slaughterhouses, etc.
(d) promotion of economic activities especially in the small industry
and the informal enterprise sector;
(e) studies and technical assistance to prepare future regional
development programs and provide support to the executing agencies.
13.       In the actual implementation of the program, only four of these
areas became operational, since none of the executing agencies considered the
promotion of economic activities to lie within its field of competencies.
14.       Given the slow pace of implemontation of the program, the
Government decided, following the September 1985 earthquake, to request IBRD's
authorization to partially use the funds available for addressing emergency
needs. As a result, US$81.8 million were transferred on February 29, 1986 to
the Popular Housing Fund- FONHAPO (Fideicomiso Fondo Nacional de Habitaciones
Ponulares) for the financing of housing reconstruction programs. On June 30,
1989, the original closing date of the loan, US$60.1 million had been
utilized, or 73.15% of the total loan amount.
The Role of the Borrower:
15.       The main actor in the design of the project was SHCP which
requested BANOBRAS to establish a Mandate Agreement and to act as a the
Federal Government's financial agent in the dealings with the IBRD. BANOBRAS,
in turn, concluded agreements with the participating States, as well as with
some executing agencies. The actual implementation of the project involved
the participation of various ministries and public sector entities, among
which the most important were SHCP, SPP and SAHOP (now SEDUE).
The Issues:
16.       A major problem during the implementation of the PACDU program was
the shortage of finalized project proposals. This delayed works on several
occasions and/or reduced the scope of projects because of lacking
actualization of existing designs.



-15 -
17.       The revenues which the States of Veracruz and Tabasco received from
the oil production incited the respective governments to limit their
borrowing. On occasion, loans were arranged somewhat forcibly and in many
cases without the support of properly identified and designed project
proposals.
18.       Owing to declining oil prices on the world market in 1983 and 1984,
the Government reduced substantially the shares of oil revenue transferred to
the States and, as a result, the local governments began to use the resources
available under the PACDU program. However, because of the lack of final
designs, projects were executed with much delay.
19.       As a consequence of the slow rate of disbursements, SPP did not
allocate adequate resources to the program and expenditures were covered to a
IOOZ by the proceeds of the IBRD loan and BANOBRAS' own resources.
20.       The accelerated inflation combined with the preferential rates
under which project loans were extended, led to a low rate of return of the
PACDU program and its decapitalization.
21.       The dispersion of the implementation activities in connection with
the process of administrative decentralization of BANOBRAS, hampered an
appropriate monitoring of the project which, otherwise, would have allowed a
timely discovery of deviations of projects from the agreed proposals.
22.       The changes that occurred in the administration of the States and
municipalities prompted changes in economic policies and, in particular, in
the priorities assigned to the investment projects. This caused delays in the
execution of works and also led to the suspension of negotiations on projects
that could have been included in the program.
23.       Last, the municipal autonomy, which was often combined with
insufficient administrative capacity, also became an impediment to the
financing of projects.
October 1991



- 16 -
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
1. Related Bank Loans
Nujab*r - Priserc ?L-1.                        Puroor.                     Y..r of An,rov-l                  Scacun
Loan I0S'.tm                         Urban acd R.Sionsl D-olop..nc                  1978                Loan  l.o!.d 1987
Lazaro C.cd.nna Conurbarton
Loan 265-tM                         A.Constauc:toa                                 19d3                Lostn clo..d  1990
E.lthquak. Uacons90.mo1f
2. Proiect Timetable
D.C. ol.nn.d               AOcual D.C.
- Id4..:'ScnILon                   04/10,/79                  4/10/76
- Pr.pra:ion                        a6/01/76                 06/01/79
-Pr.-.pprn.i.al                   10/-/76                   10/06/79
- Appr.1.a1. .;ssio                02/-/ 79                  00/16/79
- Pesc-appraL..l                   08/-/79                   02/04/80
- Loan negotiation                 031/-SO                   OS/12160
LBoard approl                   06/-/80                   05/12/9L
-Lo. aIfaC.                       04/-/SO                   09/12/$1
- Lozan o *CC1.ian.                IC-/60                    01/12/92
- Loan closing                     12/31/66                  12/31/89
- Loan compl.cl:n                  06/30/96                  12/31/89
3. Loan Disbursements
,,44
3ank 9                1990       190         19d2'       1995        1996        1997       198'9       199           1990
Appraisal.1 Es:-so..           7.0       2d.0        59.0        103.2       ;6.0        194.0
Ac: -.                         0.6 S      4.6        19.6         46.c        64.3       109.2      12.J2 15 6.6             14L.65
4. Project Imolemoentation
tndLcators                           Apora.is.l 1cLaac.                       Ac:4aI
1.   Shl':.r Protra.                                                                          (copL:L.on in X-CioS)
(a) Sic.$ .ad S.r.'i..                                   19.000 (I.n.fiotarla.)                      6:
(b) Cons:ruaci.on Sactrlal Cr.di:.                       13.000
(cJ UrbAn Upg8-.dmg
-  mpro.d VaC*r. S.;r. PavIng                        14.000      *           )                   92
- Covsu,nty VWacr Suppi;                                  20  (ConLc:a)                           '2
(d) hv.  .prwov.m.nc Loan.                               10.000   59.-f1o1.ria)                      S5
(a1 Communicy Cant.r.                                         12                                     0C
Lt.  CL' wVd. tnfra.tructur
1a) Wac.r SU?Ply Work.                                                                              30%
(4) S.u.raglVo k.                                              8                                    40:
(c)  chbr 1tifr.atructur.                                     10                                     l0
tI. 9.uniclsa1 Nacllcto1.  and S.ric..
(a) Reca1i1 Mark.cs                                            3                                    30%
(b) Wbol ....  Mar.crk.                                        1                                     0:
cl Sla.h.c.r 1ou..                                           1c                                      7
Cd) IO... Coll-CLon                                            c                                    25:
tV.  Prcduc:ivn Ac:tvLCi-..
(a) Cr.dit C. Arna..U.                                    1.800                                       1:
(b) Cr.dit Ca S..11 Scal-. lac.rrtr..                        SO0                                      0:
(c) tnd..a::LaL  OaC.C..                                       2                                      0:
(d) rraining Con*r                                             1                                      0:
(a) Propo.Con   rogran.                                                                               02
V.   Sc:dIOs,                                                                                              10%
E/ lnclu.d.. .oSnC *f US$S1.6 nilLo  dL.b.:..d in  tonn.o::  n vLC:  Loan 266s-$M. but  zcCl.d.. c.nc.1l.d .oc,nl of USSZ2Z.4m11an.



5.  Proict: Costs and Financing
A. P:r,.c: Co.c.
An,aiora1  tiCtsc'                                                  Actual
:t'.                        Local Co.:.        For.:t  s.:t.           ?s-a                 Local Co.:.         Fr,ntz.   CoaC.        tso&
t.    ShLt:.r ?70r00
(a1  St:o. and S.rttc.s                    13o J                 4.2              1S0 9                     14 .                   5 S              19 S
(bl Cots:ru:::.on  .Ma:a:_1..2               43  7                17 S              6S7i                     12.3                   45               1 7a
(e) U.:-n ?Jptr.d                        126 6L IZ .S                           9 .                       51                   2 3 I 
(JI 8ot. t:7ocvno.n:.                        20 5                  73 25            Z                         5.9                   2 1               3 C
C.) Cc=un:i.7 C.a:.tCrs                       I                    IJ                4 3                         3                    0                  0
Su b: t                     1.4 5                75       !       2S3 379                                         24 9              5 2
(.7  ;..c:r.          VJock.                 29 -                 20 6            O i 9                      24.9                 1J  0              42 9
(b) So-r ag. Jit1cJ 36.                                           2 6               S7  6                    1931                 14.J      31 :
(:7  0:ih.c  In"trs.:a:,.                     3 7                  23                                *        1.1                  0. 9               2 .
Subtt.'                    5d8.9 30 L                            119 C                     45.1                  33 2              73.3
(a) 9.tcl.L  Xa:k..                           2S                   2 0               6 .3 2.a  4.3 .                                1J S                 3
(b)  JloLe-l.  markts                         4 .                  32                S;                        _                     _                 _
(c) SLtu,gh:.rhou".                          14.3                  9 .              23 .                      1.7                  0.9                2;.
(c) tsff_.  C'.al_ :lorn                      2 5                  1 3                  -                     2.3 S                  3                  J
SuStotal                   24.6                1 6 3.            41                        s 2                   3.d S             9
1.) C:.3d::  to ACti..,r                       1.                 1 3               5 .                      0.1                    -                0.1
(b) C:c 1:s  to  SO:l..-Ssai.                  7.4                7 '.             14 7                       -- 
( :)  C-    r 7S                                  ii
(d) traLr:i.7  Cattars                         1.                 0. o. 5                                                           - 5
(.7  ?:roooc'on  ?tO3tao.                        3                0.7               C 7--
SUb OCA              ~~~16. L             _.6 3S9S .                                 C.1                    1               0.
V.     S:tO..-                                                           4.6                4.6                       0.6                                    1.
rC7A'.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~s . cJ
A..~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ .3'IC   jCS                            '.8. _ S43.7
Sour:.  .3tD  Tx2,dt:ur.,                    Plac:d Loan  Ar.sM..n:                  Fi.1
t     Sh..:r ?rntrso
aI) 51.:.. oad  Srvtc..                                  42.3                          1J3.
()Con.t,sctlon Xac.:Lol.                               17.5                           5.3
L7. 5                         2.4 J
(c) Urban 3p;radlo.                                                                     2 
M)oms  t2pro-.S.0o.                                   7.2                           1.9
(.7  CQ    ucS:7 C-e:                                       .40
2:.  CL.-WLd. tloaf r        4:c-cur-
& YC;        S2P06                                                                     17.0
(S.r) S.aor.                                              26.7                         13.4
(ci) Olshr fndr..C-uc:ur.                                  2.7                           2.8
tt:   Xuntcl,a. *ac'lLtL..
(a)  .ecal  Mark.t4                                        1.9                           L.5
(S) WoLe..!L.   arlkc.                                     3.2 5
I7S..ghc.rhos..9.1.
tV.   Frocuct:.v  Accl:vt-:.
(.7  C:.di.:s  to ArCtl.os                                 3.3                           0.1
(b) CradI:. t:  S.ai3-colal                                S. 2                           _
(b) C:.dl---.4.-a
(c) tnCustr:lzl zszas 0.
(d) 7:.Lzllo  C.m:.c..
(.) Prz,moclon ?r?grAos
V.    StudL..                                                     4.6                           0.7
Vt.  Mex     CC.:?  Saru:cuak.                                                                  1.. 
a. Znh.ru.cMFL 
Total  :.12                             144..3
Dom.1cl:                                304.0                          52.3
7CTA 1 PR0.1MZC CSIrS                   463.0                         223.7



- J.o -
6.  Project Results
Indicators                             Appra:sa.                           Estimate at
Esa.-a:e                            Closing Date
r.    Shelter Procra
a) Sites *nd Services                                19 .00 (Eenaficiarie)                  205
b) Constructton Material Credit                       5 0020
c) tUrban t1pgrading                                 i-.00 (                              1)00
d  Hox. loproveMent Loans                            10 -00 C         -       )             960
a  Comunity Centers                                       12                              (none)
Ir.    Cit, Wide Infrastr.cture
a) Water Supply Works                                      8                                   4
b) S.e:rage Work.                                          8                                   3
c) 0ther Infrastructu e                                   10                                   1
1rr.  Municival Facilities
a) Retail Markets                                          3                                   1
b) Wholesale Hark.cs                                       I                               (none)
c) Slaughter Hous.                                        14                                   1
d) Refuse Collection                                       4                                   1
IV.   Produc:tve Activities
a) Credit to Artisans                                 1,800                                 100
b) Credit to Small Scale Enterprises                    600                                (none)
c) Industrial Estates                                      2                               (none)
d) Training Center                                         I                               (none)
a) Procmoton Programs                                      -                                non)
V.     Studies                                                    6                                   1
7.  Status of Maior Loan Covenants
Loan Agreement
3.05 (b) (1)                      BANOBRAS to maintain records and procedures            In compliance
to monitor progress.
4.02 (c)(il)                     BANOBhAS to furnish to bank no later than              In compliance
*tx months after end of each fiscal
certified copies of audIc and opinion on use
of SOE for project works.
Schedule I - Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
(b)         No Bank reimbursemenct  to be made for 3(1) and 3(2) unless                     In compliance
water authority bas established satisfactory conditions.
(c)         ... for D(i)(a) unless Instituto de Viviendas have special                      In compliance
credit departments and charter to carry out project
(d)         I . . for expenditures until (1) Bank receives executed                         In compliance
subloan agreement and stace project agreem4at.



- 1 -
6.  Us. a! lank   eurs
Sc.c  af ?roi.e: C,Ce:                  PlannCd                                      Pins!
A. r        cfn -l-              O        F@s             oa
rToug  Apprats.-.                       30         30                      IOJ.    8   8.9            176.7
Apppr.L-..: 7o.h 3a.rd                  30         30                      15;            7.0          l5a.4
Ape rz
3oard Appr2al -hr                                   -       -           -                         -
- A0L/wZ/82)
Su. :rts ton
FY51                                    12          6                       24.9           -             24.
rY82                                    12          8                       1.2            3.7           16.7
FYI'                                    12          4                       13.j           4.9           18.5
FYSS                                    10          *                        9.0           2.9           11.9
FY88                                    10          '                        9.1           2.1           11.2
PY37                                     8          4                        S.4            -                
FY88                                     6          a                         2.0          4.*             6.S
FY39                                     4          2                        0.8            -             0.S
FY90                                     2          -                        0.6            -             0.O
l12         93                      336.            94.2        4 32 S
S tts.ton.
Sonch/           No.  of           lays L                                                          P.r!fo
______________              ____              .son.              F1i              Soct,1t.cs Y          c:.c-                    t.:t.              co=es
Tr-4 Aoorsll.,j
a 0/ 7              3                  6                Urb. ?                                         1r ri :3  I
06/7S               S                 10
?:.-.ppr.Lsal                   10/7i                7                20
A~or.Li                          00 S/S0              *                22               . Urb.  ? ac' r/L.8.el
?7.: Apa"ls..-                   02/S1                4                10                 S r Az2.1 jYou       .,1cs
Proj.c. La.nch                   OS/Lt                3                 3                            ?
SS :i                           L I'S 1/82           2                 5                 Urb.Q ?lor./ZcooI
S?Y                             03/13               3                 10                Urs.o ?                                          1
S?N 2                           12/S3                2                 5              . 0t,.?       r,  :oo/                             2            Corp..o.  F
S?N7  .                         03/9                 2                12             E. oa/Ar:h/                                         2            D.IA7  L:l
S07   1                         0./85                2                10             E. zz/Ar'/                                          2            Cou:. rp.r:
ruZatlag
S?N 5                           04/S6               3                  5                 E:/Urb.?:.cr/Zz5                               2
S?N  7                          1:/7S               2                  9                E:oo/Ar:a                                       I             PrS*c:
S07  S                          04/88               2                  7                . EO.ArAc                                        2            C"uPl.cion



- 20 -
9.   Inflation Rates
1Kr'      ?74zz               '')/         ' 17sTt  17-'t  l'1n  I? 71     47      19 I      I I       IR S'^!    19M         1'-7        1OM5          15R) OPI)
(-a-            :IIIY.           cr  I              5  1ea,.1            M< i Tt              I' 1 7 IN  ... .1              ni     ul O        1.11  0I Ii  I       27577       4 .41 1717               1774         ZZM 6 47
Ag-11ll .c   rKroe  w ! ~;,h.h                               700       g  I7') 1M1I                   I S?   7   1 74-     7 2.4 R   114 r,    41 Z. 1    I Z7fi   7w. s        I 5  5    1 1 ZS7     15,I)J I
O,i d         Xe,                                            11        9        I          I n 7C  58  13   'n   1  1.3 53   11 67  274.3  757   117q.3  8t2.5     37.4Y       540fn5     1607          I3s4.5
F,od.             A                                         oS7   45      7 5    00'O      114S       1 7) O     .  n      Z744      567;    ION S      1618.1     ]Om )       7011.7    1435   I      1491 41
TmfII                                             51 s      r, I5     6'.7     I ns'      1 '7.      1677       ZIS3      3413      7711    7:056    1755)        35757       433. I    18Y,1.1        17548.3
W-.j po.J,                                        SR        6RI        R  I     to.o  1  0Z 11I7 z         a       l5 ',  il7.'    67         10 7,7   17'3$    3,2J7          dRlno I7R7,.3            19M4J.2
Chcss,,,ol ped.s                                   53)9     5d 7.8     8R'      1 lon n      1.2      137 1 t1o   .       270 4 743.1    1109 *    1698137    3i92.           d 195.7     1601.57     1404
Mc,*I p.ludcrs*                                    5!Z-      6Z7.      847      1nO        1,i5       1-167     e14n       301       7110    11*7i       1Q7 7      ,.1? I      77nl I     7I71)6       132771
42.l      505 ',q.5          Ion12      119?)      1I,4       171M7     247.7    131 ?      1,A A    1311'      2714;         7 46      nzn); 1075   11317.'
7Tn,s-r<-.A  +/mun      C                          5:.q      672       855 1io             11:S S a73 1373        74  753:            54 14    ;07    1:n'i        :37?: I     7477       1571'4        1 71,5 )
O(31-<r -ec*es                                     7~549     65-5      aLJ      I          1177 11     535      72.L:      517       38 8       Y,4 UV6  1475.4    2.533       5J4 7. 50  'i            I S(6,0',
I4?1404*1ao    R.,0 1eA-ergfs C?7)                 1 Z-7.    15 37.    73 Li7.    17 5       15 77. 21.77.    Z L3'76    389 ,   101 3O7.   65.77.   57 77.           5          I 7  191 S771   I   7 I    )0 U iu0.7,
GC n-l In'- Cr (17dd e rI-1                          55 5     75        5 91 S    I IV, 3    127 6      165 1,i     2 1 9   4z Z       7T;      121 ??    I ?'Y.7    41 ' I0*7 Z    1614 7                      ' 17 Z 7      Z : T
W1V i1I75f11 no)( \o, 57                                   S,I '               10 11)a     : qj      147       18i.9    2L,1   5s1:    0n15 4    ISMi             2772. I          s18   14'i?   2    I(Z,; .       7'1 4.
"4Na,'Z



