Document of
The World Bank
FILE COPY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 2937-ME
MEXICO
SECOND URBAN AND REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
April 24, 1981.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Currency Equivalent
Currency Unit           = lexican Peso (Mex$)
US$1                     =   ?tex$ 22.5
Mex$ 1                   -   US$0.04
Mex$ I million          =   US$44,400
Units and M1easures
m                       =   meter (39.37 inches)
kin                          kilometer (0.62 miles)
m 2                          square meter (10.76 square feet)
ha                      =   hectare (2.47 acres)
m3=   cubic meter (264 US gallons)
it                      -   liter (.264 US gallons)
lps                     -   liters per second
Fiscal Year
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
LIST OF ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
ARMO         -  Servicio Nacional de Adiestramiento Rapido de la
Mano de Obra en la Industria
BANOBRAS    -  Banco Nacional de Obras y Servicios Publicos
CANACINTRA  -  Camara Nacional de la Industria de la Transformacion
CANACO       -  Camara Nacional de Comercio
CECATI      -  Centro de Capacitacion Tecnica e Industrial
CENAPRO     -  Centro Nacional de Productividad
CEPROTAB    -  Centro de Productividad de Tabasco
COPLADECH 1/-  Comite de Planeacion Estatal del Estado de Chiapas
DPF          -  Detailed Project Features
FIDEIN       -  Fideicomiso de Conjuntos, Parques, Ciudades
Industriales y Centros Comerciales
FIDELAC     -  Fideicomiso Ciudad Lazaro Cardenas
FIFAPA      -  Fondo de Inversiones Financieras para Agua Potable y
Alcantarillado
FOGAIN      -  Fondo de Garantia y Fomento a la Industria
Mediana y Pequena
FOMITA      -  Fondo Mixto para el Desarrollo Industrial de Tabasco
FONATUR     -  Fondo Nacional de Fomento al Turismo
IDUVIV      -  Instituto de Desarrollo Urbano y de la Vivienda
INDECO - Veracruz
IDVICH      -  Instituto de Vivienda INDECO - Chiapas
IDVIT       -  Instituto de Vivienda INDECO - Tabasco
INDECO      -  Instituto Nacional para el Desarrollo de la
Comunidad y de la Vivienda Popular
PEMEX       -  Petroleos Mexicanos
SAHET       -  Secretaria de Asentamientos Humanos del Estado
de Tabasco
SAHOP       -  Secretaria de Asentamientos Humanos y Obras Publicas
SAPA 2/     -  Servicios de Agua Potable y Alcantarillado del Estado
SARH        -  Secretaria de Agricultura y Recursos Hidraulicos
SEPAFIN     -  Secretaria del Patrimonio y Fomento Industrial
SHCP        -  Secretaria de Hacienda y Credito Publico
SPP         -  Secretaria de Programacion y Presupuesto
1/ COPLADET and COPLADEV stand for these committees in Tabasco and
Veracruz, respectively.
2/ SAPAET and SAPAECH stand for these authorities in the States of
Tabasco and Chiapas, respectively.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






MEXICO
SECOND URBAN/REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.    SPATIAL AND URBAN-REGIONAL BACKGROUND  ...................                        1
A.   Spatial Issues  ......................................                      1
B.  National Spatial Policies  ...........................                       1
C.   Previous Urban Projects  in Mexico  ...................                     3
D.   The Isthmus Region  ..................................                      4
E.   The Region's Urban System  ...........................                      5
F.   Project Objectives  ..................................                      7
II.    PROJECT COMPONENTS,  COSTS AND FINANCING  ....                .............      10
A.   Project Components  .......................10.......                       l
B.   Cost Estimates  ......................................                     14
C.   Financing  ...........................................                     15
III.    PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION  ................           ..     ................       17
A.   Implementation Arrangements  .........................                     17
B.   Implementing Agencies  ...............................                     22
C.   Implementing Schedule  ...............................                     26
D.   Procurement  .........................................                     27
E.   Disbursement  ........................................                     28
F.  Monitoring and Evaluation  ...........................                      29
G.   Supervision  .........................................                     29
H.   Accounts and Audits  .................................                     30
IV.    FINANCIAL ANALYSIS  ......................................                       31
A.   Cost Recovery .......................................                      31
B.   Affordability  .......................................                     34
C.   Replicability  .......................................                     37
D.   Institutos de Vivienda  ..............................                     37
E.   Water and Sewerage Authorities  ......................                     39
This report has been completed on the basis of an appraisal mission which
visited Mexico between May 16 and June 18, 1979; and of a post-appraisal
mission that was in Mexico between February 4 and 20, 1980. The report
was written by M.F. Rothschild (Project Officer), with the cooperation
of T. Persaud and M. Arbell, D. Cole, C. Ramirez, N. Schutz, and Ch. Stevens
(Consultants); and additional support by M. Etcheverry and J. Gough (Research
Assistants).



Table of Contents (Continued)
Page No.
V.    SOCIAL AND ECONOITC JUSTIFICATION .......................                   40
A.  Project Benefits  .....  ...................... ... ......... .         40
B.  Economic Analysis  ........ . . .  .......    .....................**...........  41
C.  Employment Impact  ..... . .......*. . ..... . . .  ...................... .  42
C.  Risks  ........................ so ....... ...........                  43
VI.    RECOMMENDATIONS AND LOAN CONDITIONS             .....................       44
PHOTOGRAPHS ......................................................          48
ANNEXES
A.  Project Components and Costs .............................                    56
B.  Project Financing          ........................................           57
C.  Implementation Responsibilities and Schedules  ............                  62
D.  Estimated Quarterly Disbursements Schedule  ...............                   66
E.  Costs Recovery Estimates ...... . . . . . . . .  .................... .......... .  67
F.  Project Costs and Benefit Streams  ............ .          ............       68
C.  Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File                    69
NAPS
IBRD 15686 - Country Map
IBRD 14902 - Isthmus of Tehuantepec Region
IBRD 14906 - Coatzacoalcos - Minatitlan Zone
IBRD 14905 - Plan of Coatzacoalcos
IBRD 14904 - Plan of Minatitlan
IBRD 14903 - Plan of Villahermosa
IBRD 14907 - Plan of Reforma



I. SPATIAL AND URBAN-REGIONAL BACKGROUND
A. Spatial Issues
1.01      The major issues of spatial development in Mexico refer to the
heavy centralization of economic activity, wealth and people in Mexico City;
the lack of integration between urban and rural areas; and imbalanced inter-
regional development. 11 The first and second, however, present different
kinds of policy issues than the third--which reflects differences in resource
endowment and comparative advantages--and is primarily political.
1.02      Whether economic and demographic concentration in Mexico City has
already reached a point at which the social costs of agglomeration exceed
the benefits cannot be proved conclusively. But it is clear that if this
threshold has not yet been reached, it is likely to be reached in the relatively
near future. It is also clear that cities which may represent alternatives to
the further growth of Mexico City, should be identified on a basis which is
consistent with the achievement of national economic growth and social develop-
ment. Such cities should not only offer agglomeration economies, but should
have a sufficiently elaborate system of secondary centers to permit the
development of self-sustained and integrated regional systems.
1.03      Even when a region is richly endowed, a concerted intersectoral social
and economic investment program is essential. The programming, implementa-
tion and administration of such a program require strong and effective
institutions, partly in order to attenuate the imbalances which often occur
between the growth of a leading economic sector and the development of infra-
structure and complementary activities. Such imbalances particularly affect
low-income groups in these regions.
B. National Spatial Policies
1.04      In recent years the main goal of urban policy in Mexico has been to
control the growth of Mexico City and, to a lesser degree, Guadalajara, and
Monterrey. New prices for public utilities, tax incentives, differential
interest rates for industrial credit, and public investments in industrial
estates and urban complexes in selected locations have been introduced in
support of these objectives.
1.05      A Law of Human Settlements (1976) provides a legal basis for planning
and implementing a spatial development strategy. Its objectives are: to
promote medium-sized cities as alternatives to the largest urban centers; to
foster rural-urban integration; to encourage local participation in resolving
urban problems; to enforce land use control; to improve urban services; and
to minimize journeys (between residential and work areas) within cities.
1/   As distinct from imbalances in inter-personal equity.  A detailed discussion
of these issues is presented in Spatial Development in Mexico, IBRD Report
No. 1081a-ME, January 31, 1977. Urban Development in Mexico is discussed
in a report of the same title (No. 1449-ME, also dated January 31, 1977).



-2-
1.06      The Ministry of Human Settlements and Public Works (SAIiOP), estab-
lished in 1976, published a National Urban Development Plan in May, 1978.
The Plan contains a spatial strategy based on a system of 13 integrated urban
regions, of which ten were selected as maximum priority areas; 1/ in the re-
maining three, further growth will be regulated. 2/ Because of its relatively
recent date and the lack of real control over investments in other sectors,
not many of the Plan's objectives have been achieved. The roles of SAHOP,
BANOBRAS, 3/ SPP 4/ and SHCP 5/ in the urban and regional fields overlap
to some extent, adding an additional degree of difficulty to an already
complex situation.
1.07      Although the Plan represents a significant effort to spell out
consistent guidelines for urban development in Mexico, and although many of
its parameters are appropriate, some of its conclusions are questionable.
One of the major recommendations of the Plan, however, deserves full support:
to encourage and facilitate the orderly development of regions with high
potential for growth. 6/ Lazaro Cardenas is one of the regions mentioned in
the Plan and is given priority by the Government. This area was selected for
the first Bank-supported project in the urban field in Mexico (see next
section). Another priority region, the Isthmus of Tehuantepec, is one of
those with the highest potential for growth in the country. This is the area
selected for the new proposed second urban project (see Sections D and E below).
1/ The priority zones considered in the Plan and the corresponding urban
centers are: (1) the Rio Panuco - Huasteca Potosina Conurbation zone
(Tampico, Ciudad Madero, Ciudad Mante and Ciudad Valles); (2) the Gulf
Coast and Isthmus of Tehuantepec area (Coatzacoalcos-Minatitlan, Villa-
hermosa and Salina Cruz); (3) the Chihuahua Border area (Ciudad Juarez);
(4) the Laguna Conurbation area (Torreon and Gomez Palacio-Lerdo);
(5) the Bajio Zone (Leon, Irapuato and Queretaro); (6) the Baja California
Border area (Tijuana, Mexicali and Ensenada); (7) the North Sinaloa and
Sonora Coast (Ciudad Obregon, Guayunas and Los Mochis); (8) the Rio
Armeca Conurbation Zone (Puerto Vallarta and Bahia de Banderas);79) the
Manzanillo-Barra de Navidad Conurbation zone (Manzanillo and Barra de
Navidad); and (10) the Balsas River Conurbation and Guerrero Coast
area (Lazaro Cardenas, Zihuatanejo and Acapulco).
2/   This group consists of the Monterrey, Guadalajara, and the greater Mexico
City metropolitan areas.
3/ Banco Nacional de Obras y Servicios Publicos is the main financial insti-
tution for housing and infrastructure works (see Section B in Chapter III).
4/   Secretariat of Programming and Budgeting.
5/   Secretariat of Finance.
6/   All the high-priority regions mentioned in this Plan have been
endorsed and included in the Industrial Development Plan published
by the Government in March of 1979.



- 3 -
C. Previous Urban Projects in Mexico
1.08      The first urban project supported by the Bank in Mexico was the
Lazaro Cardenas Conurbation Development project (Loan No. 1554-ME), which
was approved by the Board on September 27, 1978 and which became effective on
February 14, 1979. The Lazaro Cardenas project was an attempt to deal with a
variety of urban and regional development issues in a priority region which
had previously been the subject of other Bank-supported projects: the Las
Truchas (SICARTSA) Steel Mill, the Zihuatanejo-Ixtapa tourism development
project and an international airport. The project includes shelter-related
programs, credits for productive enterprises, river control works, rural
feeder roads, and regional and project-preparation studies.
1.09      During implementation, progress has been made towards reducing
subsidies in shelter programs. Despite strong initial scepticism by the
authorities as to whether substantial changes in interest rates for mortgages
and in tariffs for services would be acceptable to low-income groups, such
changes have been successfully institutionalized. This has confirmed that the
capacity-to-pay of low-income groups is often underestimated. Incomes are
often understated and additional funds often become available 1/ when needed
to pay for priority programs. The success of this program has led to its
rapid expansion in the Lazaro Cardenas area, and has attracted the attention
of sociologists and shelter experts elsewhere in the country. 2/
1.10      Implementation of other components has also been generally satis-
factory, but Bank disbursements are behind the original schedule by about one
and a half year. 3/ This is mainly because the Borrower has not processed reim-
bursement requests for disbursements already made, and because of some delays in
the implementation of components not carried out directly by the main implementing
agency of this project; recent action is expected to improve this situation
and the pace of Bank disbursements is expected to increase substantially during
1981. Some problems have arisen regarding the accounting procedures used in the
implementation of this project; in particular with respect to the Construction
Material Loans program. This issue is presently being discussed with the
Borrower.
1.11      The institutional structure for implementing the Lazaro Cardenas
project was a pre-existing trust (FIDELAC) controlled by BANOBRAS. This
trust was created for the urban development of the region, began operations in
1/   For example, by taking additional jobs or even, by changes in their
consumption function.
2/   The experiences of the shelter-related programs (see photographs at
end of this report) were reviewed in detail during a seminar held in
July of 1980 in the offices of the project's implementing agency (FIDELAC-
Fideicomiso Ciudad Lazaro Cardenas). The seminar was held at the request
of FONATUR (Fondo Nacional de Fomento al Turismo) to acquaint its staff
with these experiences and introduce similar programs in the (Bank-
supported) tourism projects in Baja California.
3/   Bank disbursements by December 31, 1980 reached about US$3.2 million,
although they were scheduled to have reached US$11.3 million by then.



-4-
January 1973, and was strongly supported by the Secretariat of Human Settlements
and Public Works (SAHOP). However, present Government policy is that investment
programs should be implemented and managed by state and municipal authorities,
rather than by federal (sectoral) agencies. These procedures are certain to
result in more appropriate investment programs, and in an institutional structure
conducive to the effective implementation of urban and regional development
projects.
D. The Isthmus Region 1/
1.12      This region can be roughly defined as an area of about 14 million
ha 2/ limited on its northern and southern margins by the Gulf and Pacific
coasts, respectively; on its eastern side by the Guatemala border and a
sparsely populated area east of Villahermosa; and on its south-western
and north-western sides by a range of mountains in the State of Oaxaca, and
by the Coatzacoalcos-Minatitlan metropolitan areas, respectively. Its
population in 1970 was estimated at about 3.1 million, or 6.3 percent of the
national total. It is expected that the 1980 census data, when available,
will indicate a regional population of close to 5.0 million. A high propor-
tion of this population (51.1 percent in 1970) is between 15 and 65 years old,
which yields a relatively favorable ratio between this group and non-working
dependents. About 40 percent of the region's population lives in urban areas
-- defined as those with at least 2500 inhabitants.
1.13      This region provides a unique environment for regional development
in Mexico because it combines an unusual potential for future economic and
population growth with a present level of welfare that makes it one of the
poorest areas in the country. By comparison with the rest of Mexico, the
Isthmic region is well endowed with natural resources. The Gulf Coast has
been recognized for some time as an appropriate location for intensive agri-
cultural development given its abundant soil and water resources. The
predominance of agriculture in the region's economy and employment structure
is illustrated by the fact that about two-thirds of the economically active
population and of all males were (in 1970) engaged in this sector. Only 14.1
percent of the labor force in the region was engaged in 1970 in the industrial
sector, most of which (e.g., 80 percent in Tabasco), in turn, related to
agro-industries. Since 1974 the region has become Mexico's major oil producer,
and now provides about two-thirds of national output. The region is also well
endowed with hydroelectric resources.
1/   See Maps 15686 and 14902 at the back of this report.  A more detailed
description of the Isthmus region may be found in a Bank document: The
Economic Development of the Isthmus Region of Mexico, Report No. 1080-ME,
March 30, 1976, and in the economic study of Tabasco conducted by the
Bank in April of 1979: Mexico-Oil Impact on Regional Development: A Case
Study of the State of Tabasco, Report No. 3087-ME, July 31, 1980.
2/   Of these, about 2.5 million ha are in the state of Tabasco, 7.5 million
ha in Chiapas, 2.0 million ha in Oaxaca, and 2.0 million ha in Veracruz.



- 5 -
1.14      The recent. growth of the petroleum sector has severely affected
the region's social and economic structures. Pemex 1/ investments in the
Villahermosa area rose from Mex$ 420 million in 1976 to nearly Mex$ 16,000
million in 1978. But combined investments 2/ in all public (federal) sectors
fell from Mex$ 1,600 million in 1976 to Mex$ 1,400 million in 1978.  A similar
but stronger trend has developed in the Coatzacoalcos and Minatitlan areas,
where large petro-chemical complexes have been built.
1.15      Of particular concern have been the severe disruptions in the
local economy in terms of significantly higher prices for the products and
services required by this sector, by the local population, and by the new
migrants attracted to the region. These migrants have imposed heavy burdens
on what was already an inadequate level of urban services, housing and infra-
structure, and on the supply of goods and services. Food prices have increased
sharply; shortages in housing, marketing and other basic services have become
even more serious; the scarcity of skilled labor has distorted wages, and the
productive sectors (primarily agriculture and agroindustries) have lost key
workers to petroleum-related industries.
1.16      Few backward and forward linkages have been generated within the
region. Reliance on "imported" services from other regions has been heavy,
and internal multipliers have remained small because incomes generated in the
region have generally been spent elsewhere. The internalization of benefits
from petroleum activities has been severely constrained by the scarcity of
financial resources for new enterprises such as repair shops, light manufacturing,
transport services, and food processing and marketing.
E. The Region's Urban System
1.17      The region's urban system is dominated by a linear "core" consisting
of Villahermosa, Coatzacoalcos and Minatitlan; the first city has an estimated
population of about 200,000 people 3/, and the other two about 150,000 each.
The "periphery" of this system consists of a number of other unevenly dis-
tributed urban centers, the more important of which are Tuxtla Gutierrez
and Tapachula in central and southern Chiapas, respectively, and the port of
Salina Cruz in Oaxaca. Economic activities in the Isthmus are largely concen-
trated in the "core", which in itself constitutes a relatively closed regional
sub-system.
1.18      This sub-system has a bi-polar structure which is based on
Villahermosa, at one end of a 120 mile axis, and Coatzacoalcos-Minatitlan 4/
at the other. Along this axis and around its two poles are secondary
1/   "Petroleos Mexicanos," the state-owned oil company.
2/   In basic infrastructure works and services.
3/   Latest (1980) estimates indicate that this figure is now probably much
higher. Reliable figures are hard to come by, and vary depending
on their source.
4/   These two cities are only about 10 miles apart.



- 6 -
("satellite") towns which function as important service centers for the
region's agricultural hinterlands and the petroleum producing areas. The
more significant among these secondary centers were included in the project;
they are: Cosoleacaque (in Veracruz), Reforma (in Chiapas), and Cardenas,
Cunduacan, Paraiso, Comalcalco, and Macuspana (in Tabasco). This axis is
being settled rapidly and is expected to develop in future into a continuous
urban corridor. The urban development plans for the region anticipate and
support the creation of such a corridor.
1.19      According to data from the 1970 census, the Villahermosa-Coatzacoalcos-
Minatitlan corridor is one of the most rapidly growing areas of Mexico. In
recent years its traditional cattle-raising and agriculture-based economy has
changed to one characterized by large pipelines and oil installations, massive
traffic increases, and heavy flows of migrants to the zones where petroleum-
related activities have been developed. The region includes some of the
richest petroleum reserves in the country, and is the main connecting route
between Central Mexico and the Yucatan Peninsula. Rapid immigration has
strained the housing market and illegal settlements have proliferated, many
comprising rental units (20 m2 huts) at prices equivalent to US$35-45 per
month. Other common housing for low-income groups consists of cuarterias
(tenements). These are groupings of rooms ( TOm2 to 20m2), one per tamily,
with shared water, laundry, and bathroom facilities. According to the 1970
census, about 43% of the population in the major cities of the project area
lives in such cuarterias. Most of these badly built and run-down rooms rent
at prices of up to US$55 equivalent per month. Fees for water and electricity
are collected separately. The situation is deteriorating and will continue to
do so if a forceful remedial program is not initiated soon. 1/
1.20      The very rapid growth of Coatzacoalcos and Minatitlan has been
mainly a function of the expansion of secondary petroleum-related industries,
including a large port in Coatzacoalcos to serve these industries. Both
cities lie on flat dunes and marshlands (many of which are flooded in the
rainy season), and are characterized by the large industrial plants, con-
struction sites, noise, smoke and fumes that permeate every corner of this
area. 2/ Coatzacoalcos is presently expanding over the dunes and marshlands,
mainly towards the west and south; but in future will probably redirect its
growth to the northwest toward the new industrial port planned at the Laguna
del Ostion. 3/ Its urban structure is characterized by irregular and illegal
settlements on ejido lands around the city, 4/ many of them on filled marshlands.
1/   Substantially more background information on all project areas and a
detailed description of each city included in the project is available
in the project file.
2/   See Map 14906.
3/   See Map 14905.
4/   Ejidos are farms on public land assigned to rural communities; their
transfer and/or sale for urban use is complicated and is done through
special procedures controlled by the Federal Government.



-7-
About 35% of the population lives in these areas, mostly without adequate water
supply, sewerage, storm drainage, or paved roads.
1.21      Minatitlan is virtually a Pemex-owned city.  About 50% of its working
population is directly emDloyed by the oil company. About 35% of all house-
holds live on company land, and most of the existing housing projects have
been built by it. Some of the infrastructure problems of the city result from
the very small size of the municipal area, and the resulting small tax base.
Although Coatzacoalcos and Minatitlan are about equal in size, Minatitlan's
yearly budget is only about one-third that of its sister town. The growth of
the city is seriously limited by surrounding swamps, and the only area for
expansion is toward Cosoleacaque, a small (11,000 population) town located
about eight miles to the west. 1/
1.22      The urban structure of Minatitlan, except in the Pemex neighborhoods,
is similar to that of Coatzacoalcos. 2/ About 25% of the population lives in
illegal settlements on swamps and government lands. Infrastructure in these
settlements is minimal: only about 5% of plots have regular water connections
and only 50% have access to communal hydrants. Sewerage networks, storm drainage
and paving do not exist. Electricity is generally provided, but street lighting
is deficient. Most of the areas are subject to flooding and to serious
air and ground water pollution caused by the surrounding industrial plants.
1.23      In Tabasco, the general situation is only slightly better.  Villahermosa
is located about 25 miles from the sea, on flat ground amid extensive marsh-
lands 3/. The conditions of the low-income groups here are also precarious. As
elsewhere in the region, many newcomers settle along river banks and in other low
areas surrounding the city. Flooding in these settlements is an ever-present
danger, and infrastructure is generally inadequate. Between 30% and 40% of these
households are without access to regular water and sanitary facilities. As in
Coatzacoalcos and Minatitlan, pressure on housing is severe, with most of the
construction sector engaged in Pemex-related activities. 4/
F. Project Objectives
1.24      The main objectives of the project are:  (a) to assist the Government
in its efforts to establish an appropriate spatial strategy for Mexico by facil-
itating and harmonizing urban growth in one of the highest priority development
1/   See Maps 14904 and 14906.
2/   In the Pemex neighborhoods, about all households have electricity and
30% have individual water and sewerage connections. About 70% of the
areas have street lighting, and 60% of the streets are paved. The condi-
tions of the individual houses vary of course with the respective incomes.
3/   See Map 14903.
4/   This also affects housing for middle- and higher-income groups.



- 8 -
regions in the country, (b) to help establish a programmatic approach to urban
and regional development programs, and (c) to support the development of the
region's full potential in the interest of both the national economy and of
the region's population. The project draws on previously published development
plans 1/ and Bank studies.
1.25      The allocation of public financial resources in Mexico is primarily
made by national ministries. The Secretariat of Programming and Budgeting (SPP)
is responsible for ensuring that these (and to some extent private) investments
are distributed between sectors (and within them) in a manner which is consis-
tent with, and supportive of national priorities and objectives. In practice,
this task is extremely difficult because of the many forces which compete for
the available resources. This system has specially serious drawbacks for the
implementation of regional development programs. The volume of public resources
allocated to a given region is largely the result of the cumulative decisions
of different national sectoral agencies. The investments resulting from these
decisions may not always add up to an appropriate program from a regional
point of view, as is illustrated by the instances cited in para. 1.14 above.
1.26      Extensive discussions were therefore held with the Government on the
actions that could be taken towards two additional important objectives:
(a) that of addressing the global problems of a region in a concerted manner,
and (b) that of helping establish an institutional mechanism through which
state and local authorities could effectively participate in programs which
affect them. By entrusting the project to BANOBRAS (at the national level)
and the affected state governments, rather than to the federal offices of
SAHOP, which tends to view urban problems from a largely physical perspective,
the partial achievement of these two objectives would become possible. While
BANOBRAS is also mainly concerned with housing and public works, it is expected
to take a broader view and has accepted inclusion in the project of an impor-
tant program designed to facilitate the generation of additional employment
and the expansion of training schemes.
1.27      By establishing a financial mechanism that will permit the simulta-
neous channeling of funds to a number of inter-related activities, the project
would meet one of the necessary conditions for the efficient implementation
of comprehensive urban and regional development programs. Although the
proposed Droject is not in itself an integrated project, it will help estab-
lish the principle of addressing the global problems of a region in a con-
certed manner. It will specifically link a number of interdependent cities
and towns in one investment program, and will address a range of common
problems.
1/   Such as the "Plan Estatal de Desarrollo Urbano", published by the State
of Tabasco in 1979; the "Planeacion Regional de los Asentamientos Humanos
Zona Coatzacoalcos-Villahermosa-Salina Cruz", prepared for SAHOP by
consultants (ICATEC); and the plans prepared by the "Comision Coordinadora
para el Desarrollo Integral del Istmo de Tehuantepec" in 1972 and 1973
(see also Annex G of this report).



- 9 -
1.28      This new mechanism is intended to complement, but not substitute,
the traditional control held by the individual national secretariats and
agencies. Although parts of the project could possibly be implemented through
existing programs, 1/ fragmentation would defeat the important objective
of establishing a programmatic approach to urban and regional development.
Furthermore, as for example in the case of water supply and sewerage works,
some of the project localities that need to be provided with such works as
part of a concerted program are not being considered for immediate attention
under the established programs and a new system would therefore need to be
established. 2/
1.29      The project has been designed to resolve both critical housing
and general infrastructure deficits, and to provide complementary social
and economic investments. The shelter-related programs will respond to
the needs of low-income groups, be accessible to them, and would be replicable.
A major problem in many public housing and infrastructure development projects
in Mexico is cost recovery. This can largely be explained by the fact that
these programs have usually been implemented by public agencies with few
financial responsibilities. Housing programs, particularly for the poor, are
often considered to be of a "social" nature (i.e., not recoverable), and funds
for them are channeled through budgetary appropriations with little or no
repayment obligation. Under these conditions, support for poverty-oriented
urban projects cannot be expected to be very strong. The project will address
this problem by broadening the application of cost-recovery procedures already
tested under the Lazaro Cardenas project.
1.30      Many problems, in the past, have been associated with the inability
of federal agencies to program adequately and carry out efficiently programs
managed from Mexico City. Although investments can be theoretically planned
and programmed at the federal level, their implementation is crucially
affected by local conditions and the support (or lack of it) they receive
from state and municipal authorities. The gap between budgetary planning
and the record of project implementation has become so wide that this issue
has become a major concern of the Government. The institutional structure
selected for the project was expressly designed to enable state and local
authorities to participate in its programming and to include priorities as
defined by them. The participation of local authorities in the preparation
and implementation of this project will lead to the kind of support required
to resolve this problem; it provides an attractive model for additional such
projects in other regions of Mexico.
1.31      An important objective will be to diversify the regional economy
and augment the multiplier effects of existing investments. Besides credits
for the establishment of critical enterprises, the project will also attempt
to improve the local services and marketing facilities which are needed to
capture a greater share of the economic benefits generated by the region's
growth. Finally, the project will contribute, through training, to the
alleviation of manpower shortages.
1/   For example, the Bank-supported FIFAPA Water-Supply and Sewerage project
could (possibly) cover some of the cities.
2/   See paras. 15 to 20 in the Detailed Project Features report (DPF) in the
project file.



- 10 -
II. PROJECT COMPONENTS, COSTS AND FINANCING
A. Project Components
2.01      The main principle underlying the composition of the project is
the wish to support the Government's objective to establish a systematic
and programmatic approach to urban and regional development. Each part of
the project is important on its own merits, will help respond to the
needs of the region, and will facilitate accelerated and orderly growth
and social development. But the impact of the project on the development
of an institutional capacity to plan and implement such programs is
probably more fundamental than these benefits.
2.02      The composition of the project was derived from the objectives
mentioned above (Section F of Chapter I), and the proposed components will
cover a significant part of the comprehensive investment plans that have
been prepared for the region. Complementary investments, such as for river
control and drainage, rural feeder roads and transport infrastructure, as
well as support for the agricultural sector, would be made through other
federal and local programs. The project components are summarized below,
and a summary cost table showing the project components by state is given as
Annex A.
2.03      The Shelter Program (Mex$6,062 million) 2/ has been mainly defined
in terms of the shelter and basic infrastructure needs of the urban poor.
The program consists of complementary elements which offer a wide range of
shelter choices designed to suit the particular needs and affordability of
the region's various income groups. It includes:
(a)  Sites and Services.  This component will provide about 19,000
new lots in the region's most important cities and towns. The
lots will be of three different sizes, service levels and
costs (US$2,790, USS4,370 and US$7,200). The total cost of
this component will be Mex$3,394 million, or US$150.9 million.
(b)  Construction Material Credits.  This component will comple-
ment the sites and services scheme by allowing households
to build a variety of shelter solutions through self-help.
Based on the experience obtained in other programs of this
type, these solutions will vary in size and standards, thus
requiring credits in corresponding different amounts. It is
estimated that there will be about 15,000 credits of this
l/   More details on each component are provided in the DPF report available
in the project file.
2/   To facilitate cross-references to global cost and affordability tables,
the total program and component costs shown in this section include
engineering, physical contingencies and price escalations; partial
(unit) costs do not, however, include price escalations.



- 11 -
type, ranging between Mex$25,000 (US$1,100) 1/ and
Mex$127,500 (US$5,600). The total cost of this component
will be Mex$1,510.0 million, or US$67.2 million.
(c) Urban Upgrading. An upgrading program to improve the level of
services for more than 14,000 families in poorer neighborhoods
will include: water supply, sewerage networks, and home
connections; paving and storm drainage works; and street
lighting. Twenty community water and washing facilities will
be provided in areas where a full-fledged upgrading is not
yet possible because of very complicated land tenure conditions.
The cost of the regular upgrading program 2/ will vary between
US$2,000 and US$3,000 per household (depending on needs in each
area). The total cost of the program will be about Mex$435.7
million, or US$19.4 million.
(d) Home Improvement Loans. About 10,000 loans, ranging between
Mex$10,000 (US$440) and Mex$60,000 (US$2,700), will be granted
to households in the upgrading areas for improving or expanding
individual homes. 3/ The total cost of this program will be
about Mex$625.8 million, or US$27.8 million.
(e) Community Centers. Twelve simple community centers will be
established in the areas of the shelter program to provide a
focus for community activities--including the management of the
self-help construction and credit programs, training and adult
education, elementary health programs, a post office and other
public services 4/. The total cost of these centers will be
Mex$95.9 million, or US$4.3 million.
2.04      City-Wide Infrastructure (Mex$2,678 million) will cover the needs
arising from the rapid growth of the region's cities. Because of this growth,
the capacity of water supply and sewerage facilities is overtaxed, as are
those of the corresponding networks and other basic services. The timely
expansion of these services is urgently needed; not least because they are a
pre-requisite for the construction of the shelter-related components of the
project. This program includes:
1/   These will be "minimum credits" sufficient to build very modest shelters.
It is estimated that less than 10% of all credits will be of the largest
(US$5,600) size. These two figures do not include price contingencies.
2/   Excluding the community water and washing facilities (See para. 4.01).
3/   Although these are also in effect construction material credits, they
have been classified as "home improvement loans" because implementation
procedures will be different.
4/   Health and other public services will be managed by the respective
state or federal agencies.



- 12 -
(a) Water Supply Works. The distribution networks and service
connections in areas not covered under the shelter-related
programs will be expanded, transmission lines will be
extended, pumping stations (either at wells or river intakes)
will be increased, tanks and treatment facilities will be
built. The cost of these works has been estimated at
Mex$1,103.0 million, or US$49.0 million.
(b) Sewerage Works. Collection system and service connections
will be expanded, and main collectors, pumping stations,
treatment plants, and discharge systems extended. The cost
of these elements will be Mex$1,428.0 million, or US$63.5
million.
(c) Other Infrastructure. Will primarily consist of access
roads to low-income neighborhoods, as well as electrifica-
tion, city lighting, and telephone network expansion. 1/
The cost of this component will be Mex$147.5 million, or
US$6.5 million.
2.05      The Municipal Facilities and Services Program (Mex$925 million)
will remove serious bottlenecks in food marketing, and improve the sanitation
levels of essential services. It will include:
(a) Retail Markets. Three new retail markets will be built and
six others rehabilitated and expanded (60 stalls each),
mainly to cover the needs of low-income areas. The cost of
this component will be Mex$107.0 million, or US$4.8 million.
(b) Wholesale Market. A new food wholesale market will be
built in Villahermosa which will reduce the congestion and
improve the hygienic conditions and operating efficiency of
existing (dispersed) wholesale operations. The new market
will have 200 stalls for various types of food products
and groceries, and will cost Mex$183.0 million, or US$8.1
million.
(c) Slaughterhouses. Existing facilities are not only inadequate
in size, but are also held responsible--because of poor sani-
tary conditions--for much of the gastro-intestinal infection
rampant in the region. Clandestine operations aggravate
this situation. It is proposed to build 14 new facilities
in the project areas; at a cost of Mex$537.0 million, or
US$23.9 million.
1/   The three last mentioned elements would be implemented in Reforma only
and would cost Mex$17.8 million (less than 1% of project costs), including
all contingencies.



- 13 -
(d) Refuse Collection. The level of this service in the project
areas ranges from 75/ of the population served in Villahermosa,
to a mere 14% in Minatitlan. Existing dumps and access to them
are inadequate, and insufficient equipment is available.
Illegal dumping of waste along the main roads is common.
New sites will be acquired and fenced, required equipment
will be purchased, access roads will be built, and technical
assistance will be provided to increase the efficiency of
these operations. The total cost will be Mex$98.0 million
or US$4.4 million.
2.06      Productive Activities (Mex$925 million).  The components in this
program will expand the number of job opportunities in the project areas,
particularly among low income groups. In order to facilitate forward and
backward linkages to the petroleum sector and take better advantage of the
complementary opportunities available in the region, the region's economic
base will be diversified and the skills of the population increased to enable
them to take advantage of new job opportunities. This program will consist of
the following elements:
(a) Credits to Artisans. Approximately 1,800 credits will be
extended to entrepreneurs in the "informal" sector engaged
in manufacturing, personal services, and maintenance and
repair operations. Of these, about 70% will be reserved
for working capital (averaging about Mex$50,000 each), and the
rest for fixed assets (averaging Mex$80,000 each). The total
cost of this component, including the participation of the
beneficiaries, is estimated at Mex$121.5 million or US$5.4
million.
(b) Credits to Small-Scale Enterprises. About 600 credits will
be made available to enterprises in manufacturing (with
preference given to food processing and construction materials),
transportation, maintenance and repair facilities, personal
services, and commerce. It is estimated that credits for
commerce (about 190) will average about Mex$155,000 (US$6,900)
each, and those for other activities, Mex$655,000 (US$29,100)
each. The total cost, including the participation of the
beneficiaries (averaging 10%), is estimated at Mex$335.2 million,
or US$14.9 million.
(c) Industrial Estates. As an additional incentive to generate
local jobs, basic infrastructure for the first phase (50 ha) of
new industrial estates in the project areas will be provided.
These estates, which will be specially geared to the needs of
small-scale enterprises, are estimated to cost Mex$256.3 million,
or US$11.4 million.



- 14 -
(d) Training Center. To complement training programs already in
effect or planned by Pemex and other federal agencies, a
new training center will be built in Villahermosa 1/. The
3,000 mn2 center is estimated to cost Mex$33.3 million
(US$1.5 million), including Mex$2.0 million for equipment.
(e) Promotional Programs. Assistance and training actions
to support and promote the beneficiaries of the credit schemes,
the intermediaries of these schemes, and the operating agencies
of the proposed industrial estates. The total cost of these
elements is estimated at Mex$16.6 million, or US$700,000.
2.07       Studies and Complementary Support Activities.  Beyond the actions
required for the promotion of the Productive Activities program, additional
assistance is required to support the implementation of other project compo-
nents. Several planning studies are needed to prepare further programs for
the region. Funds will be made available to provide technical assistance to
the implementing agencies, and to carry out studies affecting or related to
the urbanization of the region. The total amount assigned to these activities
is Mex$102.5 million (US$4.6 million), of which Mex$80 million and Mex$22.5
million will be for studies and other support activities, respectively.
Approximately 80 staff-months of consultants' time are expected to be required,
mainly for support activities.
2.08       Environment.  The project's various components are expected to result
in an improvement of the region's environment. They will not, however, resolve
the major environmental problems caused by industry. Considerable efforts were
made during project preparation to address these problems, but it was not possi-
ble to obtain support for such a program. The effects of the operations of
the petroleum industry are severe, but Pemex believes the pollution control
(and indemnification) programs presently in operation are adequate. Although
this industry is by no means the only source of ecological damage in the
region, 2/ it is by far the largest; without its participation a pollution
control program would be meaningless. Some of the proposed studies will deal
with pollution control issues and should provide the basis for subsequent
efforts.
B. Cost Estimates
2.09       Total project costs, including engineering, physical contingencies
and price escalation, are about Mex$10,530.0 million (US$468.0 million).  This
1/   Most of the training programs for the informal sector would be carried
out in the planned community centers.
2/   Serious ecological problems are also caused by the sugar processing
plants (ingenios).



- 15 -
estimate includes taxes. The foreign exchange component is estimated at about
Mex$3,690 million (US$164.0 million), or 35% of total project costs. These
costs are based on detailed design and engineering studies for a sample of the
works, and on preliminary designs for the remainder. The costs of consultant
services are estimated at about US$70,000 (all inclusive) per staff-year. The
price escalation values used for the foreign component are: 12.5% in 1980,
9.0% in 1981, 8.5% in 1982 and 7.5% thereafter up to and including 1985. The
corresponding values for local price escalations are: 30% in 1980, 25% in
1981, 20% in 1982, 15% in 1983, and 12% in 1984 and in 1985. For the purpose
of estimating the foreign component, it is assumed that any future changes
between local and foreign inflation rates would be compensated by corresponding
changes in the exchange rate between the Mexican peso and the US dollar.  A
summary of project costs is presented in the table on the proceding page.
C. Financing
2.10       The proposed Bank loan to BANOBRAS will finance the 35% foreign
exchange component (US$164.0 million) of total project costs (US$468.0
million). 1/ The Bank loan would be for 15 years, including three years of
grace.  The exchange risk on the Bank loan will be borne by the Government.
2.11       The Federal Government will provide the equivalent of US$275.0
million from its own resources. The beneficiaries of various programs
will contribute the equivalent of US$29.0 million. The sources of funds
for the project are summarized below and presented in greater detail in
Table I of Annex B.
Summary of Project Financing
(in US$ million)
Govern-
Total                 ment of         Benefi-
Cost    IBRD    %    Mexico    %   ciaries   %
Shelter-Related Programs        269.0   75.2    28   168.0        62   26.2       10
City-Wide Infrastructure        119.0   50.0    42    69.0        58      -        -
Municipal Facilities and
Services                      41.1   16.4    40    24.7         60      -       -
Productive Activities            33.9   17.0    50    13.8        41    3.1        9
Studies and Complementary
Activities                      4.6    4.6   100        -        -
468.0  164.0    35    275.0    59   29.0           6
1/   The cost of land, taxes, import fees and similar duties would not be
financed by the loan.



-16-
Summary Project Costs
(In Million US$)
% Foreign
Components                          Local      Foreign       Total              Exchange
Shelter-Related Programs
- Sites and Services                           49.50      19.20         68.70                 28
- Construction Material Credits                26.50       9.30         35.80*                26
- Urban Upgrading                               6.00       3.20          9.20                 35
- Home Improvement Loans                       11.00       3.90         14.90*                26
- Community Centers                             1.40       0.60          2.00                 32
Sub-Total                                  94.40      36.20        130.60                28
City-Wide Infrastructure
- Water Supply                                 13.50       9.80         23.30                 42
- Sewerage                                     17.20      12.50         29.70                 42
- Other Infrastructure                          2.00       1.50          3.50                 42
Sub-Total                                  32.70      23.80         56.50                42
Municipal Facilities and Services
- Retail Markets                                1.60       1.10          2.70                 40
- Wholesale Market                              2.80       1.80          4.60                 40
- Slaughterhouses                               8.10       5.40         13.50                 40
- Refuse Collection                             1.60       1.10          2.70                 40
Sub-Total                                  14.10       9.40         23.50                40
Productive Activities
- Credits to Artisans                           2.70       2.70          5.40*                50
- Credits to Small-Scale Enterprises            7.45       7.45         14.90*                50
- Industrial Estates                            2.90       2.00          4.90                 40
- Training Center                               0.60       0.30          0.90                 35
- Promotional Programs                          0.00       0.70          0.70*               100
Sub-Total                                  13.70     13.10          26.80                49
Studies and Complementary
Support Activities
- Studies                                        -         3.60          3.60*               100
- Support Activities                             -         1.00          1.00*              100
Sub-Total                                    -         4.60          4.60               100
Sub-Total Base Costs                          154.90      87.10        242.00                 36
Professional Services 1/                        7.70       3.90         11.60                 34
Contingencies 2/
(a)  Physical                                  17.60       9.00         26.60                34
(b)  Price Escalation                         124.10      63.80        187.90                34
Total Cost of Project Including
Land Cost                                   304.00    164.00         468.00                35
1/ Includes 7% for design and supervision on base cost.
2/ Assuming 15% for physical contingencies and price escalations detailed in
para. 2.09 above.
"Neither Professional Services nor Physical Contingencies were considered for these items.



- 17 -
III. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION 1/
A. Implementation Arrangements
3.01      The borrower will be BANOBRAS 2/ to which counterpart funds will be
transferred by the Government except for some resources which will be passed
on directly to intermediaries as Government grants. BANOBRAS will onlend IBRD
and counterpart funds to the various implementing agencies 3/ according to
procedures and conditions agreed to with the Government and to be defined in
respective subsidiary loan agreements. Preliminary drafts of such agreements
have been presented to the Bank. The conclusion of these onlending arrange-
ments, satisfactory to the Bank, between BANOBRAS and each of the implementing
agencies (intermediaries) will be a condition of disbursements for the respec-
tive project components. Such arrangements between BANOBRAS and each interme-
diary, will be concluded no later than July 31, 1981. 4/ All funds onlent by
BANOBRAS to state or municipal agencies, will be guaranteed by the correspond-
ing states. This, as well as additional obligations, will be formalized in
project agreements to be signed between BANOBRAS and each of the three state
governments. These agreements will be concluded not later than July 31, 1981. 5/
The conclusion of at least one project agreement and of one subsidiary loan
agreement (with an intermediary in the same state with which a project agreement
is signed), satisfactory to the Bank, will be a condition of loan effectiveness.
Funds transferred as federal grants will be intended to finance such non-
recoverable elements as community centers, special promotion campaigns and
technical assistance programs. 6/ The implementing agencies, in turn, will
carry out the various programs and works, and will charge beneficiaries to
recover project costs. 7/
3.02      BANOBRAS has established a project unit in Mexico City and a field
office in Coatzacoalcos responsible for supervising the implementation of all
project components, and for following-up on any actions required to correct
1/   A description of each intermediary is provided in Section B of this
Chapter. Table I of Annex C lists the implementing responsibilities for
each component.
2/   See paras. 3.14 to 3.17 below.
3/   See paras. 3.18 to 3.28 below.
4/   Except those between BANOBRAS and the municipalities, which will be
concluded not later than December 31, 1981.
5/   Preliminary drafts of these agreements have also been received by the Bank.
6/   These grants will be part of the project costs and will be channelled
by the Government as budgetary transfers, i.e., not through BANOBRAS.
7/   For cost recovery procedures, See Section A of Chapter IV.



- 18 -
difficulties. The BANOBRAS unit will need to authorize all transfers of
resources and payments, and will be the official contact with the Bank on all
project-related matters. The unit will consist of at least three qualified
staff assigned full time to the project; namely, a project director, a project
engineer and a financial administrator. These three professionals have already
been appointed to the unit. Additional qualified staff for supervision and
monitoring of project implementation will be assigned to the unit as required
for its effective operation.
3.03       In addition, and as a complement (but not as a substitute) to the
BANOBRAS unit, special procedures have been established in each state to coordi-
nate and monitor the progress of those parts of the program to be carried out in
their respective jurisdictions. These responsibilities will be carried out by
the state development committees (COPLADEs), 1/ providing a mechanism for coordi-
nation with the Federal and state governments. 2/ The responsibilities of each
state, as well as the obligations of BANOBRAS to the project, will be spelled
out in the corresponding project agreements between BANOBRAS and each state.
Finally, a coordinating committee will be established at the federal level to
follow-up on all matters that could require Government intervention; this will
be done no later than June 30, 1981 (see also para. 3.37). 3/
3.04       Each state, either through its COPLADE or other appropriate planning
agencies, actively participated in the definition of the scope and of the
composition of the project. This participation extended to the municipal and,
where appropriate, individual community levels. Consistent with the wishes of
the present Government to delegate more responsibility to states and municipal-
ities, this project will be exclusively implemented by state and municipal
agencies. 4/ The main role assigned to federal agencies relates to normative,
technical support, and general supervisory functions. Also, all the water
supply and sewerage works of the project will be carried out through SAHOP
(see para. 3.06 below).
3.05       Implementation of the shelter-related components in each state will
be the responsibility of the corresponding Instituto de Vivienda. 5/ The
scope of these components has been adjusted to ensure that the Institutos
will not need to expand their staff to unreasonable levels. The Institutos
carried out similar projects in the past, some of them funded by INDECO, 6/
1/   Comite de Planeacion del Estado (these are the former COPRODEs).
2/   The president of each COPLADE is the governor of the state.
3/   The draft of the corresponding agreement between the Federal Government
(through its Secretariat of Finance) and BANOBRAS was presented to the
Bank during negotiations.
4/   The only exception is BANOBRAS, which will be directly responsible for
the execution of parts of the Productive Credits component.
5/   See paras. 3.18 to 3.20 below.
6/   Instituto Nacional para el Desarrollo de la Comunidad y de la
Vivienda Popular.



- 19 -
and some by state governments. Under the project the Institutos will be made
primarily responsible to state authorities. This will increase their effec-
tiveness and efficiency, and make them more responsive to local needs. They
will preserve their technical teams and implementation capabilities, but
will provide a more manageable framework within which changes in design and
construction norms, and in the conditions applied to mortgage and loan reci-
pients could be negotiated. In the upgrading program the participation of the
respective municipalities will be required.
3.06      The water supply and sewerage elements of the project's city-wide
infrastructure component will be implemented in Tabasco and in Reforma (Chiapas)
by new state-wide authorities (SAPAs) 1/, and in Coatzacoalcos and Minatitlan
(both in Veracruz) by a state water authority responsible only for these two
cities. In every case these authorities will operate under the same conditions
applied in the FIFAPA program 2/. An important aspect of this procedure
is that the same authority will contract the loan with BANOBRAS and will be
responsible for operating and administering the systems, and for cost recovery.
The various authorities will be assisted and supported by SAHOP 3/, through
which all the works to be implemented by them will be carried out. These
authorities will be established, under conditions satisfactory to the Bank, as
a condition of disbursement for the respective water and sewerage works (see
also para. 3.23). 4/
3.07      The access roads envisaged under the "Other Infrastructure" component
will be implemented and maintained by the respective municipalities 5/; except
for Reforma, where the local Instituto (IDVICH) is the only effectively oper-
ating public agency and will therefore be responsible for the implementation
of these elements. 6/ The respective municipalities will also be responsible
1/   Servicios de Agua Potable y Alcantarillado del Estado (see paras 3.21
to 3.24). The Tabasco and the Chiapas SAPAs (SAPAET and SAPAECH, respec-
tively) are the first authorities of this type being created in Mexico as
part of a national program planned by SAHOP for all states. Although it
is the firm intention of the Federal Government to establish SAPAs in
each state, only in Tabasco and in Chiapas does this seem possible
in the immediate future. The arrangements planned in the other cities of
the project would eventually lead to a SAPA in Veracruz as well.
2/   Following the guidelines already agreed to between the Bank and SAHOP:
"Guia General para la Elaboracion de Proyectos de Ingenieria de Sistemas
de Agua Potable y Alcantarillado", SAHOP, October 1979 (see also paras. 15
to 20, and page 17 of the DPF report in the project file).
3/   SAHOP has been instrumental in preparing the technical background and
statutes of the new water authorities and will be their technical
coordinator.
4/   The SAPAET and the SAPAECH have already been established and the water
authority in Veracruz will be established not later than June 30, 1981.
5/   See paras 3.25 and 3.26.
6/   IDVICH will also implement the electrification, city lighting and
telephone network expansions planned for Reforma.



- 20 -
for the implementation, operation and maintenance of all items included in the
Municipal Facilities and Services component (i.e., Markets, Slaughterhouses,
and Refuse Collection and Disposal).
3.08      Implementation of the Productive Credits and Promotional programs
will be the responsibility of BANOBRAS through a special unit created for this
purpose (see para. 3.27), and of the Institutos de Vivienda. In the case
of credits for the formal sector, the BANOBRAS unit will carry out the promo-
tion, preparation, and financial transactions of individual operations.
Satisfactory financing arrangements will be established by BANOBRAS. These
arrangements will reflect the conditions already in force in the first Bank-
supported urban development project. 1/ In the case of credits to the
informal sector, these will be handled by the Institutos de Vivienda. A
special department, consisting of at least one program coordinator, will be
created in each Instituto to support this program. These special departments
will be operated in a manner satisfactory to the Bank. 2/ Appropriate arrange-
ments will be formalized in the corresponding subsidiary loan agreements to
be finalized no later than July 31, 1981.
3.09      The proposed industrial estates will be developed under special
trusts (Fideicomisos Especiales). 3/ Once the final location of an estate
has been approved by the respective state and federal authorities, the site
will be acquired by the state and turned over to the new trust. The trust
will, in turn, supervise the implementation of the civil works 4/, and then
promote and administer the estate through its Technical Secretariat and under
procedures consistent with those applied under the Bank-supported FIDEIN
program 5/. Feasibility studies and final designs for each estate will need
to be approved by the Bank prior to the implementation of these works. To
allow sufficient time for completion of the estates, a final date of Decem-
ber 31, 1982 has been established for presentation of all feasibility studies
and complete designs.
3.10      The assistance and promotional programs related to productive
activities will be carried out by various agencies 6/ under the supervision
and coordination of the BANOBRAS unit. The training center in Villahermosa
will be implemented by a special trust (CEPROTAB) 7/ created to promote
1/   In Loan No. 1554-ME.
2/   The actual financial transactions involved in granting and recovering
these credits will be handled by commercial banks.
3/   In Tabasco, this function would be assumed by FOMITA ("Fondo Mixto para
el Desarrollo Industrial de Tabasco").
4/   To be carried out by SAHOP or state agencies.
5/   Fideicomiso de Conjuntos, Parques, Ciudades Industriales y Centros
Comerciales is a government trust in charge of industrial estates
across Mexico.
6/   Such as CENAPRO and ARMO, which are specialized programs of the Ministry
of Labor.
7/   Centro de Productividad de Tabasco.



- 21 -
training activities in Tabasco. The trust will run this center, and the state
will provide the required staff, and finance all its operations. Confirma-
tion that the state of Tabasco will assume these responsibilities will be
incorporated in the subsidiary loan agreement between BANOBRAS and CEPROTAB
and in the project agreement with the State of Tabasco.
3.11      The program of studies and complementary support activities will be
carried out by various offices under the supervision and coordination of the
BANOBRAS unit. All the studies dealing with issues connected to water and
sewerage or sanitation matters will be carried out through the water authori-
ties; all studies related to shelter-related matters will be carried out
through the respective Institutos; and all studies related to urbanization
will be carried out through the respective municipalities under the supervision
and coordination of the states. Detailed terms of reference for each of the
studies and the corresponding contracts will need to be presented to and
approved by the Bank prior to their initiation. Complementary support activ-
ities will be executed by various public agencies and consultants, depending
on the assistance required. This assistance will be preceded by a preparatory
stage: the definition of the specific details and schedule of actions required
for each agency. This first stage, to be prepared by the Institutos, by each
of the respective water authorities, and by the municipalities, under the
coordination of BANOBRAS in a manner satisfactory to the Bank, will be com-
pleted no later than July 31, 1981, and a report (including a recommended
work program for each activity) will be submitted by that date. 1/
3.12      The preparation of engineering studies for each project component
will be the responsibility of the respective implementing agencies. Sufficient
detailed studies have already been completed to begin the implementation of
most programs. This includes studies for typical sites and services projects,
for community centers and for about 30% of the water supply and sewerage
works. Additional studies will be prepared during 1981, after loan approval.
A schedule was agreed during negotiations, and is included in the legal
documents, establishing specific dates by which the studies for all project
works must be completed. Appropriate budgetary allocations have been con-
sidered by the Government to cover expected expenditures during 1981. The
responsibility for coordinating future actions required in this respect will
rest with the BANOBRAS project unit.
3.13      Approximately 420 ha of land are required to implement the shelter-
related programs. Of these, about 174 ha are already the property of the
various Institutos 2/, and the rest (249 ha) still need to be purchased. The
available land is sufficient to carry out a large part of the planned program;
no difficulties are envisaged in connection with the purchase of the remaining
land for the project which will be purchased from private owners. No ejido 3/
land will be involved.
1/   A fuller description of the proposed support activities and their tenta-
tive implementation schedule are available in the project file.
2/   92 ha in the state of Tabasco, 44 ha in Veracruz, and all the
38 ha required in Reforma (Chiapas).
3/   See footnote for para. 1.20 above.



- 22 -
B. Implementing Agencies 1/
BANOBRAS 2/
3.14      The Banco Nacional de Obras y Servicios Publicos, S.A. (BANOBRAS)
was founded on February 20, 1933. The Federal Government has been the major
stockholder of BANOBRAS since its creation and now owns, directly or indirect-
ly, approximately 98% of the Bank's outstanding capital stock. The remaining
capital stock is held by various investors, including state governments,
municipalities and private investors. The assets and liabilities of BANOBRAS
(as of December 31, 1978) totaled approximately US$3.8 billion and US$3.6
billion equivalent, respectively. 3/
3.15      BANOBRAS functions as the principal agent of the Federal Government
for receiving domestic and foreign sources for public works construction in
Mexico. Credit obtained by BANOBRAS is lent primarily to the Federal Govern-
ment and its agencies for the implementation of public works, low-cost housing
and the improvement of public transport facilities. Loans are also made to
the Mexican states and municipalities. As of December 31, 1978, approximately
75% of BANOBRAS' outstanding loans were loans made directly to the Federal
Government or its institutions.
3.16      By statute, the Federal Government controls the policies and, in
practice, substantially directs the borrowing and lending activities of
BANOBRAS. The Ministry of Finance and Public Credit (SHCP) has veto power
over the resolutions of the BANOBRAS Board of Directors, and approves its
yearly budget. In effect, therefore, BANOBRAS functions as an agency of the
Federal Government. The Chairman of BANOBRAS' Board of Directors is Mexico's
Secretary of Finance and Public Credit; the majority of its directors are
cabinet officers or highi ranking government officials; and its principal
executive officer, the Director General, holds cabinet rank in the Mexican
Government. Responsible to him are the Deputy Director General and the
General Manager; an Internal Commission for Administration and Programming
(CIDAP) acts as his advisory council.
1/   Besides the information proviided in this section, additional data and
background on each intermediary (including financial data), are avail-
able in the project file.
2/   This institution has been the borrower of a number of Bank-supported
projects, e.g., for the Lazaro Cardenas Project (Loan No. 1554-ME); the
Medium-Size Cities Water Supply and Sewerage Projects (Loans No. 1186-ME
and 1913-ME); and the Highways Sector Project (Loan No. 1671-ME). Thus,
only a general description is provided here.
3/   General financial information on BANOBRAS is available in the project
file but is not discussed here because BANOBRAS will only manage
funds provided by the Government and it will not have significant
financial responsibilities in this project.



- 23 -
3.17       Three divisions under the coordination of the Deputy Director
General deal with: (a) the various trusts managed by BANOBRAS; (b) economic
development, and (c) financial management. The three main trusts managed by
BANOBRAS are: (a) the Municipal Fund for loans to municipalities; (b) FIFAPA,
for loans for water and sewerage systems; and (c) the Housing Fund for low-cost
housing. Another trust supervised by BANOBRAS is the Fideicomiso Ciudad
Lazaro Cardenas (FIDELAC), which is the implementing agency of the first Bank
supported urban project in Mexico. 1/ The project and the project unit will
be controlled and supervised by the director of the financial management
division. The unit will supervise and be responsible for all the administra-
tive, technical, and financial matters associated with the implementation of
the project and for compliance with the conditions agreed to on the operations
of the intermediaries. BANOBRAS will contract and employ adequate staff for
the unit as required to ensure its proper and effective operation (see para.
3.02 above).
3.18       The Institutos de Vivienda 2/ were initially established in each
state as local representatives of INDECO, the federal agency in charge of
housing for lower-income groups. Most of their activities are related to
sites and services and self-help construction programs. Funding for these
activities is presently shared by both INDECO and the respective states.
These institutions therefore operate under the combined guidelines of both
entities. Of the three Institutos that will participate in the project,
both the one in Veracruz (IDUVIV) and the one in Tabasco (IDVIT) are presently
under the control of the state Governor and are authorized to obtain credits
from BANOBRAS. The legal statutes and regulations of the Chiapas Instituto
will be modified to allow this agency to become a sub-borrower in the project
and to participate in the credits to artisans program. 3/ These procedures have
been discussed with the pertinent authorities, and the required actions are
expected to be completed by June 30, 1981. The conclusion of subsidiary loan
agreements, satisfactory to the Bank, between BANOBRAS and each Instituto will
be a condition of disbursements for the shelter-related components in the
respective states.
3.19      The director and staff of each Instituto are appointed by the respec-
tive Governor for a six-year period coinciding with his own term of office.
The staffs of the Institutos are experienced in technical matters and are
highly motivated, but need to be strengthened in areas dealing with accounting,
financial and management matters and in response to the significant increase
of the operations to which the new project will lead. Besides the special
department for credits to artisans mentioned in para. 3.08 above, it was
agreed at negotiations that the respective subsidiary loan agreements will
include a commitment by each Instituto to maintain appropriate levels of
qualified staff. This commitment will be reviewed at periodic meetings (as
part of supervision) by the Bank, BANOBRAS and each Instituto, at which time
also the staffing and training needs, as well as the financial, the adminis-
trative and the technical performance of the corresponding Instituto will be
1/   See paras 1.08 and 1.11 above.
2/   Additional information on the Institutos is available in the project
file.
3/   See also para. 3.08 above.



- 24 -
reviewed. These matters have been discussed with the Mexican authorities;
appropriate staff increases have been assured and will be gradually contracted
as required.
3.20      In the past, the Institutos have operated primarily as public
agencies with little responsibility for recovering the cost of the pro-
grams they implement. This, in addition to their dual responsibilities to
the states and to INDECO, has led to unsatisfactory management, accounting,
and financial procedures. Appropriate procedures, satisfactory to the Bank,
will be adopted in conjunction with the implementation of the project. The
adoption of such procedures and the maintenance of qualified staff was
confirmed during negotiations. 1/
3.21      The three water authorities will only be new in the sense that
they will be new administrative bodies, but their technical needs will
continue to be met by the staff of SAHOP which has, in the past, prepared,
designed and implemented most works of this type in the region. The manage-
ment of the new authorities will be built on experienced staff now engaged in
similar tasks as employees of SAHOP. A special convenio (agreement) describ-
ing the functions and responsibilities of the new SAPA for Tabasco, its
financial and technical structures, building norms, standards and tariff
structure has already been prepared and presented for review to the Bank (see
para. 3.23 below). The corresponding convenios for the other water authorities
will be completed before July 31, 1981.
3.22      In preparing the convenios, SAHOP is consulting with other federal
agencies related to these sectors (such as SPP and SARH), states and munici-
palities. All these entities will participate on the boards of the new authori-
ties; technical coordination will be the responsibility of SAHOP. The Tabasco
and Chiapas SAPAs have already been formally created and are expected to become
operational by mid-1981. The joint authority for Coatzacoalcos and Minatitlan
is expected to be constituted and operational no later than June 30, 1981.
Technical support to establish the operational capacity of all these authorities
is to be provided by SAHOP.
3.23      The statutes and regulations of each water authority will be
reviewed by the Bank and, if required, adjusted to comply with the conditions
applied in the Second Medium Size Cities Water Supply and Sewerage Projects
(FIFAPA program). These conditions include the preparation of appropriate
feasibility studies, the acceptance of specific financial covenants, the
approval of appropriate tariff structures by the state legislature, the
introduction of institutional arrangements recommended in the feasibility
studies, the establishment of a leak detection and control program if required,
the implementation of proper accounting and auditing procedures (see para.
3.40), the revaluation of fixed assets according to specific guidelines, and
the introduction of monitoring indicators (see para. 3.37). 2/
1/   Detailed administrative and accounting conditions for the Institutos are
presented on Table V of the DPF report. These will be incorporated in
the respective subsidiary loan agreements.
2/   Detailed financial and operational covenants for the water and sewerage
authorities are presented on Table X of the DPF report. These covenants
are the same as those applied in the FIFAPA program.



- 25 -
3.24      Feasibility studies for over 30% of the water supply and sewerage
works planned under the City-Wide Infrastructure component have already been
prepared and presented to the Bank. Some revisions and additional information
requested by the Bank are presently being processed by SAHOP. Feasibility
studies, satisfactory to the Bank, for a total of 60% of these works, will be
furnished to the Bank by January 31, 1982; and for the remainder of these works
by January 31, 1983.
3.25      Corresponding to differences in size and in the social and economic
conditions in each city, the operational efficiency and performance of the
municipalities involved in the project varies. None are free of administrative,
financial and political problems. The most difficult situations probably
exist in Coatzacoalcos, Minatitlan and, to some degree, Cosoleacaque.
Villahermosa, the capital of Tabasco and the seat of the state government, is
relatively better off. The main sources of income for the municipalities are
local taxes, licenses and registration fees of various types (e.g., on land,
construction and building improvements, beverages, and businesses), and
budgetary transfers from the states. The municipalities also borrow from
private banks (and BANOBRAS), usually with the guarantee of the corresponding
state. Municipal finances are almost exclusively planned on a year-by-year
basis; investment programs rely on budgetary support from the states.
3.26      Long-term commitments, including borrowing from commercial banks
are also, in effect, the responsibility of the states by virtue of their role
as loan guarantors. For example, of the Mex$ 143.3 million (US$6.4 million)
budget of Coatzacoalcos in 1979, Mex$ 80.1 million (55%) were state budgetary
transfers, and only Mex$ 29.0 million (20%) came from taxes 1/. The budget of
Minatitlan, Mex$ 44.4 million in 1979, was only about one-third of what it was
in Coatzacoalcos; of which state and federal transfers totalled Mex$ 17.2
million (37%). The difference in budget size can be largely explained by
the fact that the municipal area of Minatitlan is much smaller, and that Pemex
provides many services in its own zones. The difference in the share of state
support appears to be attributable to political factors.
3.27      BANOBRAS will implement the credit line for small-scale enterprises
through a special unit created to identify, promote, appraise and provide
technical assistance to participants in this program. This unit will operate
as part of the Department of Credit to States and Municipalities 2/, which
is the same department where the overall project unit is located. The credit
unit (similar to the project unit) will have a branch in the field in the
BANOBRAS regional office in Coatzacoalcos. The actual channelling of the
1/   Another Mex$ 19.5 million (17%) came from services, permits and rents.
Major expenditures in 1979 were Mex$ 37.0 millions (25%) for public
works, and Mex$ 4.6 (3%) for vehicles and equipment.
2/   Gerencia de Creditos a Estados y Municipios.



- 26 -
individual credits and their recovery will be through BANOBRAS' regular banking
branches located in various cities in the region. Approval of individual
credits will be processed through a special committee 1/ consisting of the
divisional manager of Development Credit (who heads the committee), the manager
of the Department of Special Credits and the manager of the Department of
Credit to States and Municipalities. Support for the credit unit in the form
of technical assistance and training has already been programmed by BANOBRAS,
including some training missions of the unit's staff to countries where
similar schemes are presently in operation. 2/
3.28      The Fideicomisos (trusts) will be legal entities with considerable
autonomy to develop and operate the industrial estates. The state governor
will be the president of each trust; policies and operational guidelines
will be set by a Technical Secretariat consisting of representatives from
the Federal Government's secretariats and other institutions (SAHOP, SHCP,
SPP, SEPAFIN 3/ and FIDEIN), local municipalities and the private sector. The
senior staff of a Fideicomiso will typically consist of a general manager, an
accountant, and a sales and promotion manager. The general manager reports
directly to the Technical Secretariat and works closely with staff of FIDEIN
in Mexico City. FIDEIN will monitor and coordinate the trusts' activities
and provide advice on such matters as promotion, accounting and financial
control, leRal contracts, and administrative and operational procedures. 4/
C. Implementing Schedule
3.29      The project will be implemented over a five year period, that is,
until the end of 1985. Shelter-related components will require the whole of
this period, but the home improvement loans program and the community centers
could be completed earlier. The full implementation period will also applv
to most other components, but the municipal facilities and the training center
could be completed by the end of 1982, and the industrial estates by mid-1983.
Consideration was given to the fact that changes in the state government took
1/   Comite Tecnico.
2/   Also staff from the Institutos' special units in charge of productive
credits to artisans have been scheduled to participate in these field
trips.
3/   SEPAFIN is the Secretariat of National Patrimony and Industrial
Development.
4/   A detailed analysis of these trusts was made in connection with the
preparation of the Small and Medium Scale Industry Development Project;
an extensive description is provided in Chapter IV of the corresponding
SAR (Report No. 181lb-ME).



- 27 -
place in Veracruz in 1980, and a change is scheduled in Tabasco in 1982; 1/
the implementation schedules have been adjusted correspondingly. Detailed
implementation schedules by state are attached in Tables II, III and IV of
Annex C. These schedules show the approximate proportion of works that are
expected to be carried out each year. The number of corresponding units,
credits or other actions that are expected to be built during the lifetime of
the project are presented in tables available in the project file. These
figures will constitute the basic project monitoring indicators.
D. Procurement
3.30      The preparation of tender documents and the award of individual
contracts will be the responsibility of the respective implementing agencies,
under the supervision of the BANOBRAS project unit. This unit will also act
as liaison with the Bank on all procurement matters.
3.31      The Mexican contracting industry is capable of undertaking all types
of civil works at competitive prices; bids from non-Mexican firms are only
rarely submitted for such works. A common procedure is to award contracts
for relatively small projects on the basis of negotiated prices and conditions
(shopping). Although Mexican law establishes upper limits for such contracts,
appropriate justification on a case-by-case basis has become increasingly
common. This procedure appears reasonable in view of the present level of
costs and prices in the project areas. 2/
3.32      Civil works valued above US$2.5 million equivalent, and equipment
and materials valued above US$500,000 equivalent will be contracted under
ICB. To facilitate the participation of international contractors under
ICB, civil works will, as far as possible, be grouped into contracts with
a minimum value of US$2.5 million equivalent. Also equipment and materials
will, as far as possible, be contracted under ICB and for this purpose grouped
into contracts having a minimum value of US$500,000 equivalent. Local com-
petitive bidding will be accepted for civil works contracts with values over
US$250,000 and less than US$2.5 million equivalent, and for contracts for
equipment and materials valued more than US$150,000 and less than US$500,000
equivalent. Civil works and equipment and materials for less than the indi-
cated amounts and up to an aggregate limit of US$50.0 million will be procured
directly on the basis of a minimum of three quotations in each case.
3.33      Since most of the project components are relatively small and are
geographically scattered, foreign contractors are not expected to partici-
pate in many of them. Specifically, only about US$50 million equivalent
for civil works and equipment--mostly related to water supply and sewerage
elements--is expected to be awarded through ICB; the rest will be awarded
according to local procedures satisfactory to the Bank. For all contracts
1/   President Lopez Portillo's administration also ends in November 1982.
2/   Mexican regulations also allow that equipment and materials be purchased
at prices approved and listed by the Secretariat of Commerce (updated
every year). In any case, exceptions to bidding procedures have to
be approved by the Secretariat of Programming and Budgeting (SPP).



- 28 -
under ICB, copies of bidding documents, bid analysis reports and recommenda-
tions for award will be made available to the Bank for prior review and
approval. 1/ Disbursements for contracts awarded under local competitive
bidding procedures and submitted to the Bank for ex-post review will only be
made after the Bank is satisfied with said review. Goods manufactured locally
and procured under ICB will be allowed a preference of 15% of the CIF price
or the level of import duty, whichever is lower, over foreign goods.
E. Disbursement
3.34      The Bank will disburse against:
(a) 45% of amounts paid for civil works, construction materials,
equipment and consultants required for the implementation of the
water supply and sewerage components; 2/
(b) 32% of all other civil works costs (excluding those under
(a) above), including the costs of engineering, promotion activities
and supervision;
(c) 26% of construction material credits and home improvement loans;
(d) 55% of production credits; 3/
(e) 100% of foreign expenditures for imports and 50% of local
expenditures for locally procured equipment and vehicles, except
as specified in (b) above; and
(f) 100% of expenditures for consultants 4/, or 50% of other expenditures
associated with the promotion programs of the productive activities
component, and for studies and complementary support activities.
3.35      A total of up to US$5.0 million will be available for the retro-
active financing of project expenditures after January 31, 1980. These funds
will be required in partial payment of works and preparatory studies already
begun and/or carried out by Mexican institutions in anticipation of loan
1/   General conditions for tender documents to be used for ICB and local
procurement for water supply and sewerage works have been prepared under
the first FIFAPA operation (Loan 1186-ME) and are acceptable to the Bank.
2/   The Bank will disburse 45% (rather than the 42% representing the foreign
exchange component) to compensate for the 5% retention withheld from
contractors of civil works during the guarantee period following the
completion of works, and for professional services (e.g., engineering and
supervision) carried out directly by SAHOP. The maximum amount to be dis-
bursed under this category is equal to 42% of this component's total cost.
3/   55% of the requested credits is equivalent to 50% financing of the
total cost of the corresponding undertaking, including the 10% self
participation share of the beneficiaries.
4/   It is assumed that most of the consultants would be foreign experts.



- 29 -
approval. These include two sites and services projects in Villahermosa and
Coatzacoalcos, preparatory studies for future shelter-related, water and
sewerage works, and some upgrading. All these works and studies will need
to conform with the designs, norms and standards agreed on during project
preparation.
3.36      Disbursements will be fully documented for most of civil works, but
statements of expenditures procedures will be used in the case of construction
material credits and home improvement loans, production credits, and other
minor expenditures under the studies and support activities program. All
these expenditures will be audited by independent auditors. BANOBRAS will
process all required documents through its project unit, and forward them to
the Bank with corresponding withdrawal applications. Loan disbursements are
expected to be in accordance with the schedule shown in Annex D 1/. The
closing date of the loan will be December 31, 1986.
F. Monitoring and Evaluation
3.37      Considering the relative complexity of this project in terms of the
number of participating agencies and localities, and the varied characteristics
of its components, proper monitoring and supervision procedures are crucial to
its success. Preliminary discussions have been held on this subject with the
federal and state governments, and with BANOBRAS. Special monitoring and
evaluation procedures will be established within the BANOBRAS project unit
and in each state unit 2/. These procedures were discussed during negotiations
and will include the updating of key indicators to be incorporated in quarterly
supervision reports (see para 3.39). Assurances were obtained during negotia-
tions, that not later than twelve months after project completion BANOBRAS
will prepare a completion report, satisfactory to the Bank, describing the
implementation of the project, as well as its financial and physical achieve-
ments and benefits. A federal inter-ministerial coordinating committee will
be established to monitor and follow-up, as required, on difficulties that may
arise during implementation. Confirmation on this matter was obtained during
negotiations.
G. Supervision
3.38      Considering the scope and number of localities and programs included
in the project, given the innovative character of many of the proposed insti-
tutional and financial aspects, and in order to minimize the risks of such
1/   This schedule assumes that Bank reimbursements will lag between six and
12 months behind disbursements by the implementing agencies. This is a
reasonable assumption based on the Bank's experience in Mexico.
2/   BANOBRAS has opened a new regional office in Coatzacoalcos that covers
all project areas. This office significantly strengthens BANOBRAS'
ability to supervise this project effectively.



- 30 -
a large operation, close and intensive Bank supervision will be required,
particularly during the early stages of project implementation. It is ex-
pected that after this initial period, many of the supervision responsibili-
ties will be taken over by the project unit at BANOBRAS.
3.39      The BANOBRAS project unit will prepare semi-annual reports on the
progress of the project and forward them to the Bank at corresponding inter-
vals. These reports will contain a descriptive section and quantitative
indicators on subjects and in a format agreed during negotiations. 1/ These
reports will include information on such subjects as the pace of construction
and disbursements, the specific number of units built and credits granted, the
record of cost recovery, the development of institutional capabilities,
employment generated, and the socio-economic impact of the project, as well as
on particular technical, budgetary, or institutional difficulties experienced
during project implementation.
H. Accounts and Audits
3.40      Accounting procedures in the municipalities and the Institutos are
inadequate and do not permit proper analysis or auditing. Proper accounting
procedures, acceptable to the Bank, will be introduced by each intermediary
within one year of the respective sub-loan signature. This will entail
maintaining records reflecting their operations and financial conditions,
including separate accounts for the Bank's components, in accordance with
appropriate accounting principles. The accounts and financial statements
(balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements)
will be audited by independent auditors at least once each fiscal year. 2/
A copy of these audit reports, complete with auditor's notes, will be provided
to the Bank as soon as they are available and no later than six months after
the end of each fiscal year, and the Bank will be furnished with such other
information concerning the accounts and financial statements and the audits of
the various agencies as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
These procedures were confirmed during negotiations, and they will be incor-
porated in the financing agreements between BANOBRAS and the respective
intermediaries.
1/   The content and format of these reports will be similar to those presently
used in the Lazaro Cardenas project (Loan 1554-ME).
2/   With the exception of the municipalities; in this case, verified accounts
will be provided.



- 31 -
IV. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
A. Cost Recovery
4.01      Major efforts were made during project preparation to establish cost
recovery standards and procedures that demonstrate the feasibility of carrying
out urban projects that pay for themselves and are not a constant drain on public
resources. About 96% of all project costs are expected to be recovered directly
from beneficiaries. 1/ Extensive discussions were held with the Mexican authori-
ties on the feasibility of recovering these costs through appropriate charges and
tariffs. 2/ Less than full cost recovery will occur with respect to upgrading
(75% of costs are expected to be recovered) 3/, community centers (60% of costs
are expected to be recovered), "other" infrastructure (50% of costs are expected
to be recovered), and nothing at all will be recovered with respect to the
training center or with respect to studies and complementary support activities.
The Government will provide directly the respective implementing agencies with
the necessary funds to cover these differences. Confirmation on this commit-
ment was obtained during negotiations.
4.02      The estimated proportion of funds recovered from beneficiaries is
based on the experience of similar programs in Mexico, and on a number of
additional assumptions regarding proposed changes in charges and tariffs (see
following paragraphs and Annex E). The lending rates applied by BANOBRAS to
the intermediaries (implementing agencies) will be consistent with those
prevailing in the country and already in force in the latest Bank-supported
FOGAIN 4/ and FIFAPA programs (Loans 1881-ME and 1913-ME, respectively). For
the shelter-related component, the onlending rate will be 10%. Although rates
applied by the intermediaries to beneficiaries are below present inflation
rates, they are in line with those expected for 1983 and are expected to
become positive thereafter. 5/ Agreements on onlending rates and conditions
and on user charges, satisfactory to the Bank, were reached during negotiations
and will be incorporated in the subsidiary loan agreements between BANOBRAS
and the respective intermediaries.
1/   In nominal terms because inflation is still, at the present time,
higher than the interest rates charged to beneficiaries (see para. 2.09
and remainder of Chapter IV).
2/   See Annex E for detailed cost recovery estimates.
3/   The costs not recovered refer to streets (usually payed for from the
ordinary budget), and to the water and washing facilities in Coatzacoalcos
and Minatitlan which will be offered as a social service in areas where
the land tenure situation does not yet permit full-fledged upgrading.
4/   This is a nation-wide rediscounting system used to promote industrial
enterprises which is supported by the Bank (through Loans 1152-ME and
1881-ME).
5/   The annual inflation rate in Mexico (according to the National Consumer
Price Index published by the Banco de Mexico) was 28.9% in 1976, 17.5% in
1977, and 18.3% in 1979. According to Bank estimates, it was about 30%
in 1980, and is expected to be 25% in 1981, 20% in 1982, 15% in 1983,
and 12% in 1984 and 1985.



- 32 -
4.03      With the exception of part of the upgrading program and of the
community centers, the beneficiaries of the shelter-related programs will pay
for all costs associated with these programs, including the cost of land, land
preparation, infrastructure, and construction material credits and home
improvement loans (including professional services and contingencies). Cost
recovery for sites and services, and for any credit that may be associated
with their development will be consolidated through mortgage payments. In
many cases the interest rates to be charged to beneficiaries will be substan-
tially higher than those charged in the past. For example, in the sites and
services program in Veracruz, interest rates will be more than double those of
past programs (from a previous range of 0% to 6%, to new rates of 15% per year).
4.04      The sale of sites and services and the provision of upgrading will
be based on 10% down payments, with the balance in monthly payments at 15% annual
interest over 15 years (no grace period). The agencies in charge of implement-
ing these programs will be free to introduce variations (such as escalated
monthly payments or cross-subsidies between higher and lower-income groups)
to suit the particular needs and possibilities of the beneficiaries. Construc-
tion material credits and home improvement loans will also be offered at 15%
annual interest over a period of up to 15 years (no grace period), with no
down payment. 1/ Given the experience of the Lazaro Cardenas project, it is
expected that many households will opt for shorter repayment periods. The
above detailed conditions will be incorporated in the subsidiary loan agree-
ments between BANOBRAS and the Institutos.
4.05      The cost of the community centers will be partially (about 60%)
recovered through charges for technical assistance, and the remainder will be
absorbed by the Government as part of its promotional support for this type of
program.
4.06      The investment, operational and maintenance costs of water supply
and sewerage works included in the City-Wide Infrastructure component is
expected to be recovered in full from final beneficiaries through tariff
charges and fees paid by households receiving new connections, adjusted to
comply with conditions applied under the FIFAPA program.
4.07      The cost of access roads will be absorbed by the respective muni-
cipalities, as always with this type of improvement. The cost of the remain-
ing infrastructure (electricity and telephone connections) will be recovered
in full through charges to beneficiaries.
4.08      The costs of all items included in the Municipal Facilities and
Services component will be fully recovered, except for the retail markets.
In this case, the respective municipalities (and states) will absorb about
50% of the costs. 2/ The costs of slaughterhouses will be fully recovered
1/   But a 10% guarantee deposit.
2/   At the present time, municipalities usually only recover the operating
costs of markets.



- 33 -
through a flat fee on each animal slaughtered, 1/ and the costs of the refuse
collection systems will be recovered through direct charges to beneficiaries. 2/
4.09      The cost of the wholesale market will be fully recovered through
payments by beneficiaries. On registration, wholesalers will be required to
make a down payment of 20% of the price of a stall, and the rest will be paid
over 10-15 years (depending on the date of occupancy) at interest rates
of 17% with no grace period. A field study of the payment capacity of the
wholesalers who will be relocated to the new market shows that will be their
debts in monthly installments (Mex$ 6,700), about equal to or lower than their
current monthly rental payments. 3/ Final designs will be submitted to the
Bank for its approval, and tariffs and charges sufficient to recover the
investment and operating costs of all municipal facilities will need to be
adopted prior to the implementation of these works.
4.10      Productive credits will be completely recovered through payments
by beneficiaries. Onlending conditions for artisans 4/ will be 15% p.a.
with maturities of up to 3 years for working capital and up to 5 years for
fixed assets, and no grace period. The terms of working capital credits for
small-scale enterprises will conform with interest rates prevailing in the
project areas 5/. For fixed asset credits, the interest rate will be the same
as charged by FOGAIN 6/. Amortization periods for working capital will be up
to three years, and for fixed assets up to five years. Grace periods of up to
six months will be permitted on fixed asset credits to formal enterprises.
Guarantee requirements will consist of personal signatures with one or two
co-signatories and two acceptable credit references. For fixed asset credits,
a lien on the assets financed by the sub-loan will also be required. It
has been assumed that the spread to BANOBRAS will be 6%, which should allow
it to absorb bad debts, to cover higher administrative costs resulting from
the small size of the credits, to direct sufficient resources to the
1/   These fees are generally sufficient to recover investments and operating
costs of these facilities. They were (in 1979) Mex$5 and Mex$50 for
each slaughtered chicken and pig, respectively.
2/   Present tariffs are about Mex$ 5 (US$0.22) per household per month, and
will need to be doubled to recover investments and operational costs.
3/   The majority (80%) of the wholesalers located in downtown Villahermosa
pay rental for their storage facilities.
4/   See para. 30 in the DPF report.
5/   Currently, the terms for working capital credits include an interest
rate of 16.5% p.a. and a flat commission fee of 1.5%.
6/   Its lending rate in high-priority regions such as the project cities is
presently 14%.



- 34 -
promotion and preparation of subloans, and to provide technical and managerial
assistance to final beneficiaries. 1/
4.11      The cost of the industrial estates will be fully recovered through
the sale of lots or through rents at a level that will enable the Fideicomisos
to achieve a positive financial return on the capital invested. This condition
was confirmed during negotiations and will be incorporated in the subsidiary
loan agreements between BANOBRAS and the respective Fideicomisos.
4.12      The costs of the planned promotion schemes for productive credits
will be absorbed by BANOBRAS through margins from the credit program. The
proposed training center, studies and complementary support activities are
important for the promotion of an effective development program for the region.
Their costs will be covered by the Federal Government through direct grants.
B. Affordability
4.13      Those components which address the needs of low-income groups were
defined on the basis of the priorities of these groups taking account of
their capacity to pay. As a result, households in every income group in the
project areas will have access to reasonably priced shelter solutions. The
sites and services program and the upgrading schemes, including the provision
of construction material credits and of home improvement loans, have been
specially designed to solve the housing problems of the poor. 2/ The artisan
credits, which account for 27% of the productive credits program, have been
specially designed to support low-income groups, who will also benefit from
the related training programs.
4.14      A detailed analysis was made to identify what type of shelter would
be affordable by each income group. Taking account of this and of the propor-
tion of households in each group, the possible combination of solutions was
then derived to estimate the cost of these programs. The actual proportion
of units to be offered in each sub-project will eventually be determined by
each Instituto according to the conditions in each city and neighborhood. 3/
To ensure that these programs reach an appropriate number of low-income
1/   Initial resources for technical assistance will be made available as
start-up expenditures.
2/   Other income groups will be assisted by the expansion of city-wide
infrastructure and more specifically, by the provision of 3,110 high-
standard serviced lots. Housing for these groups will not be financed
by the project.
3/   A distribution more favorable to the bottom income groups could be
obtained if the amount of the construction material credits is reduced,
and if less expensive land becomes available in some cases. Such
conditions will enable the provision of even cheaper combinations
than the ones shown in the tables.



- 35 -
people, an average of at least 50% of the shelter-related combinations offered
in each state will be reserved for households earning less than one-and-one-half
"minimum salaries". I/
4.15      About Mex$ 3,600.0 million (US$160.0 million), or about 34% of
project costs are for programs reaching the poor. 2/ The least expensive
sites and services solutions are minimum-serviced lots. These will cost
(including physical contingencies) about Mex$ 62,900 (US$2,790), and will
be accessible to about 76% of the population. 3/ A serviced lot plus a
construction material credit of Mex$ 25,000 (US$1,100), sufficient for
the construction of a modest shelter solution, will 2be accessible to about
60% of the population. 4/ The same lot plus a 30 m shelter unit will cost
about Mex$ 138,900 (US$6,170), and will be accessible to about 42% of the
population. 5/ Additional alternative combinations of sites and services
with material credits will be made available in accordance with the capa-
city to pay of the beneficiaries.
4.16      Many households are relatively new to the region and have
either not yet established a solid economic base, or are not sure about their
permanency in the region. Their shelter needs could be well served by some
form of rental housing. Therefore, the affordability structure presented here
could be significantly improved if one assumes that many low-income households
will not need to purchase shelter, but would be able and willing to rent
parts of the shelter-related combinations offered in the project. These
procedures would also help households finance larger shelter solutions than
those strictly affordable to them according to their regular income.
1/   Currently, this cut-off point (in the project region) is only about
13% above the Bank defined poverty level in Mexico. The corresponding
figures are Mex$ 7,650 (5,100 x 1.5) and Mex$ 6,755 (equivalent to
US$655 per capita per year).
2/   Defined as households with one-and-one-half "minimum salaries."
3/   Assuming some cross-subsidies (on the cost of the unit) among the dif-
ferent combinations offered, these serviced lots would be accessible
to 95% of the population. (See next para. and the affordability table
on page 36). Although the income distribution and unit costs in
Villahermosa were used as the basis for these computations, it is assumed
that similar relationships between incomes and costs of various alterna-
tive solutions (i.e., affordability) exist in the other cities and towns
of the region.
4/   Assuming some cross-subsidies as detailed in the affordability table
below, these combinations could reach 83% of the population.
5/   By comparison, the least expensive "low-income" units now available
for ownership in the formal market cost at least Mex$ 600,000 (about
(about US$27,000); they are accessible to less than 5% of the population.
Many households choose of course rented accommodations.



- 36 -
Income Distribution
Monthly Income (Households)                     Cumulative
In Minimum                             % of Total        % of
Salaries          in Mex$ (1978)       Population    Population
Up   to  0.5      Up  to  2,495            17.4          17.4
0.5   -  0.75   2,496 -  3,742             11.3          28.7
0.76  -  1.00   3,743 -  5,110             21.1          49.8
1.01  -  1.25   5,111 -  6,240              6.4          56.2
1.26  -  1.50   6,241 -  7,487              3.1          59.3
1.51  -  1.75   7,488 -  8,734             11.2          70.5
1.76  -  2.00   8,735 -  9,982              6.6          77.1
2.01  -  2.25   9,983 - 11,230              4.5          81.6
2.26  -  2.50  11,231 - 12,480              2.9          84.5
2.51 and up    12,481 and up               15.5         100.0
Source:  Based on a survey of about 550 households conducted by the state of
Tabasco in Villahermosa, October 1978; and data compiled by the Instituto
de Vivienda - Tabasco.
Affordability 1/
Monthly    % of Households
Cost         Payment    with Access to
Option                                (In Mex$)    (In Mex$)   Alternatives  2/
Lot 1                                    62,900           792              95
Lot 1 + Minimum Credit (Mex$25,000)   87,900            1,120              83
Lot 2                   2                98,300         1,236              53
Lot 1 + Credit for 25m  Unit             99,900         1,258             51
Lot 2 + Credit for 25m2 Unit            135,300         1,746             42
Lot 2 + Credit for 32m2 Unit            138,900         1,745             42
Lot 2 + Credit for 30m2 Unit            174,300         2,240             28
Lot 2 + Credit for 60m  Unit            226,300         2,920             17
Lot 3                                   162,500         2,096               -  3/
1/   To determine affordability, it is assumed that 25% of household
incomes will be available for shelter. Past experience (in the
Lazaro Cardenas project) has shown that actual incomes are usually
above reported incomes. Thus, this (25%) proportion probably over-
states the burden of the program on the average household.
2/   The percentage of households with access to the first two solutions
assumes cross-subsidies of Mex$ 21.5 million (9.3 for the first and 12.2
for the second group). About 19% and 23% of these two income groups,
respectively, will need to be subsidized.  T2 cover these deficits, the
higher income groups receiving type 3 (200 m ) serviced lots will need
to pay another Mex$ 98 each, in addition to the estimated Mex$ 2,096
monthly payment required to cover the costs of their own lots (i.e., an
increase of less than 5%).
3/   These lots are intended for higher income households and for small
businesses; therefore, no affordability percentage was computed.



- 37 -
4.17      A system of cross-subsidies could be incorporated into the project
to reach more of the lower income groups in the project areas (see footnote 2
of affordability table). This is an important procedure that would allow the
Institutos to offer shelter solutions to households that would otterwise not
have access to them. The system has been widely used in similar projects
implemented by the Institutos in the past, and has long been accepted by the
different income groups in these communities.  Cross-subsidies are particularly
important because the Institutos did not agree to lower the standards (and
costs) of the sites below fully serviced levels as proposed by the Bank. It
is anticipated that this issue will be discussed further with the Mexican
authorities in connection with future Bank-supported urban projects. The
proposed project will nevertheless involve considerable progress in the
provision of housing and related basic services for the poor as a result of
more efficient layouts (i.e., higher densities and corresponding lower unit
costs), and the introduction of a massive self-help housing program.
C. Replicability
4.18      Besides the efforts made to prepare sound and well justified indi-
vidual project components, the creation of an institutional framework for the
expansion of such programs in the region and elsewhere in the country is a major
objective of the project. To support this objective, funds recovered by the
Institutos and by BANOBRAS will be retained and used for the expansion
of such programs. The establishment of a special project unit at BANOBRAS,
supported by the resources made available through the project, will provide a
suitable basis for the replicability of these programs. Better cost recovery
will help reduce the stigma which poverty-oriented urban projects have,
encouraging the channeling of additional resources to such programs. Sub-
stantial expansion of these programs in the project areas would be possible
in future years if demand should increase and if the institutional capacity of
the implementing agencies is adjusted accordingly.
D. Institutos de Vivienda
4.19      The Institutos have been in operation for several years, but their
volume of operations has increased significantly only recently with the more
active participation of the respective states. The assets of the Instituto in
Veracruz (IDUVIV) almost doubled from Mex$125.6 million (US$5.6 million) in
1978, to Mex$241.3 million (US$10.7 million) in 1979. About 65% of this
increase was due to an increase in the mortgage portfolio, the net worth of
which increased slightly (between 1978 and 1979) from Mex$124.2 million to
Mex$126.7 million. A comparison of the mortgage portfolio to loans payable
shows a favorable leverage ratio of 1.4 to 1 for 1979. The assets of the
Instituto in Tabasco (IDVIT) increased from Mex$20.4 million (US$0.9 million)
in 1978, to Mex$65.8 million (US$2.9 million) in 1979. Approximately 44% of
this increase was linked with new projects in process, and another 27% was due



- 38 -
to land acquisition. Because the available information on the operations of
the Instituto in Reforma (Chiapas) was inadequate, no meaningful financial
indicators on past performance could be defined.
4.20      The Institutos' financial projections (available in the project
file) assume that they will be concerned primarily with the implementation of
the project's shelter component and related activities through 1985. This
will produce a rapid growth in their portfolios, from Mex$322.0 million in
1981 to Mex$5,546.0 million in 1985. Over the same period, interest revenues
should grow from Mex$63.0 million in 1981 to Mex$864.0 million in 1985. The
forecasts show that the 5% spread between the Institutos' lending and borrowing
rates should be sufficient to achieve a reasonable financial performance,
provided reasonable control is maintained over costs. Debt service coverage
for all the Institutos is expected to remain above 1.0 times and the debt/
capitalization ratio should improve from 91% in 1981 to around 81% in 1985.
To ensure achievement of these results, a number of specific covenants will be
included in the subsidiary loan agreements between BANOBRAS and the respective
Institutos (see para. 6.04(h) below, and Table V of the DPF report), and no
major new programs will be undertaken by the Institutos prior to project
completion without the agreement of BANOBRAS and the Bank.
4.21      The financing requirements of the Institutos during the 1980-1985
period are estimated at US$352.0 million equivalent. This amount includes
US$269.4 million for the proposed project, US$31.1 million for future projects,
and working capital and other investments of US$51.5 million. About 15% of
the requirements will be financed from net internally generated funds, repay-
ments and down payments, 76% from the project fund, and 9% from other sources.
The table below summarizes their financing plans.
INSTITUTOS DE VIVIENDA - FINANCING PLAN 1980-1985
(In Millions US$)
Sources of Funds                                       Cost          %
Funds Provided by Operations                        146.3          42
Less Debt Service                                    94.8          27
Net Internally Generated Funds                       51.5          15
Project Fund /1                                     269.4          76
Other /2                                             31.1           9
Total Sources of Funds                          352.0         100
Application of Funds
Proposed Project                                    269.4          76
Future Projects                                      31.1           9
Working Capital                                      51.5          15
Total Application of Funds                      352.0          100
/1   Including US$75.2 million from the proposed Bank loan.
/2   Financing for the construction of future projects beginning in 1985.



- 39 -
F. Water and Sewerage Authorities
4.22      W1ater supply and sewerage systems in most cities of the region
are operated by the respective municipalities or by local semi-autonomous
authorities called juntas. The systems have usually been built by SAHOP and
entrusted to the juntas for their operation and the recovery of the investment
costs. if the systems are built with the participation of federal funds 1/
a federal junta is established upon their completion, and the corresponding
share of the recovered funds needs to be returned to the federal government.
Enforcement of such obligations is difficult and the record of cost-recovery
is in most cases inadequate. Funds collected often only cover (sometimes
barely) maintenance and operating costs. The financial, administrative and
technical management of the systems is usually weak and accounting procedures
and auditing practices are generally inadequate. To improve this situation,
the new water authorities will be established on the much more rigorous
standards and conditions applied under the FIFAPA program (DPF report,
Table X). The financial projections related to the water and sewerage systems
financed under the project for each State are available in the project file.
The table below summarizes the consolidated financing plan for these works.
WATER AND SEWEPAGE SYSTEM,S FINANCING PLAN 1980-1985
(US$ Million)
Description                                       Total
Cost              x
Sources of Funds
Net Internal Generation                                    25.3              18
Project Fund:
- IBRD                                                     47.2              33
- Government                                               65.3             46
- Other /a                                                  4.9               3
Total Sources of Funds                                 142.7            100
Application of Funds
Project Cost                                              112.4              79
Capitalized Interest                                       15.6              11
Other Works and Replacements                                5.2               4
Working Capital and Cash Surplus                            9.5               6
Total Application of Funds                             142.7            100
/a   Loans for new projects to be executed in 1985 and thereafter.
1/   Usually in the form of a long-term loan.



- 40 -
4.23      Net internal generation of funds is expected to finance 18% of total
financial requirements; the project fund (IBRD and Government) will finance
another 79%, and other sources the remaining 3%.
V. SOCIAL AND ECONOMIC JUSTIFICATION 1/
A. Project Benefits
5.01      The project is designed to help maximize the development potential
of the Isthmic region which is one of the richest in the country in terms of
its resource endowment, but one of the poorest in terms of the present welfare
levels of its population. The project will help internalize economic benefits
in the region which now produces about two-thirds of the petroleum output of
the country, by facilitating the expansion of forward and backward linkages
between this industry and other sectors and subsectors. The project will
alleviate some of the serious imbalances that have recently occurred as a
consequence of contrasting levels of investment in petroleum related activi-
ties and in housing and urban infrastructure. The levels of infrastructure
and basic services in important secondary cities that serve as service centers
to rural hinterlands will be raised in order to decrease the welfare differ-
ences between rural and urban areas. Employment opportunities will be in-
creased by providing appropriate credits and training programs. Marketing
difficulties and bottlenecks in commerce activities will be reduced through
the construction of appropriate facilities. New institutional arrangements
will be established to strengthen the capabilities of local agencies to
program and implement integrated urban and regional investment plans. The
potential replicability of such programs will be enhanced by introducing more
efficient management and significantly better cost-recovery standards.
5.02      The project will directly benefit about 95,000 households (or over
half a million people) in the form of:
(a) secured property rights with improved housing conditions;
(b) access to better health, education and other community development
facilities;
(c) better employment opportunities with improved earning capacity; and
(d) increased availability of goods and services at more competitive
prices.
1/   Only a summary of project benefits is given here.  A wider description
is given in the discussion on project objectives contained in paras. 1.24
to 1.31 in Chapter I of this report.



- 41 -
B. Economic Analysis
5.03      An economic rate of return was calculated for components which
constitute 83Z of total project costs. This includes sites and services,
construction material credits, urban upgrading, home improvement loans
community centers, and city-wide infrastructure works. Productive
activities, municipal facilities, studies and support activities were
excluded because of the difficulty of quantifying their benefits.
5.04      All the cost and benefit streams used here are in constant 1979
prices, taxes and transfer payments excluded. The cost streams consist of:
(a) the market value of all land used for sites and services works; (b) all
on and off-site infrastructure (including such items as earthworks, water
and sewerage, drainage, electricity, and roads); (c) the complete cost of
all material and labor used in shelter construction; and (d) appropriate
operation and maintenance costs of all infrastructure and community facilities.
No residual values of land or houses were taken into account since these are
assumed to be offset by maintenance costs for houses during the life of the
project. Physical contingencies of 15% of the relevant costs (excluding
land) and a 7% surcharge for professional services were included.
5.05      It was assumed that the construction of the shelter units would s art
with2the simul aneous construction of units of different sizes (25 m , 30 m
40 m and 60 m ). Construction would continue over a period of 15 years,
including the expansion of originally smaller units. The final listribution
of the ilanned 18,860 units has been assumed to be:  50% of 30 m  units, 30%
of 40 m  and 20% of 260 m  units.  The imputed rental valuef range from US$1,080
per year for a 25 m  unit, to US$2,400 per year for a 60 m  unit.  These figures
are based on estimates made by the appraisal mission in the field, and they
were calculated for houses of similar sizes and with access to similar service
levels as those which are to be provided under this project. Use of these
figures tends to underestimate the real payments made for housing since field
observations in the region indicate that price increases in the housing market
have consistently been greater than overall inflation rates over the past five
years. This trend is not likely to change much even with the envisaged
increases in available housing units.
5.06      Incremental benefits from urban upgrading, home improvement loans
and city-wide infrastructure were phased, taking account of comparable prices
(in 1979) for similar houses. In the case of city-wide infrastructure, only
the water and sewerage works were considered because of the difficulty in
estimating the benefits of the other infrastructure (the excluded items repre-
sent less than 7% of this program). The benefits included in the analysis
do not measure consumer surplus, or the value of the service to the consumer
beyond what he is asked to pay. They also underestimate the total benefits to
be derived by excluding difficult to quantify health benefits, and the increase
in land values associated with increased accessibility of safe, treated water
and sewerage services. No benefits were imputed for the approximately 10,000
families who would make use of the water and washing facilities installed
under the urban upgrading component. These exclusions were made because of
the difficulty of making objective estimates of benefits.



- 42 -
5.07      Cost and benefit streams and details of assumptions made are
presented in Annex F. Additional information is available in the project file.
Assuming a project life of twenty-five years, the internal economic rate of
return (IERR) of the project is about 14%. The IERR associated with various
sub-components along with a summary of the sensitivity analysis is presented
below.
IERR(/)
1.  Base Case 1/                                           14.5
2.  Sites and Services (including shelter)                 13.5
3.  Urban Upgrading                                        21.0
4.  Home Improvement Loans                                 31.0
5.  City-Wide Infrastructure                               11.0
6.  Base Case with all costs increased 15%                 12.0
7.  Base Case with all benefits decreased 15%              11.0
8. Base Case with all costs up by 15% and
all benefits down by 15%                                9.0
9.  Base Case with:  All benefits slipping 1 year          12.0
All benefits slipping 2 years        10.5
All benefits slipping 3 years        9.5
5.08      Given the contingencies which were built into the cost of the various
project components (physical and price escalations), and the conservative
assumptions made in computing project benefits, the eventual IERR of this
project will probably not vary significantly from the estimated base case
and might actually be higher.
C. Employment Impact
5.09      There will be significant direct and indirect employment benefits.
During project implementation, the sites and services component along with
the other shelter-related programs will generate approximately 13,600 man-
years of employment, and the city-wide infrastructure works will create
another 6,000 man-years of employment. The credit program and related
activities is expected to generate approximately 4,800 new permanent jobs. 2/
As the economic effects of the first round of employment are felt, it is
expected the project will generate many more additional jobs. 3/
1/   Includes Sites and Services, Construction Material Credits, Urban
Upgrading, Home Improvement Loans, Community Centers and City-Wide
Infrastructure.
2/   The computations made to arrive at these estimates are available in
the project file.
3/   No assumptions have been made about additional jobs to be generated
after the initial five years, nor about jobs to be generated through
the industrial estates.



- 43 -
D.  Risks
5.10      It is reasonable to expect a higher risk associated with a multi-
sector and multi-city project than with a simpler project concerned only
with a single sector or a smaller number of intermediaries. The most
serious risk probably relates to the eventual implementation of the planned
institutional improvements; no major difficulties are anticipated in the
implementation of the planned works.
5.11      The issues which may adversely affect implementation are:  (a) The
complexity of the program and the relatively large number of cities and towns
included; (b) The requirement to establish new water supply and sewerage
authorities for the implementation of such works, and operate them according to
guidelines acceptable to the Bank. This process may become more difficult and
take longer than anticipated; (c) The requirement that proper engineering and
feasibility studies for these works be submitted for review by the Bank prior
to their implementation. Some of the anticipated works may therefore eventually
not be required. In such a case, the corresponding funds would be transferred
to other components, or could be cancelled from the loan amount; (d) The
operational changes required of the Institutos de Vivienda may take longer
than anticipated, and this could cause corresponding slippages in disbursements;
and (e) The fact that success of the productive activities component partly
depends on the degree of promotion given this program; failure to carry out
such promotion in a forceful manner could limit the pace of implementation.
Although no reductions in the program amounts would (in such a case) be
necessary 1/, slippages in disbursements could occur.
5.12      Although some program parts in Veracruz may have a slower start than
in Tabasco and Chiapas, 2/ it is expected that they will eventually match the
implementation pace of the other subregions. The urgency and relevance of
this project to all cities in the region are such, that the new (state)
government in Veracruz has already endorsed it.
5.13      Despite the higher risks inherent in such a project, these risks
are justifiable because of the new ground it will break in the traditional
pattern of urban projects in Mexico, because of the unusual opportunity the
project region represents in terms of its development potential, because of the
impact it will have on the Government's policy of decentralizing planning and
financial responsibilities to state and municipal authorities, and last, but
not least, because of the political urgency to improve the social conditions
in a region of such importance to the country.  The commitment of the federal,
state and municipal authorities to this program, and the high professional
level of Mexico's institutions and officials make these risks acceptable.
5.14      No difficulties are envisaged with respect to land purchases still
needed for the project, as these will all be purchased from private owners,
and not from ejidos.
1/   Because of the conservative demand estimates made.
2/   Because of the recent change of administration in Veracruz (December of
1980).



- 44 -
VI. RECOMMENDATIONS AND LOAN CONDITIONS
6.01       To ensure the success of the project, the following agreements were
reached during negotiations concerning a number of actions to be taken by the
Government, BANOBRAS, and by various agencies involved in projects' implemen-
tation.
6.02      The conditions of loan effectiveness will be:
(a) the execution of at least one project agreement between
BANOBRAS and a state (SAR 3.01; LA 6.01(a); and
(b) the execution of at least one subsidiary loan agreement
between BANOBRAS and an intermediary in the state referred
to in section (a) above (SAR 3.01; and LA 6.01(b)).
6.03      Assurances were obtained on the following:
(a) the establishment of a federal interministerial coordinating unit
for this project no later than June 30, 1981 (SAR 3.03 and 3.37;
GA 4.03);
(b) The water supply and sewerage authorities will be established and,
together with the Institutos, maintained in a manner satisfactory to
the Bank. The respective subsidiary loan agreements between BANOBRAS
and all intermediaries will be concluded no later than July 31,
1981. These agreements with the municipalities will be concluded
not later than December 31, 1981 (SAR 3.01, 3.06. 3.08, 3.19,
3.20, and 4.02; LA 3.01(b));
(c) the new water supply and sewerage authorities will operate according
to conditions applicable under the FIFAPA program, and all works
implemented by these authorities will be carried out through SAHOP
(SAR 3.06 and 3.23; GA 3.01);
(d) feasibility studies, satisfactory to the Bank, for 60% of the
works planned under the City-Wide Infrastructure component will be
completed no later than January 31, 1983; and for the remainder of
these works by January 31, 1983 (SAR 3.24; LA 3.03(a));
(e) feasibility studies and the corresponding final designs of the
industrial estates will be presented to the Bank no later than
December 31, 1982 and these works will not be carried out until
the Bank has approved these studies and designs (SAR 3.09;
LA 3.03(c) and 3.06);
(f) the terms of reference and contracts for each of the elements under
the Studies program will need prior Bank approval (SAR 3.11; LA 3.09);
(g) a detailed program of assistance (under the support activities
component) and a corresponding schedule of implementation will be
prepared by BANOBRAS, in a manner satisfactory to the Bank, no later
than July 31, 1981 (SAR 3.11; LA 3.07);



- 45 -
(h) BANOBRAS will maintain the project unit and provide it with
adequate staff to carry out BANOBRAS' obligations as borrower
(SAR 3.02 and 3.17; LA 3.02);
(i) satisfactory monitoring and evaluation procedures will be main-
tained at BANOBRAS for the project, and a completion report,
satisfactory to the Bank, will be prepared by BANOBRAS not later
than twelve months after project completion (SAR 3.37;
LA 3.05(b)(i) and (c));
(j) semi-annual supervision reports in a format satisfactory to
the Bank, will be prepared by BANOBRAS and submitted to the
Bank at corresponding intervals (SAR 3.39; LA 3.05(b)(iii));
(k) separate accounts will be kept for the project by BANOBRAS and by
each of the intermediaries, and yearly audited financial state-
ments for each of these agencies (completed by independent
auditors), satisfactory to the Bank, will be forwarded to the
Bank by BANOBRAS no later than six months after the end of each
fiscal year. In the case of municipalities, only verified
accounts will be provided (SAR 3.40; LA 4.01 and 4.02);
(1) the Government will provide to the respective intermediaries, in
a form satisfactory to the Bank, amounts corresponding to the
non-recoverable elements of the project (SAR 4.01; GA 2.02);
(m)  BANOBRAS will maintain a special unit in its Credit Department
for the implementation of the credits to small-scale enterprises
component, such unit to be organized and staffed at all times
in a manner satisfactory to the Bank (SAR 3.08; LA 3.10); and
(n) BANOBRAS will utilize its earnings from the credits to small-
scale enterprises component for further lending in this program
(SAR 4.18; LA 3.08(b)).
6.04      The following undertakings to be obtained from project interme-
diaries will be reflected in subsidiary loan agreements to be entered into
between BANOBRAS and the respective intermediaries (LA 3.01(b)):
(a) the special departments in the Institutos for the support of
the credits for artisans program will be established in all
Institutos and operate under conditions satisfactory to the Bank
(SAR 3.08);
(b) the implementation of the industrial estates will be in
accordance with the procedures established under the
FIDEIN program (SAR 3.09);
(c) the introduction by the Institutos of appropriate management
and accounting practices, and the maintaining of appropriate
qualified staff (SAR 3.19; and 3.20);



- 46 -
(d)  proper accounting procedures, acceptable to the Bank, will
be introduced by each intermediary within one year of the
respective subloan signature (SAR 3.40);
(e)  the application by the Institutos of agreed terms and
conditions to the beneficiaries of the shelter-related
programs (SAR 4.04);
(f)  tariffs and charges sufficient to recover the investment and
operating costs of all municipal facilities, with the exception
of 50% of the investment costs of retail markets, will need to
be adopted and final designs for all these works approved by
the Bank prior to the respective implementation of these
works (SAR 4.08 and 4.09);
(g)  at least 50% of shelter-related combinations will be reserved
(as an average) for households earning less than one-and-one-half
"minimum salary" (SAR 4.14);
(h)  the Institutos will charge appropriate interest rates, retain
earnings for the expansion of programs similar to those being
implemented under the project, and will not undertake major
new programs prior to project completion without the agreement
of BANOBRAS and the Bank (SAR 4.18 and 4.20);
(i)  the application of agreed terms and conditions to beneficiaries of
the productive credits (SAR 3.08 and 4.10);
(j)  the municipalities will keep separate accounts for the works
to be carried out under the municipal facilities and services
program, and these accounts will be kept and managed according
to procedures acceptable to the Bank (SAR 3.40);
(k)  the Fideicomisos will recover the cost of industrial estates
through the sale of lots or their rent at a level sufficient to
achieve a positive financial return on the invested capital
(SAR 4.11); and
(1)  the state of Tabasco, through CEPROTAB will provide appro-
priate staffing, and finance all the operations of the
proposed training center (SAR 3.10).
6.05       The conditions of disbursements will be:
(a)  the conclusion of subsidiary loan arrangements, satisfactory
to the Bank, between BANOBRAS and each of the intermediaries
for the project components to be carried out by the respective
agencies (SAR 3.01, 3.08 and 3.18; LA Sch 1 4(d));
(b)  the establishment and operation of new state water and sewerage
authorities, including state-wide authorities (SAPAs) in Tabasco
and in Chiapas, and a joint authority for Coatzacoalcos and
Minatitlan, under conditions satisfactory to the Bank (SAR 3.06
and 3.23; LA Sch 1 4(c); and



- 47 -
(c)  special departments will be established in each Instituto
for the support of the credits to artisans program and will
be operated in a manner satisfactory to the Bank (SAR 3.08;
LA Sch 1 4(c)).
6.06       The mission recommends that up to US$5.0 million be made available
in the project for retroactive financing of expenditures made after January 31,
1980 (SAR 3.35; LA Sch 1 4(a)).
6.07       Subject to the conditions mentioned in paras. 6.02 to 6.05, the
proposed project is suitable for a Bank loan of US$164.0 million equivalent
to the Government of Mexico for a term of 15 years, including a grace period
of three years.






-48-
Original conditions in areas of Bank-supported Lazaro Cgrdenas
Conurbation Development Project (Loan No. 1554-ME).






Bank-supported self-help housing under construction in Lazaro Cardenas (Loan No. 1554-ME).






-50-
Final conditions of self-help construction units in Lazaro
Cardenas project areas. (Loan No. 1554-ME)






:rSA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
THE PROJECT AREAS: The outskirts of Coatzacoalcos (upper left); a squatter settlement in
Villahermosa (lower left); approaching Minatitlan coming from Coatzacoalcos (upper right);
and illegal refuse dumping on the outskirts of Coatzacoalcos (lower right).






SHELTER CONDITIONS IN VILLAHERMOSA:  Typical squatter settlement on the outskirts of the city (upper
left); traditional self-help efforts (lower left); on-going upgrading programs (upper right); and
higher level self-help housing (lower right).



I



-   '  '  '  ; - 7ZU~~~~~~~~MO, tt''$, ,
UPGRADING AREAS: Typical street without water and sewerage services in Reforma (upper left);
tenement court ("cuarteria") in Villahermosa (lower left); existing water supply facilities in
a marginal settlement of Villahermosa (upper right); and washing facilities in the same settle-
ment (lower right).






W~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
ae ~~~~~ft .f   tIM/AiSt   a                           K
.  a  i * j . I ' . .  . 'A%a                               2>       a 4
HEALTH AND SANITATION: "Washing facilities" on the Grij,alva River in Villahermosa (upper left);
dental care in a community center (lower left); and waiting room in the same center (photo on right).






P,~~~~~~~~~~~
CREDITS TO SMALL-SCALE ENTERPRISES: "Typical Corner Store" in Villahermosa (upper left); traditional
"diners" (lower left); and a small construction firms (photo on the right) as an illustration of the
kind of enterprises that would receive such credits.






ANNEX A
-56-
PROJECT COMPONENTS AND COSTS -
Total Project
In Million In Million
Veracruz      Tabasco    Chiapas        Mex$         US$
Shelter-Related
- Sites and Services            1,719.3      1,344.7      330.32     3,394.3       150.9
- Construction Material
Credits                       641.1       719.1      151.1       1,510.2        67.2
- Urban Upgrading                  86.3        250.3       99.1        435.7        19.4
- Home Improvement Loans          458.2        120.6       47.1        625.8        27.8
- Community Centers                67.7         19.8        7.4         95.9         4.3
Sub-Total               2,972.5      2,454.5      635.0       6,062.0       269.4
City-Wide Infrastructure
- Water Supply                    424.0        646.0       33.0      1,103.0        49.0
- Sewerage                        820.0        565.0       43.0      1,428.0        63.5
- Other Infrastructure             78.0         36.0      33.0         147.5         6.5
Sub-Total               1,322.0      1,247.0      109.0       2,678.0       119.0
Municipal Facilities and Services
- Retail Markets                   71.4         35.6        0.0        107.0         4.8
- Wholesale Market                  0.0        183.0        0.0        183.0         8.1
- Slaughterhouses                 106.9        430.1        0.0        537.0        23.9
- Refuse Collection                61.0         37.0        0.0         98.0         4.4
Sub-Total                 239.4        685.6        0.0         925.0        41.1
Productive Activities
- Credits to Artisans  2/          48.6         47.1      25.7         121.5         5.4
- Credits to Small-scale 2/
Enterprises                   170.7       110.3       54.2         335.2        14.9
- Industrial Estates              128.2        128.2        0.0        256.3        11.4
- Training Center                   0.0         33.3       0.0          33.3         1.5
- Promotional Programs  2/    )   6.3            6.3        4.0         16.6         0.7
Sub-Total                 353.8        325.2       84.0         763.0        33.9
Studies and Complementary
Support Activities 2/
- Studies                          50.0         20.0      10.0          80.0         3.6
- Support Activities               10.0         10.0        2.5         22.5         1.0
Sub-Total                  60.0         30.0       12.5         102.5         4.6
TOTAL                   4,948.0      4,742.0      840.0     1OL530.0        468.0
1/  Includes engineering studies, physical contingencies and price escalation except
where otherwise noted. Sub-totals may not add up due to rounding off.
2/ No price escalation considered.



-57-                     ANNEX B
Page 1
Table I
PROJECT FINANCING
(In Million US$)
Total                           Government             Bene-
Cost        IBRD      %         of Mexico      %    ficiaries!/ %
Shelter-Related Program
- Sites and Services               150.9       42.3    28          93.6          62      15.1       10
- Construction Material
Credits                         67.2       17.5    26         43.0           64       6.7       10
- Urban Upgrading                   19.4        6.8    35          11.0          57       1.6 2/    8
- Home Improvement Loans            27.8        7.2    26          17.8          64       2.8       10
- Community Centers                  4.3        1.4    32           2.9          68       ---       --
Sub-Total                    269.4        75.2    28        168.0           62     26.2        10
City-Wide Infrastructure
- Water Supply                      49.0       20.6    42          28.4          58       ---
- Sewerage                          63.5       26.7    42          36.8          58       ---       --
- Other Infrastructure               6.5        2.7    42           3.8          58       ---       --
Sub-Total                    119.0       50.0    42          69.0           58       ---      --
Municipal Facilities and
Services
- Retail Markets                     4.8        1.9    40           2.9          60       ---       --
- Whelesale Market                   8.1        3.2    40           4.9          60       ---
- Slaughterhouses                   23.7        9.5    40          14.2          60       ---       --
- Refuse Collection                  4.4        1.8    40           2.6          60       ---       --
Sub-Total                     41.1       16.4    40          24.7           60       ---      --
Productive Activities
- Credits to Artisans                5.4        3.0    55           1.9          35       0.5       10
- Credits to Small Scale
Enterprises                     14.9        8.2    55           5.2          35       1.5       10
- Industrial Estates                11.4        4.6    40           5.7          50       1.1       10
- Training Centers                   1.5        0.5    35           1.0          65       ---       --
- Promotional Programs               0.7        0.7   100           --            =-
Sub-Total                     33.9       17.0    50          13.8           41       3.1        9
Studies and Complementary
Support Activities
- Studies                            3.6        3.6   100           --           --       ---       --
- Support Activities                 1.0        1.0   100           --           __       _ 
Sub-Total                      4.6        4.6   100           --            --      ---        =
TOTAL                            468.0      164.0    35        275.0           59      29.0        6
1/  The indicated amounts correspond to downpayments, guarantee deposits which are made
upon inscription into the various programs (in the case of Construction Material
Credits, Home Improvement Loans, and Industrial Estates), or self-participation shares
(in the case of the Productive Credits).
2/ Does not include costs for public hydrants.
Note: Sub-totals may not add up due to rounding off.



TABLE 1j - SHELTER-RELATED COMPONENT
Consolidated Component - Cash Flow
(In million Mex$)
1980 l/       1981        1982         1983         1984           1985         1986          1987
INFLOW
Project Fund                                   28  -         510         836           2,057        2,108         523            -            -
Down Payments                                   2             48          78             201          199         120           151          166
Future Loans                                    -             -           -              -            -           701        1,526         1,650
Beneficiary Repayments: 2/
Principal                                    _             10          34             86           130         185          251           321
Interest                                    -              63         198            520           750         957        1,194        1,424
TOTAL INFLOW                                   30            631       1,146          2,864         3,187       2,486        3,122         3,561
OUTFLOW:
Sites and Services  3/                         21            327         490           1,235        1,106         637           921          995
Construction Material Credits  3/               4            103         163             441          492         491           396          429
Urban Upgrading  3/                             3             67         110              67          188           27           58           63
Home Improvement Loans  3/                      -             -           44             294          289           59          130          141
Community Centers  3/                           -             12          28              20           34            9           20           22
Instituto-Administration  4/                    0              5          21              45           69          99           109          125
Project Fund - Principal  5/                    -             -           -              112          221          300          340          375
- Interest                        -             38         111            277           473         556           543          509
Future Loans - Principal 6/                     -             -           -             -             -             -            -           104
- Interest                        -             -           -            -              -            48           174          336
Building and Equipment                         2               1          -             -             -             -            -            -
TOTAL OUTFLOW                                 30             553         967           2,491        2,872       2,226         2,691        3,099
Net Surplus/Deficit                            0              78         179             373          315         260           431          462            x
Accumulated                                     -             78         257            630           945       1,205        1,636         2,098            w
NOTES:
1/  Includes retroactive financing and represents last quarter of FY/CY1980.
2/ Based on 15 year loans at 15%, includes effect of 2 months average collection period and 2% write-off of receivables.
3/ Includes future projects beginning 1985 based on 1980-1985 activity spread over 5 years.
4/ Based on 3% of work in progress-1980; 1981 and 1982-3% of average loans receivable; 1983-2-1/2 of average loans receivable;
1984 and 1985-2% of average loans receivable; 1986-1.75% of average loans receivable; 1987-1.65% of average loans receivable.
5/  15 years at 10% including 2 year grace period, repayment based on 67% of disbursement each year because most funds should
be disbursed by mid-year.
6/  15 years at 10% including 2 year grace period.  Loan is anticipated from Federal Government or State Government.



Table III
CITY-WIDE INFRASTRUCTURE COMPONENT 1/
CONSOLIDATED COMPONENT - CASH FLOW
(In million Mex$)
1980 2-        1981        1982          1983          1984           1985          1986          1987
INFLOW
Project Fund                                     14             387          529           639           669            293           -             -
Future Loans                                     -              -            -             -             -              111           241           262
Connection Charges 3/
Water                                          3              46           82            73            92             94            68            76
Sewer                                          2              11           27            25            38             37            27            30
Permit Charges  4/                               -                 7          10             9            12             18            17            18
Tariff Collections  5/                           85             144          195           387           521            698           807           929
TOTAL INFLOW                                    104             595          843         1,133         1,332          1,251         1,160         1,315
OUTFLOW:
Water Supply System  6/                           6             183          249           252           273            186            99           108
Sewerage System                                   8             204          280           387           396            218           142           154
Water and Sewerage Authority -
Administration and Maintenance                 70             113          208           258           329            404           470           552
Building and Equipment                             2               5         -             -             -              -             -             -
Inventory                                         4                4           7             9            12              12             9             9
Project Fund 7/-Principal                         -             -            -              63           101            135           153           166
-Interest                                      -            -              37            96            139           127           146
Existing Loans 8/-Principal                       3                3           3             3             4               5             5             5
-Interest                      4               4            4             4             4              3             2             2
Future Loans  9/Principal                                                    -             -             -              -             -               16
-Interest                       -              -            -             -             -              -             -                6
TOTAL OUTFLOW                                    97             516          751         1,013         1,215          1,102         1,007         1,164
NET SURPLUS/(DEFICIT)                              7              79          92           120           117            149           153           151
Accumulated                                      -                86         178           298           415             564           717          868
NOTES:
1/  Excludes other infrastructure.
2/  Includes retroactive financing.
3/  Mex.$3,500 per water connection and Mex.$] 400 per sewer connection based on population growth.
4/  Mex.$2,000 per lot.
5/  This assumes that the present tariffs will be increased according
to the schedules indicated in the financial analysis of the water
authorities.
6/  Future projects based on Annex A, Table VII.
7/  15 years at 9% including 2 year grace period.  Repayment based oni 67% of disbursement because most
funds should be disbursed by mid-year.
8/  13 years at 9%.
9/  15 years at 9% including 2 year grace period.  Loan anticipated from Federal Government or
State Government.



Table IV
PRODUCTIVE ACTIVITIES COMPONENT 1/
Cash Flow
(In million Mex$)
1980        1981          1982           1983             1984            1985           1986           1987
INFLOW:
Project Fund                                -            7,309         9,135         11,419           11,419          6,393          -
Down Payments                               -              731         1,010           1,337           1,558          1,291           683            580
Beneficiary Repayments 2/
Principal                               -              -             963           2,338            4,581          7,615        9,202          9,915
Interest                                -              -           1,132           2,680            4,649          6,497        7,601          5,734
TOTAL INFLOW                                -            8,040       12,240           17,774          22,207         21,796       17,486         16,229
OUTFLOW:
Credits to Artisans                         -            1,944         2,467           3,126           3,197          1,940           397            456     0
Credits to Small-Scale Enterprises          -            5,365         7,631         10,631           12,481         10,978        6,432           5,346
Administration   3/                         -              100           200             200             200             200          100            100
Project Fund Repayment 4/
Principal                               -              -            _                 983           1,615          2,210        2,432           2,676
Interest                                -              489         1,343           2,410            3,453          4,097        3,876          3,632
TOTAL OUTFLOW                               -            7,898       11,641           17,350          20,946         19,425       13,237          12,210
NET SURPLUS (DEFICIT)                       -              142           599             424           1,261          2,371        4,249           4,019
ACCUMULATED                                 -              -             741           1,165           2,426          4,797        9,046          13,065
NOTES:                                                                                                                                                       :
1/  Excludes promotional programs.
2/  Repayments based on four year term at 18%  per annum for small-scale enterprises, and 15-year term at 15%  for artisans.
18% interest rate roll-over funds reinvested each year.
3/ Small-scale enterprises, 1-1/2% for administration included in 18% interest rate. Artisans, 1-1/2% for administration
is  included in 15% interest rate.
4/  Repayment based on 67% of disbursements each year.  Terms used 15-year loan including 2-year grace period at 10% per annum.



Table X
PROJECT CONSOLIDATED CASH FLOW
(In million Mex$)
1980         1981          1982           1983             1984            1985            1986           1987
INFLOW:
Project Fund                                42           970            1,456          2,810           2,891            880            -               -
Down Payments                                2             55              88            214              215           133             158            172
Future Loans                                -            -                -              -               -              812          1,767           1,912
Connection Charges:
Water and Sewer                            5            57              109             98             130            131             95             106
Permit Charges                              -               7              10              9               12            18              17             18
Beneficiary Repayments:
Principal                                 -             10               44            109             176            261            343             420
Interest                                  -             63             209             547             796         1,022           1,270          1,481
Tariff Collections                          85           144              195            387              521           698            807             929
TOTAL INFLOW                               134         1,306            2,111          4,174           4,741          3,955          4,457           5,038
OUTFLOW:
Shelter-Related                             30           515              856          2,102            2,178         1,322          1,643           1,775
City-Wide Infrastructure                    90           509              744            906           1,010            820             720            823
Productive Activities                       -              74             103            139              158           131              69             59
Project Fund - Principal                    -              -              -              185              338           457             517            568
- Interest                    -             43              124            338             604            736            709             691
Existing and Future Loans
- Principal                    3             3                3              3                4             5               5             21
- Interest                     4             4                4              4                4             3               2              8
TOTAL OUTFLOW                              127         1,148            1,834          3,677           4,296          3,474          3,656           3,945
NET SURPLUS/(DEFICIT)                        7           158              277            497             445            481            801          1,093
ACCUMULATED                                 -            165             442             939           1,384         1,865           2,666          3,759
oi '
NOTE:                                                                                                                                                         M
1!  Figures based on cash flows for(including their respective notes). ;-w
(a)  Shelter-Related Component,
(b) City-Wide Infrastructure Component, and
(c) Productive Activities Component.



TABLE 1: IMPLEMENTATION, OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE RESPONSIBILITIES
VERACRUZ                                                  TABASCO                                                           CHIAPAS
Operailon and                                            Operation and                                                         Operation and
Implementation             Maintenance                   Implementation              Maintenance                          Ilemntati                       Maintenance
A.  Shelter-Related Programsmpme                                                                                                                                                 on
- Sites and Services                    IDUVIV 1/          Beneficiaries, IDUVIV.                  IDVIT 2/           Beneficiaries, IDVIT,                          TDVICH 3/             Beneficiaries, IDVICH or
Water Authority or                                        Water Authority or Muni-                                             Water Authority
Municipalities                                            cipalities
- Construction Material Credits   IDUVIV and Bene-   Beneficiaries                           IDVIT and Bene-          Beneficiaries                            IDVICH and Bene-            Beneficiaries
ciaries                                                ficiaries                                                         ficiaries
- Urban Upgrading                       -same-             Municipalities and                   -same-                Municipalities and                           -same-                  Municipalities and Bene-
Beneficiaries                                             Beneficiaries                                                         ficiaries
- Hone Improvement Loans                -same-             Beneficiaries                         -same-               Beneficiaries                                -same-                  Beneficiaries
- Community Centers                     IDDVIV             IDUVIV and Bene-                      IDVIT                IDVIT and Bene-                              IDVICH                  IDVICH and Beneficiaries  7/
ciaries  7/                                               ficiaries  7/
B.  City-Wide Infrastructure                                                                              lO/
- Water Supply                        Water Authority    Water Authority                     SAPAET -                 SAPAET                                   SAPAECH -/                   SAPAECH
- Sewerage and Storm Drainage           -same-               -same-                             -same-                   -same-                                    -same-                       -same-
- Other Infrastructure                Municipalities/    Municipalities                      Municipalities/SAHOP  Municipalities                              IDVICH & Others 9/           IDVICH & Others  9/
SAHOP
C. Municipal Paciiities and Services Municipalities            Municipalities                    Municipalities           Municipalities                                 --                            -_
D. Productive Credits and Training
- Credits to Artisans                   IDUVIV                  --                               IDVIT                    --                                       IDVICH                         --
- Credits to Small-Scale
Enterprises                         BANOBRAS                  --                           BANOBRAS                     --                                   BANOBRAS                           --
- Industrial Estates                  FIDEICOMISOS 4/    FIDEICOMISOS  4/                    FOMITA  5/               FOMITA  5/                                     - 
- Training Center                         --                    --                           CEPROTAB  8/             CEPROTAB  8/                                   --                           --
- Promotional Programs                Various  6/               --                           Various  6/                   --                                  Various  6/ -1
E.  Studies and Complementary             BANOBRAS                  --                            BANOBRAS                                                          BANOBRAS                           --
Support Activities
1/  Instituto de Desarrollo Urbano y de la Vivienda, INDECO-Veracruz.
2/ Instituto de Vivienda, INDECO-Tabasco.
3! Instituto de Vivienda, INDECO-Chiapas.
4/ To be established in each state.
/  "Pondo Mixto para el Desarrollo Industrial de Tabasco".
6/  Mainly the Institutos  de Vivienda and BANOBRAS (through ARMO and CENAPRO).
7/ Health and other public services would be managed by the respective state or federal agencies.
8/ Centro de Productividad de Tabasco.
9/ The Electric and Telephone companies for their respective elements.
1Dl Serviclos de Agua Potable y Alcantarillado del Estado de Tabasco.
11/ Servicios de Agua Potable y Alcantarillado del Estado de Chiapas.



-63-
ANNEX C
Page 2
MEXICO
SECOND URBAN AND REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TABLE II: IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE FOR VERACRUZ
1980            1981            1982             1983            1984             1985
1  2  3  4   1    2   3   4    1    2    3   4    1   2   3  4       1   2     3    4   234
SHELTER RELATED
Sites and Services                                   (1)         (1   _ _         (15i            (35)              30          (5)
Project Preparation
Tendering
Construction
Construction Material Credits                          _10                        (13)            (30) _(30)                   (16)
Urban Upgrading                                      () _120)                                     (20)             50)
Project Preparation
Tendering
Construction                                                         _   _       ()       _      (50) _(40_
Home Improvement Loans
Community Centers                                                 10)            (15       _      (30)             145 _
Project Preparation
Tendering
Construction
CITY-WIDE INFRASTRUCTURE
Water Supply and Sewerage                             (           1
Project Preparation
Tendering
Construction                                             _               _       (75)
Other Infrastructure
MUNICIPAL FACILITIES AND SERVICES                                  45)             (55  
Retail Markets
Slaughterhouses                                              _  (80_            (20)
Refuse Collection
PRODUCTIVE ACTIVITIES                                              1)                              12               25          ()
Promotion and Credits
Industrial Estates
STUDIES AND COMPLEMENTARY
SUPPORT ACTIVITIES
(105)          1120)            _(30)1 _1_J (30)1             (51
Studies and Promotion
(20i Numbers in brackets indicate approximate proportion of wvork to be carried out every year                            World Bank-21540



-64-
ANNEX C
ra-ge-r
MEXICO
SECOND URBAN AND REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TABLE III: IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE FOR TABASCO
1       198                       1982              1983             1984             1985
1 T23 4 1                    4  1 2 3  1234  123 41234
SHELTER RELATED
Sites and Services                                         )29                         30                12(5                          13
Project Preparation
Tendering
Construction
(1)         (22)             (4(5                                1)          (1
Construction Material Credits 
Urban Upgrading                                         11)          (39)             i40)              (10)             (10)
Project Preparation                _ 1
Tendering
Construction                                                        (15)w40                            (2)(5
Home Improvement Loans
Community Centers                                          )          19(4                               I0              30
Project Preparation
Tendering
Construction i
CITY-WIDE INFRASTRUCTURE
Water Supply and Sewerage                               (1)    | (29         |        (30)   |2)                         (15)         (13)
Project Preparation 
Tendering
Construction                                           I                              7    W. .
Other Infrastructure
MUNICIPAL FACILITIES AND SERVICES
Retail Markets
Wholesale Market
Slaughterhouses
Refuse Collection                                                       am
PRODUCTIVE ACTIVITIES                                                                                      5               2           (15)
Promotion and Credits                                           -   m   - l               -
Industrial Estates                                          -   -        -                                        T -       r -   -
Training Center
STUDIES AND COMPLEMENTARY
SUPPORT ACTIVITIES
1)    (25)             (20)             (2)          I    (15)         (19)
Studies and Promotion                                          i-l_----  -
(20) Numbers in brackets indicate approximate proportion of work to be carried oul every year.                                  World Bank - 21597



-65-
ANE  C
MEXICO                                                           PTa8 4
SECOND URBAN AND REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TABLE IV: IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE FOR REFORMA (CHIAPAS)
1980            1981             1982             1983             1984             1985
123 41 234  12 314  1 2 3 4  1 2 3 4 1 2 3  4
SHELTER RELATED
Sites and Services
Sitesand Services                       ~~~~~~~~                 ~~~(11  (14)  (15)    (40)             (15)         (51
Project Preparation
Tendering
Construction                                                   __
(1)    _    _(13)     _      __(14)            ___(                   0 ____(25)   _     17)  
Construction Material Credits
Urban Upgrading                                        (1) _   _(54) _             _
Project Preparation
Tendering
Construction                                                            _(10)   I                   (201             (70)
Home Improvement Loans
Community Centers                                                   ()(5
Project Preparation
Tenidering
Construction
CITY-WIDE INFRASTRUCTURE
Water Supply and Sewerage                                          114i _            20)             (40i             (20j         (5)
Project Preparation
Tendering
Construction                                          (1)         (241_            (75)_
Other Infrastructurea
PRODUCTIVE ACTIVITIES                               _   _   _   _   _   _   _   _   _   _                                             5
Promotion and Credits
STUDIES AND COMPLEMENTARY
SUPPORT ACTIVITIES
Studies and Promotion
120) Numbers in brackets indicate approximate proportion of work to be carried out every year.                               World Bank - 21598



-66-                       ANNEX D
ESTIMATED QUARTERLY DISBURSEMENTS SCHEDULE
(In million US$)
Disbursements                  Cumulative
IBRD Fiscal Year and Quarter                 During the             Disbursements at the
(Ending Date)                            Quarter                  End of Quarter
September 30, 1981                              1.0                      1.0
December  31, 1981                              1.0                      2.0
March      31, 1982                              2.0                     4.0
June       30, 1982                             3.0                      7.0
September 30, 1982                              4.0                     11.0
December  31, 1982                              4.0                     15.0
March      31, 1983                             4.0                     19.0
June       30, 1983                             4.0                     23.0
September 30, 1983                              8.0                     31.0
December  31, 1983                              8.0                     39.0
March      31, 1984                            10.0                     49.0
June       30, 1984                            10.0                     59.0
September 30, 1984                             10.0                     69.0
December  31, 1984                             10.0                     79.0
March      31, 1985                            12.0                     91.0
June       30, 1985                            12.0                    103.0
September 30, 1985                             12.0                    115.0
December  31, 1985                             12.0                    127.0
March      31, 1986                            10.0                    137.0
June       30, 1986                             9.0                    146.0
September 30, 1986                              9.0                    155.0
December  31, 1986                              9.0                    164.0
TOTAL                                         164.0



-67-                               ANNEX E
COST RECOVERY ESTIMATES
Total Cost  1/                   Percent
(in million US$)      Recovered      Recovered
Shelter-Related Programs
Sites and Services                     150.9                150.9          100  2/
Construction Material Credits            67.2                67.2          100  2/
Urban Upgrading                          19.4                14.6           75  3/
Home Improvement Loans                   27.8                27.8          100  2/
Community Centers                         4.3                 2.6           60
269.4               263.1           97.7
City-Wide Infrastructure
Water Supply                             49.0                49.0          100  4/
Sewerage                                 63.5                63.5          100  4/
Other Infrastructure                      6.5                 3.3           50
119.0               115.8           97.3
Municipal Facilities and Services
Retail Markets                            4.8                 2.4           50
Wholesale Markets                         8.1                 8.1          100
Slaughterhouses                         23.9                 23.9          100
Refuse Collection                         4.4                 4.4          100  5/
41.1                38.8           94.4
Productive Activities
Credit to Artisans                        5.4                 5.4          100  6/
Credit to Small-Scale Enterprises       14.9                 14.9          1OO  6/
Industrial Estates                      11.4                 11.4          100  7/
Training Center                           1.5                 0.0            0
Promotional Programs                      0.7                 0.7          100  8/
33.9                32.4           95.6
Studies and Complementary Support
Activities
Studies                                   3.6                 0.0            0
Support Activities                       1.0                  0.0            0
4.6                 0.0            0
TOTAL                                       468.0               450.1           96.2
1/  Including all contingencies and price escalations.
2/ Although some default and related lossesare possible (estimated at 10%),
the spread given the Institutos should be sufficient to absorb such losses.
3/ Given past experience in this type of program, it is estimated that not
more than 75% of these costs will be realistically recovered directly
from beneficiaries. The rest will need to be absorbed by the respective
muncipalities and states.
4/  This assumes that the present tariffs will be increased according
to the schedules indicated in the financial analysis of the water
authorities.
5/  This assumes doubling of present charges (from about US$1.5 to about
US$3.0 per month per household).
6/  Although some bad debts have also been considered here, the margin allowed
the Institutos as well as BANOBRAS should be sufficient to compensate for such
losses.
7/  This assumes that the final design and construction standards will be defined
as a function of a thorough review of market conditions and the establishment of
appropriate pricing policies.
8/  Would be absorbed through the interest rate margin.



-68-             ARNEX F
N'-   0 00 ONNNNNNN  N N N N N
N 0 NT  N ONTO N N N N 'N N N
NT          ON 000N
NT        000  0000
0                                                 0
0     0                                N
I   I  I  T   T       0  N
N N - 00 00 00 00 000 0
F.                    NON.II
Nj
0N                                                          C
N                 N N 00000  N 00000  CNN
ON  N.               0000000000000 CT'
0 N OONNCNONNT   N' N   'N.
HE                 ONNO  TTTTTT                                    ON
2         C" NO ".N...NN.."N... 00 NO        NN"N
F.    N""                                     'N N N     NO  N N
ON                                        0001.0
TN ''N
TN -                                         "NCNNN
NoN'.    N NN  NO
-      ON 00 N N 00 N 00000              N.N .10   N 'TN   ON
FNTTC'N  '.T -ONNT.N
TN                                             N    0    N  N
ON ON                              NNNNC   NN'"NN'.0
N 00 ON                             N NON    .    F N N TN
00                                        NTNNON  -N
NNTNNN   N EONNT'N
NNFNNNNFFN
NNNN  NN  NNNNN
ONN'-   NN  NNNNN0
'N ON  'ON  NO N'" NN
NT '""NO"  '"NNF'N0
N N 0 TN N - N ' - N N N
0                                              "'   0
NT    N.ON.NON'N-'N NN N N...
- N - - -    NN ONONOON NNFNN
0NNONNNN.NN.  NE  N
[NNN".NN ONN..NNNN
0 TNZN'NNNNTNNNNN ON
N N.N N N NNNTN'N N N
NON  N-ON ONON-NO NO
ONONE NONNON N. OF
'IT NOON   N FONON-
0-                            ONwONONNO ..  N
EN EN N NO NO
TTTTT    T   T   -   NN'N  N. ENNON
N N N                              0 0
N 0000000  ONN.NN.TTN             NONO NNNNTTNNNNNN
00000000  0 0 0 0 o o o    NNC0NNT N0000NNNNN
00000000000 0000
N--N-N-N--N   NNNN                NT.OF, OINNObN'.'.N.1TINEN[



- 69 -
ANNEX G
Page 1
SELECTED DOCUMENTS AND DATA AVAILABLE IN THE PROJECT FILE
A.   Selected Reports and Studies on the Sector
A 1.  Law of Human Settlements, SAHOP, 1976.
A 2.  National Urban Development Plan (6 Volumes), SAHOP, May 1978.
A 3.  Programming and Budgeting in the Human Settlements Sector -
Manual, SAHOP, July 1978.
A 4.  Social Housing - Financial Program, Banco de Mexico, February 1980.
A 5.  Financing Systems for Human Settlements, UN - Habitat Conference
in Mexico City, December 1978.
A 6.  "El Desarrollo Urbano de Mexico - Diagnostico e Implicaciones Futuras,"
Luis Unikel, El Colegio de Mexico, 1978.
A 7.  Program of Finished Housing - Summary Description, INDECO, 1978.
A 8.  Investment Program for Progressive Housing 1978-1982, INDECO, 1978.
A 9.  Housing Upgrading, INDECO, March 1978.
B.   Selected Documents Related to the Project
B 1.  Terms of Reference of Preparatory Studies for Urban Development
Project, SAHOP, November 1978.
B 2.  Project Proposal ("Programa de Accion Concertada para el Desarrollo
Urbano Zona Costera del Golfo e Istmo de Tehuantepec"), 2 Volumes,
SAHOP, October 1978.
B 3.  -- idem, SAHOP, May 1979.
B 4.  -  idem. SAHOP, August 1979.
B 5.  -- idem, SAHOP, May 1980.
B 6.  Socio-Economic Data for the States of Tabasco and Veracruz, Comision
Nacional de Salarios Minimos, 1978.
B 7.  Regional Planning of Human Settlements in the Coatzacoalcos -
Villahermosa - Salina Cruz Region (3 Volumes), SAHOP/ICATEC,
March 1978.
B 8.  Projection of Demand for Housing and Services 1978-1982
(for each of the project cities), INDECO, 1979-1980.



- 70 -
ANNEX G
Page 2
B 9.   Tabasco-Development Plan (10 Volumes), State of Tabasco, 1979.
B 10.  Tabasco - Housing Plan 1978 - 1982, SAHOP, October 1978.
B 11.  Preliminary Development Plan for the Pajaritos - Cangrejera -
Allende Area (Coatzacoalcos), PEMEX, October 1976.
B 12.  Socio-Economic Survey of Villahermosa, Dr. F. Jhabvala, 1978.
B 13.  Survey of Household Incomes and Expenditures in the States of
Veracruz, University of Veracruz, 1975.
B 14.  Statistical Background on the Industrial and Commerce Sectors,
State of Veracruz, 1977.
B 15.  The Housing Problem, INDECO - Veracruz, 1977.
B 16.  Housing Demand in Villahermosa, Urbamex (Consultants), October 1979.
B 17.  Quantitative Analysis of Upgrading Needs in Villahermosa (mimeo),
State of Tabasco, 1979.
B 18.  Industrial Activities in Tabasco, State of Tabasco, 1980.
B 19.  Analvsis of the Commerce Sector, State of Tabasco, September 1979.
B 20.  Inventory of Market Facilities in the State of Tabasco," Multiestudios
Especializados" (Consultants), 1979.
B 21.  Waste Disposal in Villahermosa (mimeo), State of Tabasco, 1979.
C.   Selected Working Documents
C 1.   Detailed Project Features (DPF).
C 2.   Financial Analysis of Institutos de Vivienda.
C 3.   Financial Analysis of Water Authorities.
C 4.   Audited Financial Statements of BANOBRAS for 1976, 1977 and 1978.
C 5.   Implementation Schedule of Support Activities and Project Key
Indicators.
C 6.   Detailed Background Information and Consultants' Reports on each
Program Included in the Project.






bp , "L",
UN[TED          STATES          OF        AMER!CA
MEX C:O
URBAN PROJECT 11
C i 4. d
304
I   LI  U   A   Ii  U
5    0    iv   0)  I
+
stw op,wls
LI    z
sdfd
P."
m
0
C'N.-       0  U  r  A   IV
Z4,       c , I ;
ci.d.,6
5,1
5-t-,                                                                                                                C, "-If
rA q IT
__r      Ag.,-
Tp,
17
PA Clf                                        A A/
IA 1 1.5 c C,
A
8         qf      C.        A
AAEXIco
+
+
A -1C, V
6
'E
100        200         30D        400         500
GU
'01,11 L 'A'






f9 TO Z sp,  56-                                               5"                                                               29                                                             90         BRD  14902
TsipoP                                                                                                     MEX ICCO 
URBAN  PROJECT MEXICO  I                                                                                                                  (/              M-RIDA
Rco \C>/gA   .Isthmus Region                                                                                                                                                                                              /                                 e
\    Proposed  Proiect  M,e                                                                                                               Moo
No,t a
- Mm Roads
Secondcry Rords 
)    r   \                                                                |     zzllroods                 j [     ~       ~      ~       ~       ~      ~      ~       ~      ~     ~            (        jA/             f          ^Rc^oad
Tesuirlon                                                 \; 4 Ports )  r
_    Ai,pots                                                                                             CAMPECHE//           )(
JALA PA
Doms -nd Rese-ir 
I'15+J             f      B         o     Jose Cordel
xX                           <      *>~~~~~~ERACRUZ                                              - -Itrrtoo   onoesCs0ot 
ORIZAA                  _                   A  -rodo.
,cc<   >  Slerro Booco      Sor           Coreroaco                                                      4jr~~~~~~~~~~~~~Dos Bort as rrrr           Corod senFor  c
\~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~F,.i fs <fX..,,
o > 0                   *osomlopd    4,\A5sordns T                                                                                    9o bm :C&                          - AHEMOS&I 3   -
}OAXACA ( jf ~~~~~~op Gronde -.C..i2..    ~9gr.
v, Sv . 'n    . o  rr,',   ,E f  * u r o r r  0                                      v                                                                           S o*   C m,a; -<~ < G   s I d o l  oe  lros  C o s os   >   \  G U T   E   Z
J~~~~~ch'l.~~~~~GATM
______________________________                        Tehuontepew      c-  ~e 1
.  y .   . A      A. .. 1
Moo'-'rza5Al  4.~T  *2 4n






IBRD 14906
MEXICO                                                 V ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~*.    100 ~~~~~~~~~APRIL 1~80
\                                             M~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A    E X I C O                                                        .... .. ....       u:..A.
<g>JEl Vorodera             URBAN  PROJECT MEXICO  I                                                                                                                U $ A
SDel                                              Coatzacoalcos - Minatitl6n  Area                                                                                                                Gut(of Mexico
f ostfowl \     $&\S\ \).   %    M E X I C O
Lagoon\ ,,,,... \ .  
\~~~~~~~~                                                                                                                          20                        Meic C.ty 2z     \< 
)~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N  \ i0                                                                                                     e t        E   
20~~~~~~~~.~0
M.nzo pan~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~crii    Ca
To Aclle~ndeoy                                                                                                                            E
-   -  . -  -  COATpACopotlo                                       T  Compech9
<~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ MAUIN   OAS                                                                                                                                        I X
MTezpE"0                                                                                                                                                               -.----x  RAILRT  :?<i2'  OADS)
/ PEMEX                                             'a  POR0 > 00> ; TS0 0 /; t Cnc2h t: A ~ PME
/ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~AAIO   ETOHEIA /CO.MP,LEX /S                        \
P0  L                                                                                                   PEE  LA CANGRf; C    'l   m EJERA
NEW . -            -        @      P EFINERY                              .                                                           A     AIRORTS
Minzap6n          '   +ARPORTSP~OHMCA    OPE
Ti,;0 nmap 00 bOon pro.p aw  h  iv/ha Wrend Ssnks 5 ai stsffrloi,,aly ho, iha coooso,enca         A                                                                                                          het
of bihereadess oh ihe repat io whn,ch ,ir s aiiarhed The donomnornoions osdaSt< nd ihe  /   \//                aR I VER S
boundarnss shown on inns map do oni whpl on mhe part of tho World bank snd its                                                                                                   SWAMPS/ 
ahhf,aioae sany ;o, ugei,i on toe regal statuo of any rernororror any Ondrnsoemeni or  /.| 5WAMP
oooaplanco ohiochooondw,eo ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~      ~     ~     ~    ~     ~     ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ Nochta






IBRD 14905
APRILEE~
MAEX [CO
URBAN PROJECT MEXICO TT
City of CodtzaCbOaCOS
'A!~~~       ONC~N  
~~~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~                                                                                              .                         OFF' MA LEGS                -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~; PEMY
C CMMECN TS CENTERS
RE                 U   F~~~~~ETAIL MARKETS TO BF MPRG,FD
A    S                                             ULTER SUPPLY AND WLASH N.G FACL TIFS
N.   6>                            ~~~~~~~~~ND 0/ISTRA  AREAS
'-.2                                    S/S~~~~~~~~~B  T CP AREAS
DdCO                                    -      MAIN ROADS
MEYCO    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~                - SECONDARY ROADS AND STREETS
RAILROADS 
SR  CD  \  / ~~~~~~~~~~~~~RVE RS
-. SUAMPD
-;/~,0  OEL c-Y /                                            0      200    4S0    ECU    BUY    SLY0
EL SALVADOR                               METERES
LUo               ToM~               (MAPPROXIMATE SCALE)-






IBRD  14904
V   7  o E M   )wv     :    Dt                                                          M  EX IC                                                                                              APRIL 1982
3to>   S\ \:l 0:2A   <                                                  URBAN  PROJECT MEXICO HI
v                     x--                S.                                        oCity of Minatitldn
; Q  M E/XCO                   -..:',.- 
_zM              7 Mex.co CrTY6E   \          20g,  - -77 
oN                        ~~~~~APA40AAPA                                                  -
.."'.TLc   tRMLA'       7Wtpae<                                                      0' c     .      -
.: . ...... EL .A%O A <ilE //
EL TA 42D02
TI'              tEAS.,     :'. ES'                                    \0/S\A //  
)   %gWj @g/ X %// X;'",/z///                                                                        /
ALBAMEX~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~M
~~~~~~~~~~~LA BLU.TROY)t//ABA                                            (      .       '/./X///Yy,yfS 4.2        - 
E6,1 PNIA  LUtV MAKTT0E MRVDg<5//-fz
EX ST NC                                                                              y/        / v-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~% Co 52 C    PRT
7,3  VDUSTA PL AREASA'NUAR                                                              -,.A                     i
URBUILT  UPGAREADING AR.EAS:                                                                                                               \           >C A
C SWAECCDRY RCADS AND WSHINGT IA LI T                                                                                                                       . E-
REA LROARKE TOc BE IMPROVE\
R E NDUINTERM TTFN STREAMS                                     /1........
SWAMPS                                                                                        / . i$#4.4t   \'72
</\\  >.-                 60 25         50    750   1000-_
4s ap aa                 pe                                  ed b                                       b fs sof  e:/'ATTA/D. tB  -c  //  2  METERS
{  the  /sis  ot  the repGn  to wnich 1t d Iachfid rhe dsso/llmal o s us a the t f o ! S _/                                                                5
bo mdamm shQwm ce thl s m p do not /ensty on the pan of he ,Wy' &-T , 7  ,2<
ethhs tas bPt /vdzment on the /eqa/ soldD of anz temmf r or smy sndDement or      I     -        /~~~~~~~~
acceptance~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~P ot                                                                                ORAL LAZARIT CATEA






IBRD 14903
J00 '';,  \>  '.-->'t w"                MEXICO                             j/,'   -                                            PIlE
"\,a'.'\   \,Ff   :             ~~City of Villchermosa                    4               's        ''5
I   Y  EX -   v0b  hr:o|//X      
.,f      v 0-,                                                                        <(                        
>          ~~~ ~~               ~        ~~loo   ._yy       \             </ ,                                  u    \>-             v9t 
=        /       =--    S/,                       tSOit          gX sZq 
0 200 40 00' 80 IO                                                                 \t-<
I             1\;         A     ,,f: fJ,   .\   '0   C ,     <            <                            nfl
IlEfFE ! ! K \ 0 - t z/ 0 xf3A
, '/'>   \1   4   /     t r J ,   < ; ~~~~~~~~~~-4A 314_                       _             -6
,/, ' ,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ WNGAfW  
,-,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4" 4SU  = 
-' / ) ~~~~~ffi rSpi  >,     XzA ./Ti   5 TES ANL 5[RVICt5 AREAS
v~~~~~RfSft |E   \/- 5   DAYRAS ADSTRFi
X  C<? E  t/t    /-            t  A__   b;0;D; ;; B;4f, jA,                                    $~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EUSTM AEA






IBRD 14907
MAEXICO
URBAN PROJECT MEXICO II
City  of  Reforma                                                                                    .. . ..
PROPOSED:                                                                                                                        .i
SITES  AND  SERVICES  AREA                                                                                      ... .  .......
,'77  URBAN UPGRADING AREAS
COMMUNITY CENTER
EXISTING:
INDUSTRIAL AREAS
BUILT-UP AREAS
- MAIN ROADS
SECONDARY ROADS AND STREETS '
__] INDECO PROPERTY
LIII MUNICIPAL AREA
10~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
\  /     200      400
_   s       \           /                                                /                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~METERS
The,o 080 b-0 ,P;M=byd
W   oft - tt,k S S-Sff 500,50>0000
,                    \j/   ~~~~~~~~~~~AREA  FOR                          s                     ron~  ,
"">~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~00900 ..,o, ,  _   ,300.d.?
W~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~O  doo,oP0  006  ....3S ..i-,0 0006
t"\~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~b.oa. 30000 rb, 039w
000I., 00 . 0 p     f
Wof ,ldH 0  0.* 00-,5065 80
FUTURE   DEVELOPMENT~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~fdOfO 0 0 660SSIO0
A---  lio-           IL~~~~~~~o- 9OtO 000.00.30p
00 E 00X9tI C  of0 c  ooae
___ ___ ___ ___ __ ____Me ___c_ ___City,_ __



