Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY            FILE COPY
Report No. P-3035-ME
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
BANCO NACIONAL DE OBRAS Y SERVICIOS PUBLICOS, S.A.
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
UNITED MEXICAN STATES
FOR A
SECOND URBAN AND REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
April 23, 1981
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY UNIT - PESO (Mex$)
Since September 1, 1976 the Mexican peso has been floating; it
fluctuated around Mex$ 22.60 to the US dollar from mid-1977 to the end of
1980. On April 9, 1981, the peso traded at 23.74 per US dollar.
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS
BANOBRAS   -    National Bank for Public Works and Services
(Banco Nacional de Obras y Servicios Publicos)
CEPROTAB   -    Productivity Center for the State of Tabasco
(Centro de Productividad del Estado de Tabasco)
COPLADE    -    State Planning and Economic Development Committee
(Comite de Planeacion del Desarrollo Economico del Estado)
CUC        -    Coordination Agreements between the Federal and the
State Governments
(Convenios Unicos de Coordinacion)
Institutos -    State Housing Institutes
(Institutos de Vivienda)
PEMEX      -    Mexican Petroleum Company
(Petroleos Mexicanos)
SAHOP      -    Secretariat of Human Settlements and Public Works
(Secretaria de Asentamientos Humanos y Obras Publicas)
SAM        -    Mexican Food System
(Sistema Alimentario Mexicano)



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MEXICO
SECOND URBAN AND REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:            Banco Nacional de Obras y Servicios Publicos, S.A.
Guarantor:           United Mexican States
Amount:              US$164 million equivalent
Terms:               15 years, including 3 years of grace, and interest
at 9.6 percent per annum.
Project
Description:       The project would support orderly growth and social
development in the south-eastern states of Mexico and
help establish a systematic approach to urban and regional
development. The project consists of the following
components in the States of Tabasco, Veracruz and Chiapas:
(i)  Shelter-related Facilities, including:
- sites and services;
- construction material credits;
- urban upgrading;
- home improvement loans; and
- community centers.
(ii)  City-wide Infrastructure, including:
- water supply works;
- sewerage works; and
- other infrastructure.
(iii)  Municipal Facilities and Services, including:
- retail markets;
- a wholesale market;
- slaughterhouses; and
- refuse collection.
l This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance   |
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
(iv) Productive Activities, including:
- credits to artisans;
- credits to small-scale enterprises;
- industrial estates;
- training center; and
(v) Studies and Support Activities
- Studies to prepare development programs and
urban plans in the region; technical assistance
to implementing agencies; and studies on pollution
control in the region. Promotional activities for
project programs.
Benefits and Risks
The principal benefits would be (a) promotion of the
Government's spatial strategy and support for invest-
ments in one of its most important growth regions;
(b) the establishment of mechanisms to implement,
finance and operate urban and regional development
programs with the active participation of state,
municipal and community organizations; (c) improve-
ments in the backward and forward linkages between
the rapidly growing oil sector and the regional
economy; (d) improvements in the level of shelter
and of other urban infrastructure, as well as in
basic urban services; and (e) better cost-recovery
and replicability procedures for shelter and basic
urban services programs through the establishment
of proper management and financial procedures.
The major risk is that the institutional improvements
required of various agencies in order that they
carry out their additional tasks under the project
would not be achieved as rapidly as expected. The
experience and technical capacity of most Mexican
institutions dealing with this project justify the
expectation that the project would be implemented
without undue delay. On the whole, the risk is
acceptable.



- iii -
Estimated Cost:                                                 US$ million
Local  Foreign  Total    %
Shelter-related programs               94       36      130    54
City-wide infrastructure               33       24       57    24
Municipal facilities and services    14          9       23     9
Productive activities                  14       13       27    11
Studies and technical assistance        -        5        5     2
Total Baseline Costs                  155       87     242   100
Design and supervision                   8       4       12
Physical contingencies                 17        9       26
Price contingencies                   124       64      188
Total                                 304      164     468
Financing Plan:
US$ million
Local   Foreign  Total   %
Bank loan                               -       164      164    35
Beneficiaries                          29        -        29     6
Government                            275        -       275    59
Total Project Cost                    304       164      468   100
Estimated                                                 US$ million
Disbursements:    Bank Fiscal Year       82      83      84     85      86     87
Annual                 7      16     36      44     43      18
Cumulative             7      23     59    103    146    164
Rate of Return:      About 14 percent for components which constitute 83 percent
of total project costs.
Staff Appraisal
Report:            Report No. 2937-ME, dated April 24, 1981.






INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO
BANCO NACIONAL DE OBRAS Y SERVICIOS PUBLICOS, S.A.
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF UNITED MEXICAN STATES
FOR A SECOND URBAN AND REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to Banco Nacional de Obras y Servicios Publicos, S.A. (BANOBRAS) with
the guarantee of United Mexican States for the equivalent of US$164 million
to help finance a Second Urban and Regional Development Project. The loan
would have repayment terms of 15 years, including 3 years of grace, with
interest at 9.6 percent per annum. US$51 million would be onlent in pesos
to finance shelter related programs and US$20 million would be onlent in
pesos as credit to artisans and small-scale enterprises. .he shelter related
loans would be repaid over 15 years and interest charges would be 15 percent
per annum Credits to artisans would be repaid over up to 5 years at an interest
rate of 15 percent per annum; credits to small-scale enterprises would have
maturity periods of up to 5 years, and interest rates would be one percentage
point above the average cost of term funds to multipurpose banks in Mexico.
The Government would bear the exchange risk.
PART I: THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        The Mexican economic situation and major issues of economic policy
were analyzed in "Special Study of the Mexican Economy: Major Policy Issues
and Prospects" (2307-ME), distributed to the Executive Directors on May 30,
1979. The most recent economic mission visited Mexico in February 1980 and
is about to finalize its report. Country data sheets are attached as Annex I.
Past Performance
3.        For the three decades preceding the mid-seventies, Mexico was
successful in achieving rapid economic growth while also maintaining stability
in prices and equilibrium in the balance of payments. From 1940 to 1970, GDP
growth exceeded 6 percent per year in real terms, inflation averaged less than
5 percent per year from the mid-1960s to 1972, and the dollar value of the
peso, fixed in 1954, was maintained until 1976. The Government's role in this
achievement was to carry out direct investments in infrastructure and in key
industries such as power, steel and petroleum, while creating a stable regula-
tory and institutional framework, as well as good profit prospects, to induce
private sector growth.
1/   This section is substantially unchanged from the President's Report for
the Port Development Preparation Loan (Report No. P-2982-ME of March 5,
1981).  However, paras. 5 to 8, 11 and 15 were modified to some extent.



- 2 -
4.        This strategy produced considerable progress and better living
standards for many Mexicans. However, the incomes of poor farmers and marginal
urban dwellers, whose productivity was low and has not been increasing, have
been lagging behind. There was, therefore, little reduction in contrasts
within the Mexican economy. Land reform was largely implemented in the
late thirties and while further land redistribution has continued, most of
the peasants who received land could not significantly improve their economic
status as the parcels of land allocated were small, the soil often quite arid
and benefits from infrastructure, credit and technical assistance scant.
Rapid population growth, which reached a peak of almost 3.5 percent per year
by the mid-1970s, also made social equity difficult to achieve. Even Mexico's
sustained economic growth was not sufficient to absorb the rapidly growing
labor force into productive employment, and by the 1970s some 50 percent of the
labor force was either relatively unproductive and poorly paid, or openly
unemployed.
5.        Policies undertaken to remedy this situation in the first half of
the seventies were somewhat self-defeating.  As a result, by the mid-1970s
Mexico experienced increasing public sector deficits, inflation, large balance
of payments deficits, capital flight and a marked slowdown in the real rate of
growth of GDP, which dropped to 2 percent in 1976--the lowest rate experienced
since the mid-thirties. On September 1, 1976 the authorities abandoned the
fixed exchange rate and let the peso float; it devalued by 80 percent. The
authorities also adopted a plan for economic stabilization for which Mexico
obtained major support from the IMF. The Administration which took over in
December 1976, established as its main objective control of inflation, to be
followed by a return to high rates of economic growth. The former was to be
achieved through stabilization policies, while the latter was to be made
possible thanks to the impact of major oil discoveries which would reduce
the foreign exchange constraint. Both objectives were important in restoring
the confidence of the private sector.
Recent and Current Situation
6.        The Government succeeded in bringing inflation down to 17 and 18 per-
cent in 1978 and 1979, respectively, as against an annual rate of almost
29 percent in 1977. The deficit in the current account of the balance of
payments peaked at US$4.2 billion (or 5.3 percent of GDP) in 1975 and declined
to US$1.8 billion (equivalent to 2.5 percent of GDP) in 1977. Favorable oil
prospects and increasing capital inflows brought about a rapid increase in
imports reflecting both a decisive reduction in protectionism and the growing
demand for capital and intermediate goods upon which the expansion of the
economy depended. The current account deficit increased to US$2.9 billion (or
3.2 percent of GDP) in 1978 and further to US$5.2 billion (about 4.3 percent
of GDP) in 1979. The public sector deficit peaked at about 9 percent of GDP
in 1975 and declined to about 7 percent in 1979. Mobilization of savings by
the banking system has recovered. GDP growth was about 7 percent in 1978 and
8 percent in 1979 as compared to 2 percent in 1976.
7.        The growth record for 1980 continued to be favorable and GDP is
estimated to have increased at about 7.5 percent. The current account deficit
of the balance of payments was much higher than anticipated due to continued
expansion of imports (mostly capital and intermediate goods and foodstuff)



- 3 -
and is estimated to have been US$6.7 billion (about 4 percent of GDP).
Despite the substantial inflow of imported goods, strict domestic credit
restrictions, generally adequate lending rates and modest increases in real
wages coupled with substantial productivity increases, inflation has been
higher than anticipated. This is essentially because of expansionary budgetary
policies, with investments increasing at a rate of more than 15 percent a year
in real terms. A shortage of essential consumer goods and construction
materials, aggravated by the inadequacy of the transport system to handle
distribution of domestically produced goods along with increasing imports, has
contributed to price increases. The increase in the consumer price index in
1980 was around 30 percent.
8.        The persistence of strong inflationary pressures is beginning to
exert increasing influence upon a number of factors in the Mexican economic
scene. First, the now substantial differential between price trends in Mexico
and in its major tracing partners, which has not been fully compensated in the
exchange rate, is eroding the hitherto adequate inducements to export non-oil
goods and makes imported goods increasingly attractive to domestic users, even
in cases where domestic production is efficient. Secondly, wage pressures,
which have been moderate and have not contributed to the inflationary process
up to now, may gain force if strong inflation continues. Both these impacts
could affect the pattern of resource allocation in Mexico, tilting it toward
capital intensive processes of production.
9.        The Government will not have an easy task in maintaining price
increases much below 30 percent during 1981. The need to expand public
investment in key infrastructure sectors and to maintain the present level
of expenditure in the energy sector leaves relatively little scope for sig-
nificant adjustments in the size or structure of public expenditure. At the
same time, the intention of the Government to implement much delayed increases
in prices of publicly supplied goods like gasoline will imply a temporary
push upwards of the price index.
Economic Problems and Prospects
10.       Mexico has the organizational and natural resources necessary to
attain its ambitious goals of rapid growth and alleviation of poverty. The
new petroleum riches will greatly relax the financial constraints on growth.
The proven oil and gas reserves are estimated at about 60 billion barrels.
Exploitation of these reserves should allow Mexico to substantially increase
production of crude oil and natural gas from the equivalent of about 1.2
million bbl/day in 1976. The recently stated goal of the Government is to
reach a production level of about 3.0 million bbl/day in 1981, and to more or
less maintain it at a level that will accommodate exports of 1.5 million
bbl/day (compared to the 1.1 million bbl/day target up to September, 1980).
The Government continues to indicate its unwillingness to exceed this limit
for fear that Mexico will increasingly become a classical "oil producing
country" with the economic and social tensions that would ensue. But even at
this production level, the challenge is:  how to mobilize Mexico's resources--
its human skills, its institutions, and its experience--to help resolve its
long term development problems. The most serious of these are poverty,
unemployment, inadequate growth of agricultural production in non-irrigated
lands, and urban-regional imbalances.



- 4 -
11.       Poverty:  Mexicans have participated unevenly in the remarkable
economic growth of the last several decades. According to estimates for 1977,
at least 2.8 million households (25 percent of the total) had incomes of less
than one-third the national average, of which at least 2.4 million (22 percent
of the total) lived in absolute poverty. The root causes of this persistent
problem are three: rapid population growth, past neglect of non-irrigated
agriculture (where some two-thirds of the poor are principally employed), and
slow absorption of labor in high-productivity jobs.
12.       The Government is acting on all three fronts.  A family planning
program started in 1972 has already helped reduce population growth from
3.5 percent per year to an estimated 2.9 percent in 1980. The program is
being further strengthened by the present Administration, with the ambitious
goal of reducing population growth to 2.5 percent per year by 1982 and to
1 percent by the year 2000. New approaches are also taking hold in rainfed
agriculture (see para. 15). On the employment front, new tax incentives have
reduced the anti-employment bias and additional efforts to stimulate employment
will have to be continued. The expected rapid growth of output should also
create jobs more rapidly. In spite of this progress, however, the still rapid
growth of population and the staggering increase of the labor force (at 3.7
percent per annum) made unavoidable by the high percentage of young people in
today's population, renders the eradication of absolute poverty a difficult
goal to attain in the near future. The Government has under its consideration
several types of subsidies for the poor. These could prove to be short-term
palliatives and preempt resources which would otherwise be available for
investment in employment-creating activities or for improving educational or
health standards of the poor on a more permanent basis.
13.       Open and hidden unemployment, which are now respectively at 6-7
percent and 40 percent of the labor force, will remain major problems in the
years to come. With the expected GDP growth rate of 8 percent per annum, the
economy should be able to absorb the additional labor force, assuming no
significant change in the participation rate (now at about 29 percent) and
some increase in labor productivity. In absolute terms, however, the present
levels of underemployment and unemployment are likely to remain.
14.       A National Employment Plan was published in 1979.  It calls for a
number of measures to strengthen the so-called informal sector in both
urban and rural areas. To increase the productivity of those employed outside
the modern sector, and their employment opportunities, a major effort will be
required in the area of vocational training. Technical assistance programs
are also needed to stimulate more organized and structured forms of activities,
especially in the services sector. While there is no doubt that the authori-
ties are concerned about unemployment and underemployment, and while the
institutional structure to carry out some important programs already exists, a
concentrated effort will be required to take effective action and to make
better use of human resources by substantially reducing the level of hidden
and open unemployment.
15.       In agriculture, crop and livestock production has shown inadequate
growth since the mid-1960s and, of late, demand has outstripped domestic
supplies of grains. Faced with diminishing returns to investment in new
large-scale irrigation works, continuing low productivity and income per



- 5 -
capita in the non-irrigated ("rainfed") sector, widespread malnutrition and
increasing dependence on imported food (especially grains), the present
Administration has launched a major program (SAM - the Mexican Food System)
aimed at increasing self-sufficiency in food, providing for minimum nutri-
tional needs of the rural and urban poor and increasing rural employment.
SAM emphasizes increased production of grains through a combined system of
subsidies, guaranteed producer prices and government underwriting of crop loss
risks. Greater emphasis is being placed on technical assistance, demonstra-
tion and credit to develop the underutilized rainfed agricultural potential.
Programs to rehabilitate existing irrigation works serving nearly one million
ha are underway. Small-scale irrigation development is being promoted.
Construction of new large-scale irrigation units continues, but now represents
a smaller proportion of government investment. The banking system is being
encouraged to provide greater support to agricultural production and processing
programs. These initiatives should lead to an acceleration of production
growth, more equal development opportunities for Mexico's farmers, and an
improvement in the living conditions of the rural poor.
16.       The main urban-regional problems are two-fold:  (a) growing conges-
tion, pollution, high cost of services (especially water) and other manage-
ment problems that stem from the continued rapid growth of Mexico City (al-
ready the third most populous metropolitan area in the world and moving
rapidly to become the first) and other areas in the dry, densely populated
central plateau, and (b) retarded development, poverty and great difficulty in
providing better jobs and/or adequate public services to the one-third of
all Mexicans who live in towns of less than 2,500 inhabitants. The present
Government has taken many positive steps to confront these problems, including
an administrative re-organization, elaboration of a comprehensive urban
development plan, and introduction of a strong package of incentives to
promote growth in a few well-selected growth poles.
17.       The expected high growth rate of the economy in the years to come
is the country's strongest weapon with which to reduce poverty and unemployment.
Industry has moved to the leading position and is expected to play a major role
in expanding domestic production and exports. A National Industrial Development
Plan was published in 1979 and it reflects the preoccupation of the present
Administration with the long-term prospects of the industrial sector and their
implications for employment. Industry has the potential for considerable
expansion in many areas, including efficient import substitution in chemicals,
petrochemicals and capital goods as well as exports of a variety of manufactured
products. While most of the above industries are known for their capital
intensity, they are expected to promote secondary industries with considerable
employment opportunities. These will be enterprises producing secondary
petrochemicals, finished plastic goods, metal parts and components for capital
goods. Tourism export earnings are also expected to increase substantially.
The prospects for the industrial sector are, however, subject to the caveats
mentioned in para. 8 above.
18.       The main problem for the Mexican economy in the years to come will
remain the reconciliation of high growth rates with relative price stability
and a larger participation of low-income groups in the expanding wealth of the
nation. The National Development Plan, published in April, 1980, marks the final



step in the planning activities carried out by the present Administration and
places in a consistent framework the specific targets indicated in a number of
sectoral plans prepared in the previous two years. In addition to presenting
a macroeconomic picture of development prospects, the National Development
Plan dwells in great detail on the policies required to achieve various
economic and social targets. These policies are essentially sound but call for
a major implementation effort on the part of the Administration. Growth with
low inflation poses difficult challenges of adjusting prices of public goods
and services without undermining the existing consensus of the country, and
improving income distribution would call for policies that encourage labor
intensive technologies in industry and agriculture without slowing down
modernization of the economy.
19.       Mexico's public and publicly guaranteed debt service ratio has been
increasing over the recent past and peaked at 69 percent in 1979. This
high ratio reflects the still relatively low level of exports to GNP and the
high proportion of Mexican borrowing from commercial banks; the ratio of
external public debt to GNP (24 percent in 1979) is average for middle-income
countries. The public debt service ratio declined to around 30 percent in
1980, not only as a result of rapid increases in petroleum exports but also
because some of the debt contracted on the least favorable terms had been
prepaid. Debt service on Bank loans amounted to about 3.2 percent of public
debt service in 1980; this ratio is projected to remain about the same during
the early and mid-1980s. The Bank currently holds about 5.7 percent of
Mexico's total medium and long-term public debt, and this ratio is not likely
to change significantly over the next few years. Mexico is creditworthy for
borrowing on conventional terms.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MEXICO 1/
Bank Operations
20.       As of February 28, 1981, Mexico had received 69 loans from the
Bank amounting to US$4,798.9 million net of cancellations and terminations;
of these, 38 loans totalling US$1,870.4 million were fully disbursed. The
Bank held US$4,106.3 million of which US$2,011.6 million h/ad not yet been
disbursed. Some 45 percent of Bank lending has been for agriculture and
rural development (24 loans for US$2,144.7 million), 16 percent for industry
(12 loans for US$747.5 million), 15 percent for power (12 loans for US$704.8
million), and 17 percent for transportation (14 loans for US$816.4 million);
the remaining 7 percent has been for water supply (US$255 million), tourism
(US$114 million), and urban development (US$16.5 million) projects. Annex II
contains a summary statement of Bank loans as of February 28, 1981 and notes
on the execution of ongoing projects. A loan for port development preparation
was approved by the Executive Directors on March 24, 1981.
1/   This section is substantially unchanged from the President's Report for
the Port Development Preparation Loan (Report No. P-2982-ME of March 5,
1981). However, the section has been updated and a new paragraph (para.
23) added.



-7 -
21.       Implementation of most Bank-financed projects was delayed during
the period of economic difficulties in the mid-1970s and during the period
of adjustment and stabilization that followed the September 1976 devaluation
of the peso. Since then, the Government has taken important actions to
accelerate implementation of projects. Adequate budget financing has been
provided. Projects which had important structural constraints were modified
and rephased to account for changed circumstances. Government and Bank
officials have periodically met to review project implementation, and greater
attention has been focused in Mexico on monitoring project implementation and
disbursements. As a result of these measures, most of the Bank-assisted
projects are proceeding satisfactorily and plans have been formulated to
strengthen execution of those projects where improvement is still needed.
The effectiveness of these actions is reflected in disbursement totals. In
FY78 US$91 million were disbursed to Mexico, in FY79 disbursements totalled
US$233 million and in FY80 disbursements further increased to US$404 million,
or 38 percent of the undisbursed balance at the beginning of the year. FY81
disbursements through February were US$255 million.
IFC Operations
22.       As of February 28, 1981, IFC had made investment commitments in
22 companies in Mexico, for a total of US$536.0 million, of which US$395.3
million had been sold, repaid or cancelled. A summary statement of IFC
investments is presented in Annex II.
Bank Strategy
23.       The main objectives of Bank lending in Mexico have been to:
(i) support policies and programs leading to a wider distribution of the
benefits of economic growth; (ii) help finance projects that make, directly
or indirectly, significant contributions to output and employment; (iii) help
reduce Mexico's urban-regional imbalances; and (iv) help break bottlenecks
preventing more rapid growth. Therefore, the Bank has preferentially sup-
ported projects of high social priority that help the rural or urban poor,
projects that promote higher levels of employment and production, and those
that help to decentralize economic activity. Given Mexico's potential for
satisfying its future foreign exchange needs, the Bank is now concentrating
on the institution-building aspects of the projects it finances and on the
development of suitable sectoral and economic policies through regular dis-
cussions with the authorities, as well as in the context of project financing.
The Bank is thus helping to create the institutions, policies and mechanisms
which would channel self-generated resources to meet the above mentioned
objectives in the future. The Government is fully in accord with this new
emphasis, and has requested that the Bank concentrate its efforts on sectors
which are of key importance to Mexico's development and which require insti-
tutional improvements and/or the formulation of suitable policies with great-
est urgency. The proposed project would match this strategy by strengthening
the planning and implementing capacity of institutions at the state and
municipal level, by improving cost-recovery practices and by aiming at the
solution of urgent problems that currently impede a balanced development in
an important region of Mexico.



- 8 -
24.       Because of the difficult structural problems of Mexico's agricul-
ture and the sector's crucial importance to the country's further development,
the Bank has made agriculture the leading sector for its lending. The Bank's
agricultural lending program for Mlexico has four goals: first, to increase
productivity of presently cultivated lands through selected programs of irri-
gation and on-farm improvements; second, to improve the productivity of small
farmers through programs for (a) rural development, (b) rainfed agricultural
development, and (c) new areas in the humid tropics which are suitable for
cultivation; third, to complement infrastructure investments with general
support services, including agricultural extension and marketing programs and
provision of medium-term credit; and fourth, to promote employment opportunities
in rural areas through programs of agro- and rural-industries. The Bank has
made eleven loans in FY76-81 totalling US$1,466 million for irrigation, rural
development and agriculture, agro-industries and livestock credit programs.
Several projects for rainfed agriculture, rural development, irrigation and
support services are in preparation. A rainfed agricultural development
project was approved by the Executive Directors in January 1981, and an
integrated rural development project is expected to be ready for presentation
to the Executive Directors early in FY82.
25.       Past Bank lending for industry has been aimed at (a) assisting
the Government's efforts to reduce the balance of payments deficit, (b)
decentralizing industrial activities away from the major and increasingly
congested urban areas, and (c) promoting greater employment in the sector by
supporting medium- and small-scale industry. A steel project which the
Bank helped structure and finance is now operating in a previously under-
developed area on the west coast of Mexico (Lazaro Cardenas) and the city
in which it is located is developing into a new growth pole. The fertilizer
sector has been strengthened by two Bank assisted projects which the State-
owned fertilizer company (FERTIMEX) is carrying out. Loans for projects to
promote the development of small- and medium-scale industrial enterprises and
to support an industrial equipment fund (FONEI) were approved by the Executive
Directors in FYs78-79; they offer support to the private sector at a time of
rapid expansion. The Executive Directors also approved in FY80 a second small
and medium scale industries project and a project for the mining sector, which
up to now has received insufficient resources from the financial system.
Two capital goods industries projects are under discussion for possible Bank
support, which would aim at assisting the Government develop adequate policies
for the sector, institution-building and the transfer of appropriate tech-
nology to Mexico, so that employment might be increased in the engineering
subsector and the manufacturing industry strengthened.
26.       As regards physical infrastructure, the Bank's operations have been
focused on investments in key areas of the country as well as on institutional
reforms and sector policies aiming, inter alia, at suitable pricing mechanisms
to help generate additional resources for investment financing. The Airports
Development Project (FY74) was designed to support the Government's policy
of regional integration; the Fourth Railway Project (FY81) supports improve-
ments of institutional aspects and financial management of the sector. The
Mexico City (FY73) and Medium-Size Cities (FY76) Water Supply projects have
been instrumental in the establishment of specialized institutions for effi-
cient provision of drinking water and in the pricing of water at levels more



- 9 -
closely related to costs. A Highway Sector Project was approved by the
Executive Directors in FY79. A loan for a Second Medium-Size Cities Water
Supply Project and a loan to assist the Mexican Government in structuring
large investment in port development were approved by the Executive Directors
in November 1980 and March 1981, respectively.
27.       The Government and the Bank have long recognized the regional
economic disparities prevailing in Mexico. A project to assist in the devel-
opment of the Lazaro Cardenas conurbation area on the West Coast was approved
by the Executive Directors in FY78. The project now considered would be the
second operation of the Bank in this sector.
28.       A national program for the vocational and technical training of
middle management positions in the industrial sector is being considered for
possible Bank financing. The Economic Development Institute (EDI) is assist-
ing CECADE (a similar institute under the Ministry of Programming and Budget-
ing) in training Government staff in several aspects of project preparation,
monitoring and evaluation. A course on urban and regional development has
recently been concluded and several courses for agriculture, rural develop-
ment, and agro-industries are programmed for the near-term.
29.       The Inter-American Development Bank (IDB) is the second largest
source of multilateral aid to Mexico. The IDB has made loans totalling
US$2,428 million to December 31, 1980. Over sixty percent of this lending
has gone for agricultural and rural development projects, and the balance
for transportation, industry, water supply, and tourism infrastructure. In
1980, the IDB approved three loans totalling US$280 million for water supply,
fisheries and pre-investment study projects. The IDB and the Bank have worked
in parallel on several projects; most recently the IDB and the Bank have each
made loans for the National Program for Small-Scale Agricultural Infrastruc-
ture, the Integrated Rural Development Program (PIDER), and agricultural and
livestock credit, small- and medium-scale industries development, and hotel
development projects. The International Fund for Agricultural Development
(IFAD) has approved a loan of US$22 million for a rural development project in
the State of Oaxaca which was appraised by the Bank's staff and for which the
Bank is acting as cooperating institution for administering the loan. The
Bank has financed a few projects in which there has been parallel financing
from bilateral and commercial sources (e.g., power, steel and tourism devel-
opment projects). In recent discussions with the Government, the possibility
of a more widespread use of cofinancing arrangements was explored and we
intend to seek opportunities for such cofinancing in the near future.



- 10 -
PART III - URBAN AND SPATIAL DEVELOPMENT IN MEXICO
Background
30.       Mexico's outstanding spatial problems are the heavy concentration of
economic activity, wealth and people in Mexico City, the lack of integration
between urban and rural areas, and imbalanced inter-regional development. In
1978, about 65 percent of the 65.4 million people of the country lived in
urban centers of more than 2,500 inhabitants. The Mexico City Metropolitan
Area held almost 32 percent of the urban population, and the Guadalajara and
Monterrey metropolitan areas contained another 10 percent between them. The
same year, over 40 percent of the GDP was contributed by the Federal District
and the State of Mexico, while at the other extreme seven states contributed
less than 1 percent each.
31.       The allocation of resources for investment in Mexico's urban areas
has not followed clearly defined objectives and problems of coordination
between institutions have been commonplace. The result has been that large
segments of the population have lacked housing and essential facilities such
as access to safe water supply and sanitation. The absence of regulation in
the use of urban land has resulted in problems of poor environmental quality
and inefficiencies in the transport system. In 1970, 71 percent of the urban
population and 29 percent of the rural population had access to potable water.
For sewerage, the respective proportions were 40 percent and 3 percent. The
1970 census registered a net housing deficit of about 840,000 units, with an
additional 2.5 million units in poor condition, while 1.7 million units were
classified as overcrowded.
32.       The Secretariat of Human Settlements and Public Works (SAHOP) is the
main agent for planning urban development and implementing basic infrastructure
and other works. SAHOP has been responsible, through different departments
and special funds, for meeting a substantial part of the demand for housing in
the country. Between 1950 and 1970 the share of the public sector in total
housing supply was about 8 percent. This share increased to 18 percent in
1970-76 and is expected to more than double by 1982.
National Spatial and Urban Development Policies
33.       Because of the Government's awareness of the serious degree of
economic concentration in the country, the main goal of urban policy in Mexico
in recent years has been to curb the growth of Mexico City and to a lesser
degree that of the two other main metropolitan areas (Guadalajara and Monterrey).
The Law of Human Settlements (1976) provides the legal basis for planning and
implementing a spatial development strategy. Its objectives are: to promote
medium-sized cities as alternatives to the largest urban centers; to foster
rural-urban integration; to encourage local participation in solving urban
problems; to enforce land use control; to improve urban services, and to
minimize journeys between residential and work locations within cities.



- 11 -
34.       In May 1978, SAHOP published a National Urban Development Plan,
which explains the spatial strategy of the present Administration. The objec-
tives include the rationalization of the urban system through integrated,
balanced development of urban centers; the provision of increased access to
urban infrastructure and public services, and the preservation of the urban
environment. The Plan also sets specific goals for the provision of water and
sewerage services.
35.       The Plan proposes policies aimed at achieving a national urban
system by the year 2000 which would consist of three cities of more than three
million people (Mexico City with 20 million and Guadalajara and Monterrey with
3 to 5 million each), plus 11 cities with more than one million people and 17
with over half a million each.
36.       The evolution of such a national urban system implies relative
reductions in the rate of growth of the three largest metropolitan areas; the
accelerated growth of regional centers and medium cities that would provide
services on a regional basis, and the improvement of public services in the
larger population centers in rural areas. The Plan defines 10 zones which
will receive support on a priority basis, and identifies three large metro-
politan areas where growth will be controlled. Priorities are defined in
relation to the capacity to absorb population and provide employment and
with regard to the resource endowment of their associated regions.
37.       The spatial policies outlined in the National Urban Development
Plan have been further emphasized by the policies in the National Industrial
Plan, published in March 1979. This provides for industrial estates and
adequate infrastructure in priority areas, preferential credit and energy
prices for firms locating in them, and tax credits as incentives for certain
investments and for employment as the main policy tools for spatial deconcentra-
tion of economic activity in the country. Lazaro Cardenas, the site of the
first Bank supported urban project in Mexico (see para 45), is identified as
the center of a priority region in both plans and the Isthmus of Tehuantepec,
the region selected for the second urban development project now proposed,
is also identified as a priority region (see attached map - IBRD 15686).
38.       The National Development Plan issued in April 1980 endorses the
spatial policies outlined in previous sectoral plans. In particular it
states that the transport system would be redesigned to facilitate decentral-
ization and that transport tariffs would be revised to reflect real costs.
For housing, the goals suggested for 1982 are the construction of 2.78 million
housing units of which almost I million would be built by the public sector.
In line with the social policies of the Mexican government, the low income
population is the main target of public action in the housing sector. Proposed
action focuses on new housing and sites and services with building costs which
can be adjusted according to affordability.
39.       Regarding infrastructure, the National Development Plan also endorses
the spatial goals of the National Urban Development Plan. The National
Development Plan calls for the use of existing programs and agencies dealing
with low-income population to implement infrastructure works in rural areas.
Decentralization of decision-making and implementation is to occur through the
use of "coordinating agreements" (CUCs) between federal and state governments.



- 12 -
40.       As part of the National Urban Plan, SAHOP has produced urban develop-
ment plans for most states in close consultation with the local authorities.
Urban development plans for the main cities have also been prepared.
The Isthmus Region and The Project Area 1/
41.       The Isthmus region, in which the project would be located, comprises
an area of about 14 million ha, of which about 2.5 million ha are in the State
of Tabasco, 7.5 million ha in the State of Chiapas, 2.0 million ha in the State
of Oaxaca, and 2.0 million ha in the State of Veracruz (see attached map -
IBRD No. 14902). Its population in 1970 was estimated at about 3.1 million,
or 6.2 percent of the national total. About 40 percent of the region's popula-
tion lives in urban areas--defined as those with at least 2,500 inhabitants.
42.       The recent growth of the petroleum sector has severely disrupted the
region's social and economic structures. Daily on-shore production of hydro-
carbons was equivalent to 1.16 million barrels in 1979. The National Oil
Company's (PEMEX's) investments in the Villahermosa area rose from Mex$ 420 mil-
lion in 1976 to nearly Mex$ 16,000 million in 1978, while investment in basic
infrastructure works and services fell from Mex$ 1,600 million in 1976 to
Mex$ 1,400 million in 1978. At the request of the Government, the Bank undertook
a special study of the problems emanating from oil development in the State of
Tabasco. 2/
43.       Few backward and forward linkages have developed between the
oil industry and the rest of the regional economy, which has benefitted
only marginally from the rapid growth of the oil sector. Reliance on services
"imported" from other regions has been the norm because the region is not yet
equipped to provide the needed inputs.
44.       The very rapid growth of Coatzacoalcos and Minatitlan, in the State
of Veracruz, has been mainly a function of the expansion of the secondary
petroleum-related industries, including the development of the port of
Coatzacoalcos to serve these industries. Most of the areas are subject to
flooding and to serious air and ground water pollution caused by the surround-
ing industrial plants. Pressure on housing is severe, with most of the
construction sector engaged in PEMEX-related activities. About 35 percent
of the population of Coatzacoalcos and about 25 percent of that of Minatitlan
live in informal settlements, mostly without adequate water supply, sewerage,
storm drainage, or paved roads. The conditions of the low-income groups in
Villahermosa are also precarious. Many newcomers settle along river banks and
in other low lying areas surrounding the city, and infrastructure is generally
inadequate. Between 30 percent and 40 percent of these households are without
access to regular water and sanitary facilities.
1/   A more detailed description of the Isthmus region may be found in
"The Economic Development of the Isthmus Region of Mexico" (Report
No. 1080-ME), March 30, 1976.
2/   This study, "Mexico - Oil Impact on Regional Development:  A Case
Study of Tabasco" (Report 3087-ME), was circulated to the Executive
Directors on July 31, 1980.



- 13 -
Previous Urban Projects in Mexico
45.       The first urban project supported by the Bank in Mexico was the
Lazaro Cardenas Conurbation Development project (Loan No. 1554-ME of Sep-
tember 27, 1978). The Lazaro Cardenas project was an attempt to deal with a
variety of urban and regional development issues in a priority region which
had been the subject of other Bank-supported projects: the Las Truchas (SICARTSA)
steel project, the FERTIMEX fertilizer complex and, nearby, the Zihuatanejo-
Ixtapa tourism development project, which included an international airport.
The project includes shelter-related programs, credits for productive enter-
prises, river control works, rural feeder roads, and regional and project
preparation studies.
46.       During implementation, progress has been made towards reducing
subsidies in shelter programs by suitable changes in interest charges for
mortgages and in tariffs for services. The success of shelter programs has
led to their rapid expansion and has attracted the attention of sociologists
and experts in the country. A particularly successful component is the
self-help housing construction program, which is being implemented at a much
quicker pace than originally expected. Implementation of the other components
has been less satisfactory and accounting inadequacies in the construction
materials credit component have been detected and not yet resolved. Bank
disbursements are behind the original schedule by about one-and-one-half
years. The Government is now reviewing proposals for expediting the project.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Project History
47.       In the context of its new Law of Human Settlements and the National
Urban Development Plan, the Government of Mexico requested a Bank loan to
help finance the Second Urban and Regional Development Project in 1977 (see
Annex III). The project was appraised in June 1979, and reappraised in
February 1980 to review institutional arrangements. Negotiations were completed
in Washington, D.C. in March 1981. The Mexican negotiating team was led by
Mr. Rodrigo Sanchez (BANOBRAS). A Staff Appraisal Report, entitled Second
Urban and Regional Development Project, No. 2937-ME, dated April 24, 1981, is
being circulated separately to the Executive Directors.
Project Objectives and Components
48.       The project is a multisectoral approach to the more pressing problems
of the section of the Isthmus region extending along the Gulf of Mexico in the
three states of Chiapas, Tabasco and Veracruz. The main components are:
shelter-related programs; city-wide infrastructure, including water supply and
sewage disposal; municipal facilities (such as wholesale and retail markets,
refuse collection and slaughterhouses); support for employment-creating
productive activities (such as credit to artisans and small enterprises and
vocational training), and studies on ecological problems of the area and
orderly programming of future growth. Complementary works, such as river
control and drainage, rural feeder roads and transport infrastructure, as well
as special support for the agricultural sector, are under consideration by the



- 14 -
Government. The extraordinarily rapid pace of development of the oil and
petrochemical industries, and the sugar industry, have caused many ecological
problems in the region. The project would only improve the region's environ-
ment marginally, but would promote studies leading to more effective pollution
control programs in the respective states in the future. The major features
of the project are summarized in the Loan and Project Summary at the beginning
of this report.
49.       The institutional structure of the project is designed to enable
state and local authorities to participate in it and to take account of their
priorities. The participation of local authorities in the preparation and
implementation of this project would encourage the support necessary for
success and may provide an attractive model for future projects in other
regions in Mexico. Further details of the institutional aspects of the
project are presented in paras. 52 to 62.
Project Cost and Financing
50.       The total cost of the project is estimated at about US$468 million,
including contingencies and taxes. The proposed Bank loan of US$164 million
would finance the foreign exchange cost. The Government's contribution would
be US$275 million and the beneficiaries would finance the remaining US$29
million. The cost estimates of the various project components are detailed
in Annex IV and summarized in the Loan and Project Summary at the beginning
of this report.
51.       Costs are based on detailed designs for typical sub-projects in
each of the shelter-related programs, feasibility studies for a sample of the
city-wide infrastructure works, surveys of demand for productive credits, and
preliminary estimates for all other components. They are based on 1979 prices
plus price escalation, 1/ and include physical contingencies averaging 15
percent over the base prices. This level of contingencies is appropriate in
view of the simple nature of the works and the experience with similar works
in Mexico. Approximately 80 staff-months of consultant services are expected
to be required to carry out studies and support activities, at an estimated
base cost of US$70,000 per staff-year.
Execution and Administration
52.       The borrower would be BANOBRAS, to which counterpart funds would be
transferred by the Government except for the resources passed on to the project
institutions as Government grants. BANOBRAS would on-lend IBRD funds to the
various state and municipal implementing institutions according to procedures
and conditions agreed with Bank and to be included in subsidiary loan agree-
ments between BANOBRAS and these institutions. The conclusion of subsidiary
loan agreements, satisfactory to the Bank, between BANOBRAS and each project
institution would be a condition of disbursement for the respective project
1/   For local costs 30 percent in 1980, 25 percent in 1981, 20 percent
in 1982, 15 percent in 1983 and 12 percent in 1984 and 1985. For
foreign costs 12.5 percent in 1980, 9 percent in 1981, 8.5 percent
in 1982 and 7.5 percent through 1985.



- 15 -
component. It is expected that most of these agreements would be concluded by
July 31, 1981, except the agreements with the municipalities, which would be
concluded by December 31, 1981 (Section 3.01(b)(i) and Schedule 1, paragraph
4(d) of the draft Loan Agreement). All funds on-lent by BANOBRAS to state or
municipal agencies would be guaranteed by the corresponding states. Project
agreements would be signed between BANOBRAS and each State involved in the
project (Section 3.01(b)(ii) of the draft Loan Agreement). The conclusion
of at least one project agreement with a state and one subsidiary loan agreement
with a project institution in the state signing the project agreement are con-
ditions of loan effectiveness (Section 6.01 of the draft Loan Agreement).
53.       A federal interministerial committee for the project will be estab-
lished not later than June 30, 1981 to coordinate project related policy matters
(Section 4.03 of the draft Guarantee Agreement). BANOBRAS has established a
project unit in Mexico City responsible for supervising the implementation
of all project components and for following-up on any actions required to
correct difficulties. This unit will authorize all transfers of resources and
payments, and will be the contact agency for the Bank on all project-related
matters. The unit now has a director, a project engineer and a financial
administrator assigned full-time to the project. Assurances were obtained
during negotiations that the project unit would be staffed adequately at all
times (Section 3.02 of the draft Loan Agreement). In addition, the state
development and planning committees (COPLADEs) would coordinate and monitor
the progress of the parts of the project to be carried out in their respective
jurisdictions, and would be responsible for coordination with the federal and
state governments. 1/
54.       Each state actively participated in the definition of the scope and
of the composition of the project. This participation was extended to the
municipal and, where appropriate, community levels. Consistent with the
wishes of the present Government to delegate more responsibility to states and
municipalities, this project would be almost exclusively implemented by state
and municipal agencies (Schedule 2 of the draft Loan Agreement). However,
BANOBRAS would be directly responsible for the execution of parts of the
productive credits component as there are no appropriate local agencies in
this field. The water supply and sewerage works would be carried out by new
water supply and sewerage authorities through SAHOP. With these exceptions,
the main role assigned to federal agencies is to provide technical support,
and to generally supervise the execution of the works.
55.       Implementation of the shelter-related components would be the
responsibility of state housing institutes (Institutos). These institutes are
responsible for the provision of shelter to low-income groups and households
without regular incomes. Although originally established as local representa-
tives of a federal housing institute (INDECO), they have gradually become
executing agencies for state financed programs, presently operating with the
financial support and under the combined guidelines of both federal and state
1/   The representative of the Federal Secretariat of Programming and Budgeting
in each state is the technical secretary of the respective COPLADE. The
president of each COPLADE is the Governor of the state.



- 16 -
authorities. As part of the project, this evolution would be completed by
adjusting the official bylaws of each of the three Institutos (one in each
state) to make them clearly responsible to the respective state authorities.
The Institutos are presently funded exclusively through budgetary transfers;
however, in adjusting their bylaws, provisions have been made to allow them
to borrow funds from BANOBRAS. 1/ These measures are expected to increase
their effectiveness, make them more responsive to local needs and improve
their performance with respect to cost-recovery procedures.
56.       The water supply and sewerage component in the State of Tabasco and
in Reforma (State of Chiapas) would be implemented and operated by recently
created state-wide water authorities. In the Veracruz cities of Coatzacoalcos
and Minatitlan, these works would be implemented by a water authority covering
both municipalities. These authorities would contract sub-loans with BANOBRAS
and would be responsible for operating and administering systems and for
cost-recovery. The establishment of these authorities, under arrangements
satisfactory to the Bank, would be a condition of disbursement for the
water supply and sewerage component in the respective states (Schedule 1,
para. 4(b) of the draft Loan Agreement). In every case the respective works
would be designed and executed under the supervision of SAHOP according to
procedures already agreed between the Bank and SAHOP for the Bank-supported
Second Medium-Size Cities Water Supply and Sewerage Project. Feasibility
studies have been carried out for water supply works accounting for approxi-
mately 30 percent of the project's water supply and sewerage component.
Studies satisfactory to the Bank for at least 60 percent of the planned water
supply and sewerage works would be completed not later than January 31,
1982 and for the remainder of the works not later than January 31, 1983
(Section 3.03(a) of the draft Loan Agreement).
57.       The access roads for city-wide improvements would be implemented and
maintained by the municipalities, except in Reforma (Chiapas), where the
Instituto would be responsible for their implementation. The municipalities
would be responsible for the implementation, operation and maintenance of all
items included in the municipal facilities and services component (i.e.,
markets, slaughterhouses, and refuse collection and disposal), and would
assist the Institutos in the urban upgrading. Because of the serious manage-
ment and accounting deficiencies that prevail in most of the area's municipal-
ities, substantial technical assistance would be required to ensure their
proper and effective participation in the project; such assistance would be
arranged by BANOBRAS (see para. 61).
58.       Implementation of the productive credits and promotional programs
would be the responsibility of BANOBRAS and the Institutos. In the case
1/   The Institutos in Veracruz and Tabasco are already controlled by the
state and have legal capacity to borrow funds. The bylaws of the
Instituto in Chiapas would be amended, this modification being a
condition of disbursement for this component (Schedule 1, para. 4 (c)(ii)
of the draft Loan Agreement).



- 17 -
of credits to the formal sector 1/, BANOBRAS would promote, prepare and
provide credit for individual operations. A special unit has been created
within the BANOBRAS credit department for this purpose (Section 3.10 of the
draft Loan Agreement). Onlending terms (para 65) and other conditions of the
credit program, would be consistent with those used in the Lazaro Cardenas
Conurbation Development Project and are specified in Section 2.03 and Schedule
5 of the draft Loan Agreement. In the case of credits to artisans, the
promotion and preparation of credit requests would be handled by the Institutos,
while the formal processing of each credit would be done through commercial
banks. As a condition of disbursement, the Institutos would establish special
departments for handling the activities related to this project component
(Schedule 1, para. 4(c) of the draft Loan Agreement).
59.       The industrial estates would be developed under state trust funds.
Each trust would have a Technical Secretariat consisting of representatives of
the Federal Government, local municipalities and the privPte sector. Once the
final location of an estate had been selected, the site would be acquired by
the state and turned over to the new trust. Its Technical Secretariat would
then supervise the implementation of civil works, and promote and administer the
estate under procedures consistent with those applied under the Bank-supported
Small and Medium Scale Industrial Development Project. Feasibility studies
for all the industrial estates would be presented to the Bank for approval not
later than December 31, 1982 (Section 3.03(c) of the draft Loan Agreement).
60.       The assistance and promotional programs for productive activities
would be carried out by various agencies under the supervision and coordination
of the BANOBRAS project unit. The training center in Villahermosa would be
implemented and operated by the Productivity Center for the State of Tabasco
(CEPROTAB), a trust fund for the promotion of training activities in Tabasco.
61.       The program of studies and complementary support activities to the
various state and municipal agencies involved in the project would be carried
out, under the supervision and coordination of the BANOBRAS project unit, by
other public agencies and consultants, depending on the assistance required.
Assistance would be provided in two stages; the first would serve to define
the specific programs and schedule of actions required for each agency. An
implementation schedule for these studies would be prepared not later than
July 31, 1981 (Section 3.07 of the draft Loan Agreement). Consultants retained
to carry out studies and provide support activities, and their terms and
conditions of employment, would require Bank approval (Section 3.09 of the
draft Loan Agreement).
62.       Approximately 420 ha of land are required to implement the shelter-
related programs. Of these, about 174 ha were already the property of the
various Institutos 2/ as of March, 1980, and the rest (246 ha) still needed to
1/   Small scale enterprises in the formal sector are defined as those with
total assets of up to Mex$ 2.5 million (excluding land). Informal sector
enterprises (artisans) are those with assets of up to Mex$ 100,000
(excluding land).
2/   92 ha in the state of Tabasco, 44 ha in Veracruz, and all of the 38 ha
required in Reforma (Chiapas).



- 18 -
be purchased. The available land is sufficient to carry out a large part of
the planned program; no difficulties are envisaged in connection with the
purchase of the remaining land for the project.
Cost Recovery
63.       Major efforts were made during project preparation to establish cost
recovery standards and procedures that would ensure the feasibility of
carrying out urban projects that pay for themselves and are not a constant
drain on public resources. The bulk of project costs will be recovered
directly from beneficiaries through appropriate charges and tariffs. The
items for which less than full cost recovery would occur are: upgrading (75
percent recovery) community centers (60 percent recovery), and "other infra-
structure" (50 percent recovery). There would be no recovery in respect
of the training center, studies and complementary support activities. The
Government would cover the corresponding costs, about US$18 million equivalent,
through transfers to the respective implementing agencies (Section 2.02 of the
draft Guarantee Agreement).
64.       The estimated proportion of funds recovered from beneficiaries is
based on the experience of similar programs in Mexico, and additional assump-
tions regarding proposed changes in charges and tariffs. The lending rates
charged by BANOBRAS to the intermediaries (implementing agencies) as well as
the lending rates and other charges and tariffs to the final beneficiaries
would be consistent with those already in force in existing Bank-supported
projects: the Second Small and Medium Scale Industries Project, the Lazaro
Cardenas Conurbation Development Project, and the Second Medium-Size Cities
Water Supply and Sewerage Project.
65.       The loan terms for intermediary institutions and final beneficiaries
which will be included in the respective subsidiary loan agreements, are
summarized below:
A.   For Shelter Related Items                     Loan Terms/Service Charges
-  From BANOBRAS to the Institutos         15 years, at 10 percent per annum.
-  From the Institutos to final            15 years, at 15 percent per annum.
borrowers for home building,
improvement or serviced lots
B.   For Water Supply and Sewerage Works
-  From BANOBRAS to the water supply    15 years, including a grace period
and sewerage authorities                equalling the construction period
(or 3 and a half years, whichever is
shorter), at 9 percent per annum.
N.B.    The beneficiary households would pay charges that cover operation
and maintenance costs, and the larger of the debt service or depreciation
on revalued assets, plus working capital.



- 19 -
C.   For Other Infrastructure Works
-  From BANOBRAS to the Municipalities  5 years, including a grace period
and the Instituto of Chiapas           equal to the construction period,
at 18 percent per annum.
D.   For Municipal Facilities and Services
-  From BANOBRAS to the Municipalities  15 years, including a grace period
equal to the construction period,
at 16 percent per annum.
E.   For Productive Components
-  From BANOBRAS to the Institutos         15 years, at 10 percent per annum.
-  Artisan credit recipients               (a) for working capital: up to 3 years,
at 15 percent per annum.
(b) for fixed assets: up to 5 years,
at 15 percent per annum.
-  Small-scale enterprise credit          (a) for working capital: up to 3 years,
recipients                                  at an interest rate at least one
percentage point above the average
cost of term funds to multipurpose
banks over a twelve-month period. 1/
(b) for fixed assets: 5 years,
incuding 6 months of grace,
at the same interest rate as
loans for working capital.
Procurement and Disbursements
66.       All procurement would be in accordance with Bank guidelines.  The
preparation of tender documents and the award of individual contracts would be
the responsibility of the respective implementing agencies, under the supervi-
sion of the BANOBRAS project unit. This unit would also act as a liaison with
the Bank on all procurement matters.
67.       Civil works valued above US$2.5 million equivalent and equipment and
materials valued above US$500,000 equivalent would be contracted through
international competitive bidding. To facilitate the participation of inter-
national contractors, civil works would, as far as possible, be grouped into
contracts with a minimum value of US$2.5 million equivalent. Equipment and
materials would, as far as possible, be grouped into contracts having a
minimum value of US$500,000 equivalent so that they might be let under
international competitive bidding. Since most of the project components are
1/   The cost of term funds (ACF) is published monthly by the Central Bank.
It is calculated as the weighted average of interest rates paid on
bonds, notes and certificates of deposit. The ACF for the twelve months
period ending March 31, 1981 was 22.59 percent



- 20 -
relatively small and are geographically scattered, foreign contractors are not
expected to participate in many of them. The Mexican contracting industry is
capable of undertaking all types of civil works at competitive prices; bids
from non-Mexican firms are rarely submitted for such works. About US$50
million equivalent of civil works and equipment contracts--mostly related to
water supply and sewerage works -- are expected to be awarded through inter-
national competitive bidding.
68.       Local competitive bidding under procedures acceptable to the Bank
would be accepted for civil works contracts with values between US$250,000 and
US$2.5 million equivalent, and for contracts for equipment and materials
valued between US$150,000 and US$500,000 equivalent. Civil works and equip-
ment and materials for less than the above minima and up to an aggregate
limit of US$50 million would be contracted directly through local shopping
based on at least three quotations in each case.
69.       The Bank would reimburse:
(a) 32 percent of total civil works costs (including the costs of
engineering, promotion activities and supervision) except for
water supply and sewerage works;
(b) 45 percent of civil works, equipment and consultant services
for the water supply and sewerage component;
(c) 26 percent of construction material loans;
(d) 55 percent of productive credits;
(e) 100 percent of foreign expenditures for equipment and vehicles,
or 50 percent of total expenditures if such items are locally
procured, except as specified in (b) above; and
(f) 100 percent of expenditures for consultants, or 50 percent of
other expenditures associated with the promotion of Productive
Activities or with the Studies and Support Activities Programs.
Overall, the Bank would be reimbursing the estimated foreign costs
of expenditures.
70.       A total of up to US$5.0 million would be available for retroactive
financing of project expenditures incurred after January 1, 1980 (Schedule 1,
para. 4(a) of the draft Loan Agreement). These funds would be required for
partial payment of works and preparatory studies already begun or carried out
by Mexican institutions in anticipation of loan approval, including two sites
and services projects in Villahermosa and Coatzacoalcos, preparatory studies
for shelter-related water and sewerage works, and some upgrading.
71.       Disbursements would be fully documented for most civil works.  State-
ments of expenditures would be used only for construction material credits, home
improvement loans, productive credits and minor expenditures under the studies
and support activities program. All expenditures would be independently



- 21 -
audited. BANOBRAS would process all required documents through its project
unit, and forward them to the Bank with corresponding withdrawal applications.
The closing date of the loan would be December 31, 1986.
Project Benefits and Justification
72.       The principal benefits would be (a) promotion of the Government's
spatial strategy and support for investments in one of its most important
growth regions; (b) the establishment of mechanisms to implement, finance and
operate urban and regional development programs with the active participation
of state, municipal and community organizations; (c) improvements in the
backward and forward linkages between the rapidly growing oil sector and
the regional economy; (d) improvements in the level of shelter and of other
urban infrastructure, as well as in basic urban services, which will have an
important impact on health, environment and living standards in the region;
and (e) better cost-recovery and replicability procedures for shelter and
basic urban services programs through the establishment of proper management
and financial procedures. The project would directly benefit about 95,000
households (or over half a million people), of which about 19,000 households
would benefit from sites and services and construction material credits;
20,000 households from various urban upgrading and home improvement schemes;
and another 55,000 households from city-wide infrastructure works. Many of
these and other households would also benefit from community-wide health
programs, training and new job opportunities.
73.       An economic rate of return was calculated for components accounting
for about 83 percent of total project costs. These include sites and services,
urban upgrading, the materials credit program, community centers, and city-wide
infrastructure works. Productive activities, municipal facilities, studies
and support activities were excluded because of the difficulty of quantifying
their benefits. Assuming a project life of thirty years, the internal
economic rate of return (IERR) of the project is about 14 percent. The IERR
associated with various sub-components along with a summary of the sensitivity
analysis is presented below:
IERR
(percent)
Sites and Services (including shelter)                       13
Urban Upgrading                                              21
Home improvement loans                                       31
City-wide infrastructure                                     11
Sensitivity
Project (Base Case)                                          14
All costs increased 15 percent                               12
All benefits decreased 15 percent                            11
All benefits slipping 1 year                                 12
All benefits slipping 2 years                                10
All benefits slipping 3 years                                 9
74.       There would be significant direct and indirect employment benefits.
During Droject implementation, the sites and services component and the other
shelter-related programs would generate approximately 13,600 man-years of



- 22 -
employment, and the city-wide infrastructure works would create another
6,000 man-years. The employment effect of the credit program and related
activities is expected to be of the order of 4,800 new permanent jobs, and as
the economic effects of the first round of employment are felt, it is expected
that the project could generate many more additional jobs.
Risks
75.       The institutional risks associated with a multi-sector and multi-city
project are higher than those of a simpler project involving only a single
sector or a smaller number of institutions. The most serious risks are delays
in improving the ability of project institutions to cope with new or expanded
tasks.
76.       The issues which may adversely affect implementation are:  (a)
the complexity of the program and the relatively large number of cities and
towns included; (b) the newness of the water supply and sewerage institutions
could affect their effectiveness in the initial stages; (c) the limited
experience of the institutions handling the productive credit component
(BANOBRAS and the Institutos). Also, the success of the productive activities
component partly depends on the amount of promotion provided to this program;
failure to carry-out effectively such promotion would reduce the pace of
implementation. Although demand has been estimated conservatively and no
reductions in the program funds are expected to be necessary, slippages in
disbursements could occur.
77.       Efforts have been made to minimize these risks during the process of
project preparation. The project unit in BANOBRAS, already established, is
expected to play an important role in the supervision of project implementation.
Disbursements of some components have been made conditional on the satisfactory
implementation of the pending institutional changes. On the whole, the risks,
though considerable, are justifiable because of the contribution of the
project to the development of a region with unusual opportunities and the
favorable impact it would have on the Government's policy of decentralizing
planning and financial responsibilities to state and municipal authorities.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
78.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and BANOBRAS, the draft
Guarantee Agreement between the United Mexican States and the Bank, and the
Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4(iii) of the
Articles of Agreement, are being distributed to the Executive Directors
separately. Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III
of Annex III. The following features are of particular interest:
(a) Additional conditions of effectiveness would be the conclusion
of (i) one of the project agreements between the Borrower and one of
the states; and (ii) one of the subsidiary loan agreements with a
project institution within the same state (Section 6.01 of the draft
Loan Agreement).



- 23 -
(b) Conditions of disbursement include:
(i) for expenditures made by any project institution, the
conclusion of a subsidiary loan agreement satisfactory to
the Bank between BANOBRAS and such institution (Schedule 1
to the draft Loan Agreement, paragraph 4(d));
(ii)  for expenditures made for water supply and sewerage works, the
creation of a water supply and sewerage authority (Schedule I
to the draft Loan Agreement, paragraph 4(b)); and
(iii) for expenditures made by an Instituto in respect of sub-loans
to artisans as referred to in paragraph 58 of this Report, the
establishment of a credit promotion and administration depart-
ment in the respective Instituto. (Schedule I to the draft
Loan Agreement paragraph 4(c)).
79.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATIONS
80.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
April 23, 1981



- 24 -
ANNEX I
TABLE 3A                                            Page  1  of  5
MEXICO - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
MEX7CO                       REFERENCE GROUPS (WEICHTED AVEP.AGES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ.  M)                                                         - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
TOTAL           1972.5
AGRICULTURAL     977.2                                 MOST RECENT             MIDDLE INCOME            M!IDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b    LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN           EUROPE
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)                  400.0        750.0    1590.0               1562.9                    2749.5
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)      770.0      1047.0    1384.0                1055.9                    1641.4
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, HID-YEAR (MILLIONS)      36.4        50.3      65.4
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 51.0         59.0       65.2                 63.4                      53.9
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                      116.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                        205.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                  2075
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. 10.                        18.0        26.0      33.0                  28. 1                     77.2
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND      36.0        52.0      67.0                  81.7                     129.5
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                          45.6        46.5      45.6                  41.4                      30.6
15-64 YRS.                          51.0        50.0      50.9                  54. 7                     61. 1
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                    3.4         3.5       3.5                   3.9                       8.2
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               3.1         3. 3       3.3                  2.7                       1.6
URBAN                               5.0         4.8       4.6                   4.1                       3. 3
CRUDE BIRTH PATE (PER THOUSAND)      45.0        42.0      38.0                  34.8                      22.8
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      12.0         9.0       8.0                   8.9                       8.9
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               3.2         3.1       3.0                   2.5                       1.5
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)        ..        25.1     845. 7
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)   ..            ..      21.0
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)           97.0       100.0     101.0                 106.9                     113.1
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIRFMENTS)                   110.0       112.0     114.0                 107.4                     125.3
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)           65.0        66.0      66.0                  65.6                      91.0
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE        27.0        27.0      27.0                  33. 7                     39.6
CHILD (AGES 1-4) tMORTALITY RATE     14.0         9.8       6.0                   8.4                       4.3
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    58.0         62.4      65. 0                 63. 1                     67.e
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
TEOUSAND)                            78.0        74.0      60.0                  66.5                      55.9
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                *         54.0      62.0                  65.9
URBAN                                ..        71.0      70.0                  80.4
RURAL                                ..        29.0      49.0                  44.0
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..          ..        ..                  62.3
URBAN                               ..           ..        ..                  79. 4
RURAL                               *-         13.0      14.0                  29.6
POPULATION PER PHYSICLAN           1700.0      1481.0    1815.0                1849.2                    1030.1
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON          ..      1613.0    1398.0                1227.2                     929.4
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                             617.0       831.0     851.0                 480.3                     289.7
ORBAN                                ..       549. 0    758. 0
RURAL                               ..       1289.0    1077.0
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED            ..          ..        ..                    ..                      17.0
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                               5.4         5. 7
URBAN                               5. 7        5.7
RURAL                               5. 2        5. 8
AVERAGE N!MBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                               2. 9        2. 5
URBAN                               2.6         2.2
RURAL                               3. 4        3.2
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                               ..         59.0
URBAN                                ..        80. 7
RURAL                                *         28. 0



ANNEX I
- 25 -                                       Page 2 of 5
TABLE 3A
MEXICO - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
MEXICO                      REFERENCE GROUPS (IEIGHTED AVERAES
- POST RECENT ESTIMATE)
MOST RECENT            MIDDLE INCQYE          MIDDLE INCOME
1960  lb   1970 /b ESTIMATE fb   LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN          EUROPE
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:    TOTAL                 80.0       104.0    116.0                  99.7                   105.9
MALE                 82.0       107.0    119.6                 101.0                   109.3
FEMALE               77.0       102.0    114.0                  99.4                   103.0
SECONDARY:  TOTAL                 11.0        22.0      39.0                 34.4                    64.0
HALE                 14.0        27.0      42.0                 33.5                    71. 1
FEHALE                8.0        17.0      36.0                 34.7                    56.9
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (T OF SECONDARY) 24.0         24.0       ..                  38.2                    28.8
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                           44.0        46.0      46.0                 30.5                    29.4
SECONDARY                         13.0        14.0      17.0                 14.5                    26.1
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)       65.0        74.0      76.0                 76. 3
CONSUMPTION
PASSENCER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                        14.0        24.0      42.4                 43.0                    84.6
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                        91.0       278.0    306.0                 245.3                   192.2
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                        18.0        60.0      85.0                 84.2                   118.5
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                 79.0         ..        ..                  63. 3                   93. 0
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA 10.0         5.0       4.2                  ..                     5. 7
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)   10993.0    14493.5  18951.2
FEMALE (PERCENT)                  15.2        17.4      19.0                 22.2                    30.4
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)             55.1        45.0      39.0                 37.1                    37.0
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                19.5        23.0      26.0                 23.5                    29.3
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               30.2        28.8      28.8                 31.5                    40.9
MALE                                51.1        47.4      46.8                 48.9                    55.9
FEM.ALE                              9.2        10.1      10.7                 14.0                    26.2
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO              1.6         1.7       1.7                  1.4                     1.0
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..          ..
HICHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  61.'l/      60.7      57.7
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    3.4/c       3.3       2.9
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    9. 8/c      9.9       9.9
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                              ..          ..      270.0
RURAL                              ..          ..      216.0                190.8.
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                              ..          ..      332.0                474.0
RURAL                              ..          ..      332.0                332.5                   385.8
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                              ..          ..
RURAL                              ..          ..
Not available
Not applicable.
NCTES
/a  The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means. Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of date and is not uniform.
Lb   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estisate, between 1974 and 1978.
/c  1963.
Most recent estimate of GNP per capita is for 1979, all other data are aa of April, 1980.
October, 1980



- 26 -                                                                       ANNX I
Page 3 of 5
DEFINITIONS CF SOIAoL INDICATORS
N-te:  Although the data ar  d-a  fro, souce  generall1y judged the moat authoritative nd rlae,it  ho-ld also be soted that they may sot be ltte-
cactioe.llytonp-rsla  heca.se Ifthe lack of staudardioed defioitions and .....ePt. aned hy diff--e toastries Is os11-oiag the dana.  The data are,se-
theless.  -enI to desorth  order  of na td,indictet treads, and oharareteeterr - is  -aJo, differ--e  berserosrres
ma  eteest  grup,art(1  the same ouotY grouP of the euhi sot country ned (2) a countrY grop  ith somehat high- -cavrge inc-   than the cooney geese
tof th   ujeccooe        tecp   for  'Cainn    urplue Oill Epotters   grop shee   Mide             -om   North Africa und Middle taut' is titans be.sase of stronge
soi-utualff'icioie)    In the referenc  getu..p data the averges are populatio  wegted arithei eefonahndctrndhnnnlwent
least hal  of the  onre   nagophsdt   o  tht  sictr.oeth                                  ioveag  of! -ooresaogth   rcarefeenso   ieaalbiiys
data acd Is  ot usiform,  aution suns  e easesised  o relatiog aerages of us  lodicator t  a...her.fThse averagestra onlyhuseflhis..o-p..iggcbs vaLIs
of one  odloato-  an a time  e.os  the  -outey sod ef-seenti grop.                                                                              flt.--lblt
CAll aRIA  (thousand 1aqi..us.)                     u.-d -.-                           'eruLati-a rat Physiotan - PoPulation dlivd  by a            Inaro  peotiva   phy
Aglutcl -initeoagout uolae   sdtnepoearily or pe-msetly                            Poufu prNusn  Psa                 t I Pshpula   t dividsd by  1e-beafpesiom
forcrPs, Pastures, sacht and birches gard-n  ortIie fulle; 1977 dayta,                     al and femal  grafduate sores .1PeIotirl noosesd b sad asitn    aas
IMP  P tCAPTA  ii)  -GNP prcptesntsencretmrepioa   a                                      uhs,odra)dvddhytheir P-petieseas  -d beptal d
ou1atnd hy sam    --oacicemthda  Worl  BakAisPI"-I:.i);ui,                                    aviei   ispbi   n   ovt  gnrledseilsa   saia   a   s
lENtilY CiONSUMPTIONS Pit CAPITA - dnos  ooeoptioe of  -owaocia  ergy (caPrthaeno                                    .'eae.  Rua  batspita-e, bP,es dig inclad  humle  and ndl
sadligit, ptroeu, tturl  as  nd  ydo-,ausea  en  gethrma  elt-      teser  scp - tsaaly statfa-d by * Pbysiois  (hbn by a mdical  _aalen,-
tri,ty)i  klgrm   ofca   qiaetyrpita; 1961, 1970, mad 19798as,ndie   t.   bo  ofrt-aia    eed e   andt preside a
dove,                                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~limited range of -edisa1 facilities  e   tstaietiesi P,.".saha    eai
POPIJkIOAtN AND) VITAL ITATISTICS                                                               taeicue"t0 esia  gnriadaereia    aeta                                       . n   na
Toa   ouato,MdYar(ilos  - As of July 1: 1969, 1970, sod 1979                               idisoe_a epsa   e     Ttlsbr  feeatu   oe  dsbem
data,                                                                                        from. .L  .to   o~I       t.o   t.    .   .PI,.;t   hespitajs divided by the  -b-he  of bade.
tdiff-Ppu fotio(ctieut of -bosal). - Mroo   rs   o  oa   ouai
difreedfiiioeo         7uie  ra   tayffect o-m-arbillty of data                     HOUSING
-neg iusrte; 1960, 1970, and 189dat.Aveaelcoffoshdlesosnrbuhod-tnl,ra,sds                                                                                               -
Population Pro actions                  A..                                               b.. d  . 180houhsIod roma-ine  of a geucP at iadividal  eke share living qagrtme
Poplatetis  ear201 -Curea  poulaie  pejeoios eg bse  as196           ed thir _is meals.  A b-ede- or lodger nay or nay mat ha ildd L.
total population by age Aad sea end t.isi   motality and fertility rtes,.                the.oseod.o.         saisial.,pae
PrIvtspseanete.. for mota.lity fates comprise of thes   eesaem                    vcnenne   fproert  g,-ttl   ra.ma   ua       vrg   en
i- ueeseraY at birch is-esefg with sosr'   a   sig   noe                         hro    ereepecoIallsi,enrelespidtnaina
Ine,cdfemLe life e-Peotency aaillinin   at 77.0 year.  ThbPrn                      dteig,   rsetv ly. lwlicsenld  nsp-nnetsrutre   a
lecihtry  according .s igca   lvlndpser family planotg perorane.                       icee  t   ticecr   trss-fdelng)-tnl-eie   m   ua 
_ad  countr  iste  an a  one of tinenneceinatios  of..A motaiy.ooetionEl  dtel-itogs                                      o wis  st liaty )  te livin    qnee  se. p-ramla
ad irulity trends f cc peojesie  purpse,                                             o   oa,  ra,adiua   eelsg apriey
mains coosteol.  This is achievad only after fertility  ratne daclins so  Idjoaned inrollmnotrd Macice.~ilh  I.t,
tie rpleceeuc  evel  f unt setyeptsta    as   hnmo gPsenie                        pimaytohsi- rre. al  gd- tale  - t. .irse  aal   al   adfel
of,  mtrplcsislhe,ty    hesaimr  poplaton   ls  was .                                       eof  len   of-,  . sld -g-1a  the pimay Leve  as pqrmaa   feemem
is. tpie  ea=ltN  an inrt  of           y de ftmeo  fertilitY rtst. to i. te te-            yerU   u   dutdfrdfeetlegh   fpiaysaim   e
11  h, y:~~- 2000, ad th. t.t. of d-t'd  h-proidesigeneral,.vocationl, ar.tearbar training"lotrdctilme-feef papi
total area. ~       ~          Ii    ff-,,y  ..t   . ,-                                                  ;j   h.pit  1 1              Pt't:   f-             t.
only.                                                                   Vocational eaeolieenr leersent ef snocadery)  - yacariemel piPinselthatiogma- -11y 
ii ynrs7, ad rtird  (h  yers  ad oer)as prtsstaes a  ni-yer pYa-        enn   or a depatmetsd     o dff  ereedaryh institutionst.       -   f.
h.is;1.,  90  and 1978 d     ata,             -Pattpuylop1.i                               o ~  -rea  ite raio-- reima .. and. secondar    -y Total acnant  enoledt
kaioa  o  197-il.  P9i-7.i.. and  q97 -7g                                                aslape.nag    f  oa  adultpopuatio  age  15 yersaneer
CrudelBirth Rate hectthosofod) - dasu..lire birthsoper  housand of mid-yea
poysleioc; ihi, 19t, nsf197B Pdta  .                                          Cogfgiupg-llpd-ndong.    ...  -A                             .
CrudeloathRate(one hosnd) -Amahildsatb  perthosan  ef mid-yesc                   Pasnedae(erscsn   ouaio)-Psegrcastnes )s
poultin;19),190,ad 1978 d   -das                                                      tas  earig  ee  taneihtpoeoa  ,edueeyaa-noepberen-a
icP   oraP    rpodcivleeetiibsepeintsprsstae-pcii  fee-tRadio l t                                      -nvr  one p.thousand   -pu datioy i-tAlltypaao   ealesforen.
cultP es1tee;. usually O~60 fieyera96   ge0    nig  a160797,ad  97                         hradc ts tog-ri          pbirprtasn  o   oaaimdaeun mi
FamilyPiasnig - Aceptors tAgnu     - (cosAde l  .-hdaa   ubro  acoep- t to          csad idiveni  countrie  sd Isyid            ce whn  sgittlla   o  rdi  in
taunt ofchild-botiog ag  (1)-u  yars) wh  use h bit-tetrof device prpc       T .-ooie  peri ho-usd   erlain)-Trcevr  farf .e.nd-nLr to
alld  maried Rt tomes   h in . de ag  grup                                                   geerlt  pubicperchusadyopleito;t ealdest osbiastmed TM r_ivt.e
fOil APP NIJTRCTIli-biOt. P                                                               isth....tdrios andP int.   totcI thent PrPgIstiatto . of TP set  m    n d fen
CtP-P-I-ti--; 1960, 1 70.~Morao Crulton(ercosmd orltio   -Bsosth   veae  loua
Lodgeo   oo      dotp    -erCpt (199-1d.4th). -h ..oden   of pe  c itadn-                      lto   dal   oea   nesr   esae"   e  e   u-                      sldclpb
prlcic   fat  edrsoiie    Poorioetudeea  adfed  c                                     itto    evtdpimrl   o  eodi197rn   es   I  ntsuima
itorclcot  yea  isi.Cmoliaovepimrhod   eg   uaom                                     s   e"al"i  tepao  tlatfn   is       ek
per dy."  .va..eley supie   omre  d_ere   rdcto,iporos lesslTtalLao Pot  cosod)-Ooe:alysrv    eeoeInld
qosoticion  sad in foo  p   -crslg  andi   L190 1emsinditrbuio, Reqir-            OUdiiocssL is - ear       ... loa  oapias are- set co parable  1969, 197- andId
vity  nd helth cosldeiog erirooesrotesepeatLf.dyI body wigitP,.age         Pe.a. (ptcot  - Pma                i          -e frtpe pro tege of rura  oafu  foe.
se   upl   f  odpeiap.d            spl  ofg 9 P   fodis dhfit-d me shov.  is-            and  flcecly    aersdgsbepreuoet1ttllao   aeeh9
quireootofor  ll cesseis esablihed b  INO  proide 1or muimu        197  anP178d ta  ..  dIP-t  -T                   .. y.ftbr:d..t t
yalce protelo  of which 11gra  aboald  - Idge  pofrPte.   These. stand       activity-   e ltieare copu tedestoal  mal, Snd   al  teho             g t  i-lan
maimal  rettoas en  verage  ee theomeld,proposd. by d PA d in . thTid        1960,i. 1970, and ..1975 dt.-Thee  mnPtl    arapte   terms enflpil
Worl  Ped l     ivey   196 -hi,197  .m 197  data.t                                 ag-ecsrutreo  tepeuato,an_on   im   redIAfw  a
Per.. faOapoensrl  rmeae   u  ues-Poenspl   ffo   e                                          ae   r  tee -na inlY tee             dirres.i-.
rialfrm   tial hsdpus  in ._ g -ats pe  da;  96-6,i 97  sdt97 C.    .f.    dat.    Ecnmi. eeoenyMai    Mai  of -poultio  aee1 a-                          )sa.na
Chil (nos 1-A.d) MorAlityMte leerdrhaiead            -     ttunona b.deetCf pee-.IhAtianl Is   to the roto..ldlaborhfo-tm.
ate gr.. 1 -A9 yeodr.. to chidren  ishthi.g;      gop  0 or sags developing coun-h.  .at
tries deco detred from  ife ishue; 1960,  1970 esd 197   dots.               nCiod 0lTbil. .tl    .iped.    -.lo.t  di.
i. ..-ty P-..Pit      LABO  pIIErcn,rcet2   eon,poet2   ecn.edpoatI otn
life Ma       h pocLaprt atpBirth (years)i - Average tankerhc..years.ci lifet ilmaltisepof.households.
athit  190  1970i and                                                                                     ti       -ot1978 date90.  97   .
isct  oclirMted ieetoAm d)  - dahui duache of d if..o under a.te yea                 979n  .t..O IciP
pereotgesof  hei   sPsop~  poplaton, In gc urba P         rapilsMrl  eaie   oetyipn  lvlitestie   fafe ie  a  t
hoa.tai hord   -1tn 6p1e 6 loao   set0 sac  than"d                                                                 L. tr   fo      osesti  p... scm    tth   on . Bran  ee   sdrvdio   h   ua
cooaldrrd Osbeing  ltisiereseenble arsas ofthat. hone.  I   ualnss                e oiti-adjustment  tee bl1ame sour.1 living An9urban n97ne,,
esosoohie acess woli imly rhs ohs  ensewf.. a o dnaino  fd h  hoseolbttia-d Rplaio  oLot Abso Lut Povant Isean .e.. t                        evereer) - aebm
do st hvetof speed  oatdiapeopoti liaba  byr ofD eke        idayi  ferhi. hean  rura  -tt Pr test of d pop.-i   (uba  end rural  whobmr f.btlans 19 n".
la.iy seater needs.978_d_t__
Ait.as  as  Leoenas o f hh  0z theI  enec biv   pouaionep-.iOnc teta die                                                 Ectngl -i.d i a fae iriio
pom1ma  orud   hecelrncaen   iesul  wthoiwtbu  Threatmeoe,~t Eroui Analysi  sad,  Pfjsin-                                                             Pcenm
ofd hu.mo  nocth  a  ists-water 7 by  anr-of ote eytemi cd ohs seeof                                                                      Osofe 1990       .f.t
pit  r1i  sod sim:lar -loaralfletihn.  -A   rp..db   A   .t. id                           p.tg.o   ol    1    Af 1:PPIt.                             1   S.tpt-



- 27 -
Page 4 of 5
MEXTCO - ECONC011C DEVELOPMENT 1ATA SMEET
Prellstlanyr
Actual                               E.tiLotes           pt- cottons                      Craa,h RCa.s                             As 7. af GDY
1970         1975         1977         1978         1979         1990          1982        1985         0970-75       1975-87 1/   1980-85 1/      1970       1979       1985
R0TIOAL ACCO8TS                                        Cnstant 71972 Pri-ce, 7S1 Millioua
Groas -Doo-tic Product                     36,970.4    48,509.5      50,968.4      54,434.8    58,786.6      63,214.8     73,655.4     93,835.3          5.6           5,6          8.2           100.3       97.3       90.2
Cott iconl  T-noa  f Toad.                  - 114.1        355.1         316.4       '44.0       1.6570.1     4,103.5      7,514.1    '10,053.0                               -                   - 8.3        2.7        9.8
Grosa lo is   coron                        36.856,3     40,064.6     51,284.8     54,978.8    60 436.3       67,388.3     81,163    104 08. 3            5.8           6.6          8.9           180.0      100.0      100.0
Coponta (including 0701                     3,754.4      5,835.6      4,702.0      6,475.3       8,544.0     11,724.3     16,516.0     21,575.3         9.2           15.7         11.5           10.0        14.1       20.7
OXpocca 7iaponn  ,apecitt)                  3,016.6      4,9 2        4,7317        41170        7,623.7     10 610.2     15,099.9     19,790.7         6.4          20.7          18.2                       126        19.8
Caaoonoe Cap                      ~~~~~~     ~~~~~~~737.8  1,726.4  305   358.2        920.8      1,114.1      141 8,1       1,778.6        18.4         -0.3           17.4           82.0        1.5        1.7
C    Dmeontl                               30,425.4     40,064 3     41,91.7       44,4 7 1     48,532 2     33,4127      61 8722      82 015.2 7       5.             6.0          9.0           182         6          78.8
uonoauueot                  7,188.7     4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0,526.7  9,398.8    j10,79.9  12,,825.3  15,088.7  1,67.4   23,852,7          8,0           7.8          9..3          19.5        21.2       22.8
Gboss D-istic Sa-ioga                       6,430.9      8,800.2      9,368.3      10 521.7    11,904.5      13,975.6    17,449.3      22,073.1          6.5           9.6          8.0            17.4       19.7       21.2
Croso Nat-oual Saninga                      5,995.3      7,701.7       0,275.1      9,236.4    10,230.7      12,167.2     15,645.2     20,040.9          5.1           9.4          9.7            16.3       16.9       19.3
TRADE IN GOODS AND 070                                    Cu.-ant Ilinoa, US$ Mltlions                                                                                                                      As 77 af Tota1
IsPORTS, TOTAL                                 3,416.9      S,636.9      7,845.1     11,560.9      17,129.7     26,732,8     44.506.8    71,176.9         20.4           26.2         21.0          180.0       100.0      100.0
Food  27                                        74.6       499.1        475.1         550.2        659.2      1,080.4      1,275.4      2,028.7         -             21.7         04.9             2.2        3.8        2.8
Petoloo a-ud n-ducta                            35,0       269.1        107.5        1730.3        268,1        306.4        306.5        448.6        50 .4           71           7.7            1.0         1.6        0.6
othn GCood2                                  ,2242.6     5,845,6      33281         7,583.7    11,717.2      18,380.3     30,662.4     488 3           20 3           25 .7        206            63.6        68.4      :8:66
Coo=-atton Servicea                          1 064.7     2,022.9      1,934.3       3,248.8      4,485.2      6,963.8     12,202.7     19,859.6        13.7           28.0         22.5           31.2        26.2       27.9
EXPORTS, TVOCAL                                 2,745.4     6,D01.7      7795.1    10 91.5         15,203.4     24,1_92.6    40,6859      65,305.9        17.2          31.7          20.8          120.0       100.0      100.0
Selenad Agnicolcunal Gode                     021.2       814.0      1,439.1        9          2,282.3       3,551.      .0 9          4,009.8         5.8           ST            8.5           22.6        15.0        6.1
Palno-o-  aud pnodoo-                           38 .4      460.1      1,029.4      1,793.3      3,788.3      10,977.8     20,:19'7.9   38,:80895.5     64.3           87,9         296 .6          1,4       24.:9       59.5
YlectaLd Mlenal,l                              244.3       423.4        444.9        548.8         952.2      1,095.2      1,343.6      1,8440        11.6           23 2         11.8            8 9        8 3         2.8
eraoufacconae                                  443.9     1,069.3       1,611.0      2,143.6      2,372.6      2,728.9      3,514.1      3,259.9        19.2           22.3         14.1           16.2        15.6        8.1
Othenlod,                                        -         36.0           79.                       23.6          -.--.,,                                                                                      .-
Ntn7f-- S-la                                 1,397.7     3,077.2      3,090.8      4,461.1      3,780.3       7,038.8      9,606.3     15,306.5        17.1          19.0          16.7           50.9        38.0       23.4
TRADEIND070041                                              Aurcaga 72-100
E pont Ptice ICddx                              80.1       162.0        173.8        196.0        254.5        375.9         536.3-/      684,4        13.0          17,4          11.8
Itopot Proic  Index                             91.0       148.0        164.0        178.5        199.4        228.0         269.4        329,9        10.2           9.1           7,6
TCoon ef Trade                                  96.8       109.5        107.1        109.8        127.6         164.8        19981        207.4         2.5           7.5           4.0
VALUE ADDED BY SECRTO                                       Ccaatert 1972 Ilicaa, 0S$ Millie=a                                                                                                              A. .  of Tanel
fninary                                      4,136.0     4,480.9      4,769.6      4,946.8      4,922.1       5,020.4      5,326.1      5,819.9         1.6           2.3           3.0           11,2        8.4        6.2
eooiday                                     12,400.0    16,930.9     16,230.3     20026,2      21,963.9     24:.160,3     29,234.0     38,910.0         8.:47.10038                                          3,4          15
Taidny                                      20,426.4   270,73.9      27,962.6     29,461.9     31,900.7     34,034.0      39,093.3     48 ,13,0         3.8           4,8           7.6           55.2       54.3        52.3
Total G0                                    36,970.4   48,509.5    50,968.4    54,434.8    58,786.6         63,214,9      73,655.4    93 835.3          5.6           5.6           8.2          100.0      100.0       100.8
CONOOLIDATED P70LIC0 SCTO  18I5ANC80                                                                                                                                                                       As X  f  GDP
Concert Receipta                             5,450.4     0,126.6    10,274.0      12,051,0      13,467.3     15,828.7    28,887.7      27,314.3        10,9           11,7         08.9           04.0        22.3       26.2
Connau  stpeodit-to                          3,008.4     8,646.3      8,907         10,02.5     11,631.5     12,463,0     14,802.9     10,3721.8       17.:2           7.5          8.5           100.6       17.6       08.8
Poblite  saireg                               , 332.0      480.3      8  0         1,869.2      2,035.8       3,307 6      5 984 7      7 742.4       _287           46,32 15.4                    422        4.7         7.4
lanasneent                                   2,098,4     4,723.4      4,202,0      5,212,6      6,822.4      8,278,9    10,534.1       12,885,9        16.3          12.4           8.8            6.0       11,3        12.4
Daficit (nat)                                  666.4     4,243.1      2,907.9      3,343.3      3,986.6      4,919.2       4,549.3      0,143.4        44.8           2.9           2.5            1.8        6.6        4.9
ALLOCATION OF GROSS FUBLIC SECTOR                                                                                                                                      1975-79
ORE7ICE                                                                                                                                                                                               A8 . of Total
CRnr-y                                                5,369.1      6,474.1      7,736.9      10,549.5       0.3,                                                   18,4                                   33.3
Tran,pert and Co- -...caloea                          1,75021      l7503, 3     1,537,4       1.473.2        ae                                                    -8. 4                                   464
Sp:oa  OnCanef.l                                      4,221.       4,602,1      4,771,8      3,338.1        n.e                                                     0,                                    16.9
lodastOr                                              1,640.0      1,455.6      1 392.4       1,828.3       a.a,                                                    2.I                                    5.
Agfloolt-fa aod Rura1 Dasa1rpRan-                     1,977.1      1,617.5      1,562.7       1,474.3       0,.                                                    -7,1                                     4.7
GC:nanl Adui=itratio= aed Defence                     3290.8      53 160.8      5,552.2       9,384,2       0.8,                                                   29.9                                   29.6
C - anca                                              1,531.7      1,436.9      1,785.2       1,644.0       nn.                                                    -LY                                      5.2
Te.ntan                                                  63,2         73.5         5330          60 .0      n..-1,8                                                                                         0.2
CoT_l                                                19,8439      22,323.7     24,3925       3063.0         na                                                      2.4                                  700.0
DOGh35TIC PRICES
Gerni. a Poice Inden  1972 - 110             90.4       162.0        261.4        306.5         365.1        464.2
E-charga Rlte                                12.5        12.5         22.6         22.8          22.0         22.9
SLECTED InICAMM                                                                                                      -       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Period Averge
0SXLXCTYD IRDICATOR54                                                                                                                                   P1971-7      1975-80      1980-85
200R                                             2,62        3.60         6.94         2.71         2.50          2.90         3.21         3.01        3.98          3.66          3.06
ICpont Ol-atitity                                2.60        0,60        -4.63         5.20         4.00          4.90         2.00         1.00        1.64           2.8D         1.50
in-g1Ral Sauioge Ratio                           2.61        0.23         0.18          0.28         0.20         0,28         0.13         0.20        0.16           0.24         0.20
Vel1a Added pen W-ke- 81972 Pi.es)
Is Milliorn   Ae % of Tonal       1960-1970                                                   %7 at A-daneg
LABOR FO0CE AND OTPUT PRX WOOCER              1960   1970   1960     1970       Growth Ratr                       1968         1970         1968         1970         Gralth Rate
Agricultur:                                 5,4    5.1   50.5    39.2            -0.6                          608.0       811,0          34.7         33.0             4.4
Indoetry                        ~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~2.1    3.0   19.6    23.  3.                      2, 468.9     4060             498         143.              5,3
Oanvtoaa                                    3.2    4     28        37.7           4.4                       3,222.8      4,168.7         183,8        142.2             2 3
Total                                      30.7  13.0   298.9   000.0             2.0                        1,755,6     2,843.9         100.0        100,0             5.0
1/  AvoragE glrrrh rare -cloulaatd by lea-t equates.
2/   ThAl aenie,  doe, art cafleot ongIng chasgas in tnb claaatflcotten of feed.  Th. nes cleretlicantin. eet pyt ftnal,  sshe-  that these ispatna ene eeseide-nbly higher.
3/  Refleota i_oeneaen  ehace  of oil enxport 8n nhe total, re nal aeln:cana to the rahleine  nre of atl,                 I
April 20, 1880






- 28 -
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS, EXTERNAL ASSISTANCE AND DEBT                                                   ANNEX I
(US$ million at current prices)                                                           Page 5 of 5
Prel iminary
Actual                       Estimates             Projections
1970          1975           1977           1978           1979            1980           1982           1985
SUMMARY BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
Exports (including NFS)                              2,745.4       6,081.7        7,795.1       10,92'.5        15,203.4       24,192.6       40,685.9        65,305.9
Imports (including NFS)                              3,416.9       8,636.7        7,845.1       11,561.0       17,129.7        26,732.8       44,506.8        71,176.9
Resource Balance                                     - 671.5      -2,555.1          -50.0         -639.5      - 1,926,3        -2,540.3       -3,820.9        -5,871.0
Interest, net 1- - 307.0                                          -1,266.5       -1,811.5       -2,292.2      - 3,199.2        -4,128.2       -4,990.2       -7,070.3
Direct tnvest-ent Income                             - 267.5       - 657.5         -401.4         -477.4         -587.0          -587.0         -587.0          -587.0
Workers' Remittances                                   122.7         174.6          251.0          277.0           320.0          352.0          425.9           566.9
Current Transfers, net                                  55.3         123.4          168.5           197.9          218.0          239.8          290.2           386.2
Current Account Balance                             -1,068.0      -4,181.1       -1,843.4       -2,934.2        -5,174.5       -6,663.6       -8,682.0       -12,575.2
Private Direct Investment                              322.8         748.8          555.9          530.0           666.5          738.4          928.3         1,380.7
Public Med. and Long Term Loans, net                   258.6       3,565.8        4,394.8        4,731.3         3,749.7        5,710.9        7,065.2         9,813.7
Disbursements                                       821.3      4,418.6         6,727.9        9,147.0       11,576.6        9,578.6        13,053.1       22,290.1
Repayments                                         -562.7        -852.8       -2,333.1       -4,415.7       -7,826.8        -3,867.7       -5,987.9      -12,476.4
Other Capital                                          588.7          31,7       -2,603.1       -1,893.0        1,177.2         1,183.6        1,565.3           380.9
Change in Reserves (-= increese)                      -102.1        -165.2         -504.2          -434.1         -418.9         -969.3         -876.8          -999.8
GEANT AND LOAN COMUITMENTS
PUBLIC MED. AND L.T. LOANS
IBRD                                                   146.8         310.0          162.0          494.5           527.0          747.0
IDA                                                     -             -              -              -               _              _
Other Multilateral                                     112.4         121.8          122.0           152.2-         268.4          336.0
Governments                                             78.8         265.2          223.3          407.8            21.2          250.0
Suppliers                                               69.7         158.6          105.3          133.4             2.0          300.0
Banks and Financial Institutions                       443.5       3,360.7        8,250.5        8,817.8       12,240.3         4,437.8
DEBT AND DEBT SERVICE
Public Debt Outstanding and Disbursed                3,238.0      11,541,7       20,420.7       25,152.0       28,901.7        34,612.7       EXTERNAL DEBT
(end of period)
Interest on Public Debt                                218.0         850.4        1,327.2        1,822.8         2,901.2        3,589.4                        Outstanding and Disbursed
Repayment on Public Debt                               475.6         762.6        2,333.1        4,415.7         7,826.8        3,867.7                             on Dec. 31, 1980
Public Debt Service (net)                              693.6       1,612.9        3,660.3        6,238.6       10,728.0         7,457.1
Burden on Export Earnings 2/ (%)                                                                                                                                   $Millions   Percent
a.  Public Debt Service                               24.2          25.8           45.5           55,7           69.1            30.4       Public M & L.T.
b.  Public Debt Servire  and Direct                   33.5          36.3           50.5           60.0           72.9            32.8            Loans
Investment Income
IBRD                   1,967.3        5.7
Average Terms of Public Debt                                                                                                                  Other Off.sources    1,893.9           5.5
a.  Interest as 7. of prior year's                    7.4          10.2            8.3            8.9           11.5            12.4       Other private         30,751.5       88.8
b .O. and D.                                                                                                                           Sources
b.  Amortization as 7. of prior                      16.3           9.2           14.6           21.6           31.1            13.4
year's  D.O. and D.                                                                                                                  Total                 34,612.7      100.0
IBRD Exposure
a.  IBRD D.O. and D. as 7 of                         18.0           9.7            6.7            5.9             6.0            5.7
public D.O. and D.
b.  EBRD Debt Service as 7. of                        7.7           7.2            4.2            2.9             2.1            3.2
Public Debt Service
-  Not applicable or available                                                                                                                            February 27  1981
1/ Includes interest on short-term private and public debt
2/ Includes wor3kers remittances






- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 9
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MEXICO
A.   Statement of Bank Loans (as of February 28, 1981)
Loan                                                       Amount less      Undis-
No.    Year          Borrower             Purpose         Cancellations    bursed
38 loans fully disbursed                       1,870.4
909      1973  NAFINSA                    Water Supply           90.0        21.5
968      1974  NAFINSA                    Roads                  90.0         5.1
970      1974  NAFINSA                    Irrigation             47.0        15.6
1022      1974  NAFINSA                    Airports               25.0         3.0
1053      1974  NAFINSA                    Integrated Rural
Development          50.0       33.9
1111      1975  NAFINSA                    Irrigation             50.0        34.4
1112      1975  FERTIMEX and NAFINSA       Industry               50.0         5.2
1186      1975  BANOBRAS                   Water Supply           40.0        20.8
1232      1976  Ferrocarriles Nacionales
de Mexico and NAFINSA    Railways               100.0        21.7
1420      1977  NAFINSA                    Tourism      .         42.0        24.4
1462      1977  NAFINSA                    Integrated Rural
Development         120.0       58.2
1524      1978  NAFINSA                    Tourism                50.0         6.0
1552      1978  NAFINSA                    Industry               47.0        10.9
1553      1978  NAFINSA                    Agriculture            56.0        45.3
1554      1978  BANOBRAS                   Urban Development      16.5        12.3
1560      1978  NAFINSA                    Industry              100.0        30.6
1569      1978  NAFINSA                    Agricultural Credit  200.0          4.7
969-1    1979  NAFINSA                    Irrigation             25.0         6.3
1643      1979  NAFINSA                    Small-scale Agri.      60.0        58.2
1671      1979  BANOBRAS                   Highways              120.0       106.5
1686      1979  FERTIMEX and NAFINSA       Industry               80.0       48.3
1706      1979  NAFINSA                    Irrigation             92.0        89.3
1712      1979  NAFINSA                    Industry              175.0       146.4
1820      1980  NAFINSA                    Small and Medium
Mining               40.0       40.0
1858      1980  NAFINSA                    Irrigation            160.0       160.0
1881      1980  NAFINSA                    Small and Medium
Scale Industry      100.0      100.0
1891      1980  NAFINSA                    Agricultural Credit  325.0        325.0
1908      1980  NAFINSA                    Irrigation             23.0        23.0
1913      1980  BANOBRAS                   Water Supply          125.0       125.0
1929      1980  BANOBRAS                   Railways              150.0       150.0
1945      1980  NAFINSA                    Rainfed Agri.         280.0      280.0
TOTAL                                           4,798.9 1/ 2,011.6
Of which has been repaid to the Bank              692.3
Total now outstanding                           4,106.6
Amount sold                    92.3
of which has been repaid       92.0                  0.3
Total now held by Bank 1/                       4,106.3
Total undisbursed                                           2,011.6
1/   Prior to exchange adjustments.



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 9
B.   STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of February 28, 1981)
Fiscal                                                                 US$ Million
Year           Obligor                    Type of Business       Loan   Equity  Total
1958/59  Industrias Perfect
Circle, S.A. 1/               Industrial Equipment    0.8        --      0.8
1958     Bristol de Mexico, S.A. 1/    A.C. Engine Overhaul    0.5           --      0.5
1961     Acero Solar, S.A. 1/             Twist Drills              0.3      --      0.3
1962/65/ Compania Fundidora
66/68    Fierro y Acero de
Monterrey, S.A.               Steel                     2.3    21.4   23.7
1963     Tubos de Acero de
Mexico, S.A. 1/               Steel                     0.9      0.1    1.0
1963     Quimica del Rey, S.A. l/         Sodium Sulphate           0.7      --      0.7
1964/66  Industria del Hierro, S.A.1/  Construction Equipment  --            2.0    2.0
1970     Minera del Norte, S.A, 1/        Iron Ore Mining           1.5      --      1.5
1971     Celanese Mexicana, S.A.          Textiles                 12.0      --    12.0
1972     Promotora de Papel
Periodico, S.A. de C.V.1/   Pulp and Paper                2/      2/      2/
1973/79  Cemento Veracruz, S.A.           Cement                   15.9      --    15.9
1974     Cancun Aristos Hotel             Tourism                   1.0      0.3    1.3
1975/78  Mexinox, S.A.                    Steel                    12.0      3.2   15.2
1978     Papeles Ponderosa, S.A.          Pulp and Paper            9.0      2.6   11.6
1978     Tereftalatos Mexicanos, S.A.  Petrochemicals              19.0      --    19.0
1979     Cementos Tolteca, S.A. 3/        Cement                  100.0      --   100.0
1979     Hotel Camino Real
Ixtapa, S.A.                  Tourism                   --       3.1    3.1
1979     Conductores Monterrey,           Electrical Wire
S.A. 3/                         and Cable            18.0      --    18.0
1980     Industrias Resistol, S.A. 3/  Particleboard               25.0      --    25.0
1980     Vidrio Plano de Mexico S.A.3/ Flat Class                 114.9      --   114.9
1980     Minera Real de Angeles,
S.A. de C.V. 3/               Mining                  110.0            110.0
1981     Celulosicos Centauro S.A. 3/  Pulp and Paper              59.5      --    59.5
Total Gross Commitments                                  503.3    32.7  536.0
Less Cancellations, Terminations, Repayment
and Sales                                             373.3    22.0  395.3
Total Commitments Now Held by IFC                        130.0    10.7  140.7
Total undisbursed (including participants)               207.9       --  207.9
1/   Investments which have been fully cancelled, terminated, written off,
sold, redeemed or repaid.
2/   US$25,000.
3/   Gross commitment including amounts sold to participants.



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 9
PROJECTS IN EXECUTION: PROGRESS AND PROBLEMS 1/
Ln. No. 909    Mexico City Water Supply Project:  $90 Million Loan of
June 18, 1973: Effectiveness Date: April 30, 1974.
Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
Overall, the majority of the project works as originally
defined have been completed and the physical targets of the
project have been achieved. In December 1979, the Executive
Directors agreed to amend the Project Description to include
new works which would serve the same objective of increasing
bulk water supply to the Mexico City metropolitan area and
utilize a forecast loan surplus (R79-307). However, the
authorities reconsidered the need for some of the works
included in the new Project Description and requested that
S10.5 million of the loan be cancelled. This cancellation was
made as of March 6, 1981. It is expected that the remainder
of the loan will be fully utilized before the closing date.
Ln. No. 968    Seventh Highway Project:  $90 Million Loan of March 1, 1974;
Effectiveness Date: May 29, 1974. Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
Substantial initial delays have been encountered in project
works because of the shortage of budgetary allocations.
Substantial cost increases caused by price escalation were also
encountered. Taking this into account, a reduction in the scope
of the project was made in August 1977, from 16 roads (1,975
km) to ten roads and part of an eleventh road (1,216 km) which,
because of cost increases, have the same total cost as the
original project. The roads remaining in the project continue
to be well justified as benefits have kept pace with costs.
Completion is now expected in mid-1981, or about three years
behind schedule.
Ln. No. 970    Rio Sinaloa Irrigation Project:  $47 Million Loan of
March 1, 1974; Effectiveness Date: May 29, 1974.
Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
Project authorities have rephased construction; a substantial
reduction in project scope was approved by the Executive
Directors (R79-51 of March 13, 1979). Progress is now
satisfactory.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution and, in particular, to report any
problems which are being encountered and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in that sense, and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 9
Ln. No. 1022   Airport Development Project:  $25 Million Loan of
May 28, 1974; Effectiveness Date: September 16, 1974.
Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
Although behind schedule and still moving slowly, this project
is proceeding satisfactorilv. Project components that have
been completed are achieving higher rates of utilization than
envisaged at time of appraisal because of greatlv increased air
traffic in Mexico. Three of the six project airports are
complete. One more will be complete by the end of this year.
The last two will be finished next year. The closing date is
likely to be extended.
Ln. No. 1053   Papaloapan Integrated Rural Development Project:  $50 Million
Loan of November 15, 1974; Subsequently reduced to US$38 million;
Effectiveness Date: January 27, 1975. Closing Date:
June 30, 1981.
Project implementation is improving after delays due to
management difficulties and inadequate budget support.
Reprogramming of the project is underway to adjust for
these delays, and the project scope is likely to be reduced;
the Executive Directors will be asked to approve a new
project description shortly. At the borrower's request
US$12 million of the loan were cancelled on March 5, 1981.
An extension of the closing date is under consideration.
Ln. No. 1111   Seventh Irrigation Project - Bajo Rio Bravo and Bajo Rio
San Juan: $150 Million Loan of May 8, 1975; Subsequently
reduced to $50 Million; Effectiveness Date: July 30, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
In view of the project's size, complexity and high cost, the
Government and the Bank agreed to phase project development over
a longer period of time and substantially reduce the scope of
the project to be financed under the Bank loan (R77-305 of
December 13, 1977 and R79-56 of March 19, 1979). Progress on
the revised project is satisfactory.
Ln. No. 1112   Fertilizer Project:  $50 Million Loan of May 22, 1975;
Effectiveness Date:  July 30, 1975.  Closing Date:
September 30, 1981,
The Bajio Urea Plant is in operation but construction of the
Pajaritos Urea Plant has been delayed mainly because of material
shortages and difficulties with contractors. Construction is
now expected to be completed by the closing date, and no major
problems are expected. The estimated cost is about 35 percent
above the original budget, mainly due to increases in equipment
and civil works costs. However, the project is still considered
to be economically justified.



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 9
Ln. No. 1186   Medium-Size Cities Water Supply and Sewerage Project:  $40 million
Loan of January 13, 1976; Effectiveness Date: April 26, 1976.
Closing Date: January 14, 1982.
Subloan agreements have been signed with all cities included
in the project, and works are now progressing satisfactorily.
This is the result of several positive measures taken by the
Mexican authorities to accelerate project execution, including
the preparation and implementation of guidelines for project
design and the reorganization of the special project unit in
charge of project execution.
Ln. No. 1232   Third Railway Project:  $100 Million Loan of April 30, 1976;
Effectiveness Date: June 16, 1976. Clesing Date: June 30,
1981.
The project had a slow start, traffic growth in 1976 was
less than anticipated, and funding in 1976-77 (the stabiliza-
tion period) was inadequate. Works are now being executed
according to a revised investment plan which has been agreed
upon with the Bank. Due to initial delays the project is
expected to be completed by mid-1981, about two-and-a-half
years behind schedule.
Ln. No. 1420   Baja California Tourism Project:  $42 Million Loan of
July 5, 1977; Effectiveness Date: June 28, 1978;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
Construction of infrastructure at both project sites has begun.
The first 250-room hotel at Loreto was completed in August
1980. Project implementation is behind schedule due to short-
ages of building materials in the area. The marketing studies
of domestic as well as North American tourism and the economic
study of tourism have been completed. Overall, progress is
satisfactory, although difficulties in internal coordination
have caused disbursements to lag behind schedule; however,
bottlenecks are being eliminated.
Ln. No. 1462   Integrated Rural Development Project - PIDER II:  $120 million
Loan of July 5, 1977; Effectiveness Date: October 28, 1977;
Closing Date: July 31, 1981.
The project is proceding satisfactorily; major efforts to
decentralize project planning and execution have been made.
The result is increased beneficiary participation and
better coordination between executing agencies at the field
level. However, decentralization, reprogramming of micro-
region investment plans, and several changes in management
have resulted in delay in project execution; the closing
date will have to be extended.



- 34 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 9
Ln. No. 1524   Tourism Development Project:  $50 million Loan of March 21, 1978;
Effectiveness Date: January 12, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
Progress of commitments is satisfactory and disbursements should
be completed before the closing date.
Ln. No. 1552   Small- and Medium-Scale Industrial Development Project;
US$47 million Loan of May 4, 1978; Effectiveness Date:
January 12, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
After some initial delays, the integrated program to assist
industrial enterprises is making rapid progress. Forty-eight
extension agents have now received full training and have been
assigned to 14 regional offices. Over 80 percent of the loan
has been committed.
Ln. No. 1553   Tropical Agricultural Development Project:  US$56 Million Loan
of September 27, 1978; Effectiveness Date: January 12, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983.
Five of the six pilot projects have been approved by the
Bank; the sixth is expected to be submitted shortly. Project
authorities are making excellent progress in the agricultural
development program of each pilot project. The applied
research programs are proceeding on schedule.
Ln. No. 1554   Lazaro Cardenas Conurbation Development Project:  US$16.5
Million Loan of September 27, 1978; Effectiveness Date:
February 14, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
The shelter-related component is having better than expected
results. Satisfactory progress is being made in the training
centers, but delays still remain in the implementation of the
productive credits, industrial premises and river control
components and the studies. Steps to speed implementation in
these areas have been recently discussed with the Government.
The possibility of reallocating funds to the shelter-related
components is being contemplated. Inadequacies in the accounting
procedures of FIDELAC for the construction materials credit
program have been detected and not yet resolved.
Ln. No. 1560   FONEI III:  US$100 Million Loan of September 27, 1978;
Effectiveness Date: January 12, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
Demand for industrial investment financing continues to be
strong. Over 97 percent of the loan has been committed.



- 35 -
ANNEX II
Page 7 of 9
Ln. No. 1569   Sixth Agricultural Credit:  US$200 Million Loan of
September 27, 1978; Effectiveness Date: January 12, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
Implementation is proceeding rapidly. The loan is expected
to be fully disbursed one year ahead of schedule.
Ln. No. 969-1  Rio Panuco Irrigation Project;  $25 Million Loan of
September 27, 1978; Effectiveness Date: January 12, 1979.
Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
Major project civil works are on schedule and expected to be
completed by the closing date. Progress in agricultural devel-
opment has been slower than infrastructure construction.
The technical assistance program is being strengthened and
will emphasize better water utilization and intensive
agriculture.
Ln. No. 1643   Small Scale Agricultural Infrastructure Project:  US$60 Million
Loan of February 6, 1979; Effectiveness Date: April 13, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
Most livestock and irrigation subprojects to be included in
the Project have been approved by the Bank, and the Government
is accelerating preparation and presentation of the balance of
the program.
Ln. No. 1671   Highway Sector Project:  US$120 Million Loan of August 23,
1979; Effectiveness Date: October 12, 1979; Closing Date:
June 30, 1984.
Commitments are ahead of schedule but disbursements are behind
schedule because of budget cuts in 1979 and because of delays
in submitting reimbursement applications to the Bank. The
authorities have agreed to increase budget allocations and
speed up disbursement requests.
Ln. No. 1686   Second Fertilizer Project - Lazaro Cardenas:  US$80 Million
Loan of May 18, 1979; Effectiveness Date: September 21, 1979;
Closing Date: October 31, 1982.
Orders for most of the equipment have been placed and about
30 percent of the construction work is committed with about
22 percent completed. The project is now about 17 months
behind schedule and runs the risk of further delays unless
implementation arrangements are improved. FERTIMEX's manage-
ment is considering steps to improve implementation.



- 36 -
ANNEX II
Page 8 of 9
Ln. No. 1706   Rio Fuerte/Rio Sinaloa Irrigation Project:  US$92 Million Loan
of July 30, 1979; Effectiveness Date: October 5, 1979;
Closing Date: July 31, 1986.
Plans and bidding documents for the Sinaloa component are well
underway. Despite initial delays, the Fuerte program is
now gaining momentum.
Ln. No. 1712   FONEI IV:  US$175 Million Loan of July 30, 1979; Effectiveness
Date: October 5, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1984.
Demand for industrial financing continues to be strong;
US$125.4 million of the loan have been committed to subprojects
to date, and additional subprojects requiring US$31.6 million
are being considered.
Ln. No. 1820   Small and Medium Scale Mining Development Project:  US$40
Million Loan of August 18, 1980; Effectiveness Date:
December 4, 1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1984.
Project execution is being initiated.
Ln. No. 1858   Apatzingan Irrigation Project; US$160 Million Loan of
September 29, 1980; Effectiveness Date: December 19, 1980;
Closing Date: June 30, 1987.
Contracting for the main works has been initiated.
Ln. No. 1881   Second Small and Medium-Scale Industry Development Project;
US$100 Million Loan of September 29, 1980; Effectiveness Date:
December 22, 1980; Closing Date: December 31, 1984.
About 14 percent of the loan has been committed (see previous
comment on Ln. 1552).
Ln. No. 1891   Seventh Agricultural Credit Project:  US$325 Million
Loan of August 15, 1980; Effectiveness Date: November 17, 1980:
Closing Date: March 31, 1984.
No major problems in implementation are foreseen.
Ln. No. 1908   Ocoroni Irrigation Project:  US$23 Million Loan of March 2, 1981;
Effectiveness Date:                ; Closing Date:  June 30, 1986.
The loan is not yet effective.



- 37 -
ANNEX II
Page 9 of 9
Ln. No. 1913   Second Medium-Size Cities Water Supply and Sewerage Project:
US$125 Million Loan of January 23, 1981; Effectiveness Date:
; Closing Date: December 31, 1984.
The loan is not yet effective.
Ln. No. 1929   Fourth Railway Project:  US$150 Million Loan of February 12, 1981;
Effectiveness Date:                ; Closing Date:  June 30, 1984.
The loan is not yet effective.
Ln. No. 1945   Rainfed Agricultural Development Project:  US$150 Million Loan,
of March 2, 1981;  Effectiveness Date:                 ; Closing
Date: June 30, 1986.
The loan is not yet effective.



- 38 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
MEXICO
SECOND URBAN AND REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY DATA SHEET
Section I - Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken by country to prepare project:  2 years
(b)  Project prepared by:                           Housing Institutes of Chiapas,
Tabasco and Veracruz, SAHOP
and Municipalities, assisted
by the local state planning
committees
(c)  First presentation to the Bank:                December 1977
(d)  Identification of project:                     April 6, 1978
(e)  Departure of appraisal mission:                May 16, 1979
(f)  Post appraisal mission:                        February 4, 1980
(g)  Completion of negotiations:                    March 6, 1981
(h)  Planned date of effectiveness:                 August 1981
Section II - Special Bank Implementation Action
None
Section III - Special Conditions
(a) The conclusion of at least one of the project agreements between BANOBRAS
and one of the states and of one of the subsidiary loan agreements with
one project institution in that state are conditions of loan effectiveness
(para. 52).
(b) The conclusion of subsidiary loan agreements, satisfactory to the Bank,
between BANOBRAS and each of the implementing institutions would be a
condition of disbursement for the respective components. Such agreements
would be concluded not later than December 31, 1981 (para 52).
(c) A federal interministerial coordinating committee for the project
will be established not later than June 30, 1981 (para 53).
(d) BANOBRAS will maintain a project unit and provide it with adequate
staff to carry out its obligations for the project (para 53).



- 39 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(e) The establishment of the water supply and sewerage authorities in a
manner satisfactory to the Bank would be a condition of disbursement
for the corresponding component in the respective states (para 56).
(f) Feasibility studies, satisfactory to the Bank, for at least 60 percent
of the works planned under the water supply and sewerage component would
be completed not later than January 31, 1982; and for the remainder of
these works not later than January 31, 1983 (para 56).
(g) As a condition of disbursement for the credit for artisans component,
special departments for the support of this program will be estab-
lished in all Institutos (para 58).



- 40                               ArNNJEX IV
Page 1 of I
MEXICO
SECOND URBAN AND REGIONAL DEVLLOPMENT PROJECT
Summary Project Costs
(In Million US$)
% Foreign
Components                           Local       Foreign       Total               Exchange
Shelter-Related Programs
- Sites and Services                             49.50      19.20         68.70                  28
- Construction Material. Credits                 26.50       9.30         35.80*                 26
- Urban Upgrading                                 6.00       3.20           9.20                 35
- 1Home Improvement Loans                        11.00       3.90         14.90*                 26
- Community Centers                               1.40       0.60          2.00                  32
Sub-Total                                   94.40      36.20         130.60                 28
City-WJde Infrastructure
- Water Supply                                   13.50       9.80         23.30                  42
- Sewerage                                       17.20      12.50         29.70                  42
- Other Infrastructure                            2.00       1.50           3.50                 42
Sub-Total                                   32.70      23.80          56.50                 42
Municipal Facilities and Services
- Retail Markets                                  1.60       1.10          2.70                  40
- Wholesale Market                                2.80       1.80          4.60                  40
- Slaughterhouses                                 8.10       5.40         13.50                  40
- Refuse Collection                               1.60       1.10           2.70                 40
Sub-Total                                   14.10       9.40          23.50                 40
Productive Activities
Credits to Artisans                             2.70       2.70          5.40*                50
Credits to Small--Scale Enterprises             7.45       7.45         14.90*                50
- Industrial Estates                              2.90       2.00          4.90                  40
Training Center                                 0.60       0.30          0.90                 35
Promotional Programs                            0.00       0.70          0.70*               100
Sub-Total                                   13.70      13.10          26.80                 49
Studies and ConDlementarv
Support Activities
- Studies                                          -         3.60           3.60*               100
- Support Activities                               -         1.00          1.00*               100
Sub-Total                                     -         4.60           4.60                100
Sub-Total Base Costs                            154.90      87.10        242.00                  36
Professional Services 1/                          7.70       3.90         11.60                  34
Contingencies 2/
(a)  Physical                                   17.60        9.00         26.60                 34
(b)  Price Escalation                          124.10       63.80        187.90                 34
Total Cost of Project Including
Land Cost                                    304.00    164.00          468.00                  35
1/  Includes 7% for design and supervision on base cost.
2/ Assuming 15% for physical contingencies and price escalations detailed in
PaRe 14, footnote 1.
*Neither Professional Services nor Physical Contingencies were considered for these items.



t +   4\o                                            t.t  119~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I  TED    STATES    OF    AMER C
i:\ X   )>    soe              \                                                                                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~URBAN PROJECT Ir
0    lS   9   \    )  NoDges7 - 'Fg              2        Juare>.~~~~~-
:  ;  :;l  (KCALlD.lRrv/410+ f :tt ;) ; , / g 0 > Pr - ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~P'f-:-f
2   >   +s    ;   F   Sj  \  i    '   C  ,H    /    H    (  hA   .N   '.   ,   Xj                                                                             9~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~p p,
t -e  t   ,,   ,       ' '\                                    n  W                              <                                      X~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N1i- ''-p-Iw.
S4Z~~~~~~~~~~~A                                                      SD;nla ddmsn    \lep:e    rcel*4~0n
A_, CA}FOtR}.l .: 7      _    AK                                                      1  1-Rr) i X\k   -.,XdOMudbDwY
\   <xt,  t   D   )   9S,   \WK X  '  paClDl  4     ,              0nclovb          3                      0    ; 2                                    RixlsisroDds~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Rbl-d
,:iD 0 ;  \ J  2 2 t t XMve> S . XL 9 -/'107 \ \ _ Sw4fe hrvgr~~~~Md--.e
L.     P        D   O  O     1 _  j         -   x    T  R e  S -  r      ,    MnS                            n u  p                                   _  -  l t r b i 4   o / d r e
;   P  5\  0   2   ;   \;;   t   X   >  \  VCulDCCn  S 10 Z I ' C E   X    -e   >  /   @        <S$(~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Me                                 C
i f =  Cr
|   k   g   "'. S  C   E   *.-   * s                                     Sy             ;     i  X '            W S   0  '  =   .      0     ,               AS         i} H       _   T  M    a    g       ;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~M E l C
't~@ie'^'~bW'tr2.'. ?Uxa>?Fro5  .rl^erowamjopv
.ID,XSDiS"  1".F  t."QWhtd................ ,>e...  Qf  i::5  Vi  02  tSa;0 .Qil  00  rApcblO jH':rI  1d 






IBRD 14902
9r ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~a                                        AMRL r280
t:T rO Toxpro                           or-                                                           94~~~0                                                       O2                                                                Prar,oet see
iCecro Azol~t  
TUxpOn                                                                                                  MEXICO
URBAN PROJECT MEXICO II                                                                                                                              MFRID
Isthmus Region
Noolla                                                                        0    Proposed PrNlect Site,                                                                                                                      Ccc
5   \_5< Nouflo                                                                     M-i Roods
-   Secondary Roads                                                                                                I                         f         u
Te  ruion           \9                                                                                 Railroads,w
JALAPAn      0                                                                      X    Axroorts                               s_~ tv ! g    o f    M         c o                        C AM                       PEMPECH
A,  Airports                                             >{     Me.    c
2     - 7 J   L~~APA                                                                                    -R,wews
ksore   Cardel                                                   -       aro  t od  1oue  rs
/      (                _    w~~~~~~*EACRUZ                                                                         Bovtd                                                                                                                                 I
>~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~tt Rosedoeroso<                                                                                                                                               )
RD06A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,
T.h..c n                                                                                  D- Bocw  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Cadd de 
// 1e> o emoco  13-                                        S 5Z>?- 9-iucn<!;>                                                         JsePr]                 t                        e     
Csomolopor i, Adres Tnit
00AXACA 0 c+r 50o                                                                                                                    Sonnde  C oa do1 los Corerv '' O-ZCO
hr>                                                               s ,,,,,0ii0ii0r00Or
wodoraerslar,rrzsdryf    Q RO.            -  Iel,oooteoecn  rstbu  e osC50                                                                                                                                      G U  A T E M   A  LA
dn ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~a-   P6                                                                                                                  H r#    h a   l      X[l At1/
_N                                                                                                           c-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~c
,,  dnammr! _, DpCIOAXACAJC \                                                                                                  ,/g   .  .Jze/\........... r 
S- C-is6b.1 dao1.i C.-
o             005c 7C. *  4- ic                                                    n\rCmlX/                                                                           7/
A  a       oh'                                                           7o                        \       t                  /   :  92              ?                    0                          I                  _.



