'II  TS         LOAN NUMBER 1990 ME
Guarantee Agreement
(Second Urban and Regional Development Project)
between
UNITED MEXICAN STATES
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated                      /3       , 1981


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1990 ME
GUARANTEE AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                       3              1981
between UNITED MEXICAN STATES- (h      ter called the Guarantor)
and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTR TION AND DEVELOPMENT (here-
inafter called the Bank).
WHEREAS by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between
the Bank and Banco Nacional de Obras y Servicios PGblicos, S.A.
(hereinafter called the Borrower) the Bank has agreed to make
to the Borrower a loan in various currencies equivalent to
one hundred sixty-four million dollars ($164,000,000), on the
terms and conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on
condition that the Guarantor agree to guarantee the obligations of
the Borrower in respect of such loan as hereinafter provided;
and
WHEREAS the Guarantor, in consideration of the Bank's
entering into the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed
so to guarantee such obligations of the Borrower;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated October 27, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agree-
ments being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in Section 1.02 of the Loan Agreement
have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Guarantee; Provision of Funds
Section 2.01. Without limitation or restriction upon any of
its other obligations under the Guarantee Agreement, the Guarantor


﻿-2-
hereby unconditionally guarantees, as primary obligor and not as
surety merely, the due and punctual payment of the principal of,
and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the premium, if
any, on the prepayment of the Loan and the punctual performance
of all the other obligations of the Borrower, all as set forth
in the Loan Agreement.
Section 2.02. Without limitation or restriction upon the
provisions of Section 2.01 of this Agreement, the Guarantor
specifically undertakes, whenever there is reasonable cause
.to believe that the funds available to the Borrower or the Project
Institutions will be inadequate to meet the estimated expenditures
required for the carrying out of the Project, to make arrange-
ments, satisfactory to the Bank, promptly to provide the Borrower
or the Project Institutions, as the case may be, or cause the
Borrower or the Project Institutions, as the case may be, to be
provided with such funds as are needed to meet such expenditures.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Guarantor, through SAHOP,.-shall:
(i) construct, or ensure the construction of, the works included
in Parts B (1) and B (2) of the Project; (ii) procure, or ensure
the procurement of, works, goods and services required for such
Parts of the Project in accordance with the provisions set forth
in Schedule 4 to the Loan Agreement; and (iii) provide technical
assistance to the Borrower as required for the carrying out of
,Parts E (1) and E (4) (a) of the Project; all with due diligence
and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative,
financial, engineering and public utility practices and shall
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the purpose.
(b) The Guarantor shall consult with the Bank before
agreeing with the Water Authorities to any substantial change in
the design and specifications for Parts B (1) and B (2) of the
Project.
Section 3.02. (a) The Guarantor undertakes, in respect of
Parts B (1) and B (2) of the Project, to insure, or cause to be
insured, or make, or cause to be made, adequate provision for the
insurance of, the imported goods to be financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Loan against hazards incident to the acquisition,


﻿-3-
transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or instal-
lation, and for such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a
currency freely usable-by the Guarantor to replace or repair such
goods.
(b) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Guarantor
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan for the Parts of the Project referred to in Section
3.01 of this Agreement to be used exclusively for such Parts of
the Project.
Section 3.03. (a) The Guarantor shall furnish to the Bank,
or cause to be furnished, promptly upon their preparation, the
plans, specifications, reports, contract documents and construc-
tion and procurement schedules for the Parts of the Project
referred to in Section 3.01 (a) of this Agreement, and any
material modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such
detail as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(b) The Guarantor: (i) shall maintain or cause to be main-
tained records and procedures adequate to record and monitor
the progress of said Parts of the Project (including their cost
and the benefits to be derived from them), to identify the works,
goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Loan for
said Parts of the Project, and to disclose their use in said Parts
of the Project; (ii) shall furnish to the Borrower, at every
six-month period, a report on the execution of said Parts of the
Project; (iii) shall enable the Bank's accredited representatives,
or cause them to be enabled, to visit the facilities and construc-
tion sites included in the Project and to examine the goods
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and any relevant records
and documents; and (iv) shall furnish to the Bank at'regular
intervals all such information as the Bank shall reasonably
request concerning said Parts of the Project, the expenditure of
the proceeds of the Loan therefor and the works, goods and ser-
vices financed out of such proceeds.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in
normal circumstances, specific security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority


﻿-4-
over its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of
foreign exchange held under the control or for the benefit of such
member. To that end, if any lien shall be created on any govern-
mental assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for any
external debt, which will or might result in a priority for the
benefit of the creditor of such external debt in the allocation,
realization or distribution of foreign exchange, such lien shall,
unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso facto, and at no cost
to the Bank, equally and ratably secure the principal of, and
interesZ and other charges on, the Loan, and the Guarantor, in
creating or permitting the creation of such lien, shall make
express provision to that effect; provided, however, that, if for
any constitutional or other legal reason such provision cannot be
made with respect to any lien created on assets of any of its
political or administrative subdivisions, the Guarantor shall
promptly and at no cost to the Bank secure the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan by an equivalent lien on
other governmental assets satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) The foregping undertaking shall not apply to: (i)
any lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof,
solely as security for payment of the purchase price of such
property; and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of
banking transactions and securing a debt maturing not more
than one year after its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "governmental assets"
means assets of the Guarantor, of any of its political sub-
divisions or of any agency; and the term "agency" means any agency
or instrumentality of the Guarantor or of any political sub-
division of the Guarantor and shall include any institution or
organization which is owned or controlled directly or indirectly
by the Guarantor or by any political subdivision of the Guarantor
or the operations of which are conducted primarily in the interest
of or for account of the Guarantor or any political subdivision of
the Guarantor.
Section 4.02. The Guarantor covenants that it will not
take, or cause or permit any of its political subdivisions or any
of its agencies or any agency of any such political subdivisions
to take, any action which would prevent or interfere with the
performance by the Borrower, the States or the Project Institu-
tions of their respective obligations contained in the Loan
Agreement, the State-project Agreements and the Subsidiary Loan


﻿-5-
Agreements, and will take or cause to be taken all reasonable
action necessary or appropriate to enable the Borrower, the States
and the Project Institutions to perform such obligations.
Section 4.03. The Guarantor shall, not later than June 30,
1981 or such later date as the Bank may agree, establish a federal
inter-ministerial committee which shall be responsible for the
coordination of the Project.
ARTICLE V
Representative of the Guarantor; Addresses
Section 5.01. The Director General de Cr4dito PGblico de
la Secretaria de Hacienda y Crfdito PGblico is designated as
representative of the Guarantor for the purposes of Section 11.03
of the General Conditions.
Section 5.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions:
For the Guarantor:
Direcci6n General de Crfdito Pibligo
Secretaria de Hacienda y Crfdito PGblico
Moneda 4
M4xico 1, D.F.
M6xico
Telex:
HDA - 01777
HDA - 01313
For the Bank:
International Bank for Reconstruction
and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                   Telex:
INTBAFRAD                       440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿-6-
WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives' thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
Qf Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
"first above written.
UNITED MEXICAN STATES
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Regional Vice President
Latiinmerica and the Caribbean


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this  /day of                198
FOR'SECRETARY


