Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-4021-BR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$ 16.3 MILLION
TO THE
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
FOR A
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND PILOT RURAL
WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
April 5, 1985
This document has a restricted distribution and my be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents -y not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Calendar 1984                                    April 5, 1985
Currency Unit = Cruzeiro (Cr$)
US$1 = Cr$1,952                                  US$1 = Cr$4,510.00
Cr$1 = US$0.000512                               Cr$1 = US$.000221
GOVERNMENT OF BRAZIL FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
GLOSSARY
ABES      -    Asociacao Brasileira de Engenharia e Saneamento (Brazilian
Association of Sanitary Engineering)
BNH       -    Banco Nacional da Habitacao (National Housing Bank)
CERB      -    Companhia de Engenharia Rural da Bahia (Rural Engineering
Company of Bahia)
CORSAN    -    Companhia Riograndense de Saneamento (State Water Company of
Rio Grande do Sul)
FSESP     -    Fundacao Servicos de Saude Publica (Public Health Services
Foundation
FUNDURBANO-    Fundo Urbano (Urban Investment Fund of Rio Grande do Sul)
IPEA      -    Instituto de Planejamento Economico e Social (Institute of
Economic and Social Planning)
MINTER    -    Ministerio do Interior (Ministry of Interior)
ORTN      -    Obrigacoes Reajustaveis do Tesoro Nacional (Readjustable
National Treasury Bond)
PAHO      -    Pan American Health Organization
PAPP      -    Programa de Apoio ao Pequeno Produtor (Small Farmer Program)
PIASS     -    Programa de Interiorizacao das Acoes de Saude e Saneamento
(Program for Community Health and Sanitation)
PLANASA   -    Plan Nacional de Saneamento (National Sanitation Plan)
PROSAN    -    Programa de Saneamento (Community Sanitation Program of Rio
Grande do Sul)



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
SEPLAN    -    Secretaria de Planejamento da Presidencia da Republica
(Presidential Planiming Secretariat)
SES       -    Secretaria de Saude (State Health Secretariat - Rio Grande
do Sul)
SUDA(    -    Superintendencia de Desenvolvimento da Amazonia (Amazon
Basin Regional Development Agency)
SUDECO    -    Superintendencia de Desenvolvimento do Centro-Oeste (West
Center Regional Development Agency)
SUDENE    -    Superintendencia de Desenvolvinento do Nordeste (Northeast
Regional Development Agency)
SURBAM    -    Superintendencia de Desenvolvimento Urbano e Administracao
Municipal (Secretary of Interior, Regional Development and
Public Works, Department of Urban Development and Muoicipal
Administration of State of Rio Grande do Sul)
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



BRAZIL
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND PILOT RURAL
WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:      Federative Republic of Brazil.
Project        Institute of Economic and Social Planning (IPEA) and the
Executing      Secretary of In-erior, Regional Development and Public
Agencies:      Works, Department of Urban Development and Municipal
Administration of the State of Rio Grande do Sul (SURBAM).
Amount:        US$16.3 million equivalent.
Terms:         Repayment in 15 years, including 3 years of
grace, with interest at the Bank's standard
variable rate.
Beneficiaries: The pilot component would benefit 200 low income communities
consisting of about 146,000 people in the State of Rio
Grande do Sul. The results of the studies undertaken
through the national technical assistance component would
benefit eventually the rural poor throughout Brazil and
particularly in the less developed Northeast Region.
Relending      For the national technical assistance component, the
Terms:         Borrower would make available the proceeds of the loan to
the Presidential Planning Secretariat's Instituto de
Planejamento Economico e Social (IPEA) on a grant basis.
For the pilot component, the Borrower would make available
the proceeds of the loan to the National Housing Bank (BNH)
on the same terms as those of the loan. BNH would onlend
them to the State of Rio Grande do Sul through SURBAM for 18
years including 3 years of grace at 7.5%. SURBAM would
enter into agreements with participating communities which
would make an initial contribution to investments and repay
a minimum of 30% of cost at 7.5% interest plus monetary
correction for a term of 18 years.
Project        The objective of the proposed project is to assist the
Description    Government of Brazil in establishing a policy for providing
water supply and sanitation in rural areas, defining sector
goals at the Federal and State levels, and institutional
responsibilities. The national technical assistance compo-
nent would finance: (a) studies of the organization of the
sector and the reordering of institutions, financial
policies, including a system of finance, tariffs and cost
recovery; community promotion; and training requirements;
(b) an inventory of technologies and technical standards;
(c) the preparation of state investment plans; (d) special



- ii -
assistance to ten Northeast states for project preparation
including implementing community participation programs; and
(e) equipment. The component would also finance special
assistance to the emergency water works included in the
Northeast's Small Farmer Program (PAPP) to be financed by
proposed rural development projects. The pilot component
would support the above objectives by testing and evaluating
the delivery of services. It would finance water supply and
sanitation in the State of Rio Grande do Sul including
engineering of about 200 community water systems, 10,000
individual sanitation units, 5,000 latrines, technical
assistance, training and equipment. The experiences gained
would serve as an input to preparing national policy.
Risks:         The proposed project depends on the cooperation of three
ministries in administering a large studies and technical
assistance component. To some extent the risk associated
with the large size will be minimized by retaining the Pan
American Health Organization (PAHO) to undertake administra-
tior. and contracting. Nonetheless, continuation of coopera-
tion by the ministries of the new administration which took
office in March 1985 would be essential.
Estimated Project Costs:
Local    Foreign      Total
11$ 'OOs
National Technical
Assistance Component
Coordinating Unit                 358.3     287.0      645.3
Studies                        2,420.7      524.5    2,945.2
State Investment Plans           646.5      129.0      775.5
Project Preparation
(Northeast States)           2,336.5   1,001.0    3,337.5
Equipment                        350.0      150.0      500.0
PAPP Assistance                 1,202.4     570.0    1,772.4
Subtotal                       7,314.4   2,661.5    9,975.9
Pilot Component
Coordinating Committee           352.5      100.0      452.5
Studies-Engineering/Training     721.4      409.0    1,130.4
Construction of Water
Systems                      6,836.3   2,930.0    9,766.3
Operation of Water
Systems                         350.0     150.0      500.0
Sanitary Units                 2,394.3   1,026.0    3,420.3
Technical Assistance                  -     424.0      424.0
Equipment                         171.6      73.5      245.1
Subtotal                      10,826.1   5,112.5   15,938.6



- iii -
Local    Foreign       Total
-US$  000 0--
Base Costs (12/84 Prices):        18,140.5   7,774.0   25,914.5
Physical Contingencies (5Z)        907.0      388.7    1,295.7
Price Contingencies
(7/85-6/88)                   3,695.8   1,584.3    5,280.1
Total Project Cost              22,743.3   9,747.0   32,490.3
Local costs include about 3% of indirect taxes on
industrial products.
Financing Plan:
Local   Foreign   Total
-        --US$ million-
Bank                                 6.6        9.7    16.3
Government                           2.4          -     2.4
BNH                                  5.6          -     5.6
States                               8.2          -     8.2
TOTAL                               22.8        9.7    32.5
Estimated Disbursements:
1986   1987   1988   1989
Bank Fiscal Year                    ------US$ million-
Annual                 4.2    5.2    4.9    2.0
Cumulative             4.2    9.4   14.3   16.3
Rate of Return:      n.a.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN OF Us$16.3 MILLION
TO THE FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
FOR A TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND PILOT
RURAL WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendations on a proposed
loan to the Federative Republic of Brazil for the equivalent of US$16.3
million to help finance a technical assistance and pilot rural water supply
and sanitation project. The loan would have a term of 15 years, including
3 years of grace, with interest at the Bank's standard variable rate.
PART I - THE ECONOMYl/
2.        An economic report entitled  Brazil:  Country Economic
Memorandum- (Report No. 5373-BR, dated February 26, 1985) was distributed
to the Executive Directors on March 7, 1985.
3.        Brazil's Government changed in March, 1985 when President Joao
Figueiredo completed his six-year term in office. Its main economic
priorities included the growth of agriculture, the expansion of
manufactured exports cad reduced dependence on imported oil, and at the
same time an improvement in the situation and prospects of the most
economically disadvantaged people and regions, especially in the
Northeast. The prime political concern had been the return to a fully
democratic system of government. Much of the Government's attention, since
1980, had to be diverted from longer-term political and economic change
because of the stabilization problems confronting Brazil. In spite of the
economic recession and consequent social pressures, however, substantial
progress has been made towards the structural changes needed for Brazil's
next stage of development.
4.        The presidential elections held in January 1985 resulted in the
election of Tancredo Neves, who has still to take office. Dr. Neves has
indicated that his Government's principal task will be to restore the
country's economic growth in order to expand employment opportunities,
improve tine remuneration of the labor force, and bring about a more
1/ Parts I and II of this report are similar to the corresponding sections
of the President's Reports for the Northeast Rural Development Project
and the Second Northeast Rural Development Project (Nos. P-3993-BR and
P-3994-BR, respectively) both dated April 5, 1985.



- 2 -
equitable distribution of income. For this growth to be solidly based, he
has stated, would require a reduction in inflation, putting the finances of
the public sector on . sound footing, and maintaining equilibrium in the
external accounts.
Recent Economic Performance
5.        Brazil achieved a remarkable 11% annual growth in GDP in the
years 1967 to 1973, with declining domestic inflation and a significant
liberalization of both foreign and domestic trade. Further substantial
growth occurred in the years from 1974 to 1980, at an annual average rate
of 7%, but in greatly changed circumstances. Following the large increases
in 1973 in the price of imported oil, the international recession, and the
sharp deterioration in the terms of trade, successive Brazilian governments
sought to maintain output and employment growth through policies
characterized by generous credit and tax incentives for industrial and
agricultural exports and import substitution; rising import barriers;
investment in domestic energy resources to substitute for imported oil; the
expansion of state enterprises; and heavy foreign borrowing. Between 1975
and 1980, Brazil's medium and long-term debt more than doubled from US$23.3
billion to US$54.9 billion. The efforts to redress the external imbalance
after 1974 created strong internal pressures and increased inflation. The
economy remained vulnerable to external shocks, and when further increases
in oil prices occurred in 1979 and 1980, and interest rates inetreased, the
current account deficit more than doubled to reach US$12.4 billion, or 5.0%
of GDP. Domestic inflation accelerated to 110%.
6.        Stabilization measures, relying heavily on monetary policy,
resulted in a decline of 1.9% in GDP in 1981, ending the long period of
sustained growth. Incipient recovery was checked in 1982 by a combination
of external developments, including declining world commodity prices
economic problems among some major trading partners, and regional events
leading to the debt crisis of August 1982. Faced with the loss of its
reserves, the reluctance of foreign banks to roll over existing loans or
extend new credits, and bleak international market prospects, Brazil sought
assistance from the International Monetary Fund in support of an
intensified adjustment program. In February 1983 the IMF pledged financial
assistance of the order of US$5.4 billion in compensatory financing and
through the Extended Fund Facility for the years 1983-85. Associated with
this were commercial bank commitments for 1983 of US$4.4 billion in new
loans, the rescheduling of US$4.6 billion in loans due in 1983, and other
measures of financial support, which were later extended into 1984.
7.        The primary objective of the program was the reduction of the
current account deficit and external borrowing requirements. The cruzeiro
was devalued by 30% in February 1983 and subsequently adjusted in line with
domestic inflation, import restrictions were increased, and tight fiscal
and monetary restraints were imposed. Imports fell by 21% in 1983, and
exports increased by 8.5% in spite of adverse trading circumstances,
resulting in a trade surplus of US$6.5 billion and a reduction in the
current account deficit from US$14.8 billion to US$6.2 billion. The major
source of internal disequilibrium, the public sector deficit, was also
brought under control. Central Bank figures show that the consolidated



- 3 -
operational public sector deficit was reduced from 6.6Z of GDP in 1982 to
2.5% in 1983, with a small surplus expected in 1984. In addition, steps
were taken to eliminate product and interest rate subsidies, adjust
relative prices for fuel and other products, reduce public expenditures and
increase revenues. The adjustment process continued during 1984, and,
although inflation has remained high, substantial progress was made towards
establishing a new basis for growth. In particular, strong export
expansion during 1984 resulted in earnings in excess of US$26 billion and
a trade surplus amounting to over US$12 billion.
8.        The short-run cost of these adjustments has nevertheless been
high. Inflation reached 211% in 1983 as a whole, exacerbated by shortages
in the supply of tradable goods, increases in administered prices, very
high real interest rates, and the effects of devaluation. Preliminary
official estimates show a decline in GDP of 3.2% in 1983, concentrated in
the industrial and commercial sectors. On that basis, per capita GDP
declined by about 12% in 1981-83, and industrial employment by over 20%,
with the largest reductions in incomes and employment concentrated in the
main industrial centers.
9.       Sparked by the export resurgence, GDP for 1984 is estimated to
have grown on the order of 4%, or about 2% per capita. The increase in
manufacturing exports is assisting industrial recovery, despite the fact
that for most sectors the proportion of total output which is exported
remains relatively small. Overall expansion is still inhibited by
depressed domestic market conditions, however, which can be expected to
continue until there is some relaxation in the present austere demand
management policies. In particular, recovery is not likely to become
generalized until real interest rates fall from their present levels of
30-40%. Unless significant progress is made against inflation, which
totaled 224% in 1984, the outlook is for domestic market conditions to
improve only slowly.
Economic Outlook
10.      The short-term economic outlook for Brazil appears much more
encouraging than that of a year ago. The balance-of-payments situation is
much stronger, some signs of recovery from the domestic recession are
apparent, and inflation is no longer accelerating. In addition, the inter-
national economic situation appears more encouraging, with at least a
temporary easing of interest rates and oil prices.2/ The international
financial environment also appears more accommodating than a year ago.
2/ Over three quarters of Brazil's external debt carries variable interest
rates, or is short-term, so that a change of 1% in average interest
rates means a balance-of-payments gain or loss of about US$750 million.
Similarly, a dollar per barrel change in average annual oil prices
would have an impact of about US$150 million on the trade balance.



- 4 -
11.       The immediate prospects for the balance of payments appear quite
favorable following the trade surplus of over US$12 billion obtained for
1984. Although total imports, especially of oil, continued to fall, much
of this surplus resulted from export expansion. Measured in current US
dollars, total exports for the first eleven months were 23X greater than in
the same period in 1983; the comparable increase for industrial exports was
35%. Reflecting the favorable trade performance, Brazil's international
reserve position has also improved markedly.
12.       Inflation is no longer accelerating, but reducing it under the
current system of indexation and in the context of very resilient infla-
tionary expectations is proving to be exceedingly difficult. Indexation,
while making it difficult to reduce inflation, does of course mitigate some
of the adverse economic and social effects commonly associated with infla-
tion. A major challenge for the new Government will be to restore
confidence and, in doing so, dampen inflationary expectations. To
accomplish this, a comprehensive and consistent medium-term strategy and a
clearly stated and credible economic program will be essential.
External Assistance and Creditworthiness
13.       The medium-term economic prospects for Brazil are generally
encouraging, assuming the continuation of the recovery now becoming
evident. This recovery depends, however, both upon the economic policies
pursued by the Government and a number of external economic conditions
outside the control of Brazilian policy-makers. The level of international
interest rates, oil prices, continued recovery in the OECD, the avoidance
of additional trade barriers for Brazil's exports, and the willingness of
the international commercial banks to increase their nominal exposures are
all critical for Brazil. At the same time, much will also depend upon the
conduct of national economic policies by the incoming Government. The
present situation requires a comprehensive and integrated, medium-term,
strategy for structural adjustment and economic recovery. This strategy
should focus on greater production efficiency, an improved allocation of
economic resources, reduced inflation, increased investment and savings,
further export promotion, and a reduced reliance on external borrowing.
14.       On the basis of relatively cautious assumptions relating to the
international environment, and the projected domestic economic recovery.
Brazil could achieve substantial improvements in its balance of payments
situation, external debt outlook, and creditworthiness indicators. The
resource balance has turned positive with the large trade surpluses of 1983
and 1984. The current account deficit, which amounted to US$6.2 billion in
1983 (equal to about 3% of GDP), turned into a small surplus in 1984. The
debt, therefore, will grow at much more modest rates than in the past.
Total medium and long-term debt is projected to grow, in nominal terms, at
an annual rate of 4.8% from 1983 to 1990, below the projected rate of
international inflation. The projections assume that gross disbursements
would rise from US$14 billion in 1985 to about US$22 billion in 1990, in
current prices, and amortization from US$10 billion to about US$15 billion
in the same period, with net disbursements averaging approximately US$6
billion annually. For private M&LT debt, the projections are consistent



- 5 -
with reductions of total real commercial bank exposure in Brazil and a
reduced share of Brazilian loans in total commercial bank lending
portfolios. Nevertheless, continued new lending will be required for the
foreseeable future.
15.       Creditworthiness indicators for Brazil would improve substan-
tially over the projection period. The total debt service ratio is
projected to fall from 82Z in 1983 to a plateau of 69-70% for 1984-86, and
then decline gradually to about 46% in 1990.  In the absence of any further
rescheduling, there would be an amortization bulge in 1986. The total
external debt as a multiple of total goods and non-factor service exports
is projected to decline continually, after having reached a high of 3.9 in
1982. By 1990 the ratio is projected to have fallen to 2.0.
16.       One striking feature of the balance-of-payments projections is
the magnitude of the projected net financial medium- and long-term resource
transfers (excess of interest over net r.ew borrowing) from Brazil to its
creditors. This transfer would amount to almost US$8 billion in 1985. The
net resource transfer over the entire projection period would average 3% of
GDP annually. Even with these transfers, however, economic growth of a
reasonable magnitude could occur.
17.       Base case projections, with the component sectors of GDP
projected on the basis of assumed economic policies and individual sectoral
prospects, show a gradual recovery from 1985 on, with GDP growth increasing
from a projected 4.3% in 1985 to 6.6% in 1989. Throughout the 1984-90
period an average increase in real per capita consumption of 3.0% annually
is projected. Even so, it would not be until 1989 that the 1980 level of
per capita income would be restored.
18.       Alternative projections assuming a more vigorous pursuit of
export promotion policies produce more favorable results suggesting the
possibility, with eased foreign exchange constraints, of GDP growth
exceeding 7% a year by 1990. On the other hand, adverse changes in the
LIBOR, oil prices, and particularly in export growth (whether through
restraints by trading partners, adverse international economic conditions,
or inappropriate domestic economic policies) could undermine and delay the
recovery.
19.       Any projection results must be viewed cautiously because of the
enormous uncertainties regarding future international market conditions.
Nevertheless, some conclusions may be drawn. First, the success of
Brazilian development strategy over the foreseeable future will depend upon
the country's success in expanding exports. Second, given the seriousness
of the external constraints, Brazil's economic growth over the period
1984-90 will be more modest than during the 1970s. Third, to sustain that
more modest rate of growth will require both a continued net inflow of
external financing, at least in nominal terms, and a greatly improved
savings effort from the domestic economy. Finally, despite the clear
difficulties and risks inherent in the current situation, Brazil has the
economic strength, with the support of its lenders, to work its way out of
the present liquidity situation and resume a satisfactory rate of growth



- 6 -
while continuing to weet its international obligations. Thus, Brazil
should remain creditworthy for new borrowing on conventional terms in the
magnitudes indicated above.
Poverty Alleviation Programs
20.       Although Brazil continues to be characterized by severe income
inequality, the Government over the past decade has made substantial
efforts to relieve poverty. The educational system has been rapidly
expanded, giving rise to increased enrollment rates and reduced illite-
racy. Social security programs have been strengthened and extended to
rural areas, and upgrading and expanding health services for the poor have
received much GovernmenL attention. Increased Government efforts have also
been directed to low-cost housing programs for the poor and the improved
provision of water and sewerage services. In part as a reflection of these
and other programs, there are indications, based upon preliminary estimates
from the 1980 demographic census, of substantial living standard and
welfare improvements during the 1970s. Considerable absolute real income
gains were realized by all income decile groups. Non-income gains, as
reflected by improved access to public services, declining infant
mortality, and increased durable consumer goods possession by households,
also attest to significant poverty reduction during the decade. Given the
impact of present economic difficulties on output and employment, however,
there is a possibility that some of these gains could have been seriously
eroded in the present crisis. Slow growth in employment opportunities, at
the rates of GDP growth currently postulated for the 1980s, emerges as a
potentially serious problem. Large unemployment and underemployment would
persist well after the recession, unless strategies favoring more labor-
intensive activities or technologies are pursued.
PART II - BANK OPERATIONS IN BRAZIL
21.       By September 30, 1984 the Bank had made 134 loans to Brazil,
amounting to US$9,725.3 million (net of cancellations), of which 69 were
not yet fully disbursed. During FY70-75, disbursements averaged US$150
million per year, reaching US$202 million in FY76, US$472 million in FY82,
US$764 million in FY83, and US$1,405.0 million in FY84. The undisbursed
amount as of September 30, 1984 was US$3,782.9 million. Annex II contains
a summary statement of Bank loans.
22.       Over the FY77-83 period, Bank lending to Brazil ranged from
US$425 million to over US$1,457 million per year. In FY84, 10 loans
totalling US$1,573.8 million were approved. They were US$52.7 million for
a market towns improvement project in the State of Parana, US$352 million
for an export development project, US$303 million for an agricultural
credit and export development project, US$65.2 million for the third phase
of the Northwest region development program, US$222.8 million for a rural
electrification project, US$250.6 million for a power distribution project,
US$20.0 million for a technician training project, US$40.0 million for an
urban basic education project in the North-Centerwest regions, US$210
million for the rehabilitation and maintenance of the federal highway
network, US$55.5 million for basic health care in the State of Sao Paulo



-7-
and US$2.0 million for national health studies. In addition, a total of
US$30.5 million of supplemental financing for on-going agricultural and
rural development projects was approved in FY84. Four loans totalling
US$498.0 million have been approved so far for Brazil in FY85. They were a
US$300.0 million loan for a third development banking project, a US$72.0
million loan for a science and technology project and a US$61.3 million
loan and a US$64.7 million loan for two rural development projects in the
Northeast.   Work is advanced for a second agricultural sector project, for
the electric power sector, for a land titling project and for one other
rural development project in the Northeast of Brazil.
23.       Brazil's external medium- and long-term public and private debt
outstanding and disbursed is estimated to have been USS81 billion at the
end of 1983. The Bank's share in this total is estimated at 4.3% while its
share in total debt service is estimated at 3.5%.
24.       As of September 30, 1984, IFC commitments to Brazil totalled
US$1,019.53 million, of which US$662.20 million had been sold, repaid or
cancelled. Of the balance of US$357.33 million, USS278.79 million
represent loans and US$78.54 million equity. A summary of IFC's invest-
ments as of September 30, 1984 is given in Annex II.
Lending Strategy
25.       Brazil is now undergoing a difficult adjustment period, in large
part due to external events. At the same time, it faces the challenge of
developing a longer-term development strategy compatible with lower average
economic growth rates and reduced availability of external resources, while
satisfying the country's vast unmet social needs. These present and
prospective adjustments are being accompanied by complementary changes in
the Bank lending strategy for Brazil.
26.       In the short-run, the Bank will try to help ease Brazil's current
external financing constraint through accelerated resource transfers
coupled with support for the major policy changes required by the austerity
program and necessary for longer-term growth and lower inflation. In
support of these efforts, several modalities of the Bank's Special Action
Program, approved by the Executive Directors on February 22, 1983 are being
reflected in our operations. These include working capital financing under
the third agro-industries project, financing of a higher share of project
costs of recently approved projects in social sectors, supplemental finan-
cing amounting to US$30.5 million for two on-going agricultural and rural
development projects, and amending existing loans where warran:ed to
provide for higher Bank disbursement rates during the period covered by the
Bank's Special Action Program. Also, greater use is being made of Project
Special Accounts into which Bank funds are deposited in advance in order to
reduce the need for the Government to prefinance Bank's share of project
costs, and which allow disbursements of Bank funds to be made at the
exchange rate prevailing on the datei of expenditure.
27.       The Bank's longer-run lending strategy is directed toward helping
Brazil resume efficient and sustainable growth. One focus of the lending



- 8 -
program is on structural transformation and efficient resource use.
Expanding export capacity in industry and agriculture will ease the foreign
exchange constraint on development while promoting efficiency through
exposure to international competition. Several loans to BNDES aimed at
strengthening industrial development along these lines have already been
made. Sector loans to industry and agriculture, envisaging a restructuring
of incentive and trade policies in support of Goveri.ment initiatives, have
been approved by the Executive Directors. Follow-up loans designed to
support the next steps in this adjustment process are under preparation.
Given agriculture's large potential contribution to export growth and
import substitution, adjustments in this sector will be crucial to Brazil's
transition from stabilization to growth.
28.       Another lending priority is the development of domestic energy
resources on a cost-effective basis and energy conservation. Lending for
thu electric power sector, which encouraged the development and use of
hydroelectric energy, and the alcohol and biomass energy development
project, have addressed the need to reduce petroleum imports. Further
lending will be based on appropriate pricing of energy, so as to provide
incentives to producers and encourage conservation by consumers while
reducing Government subsidies to the energy sector.
29.       A third lending objective in Brazil is to help intensify the
efforts of the Government to increase the productivity of the lowest income
segments of the population, to broaden the opportunities open to those
groups, and to improve their living conditions. Previous loans for primary
education, vocational training, agricultural research, agricultural exten-
sion, polder construction in the lower Sao Francisco river basin, and
integrated rural development were designed to assist low-income groups in
rural areas, especially those in the Northeast and the Northwest. Loans
for water supply and sewerage projects throughout Brazil, loans for urban
transport in several major cities, a loan for sites and services and low-
cost housing, and three loans for urban development in two metropolitan
areas, in medium-sized cities, and in small market towns are assisting the
improvement of the living conditions of the urban population, particularly
of the urban poor.  Followiag up on a nutrition research and development
project and a first health project for the northwest region, a basic health
care project in the state of Sao Paulo and a national health studies
project are helping promote efficiency, cost effectiveness and equity in
the delivery of health services in Brazil. Several projects for rural and
urban development and for health directed to the needs of the lowest income
groups in the Northeast are under preparation. The proposed project would
support the improvement of health and living conditions of the lowest
income groups throughout Brazil by providing, for the first time, a system
for water supply and sanitation services.
30.       Institution-building and improving the operations of the public
sector remain important components of the Bank strategy for Brazil and
would be a prominent feature of the proposed project. The Bank also serves
as a catalyst in stinulating the inflow of resources. Continued lending by
the Bank in Brazil is regarded by the international financial community as
a sign of confidence in Brazil's development prospects. In some sectors,
especially in electric power and industry, Bank participation has helped
Brazil obtain additional resources in greater amounts from bilateral credit



agencies and private financial institutions than may otherwise have
been provided. Since 1976 through June 30, 1982, ten co-financing opera-
tions for about US$560 million have been arranged and signed with private
financial institutions. Co-financing opportunities are rather limited in
Brazil for the time being, as the volume and terms of commercial bank
financing available to Brazil are determined within the framework of the
debt rescheduling package. Co-financing could become more important in the
near future, however, and as evidenced by the recently approved Bank parti-
cipation in a syndicated guarantee facility for the Carajas Iron Ore
Project (Loan 2196-BR), the new co-financing instruments developed by the
Bank could play a role in encouraging commercial banks to provide Braz-i
with better financing terms and possibly additional lending for high
priority projects.
PART III - THE SECTOR
Sector Development and Organization
31.       In the past two decades, Brazil has greatly expanded its water
supply and sewerage network, but services have been largely concentrated in
urban areas, while rural areas, wbich would be addressed by the proposed
project, have been neglected. In the 1960s, the Federal Government assumed
responsibility for the sector, which had traditionally been managed, albeit
inefficiently, by local administrations and municipalities. It created the
National Housing Bank (BNH) under the authority of the Ministry of Interior
(MINTER) which assumed overall responsibility for the sector. Within this
framework, State Water Companies (SWCs> were formed in all of Brazil's
states to plan and extend sector services. In 1971, BNH created a national
sanitation plan, PLANASA, therein launching a major effort to improve water
supply and sanitation throughout Brazil. During the next ten years, the
level of water supply and sewerage services rose from about 38 million
people in 1970 to 89 million people in 1980. By 1980 65Z of Brazil's
cities of over 5,000 inhabitants had benefitted from FLANASA. Much has
been achieved: investment planning at the state level has been
strengthened, a national tariff system established and economies of scale
introduced.
32.       While responsibility for the urban water supply and sanitation
sector is clearly defined, the same does not apply to rural areas. There
are a number of federal and state agencies which provide services in Brazil
but they form part of rural health programs aimed at extending medical
services. For the most part, there is little coordination among the
agencies, and institutional rivalry is prevalent. Moreover, investment
planning and funding are inadequate. Total expenditures for rural sanita-
tion between 1978 and 1983 have averaged about US$14 million per year which
is far below the minimum requirement estimated at US$180 million per year.
33.       There are three main agencies involved in providing rural water
and sanitation services.  The first is BNH, which provides assistance to
the SWCs through the small communities program it established in 1980. The
program, part of PLANASA, finances water systems in communities of less



- 10 -
than 5,000 inhabitants. Systems are financed through a combination of
grants (70%) and loans. There are about 15 million people living in small
communities of which 11.4 million are classified as urban. in Brazil,
urban small communities are classified as such if they are administrative
centers, irrespective of their size or location. While BNH supports only
those small communities which fall under the "urban" classisfication, in
fact, a majority are rural in character.
34.       The second major institution providing rural areas with water
supply and sanitation is the Fundacao Servicos de Saude Publica (FSESP),
established in 1947. FSESP whose primary goal is to improve health, is a
public agency whose manager is nominated by the Minister of Health. It
provides water and sanitation principally in rural areas, by extending
infrastructure and services mainly in regions of Brazil with endemic
diseases and where large government infrastructure projects are under-
taken. About 1,100 of FSESP's 8,600 technical and administrative staff are
assigned to its water and sanitation works; other staff are assigned to
epidemiology (particularly eradication of schistosomiasis and Chagas
disease), environment, training, general health and administrative
functions. Host of FSESP's investmonts are grants, but it charges adminis-
tration fees for systems with house connections.
35.       Another program under the auspices of the Ministry of Health is
the Program for Community Health and Sanitation (PIASS). PIASS is an
inter-ministerial program administered by a small staff located in the
Ministry of Health. The Program aims at introducing basic, integrated
health facilities--including water supply and sewerage--in small communi-
ties. The Program is undertaken through the States' Secretaries of Health.
36.       Other agencies involved in the sector include regional develop-
ment agencies managed by the Federal Government, such as the Northeast
Regional Development Agency (SUDENE), the West Center Regional Development
Agency (SUDECO), and the Amazon Basin Regional Development Agency (SUDAM).
The regional development agencies provide grant financing to state agencies
such as the SWCs. This financing is provided on an ad-hoc basis, without
appropriate technical assistance and follow-up of operations and mainte-
nance. Specialized technical agencls,. such as the Rural Engineering
Company of Bahia (CERB) and the Brazilian Association of Sanitary
Engineering (ABES), and the rural communities themselves are also involved
in the sector.
37.       The ,ioneering work of these agencies has provided a good know-
ledge of the subsector, its growth possibilities and constraints. However,
much needs to be done, particularly through clearer definition of organiza-
tional responsibility, institutional strengthening, finance and improved
coordination.
Level of Service
38.       As indicated above, although Brazil has made great strides in the
past two decades to expand its water supply and sewerage network, rural
areas have received little attention in this respect. This gap has widened
over the past four years as Brazil has shifted its development focus to
expanding agricultural output and productivity in order to redress the



- 11 -
financial situation of the country. Socially-oriented projects for rural
areas have been deferred and until they are reinstated waterborne diseases
will continue to take a high toll in the countryside, particularly among
infants where the mortality rate is 77/1,000 live births.
39.       In 1980, about 33% of Brazil's population of 119 million lived in
rural areas. About 51Z of the total population was connected to a public
water system. In urban areas, 74% of the population had piped water but
only 3% did in rural areas. In small communities (classified by authori-
ties as urban but predominantly rural), about 30% of the population was
connected to public water systems. About 43% of the rural population uses
water of questionable quality from rivers, streams and unprotected wells.
The situation with respect to sanitation is less favorable. Only 25% of
Brazil's total population was connected to sewerage systems. Only 35% of
the population living in urban communities had sewerage, while only 32Z cf
the rural population had sanitation facilities. About 3% of the population
in small communities was connected to sewerage systems.
40.       The level of service in the State of Rio Grande do Sul, where the
pilot component of the project will be executed, is comparable to the rest
of Brazil. About 2.5 million people or 32% of the total state population
of 7.8 million live in rural areas. About 4% of its rural population had
publicly-provided water through house connections, 5% through standpipes
and wells and 91% relied on unprotected wells, rivers or springs.
Sanitation services lagged further behind with only 2% of rural comminities
linked to a public sewerage system, septic tanks or controlled pits. The
rest disposed of waste in open pits, rivers, streams or lakes. Rio Grande
do Sul has abundant surface and groundwater resources which recently have
been threatened by chemical run-off and contamination from waste elimina-
tion as the State's agroindustrial base has expanded. Rio Grande do Sul
was selected as a pilot state because of its interest In the project, its
ability to provide funds, the fact that it mirrors the problems faced by
Brazil as a whole in this sector, and owing also to its executing capabili-
ties and its strong cooperative movement.
41.       From 1981 through 1984 !:he State invested about US$3 million
annually in rural water supply and sanitation. Most of this (84%) has been
provided by BNH through PLANASA's small communities program and the State
Water Company of Rio Grande do Sul (CORSAN). The balance of the investment
has been provided by the State Secretary of Health (SES) and its Rural
Sanitation Program (PROSAN) and the Secretary of the Interior and Public
Works. PROSAN, which receives financing from FSESP and PIASS, constructs
small water systems and sanitation units, and provides education in
hygiene.
Subsector Constraints
42.       The proposed project is the first effort by the Government of
Brazil and the Bank to creace a cohesive policy to provide water supply and
sanitation in rural areas. In part, establishing such a policy has been
hampered by the fact that responsibility for the sector is shared by
several ministries, leading to political rivalries, unclear investment
priorities, inadequate funding, and the absence of a financial structure



- 12 -
for undertaking works. The agencies which presently provide rural water
and sanitation are for the most part weak and do not coordinate their
activities, with the result that the transfer of technology and the
opportunity to benefit from experience are lost. The fact that investments
in rural water supply and sanitation are not programmed and often are
politically motivated, is another constraint to sector development. In
addition, operation and maintenance of rural water and sanitation systems
is not sustained; more often than not, the lack of attention and follow-up
leads to systems being abandoned, Technician training, cost recovery
mechanisms and community participation programs are other areas which have
not been fully explored. The proposed project will assist the Government's
efforts to deal with these problems through nationwide studies and a pilot
case to test methods and their application, with the intention of providing
a sound basis for establishing a policy which would have an appropriate
institutional and finai.cial framework.
Government Strategy and the Bank's Role
43.       Brazil has made considerable progress in extending water supply
and sewerage services to the urban population by restructuring and
strengthening sector institutions and creating PLANASA. The Bank has
fostered this growth through ten water supply and sewerage projects total-
ling US$1.07 billion. Four of the early projects have been completed,
albeit with delays and some cost overruns, and are considered to have
achieved most of their objectives.3/ In addition to expanding the water
supply and sewerage network, Bank-supported projects have contributed to
establishing a National Tariff Law, standardizing the SWC's procedures,
decentralizing BNH's preparation and supervision activities to regional
offices and setting up a uniform accounting system for the SWCs. During
the 1980s, the strategy for the sector should focus at consolidating
achievements through a follow-up to the on-going Water Supply and Sewerage
Sector Project (Loan 2249-BR). It should aim at upgrading the level of
service in rural areas in order to improve the standard of living and
health conditions of the country's poorer residents. Rural areas are
receiving renewed priority not only because of poverty considerations but
owing also to the importance of agricultural output to Brazil's economic
recovery. The Northeast Region would figure prominently in a rural
strategy in this respect, as its development lags behind all other areas of
Brazil.
3/ Project Performance Audit Reports for the Sao Paulo Water Supply and
Pollution Control Project supported by Loans 757-BR and 758-BR (Report
No. 2929, SECM8O-265) and the Minas Gerais Water Supply and Sewerage
Project supported by Loan 1009-BR (Report No. 4613, SECM83-710). A
Project Completion Report for the Second Min! Gerais Water Supply and
Sewerage Project supported by Loan 1309-BR haEbeen prepared and no
audit report is envisaged.



- 13 -
44.       The Government is now turning its attention to strengthening
rural water and sanitation activities to complement programs aimed at
increasing production and productivity. As the proposed project represents
the first effort to create a cohesive policy to provide water supply and
sanitation in rural areas, a follow-up operation focussing at larger-scale
implementation-probably in the Northeast-iwould be desirable.  The Bank's
role in the proposed project is one of a catalyst for bringing the minis-
tries working in the subsector together and for providing finance and
technical expertise which would rot otherwise be available.  As a pilot
endeavor, the project will test new technologies and approaches, including
the recovery of costs and a community-supported system for operation and
maintenance. Considerable research has been done on providing rural water
and sanitation, but few developing countries have adopted a national
policy. This project provides the vehicle for establishing good procedures
and promoting rational development of rural water and sanitation services
in a large country.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background
45.       In 1983 the Government requested Bank assistance to develop the
rural water supply and sanitation subsector. A Bank sector study, under-
taken in early 1983 concluded that a technical assistance operation with a
pilot component to test applications would be needed to define policies,
strengthen institutions and gain experience before undertaking a full-scale
lending operation. The proposed project supports this conclusion by
including studies (national technical assistance component) and a test case
for delivery of rural water and sanitation services in a southern state
(pilot component). The project also includes support for emergency works
in the less-developed Northeast. The project was appraised in November-
December 1984. Negotiations were held in Washington in March 1985. The
Brazilian delegation was led by Dra. Stael Martins Baltar, Presidential
Planning Secretariat
Project Objectives
46.       Although the Government has made noticeable strides in increasing
agricultural production and productivity while at the same time improving
the overall standard of living in rural areas, it has yet to develop a
strategy for providing rural water supply and sanitation. The objectives
of this project would be to assist the Government in this undertaking,
specifically focussing on:
(a) assisting the national and state Governments in defining rural
water supply and sanitation sector objectives, policies and
institutional responsibilities;
(b) assisting the state Governments in strengthening sector institu-
tions;
(c) supporting Government programs to develop and improve conditions
in depressed areas of the Northeast region;



- 14 -
(d) testing and evaluating delivery of sector services through a
pilot project;
(e) improving productivity and welfare through provision of sanita-
tion services (water supply, excreta disposal and sanitation-
related home improvements) to rural inhabitants in the State of
Rio Grande do Sul;
(f) promoting community participation in the planning, execution, and
operation and maintenance of water supply and sanitation ser-
vices;
(g) promoting hygienic habits of the population; and
(h) promoting the use of low-cost water and sanitation technology.
Project Description
47.       The proposed project consists of a national technical assistance
component (US$13.0 million or 40% of the project cost) and a pilot com-
ponent (US$19.5 million or 60%). It would be executed in the period July
1985 to June 1988.
48.       The national technical assistance component would consist of
studies, investment plans, special assistance to ten Northeast states, and
equipment. The studies would focus on:
(a) Institutions (i) Evaluation of the existing organizational
structure; (ii) establishment of criteria to reorder the institu-
tions; (iii) preparation of amendments of existing legislation;
(iv) definition of inter-institutional coordination; and (v)
identification of staff training needs;
(b) Finances (i) Preparation of financial policies for investment
and operation and maintenance of systems, tariffs, and funds
recovery; (ii) recommendations on changes in the present.organi-
zation and assignment of responsibilities in sector financing and
alternative flow of funds; (iii) definition of financial criteria
for setting priorities; (iv) analysis of users' affordability,
tariffs and other sources of financing and charges for services;
and (v) identification of staff training needs;
(c) Community promotion (i) Definition of alternatives for community
participation in the preparation, construction, operation, and
administration of the systems; (ii) analysis of community parti-
cipation in other sectors; (iii) preparation of required legal
arrangements; and (iv) required technical assistance and train-
ing;



- 15 -
(d) Human resources (i) Analysis of the different training programs
in the sector; (ii) evaluation of the needs; and (iii) prepa-
ration of a national training plan for the sector with emphasis
on construction, operation and maintenance of systems and on the
administration of services;
(e) Engineering (i) Inventory of technologies for rural water sup-
ply; (ii) development of alternative technical standards for
project design emphasizing low-cost technologies; (iii) defini-
tion of institutional arrangements for project design, execution,
and operation and maintenance; (iv) production of education
materials; and (v) training needs; and
(f) Investment plan preparation (i) At the state level, diagnosis of
sector services, and financial, institutional, and technical
capacity; (ii) formulation of sector service targets and develop-
ment of investment alternatives for the next ten years; and (iii)
consolidation of the state plans in a national plan.
The studies would be completed by end-1986 and would require 616
staff-months of consultants, 372 staff-months of support staff to be
provided by the Federal Government, and approximately 900 staff-months of
counterpart staff at the state level.
49.       An important feature of the project is the special technical
assistance to be provided to the ten Northeast states. This assistance
would complement emergency water supply works undertaken as part of the
Small Agricultural Producer Program (PAPP). These works are being financed
in part through rural development projects, now being processed by the Bank
and by the Inter-American Development Bank. The assistance to be provided
through this project would concentrate on the strengthening of the adminis-
tration of the water supply program, the promotion of the communities, the
establishment of cost recovery policies, and the completion of agreements
with the municipalities and communities to construct, operate, and maintain
the systems. For all ten states, 264 staff-months of consultants and 400
staff-months of counterpart staff would be needed. Completion is expected
by the end of 1987.
50.       The ten Northeast States would also receive special assistance in
the preparation of a full-scale rural water supply and sanitation invest-
ment program. The preparation work would consist of socio-economic
studies, housing census and hydrogeological surveys, final designs, tariff
studies, and promotion and legal contracts for approximately 600
communities, representing the first two-year investment of a longer-term
program. Preparation assistance includes consulting services and
equipment. It would be carried out in the period 1987-88 in order to take
advantage of the recommendations from the studies and pilot program. Terms
of reference and a detailed schedule for the execution of this program
would be submitted by June 30, 1986 (Section 2.06, draft IPEA Project
Agreement). In addition, fox the assistance for emergency works described
in para. 49 and for the preparation work mentioned above, IPEA would enter
into individual agreements with each Northeast state setting forth respon-
sibilities on execution, funding, procurement, auditing and accounting
(Section 2.07, draft IPEA Project Agreement).



- 16 -
51.       The pslot component would be carried out in Rio Grande do Sul and
would include: (a) project preparation and construction of 200 community
water systems, 10,000 individual sanitary units, and 5,000 latrines; and
(b) technical assistance, training, and equipment to organize state agen-
cies in the delivery of sanitation services to the rural population.
Project Implementation
52.       The Federal Government would be the Borrower.  The national
technical assistance component would be executed through a coordinating
unit established in the Ministry of Planning's (Presidential Planning
Secretariat-SEPLAN) Institute of Economic and Social Planning (IPEA). It
would be staffed by representatives of the Ministries of Planning, Health
and Interior, and also by foreign and local consultants (120
staff-months). Because of the complexity of the studies and their
comprehensive coverage, a master administrative contract would be signed
with the Pan American Hlealth Organization (PAHO). IPEA would be guided by
an Interministerial Committee comprised of the Ministries of Planning,
Health and Interior. This committee is crucial to the success of the
project and represents the first time that the Ministries are collaborating
closely on rural water and sanitation matters. This Committee and the
coordinating unit for project execution have been established.
53.       IPEA was created in 1964 for the purpose of carrying out economic
studies and assisting public entities on development. IPEA is an auto-
namous entity of about 1,100 employees, including 600 technicians. It is
well-organized and the Bank has had a positive experience with IPEA in the
carrying out of studies under Loan 2347-BR (Export Credit Project) and Loan
2348-BR (Agricultural Export Project). Its accounting and auditing
practices are satisfactory to the Bank.
54.       BNH would be responsible for overseeing the pilot operation and
through the Interministerial Committee would convey its experiences and
lessons from the pilot. BNH was selected because of its long association
with the Bank and familiarity with works of this nature. The State of Rio
Grande do Sul's Department of Urban Development and Municipal Adminis-
tration (SURBAM) would be, in collaboration with beneficiary communities,
responsible for planning and executing the pilot component. The Bank has
had considerable and mostly positive, experience with BNH and the State of
Rio Grande do Sul in the implementation of past projects.
55.       SURBAM was created in 1975.  Its principal responsibilities are
to provide technical assistance and training to municipalities and assist
in urban and regional planning. SUREA.M has 84 employees, including 65
technicians and professionals. Its accounting and auditing procedures are
satisfactory to the Bank.
56.       Under the national component, IPEA would sign contracts with con-
sultants for studies and technical assistance, with the states for the
preparation of state investment programs and with the Northeast states for
the special technical assistance and project preparation facilities. Under



- 17 -
the pilot component, SUJRBAM would contract various project activities with
CORSAN (water supply), PROSAN (sanitation systems), and the Universidade de
Vale de Rio dos Sinos (community participation). Participating communities
will sign contracts before construction detailing the works to be carried
out, the community's contribution to investment and responsibilities for
operation and maintenance, and the formula for setting tariffs (Section
3.01-3.03, 3.05 and Schedule 2, draft State-BNH Project Agreement). SURBAM
would submit to the Bank at least ten such contracts prior to loan
effectiveness.  SURBAM would provide follow-up supervision and control of
systems operation and maintenance and cost recovery. For technical matters
SURBAM would receive assistance from CORSAN for water supply and PROSAN for
sanitation. These two institutions are experienced and have qualified
personnel.
57.       Draft contracts, a plan for project progress reporting, moni-
toring indicators and interim and final project evaluation were agreed to
during negotiations. It was agreed that executing agencies would discuss
with the Bank the findings and recommendations of the technical assistance
and the plan for implementing the recommendations (Section 2.05(c), draft
IPEA Project Agreement; Section 3.08(b) draft State-BNH Project
Agreement). Finally, annual audits of the accounts of the national and
pilot components and of the special account were agreed to (Schedule 4,
draft Loan Agreement; Section 4.01, draft IPEA Project Agreement; Section
3.07 and 4.02 draft State-BNH Project Agreement).
Selection and Design Criteria
58.       The following selection criteria would be applied to all communi-
ties participating under the pilot component: (a) populations of 200-2,000
inhabitants; (b) subprojects must represent the least-cost alternative for
providing water services; (c) water supply subproject costs must have a per
capita construction cost of less than US$120 at December 1984 prices and
represent the least cost alternative; (d) studies demonstrating the
availability of reliable and economic sources of water must be completed;
and (e) a water supply and sanitation committee must be set up in each
community to participate actively in the planning and construction of the
system, in its future administration, operation, and maintenance and in the
recovery of costs. A preliminary list of communities has been agreed with
SURBAM. All final designs would be submitted for Bank approval no later
than Dc_ember 31, 1986 (Section 3.01(b)-(c), draft State-BNH Project
Agreement). The specific degree of cost recovery in each community will be
tied to the level and quality of services to be provided which will be
negotiated and agreed upon between SURBAM and the community.
59.       Water services provided through the project will be by house con-
nections with the exception of services in low-density population areas
where it is planned to install public standpipes. In most cases, ground-
water sources would be used; water treatment, except for chlorination,
would not be required. Sanitary units would comprise a detached shelter
for a complete toilet, a septic tank, and an external tap for washing.
Kitchen installations would be connected whenever possible. Sanitary units
have an estimated cost of US$300 which would be 100% recovered. When
people cannot afford these units, simple latrines would be provided free.



- 18 -
Systems would be relatively simple to operate and maintain. SURBAM would
provide training to the communities for operation and routine maintenance
and backup for major maintenance. CORSAN would regularly test water
quality. The experience with the selection criteria and with execution of
works would be incorporated with a view toward replicability into the
technical assistance work under the national component (para. 57).
Project Cost, Financing and Recovery Plan
60.       The total cost of the project excluding interest during construc-
tion is estimated at US$32.5 million equivalent. The foreign exchange
component is estimated at US$9.7 million or 30% of the project cost. Costs
are based on December 1984 prices and include physical contingencies of
5%.  Price contingencies of US$5.3 million or 19% of 1984 project costs are
based on estimated international inflation of 8% in 1985, and 9%, there-
after.  While the Bank funds will not finance direct taxes, the local
component includes about 3% of indirect taxes on industrial products.
Technical assistance and consultant costs are based on those of similar
internationally and locally-recruited experts in Brazil. The cost
estimates include 218 staff-months of foreign consultants, 1,025
staff-months of local consultants, 612 staff-months of support staff, and
1,300 staff-months of counterpart staff. Construction costs are based on
unit costs developed by CORSAN and PROSAN during implementation of ongoing
programs in the pilot state.
61.       The Bank loan of US$16.3 million, representing 50% of total
project cost would finance total foreign costs and US$6.6 million in local
costs. This is in line with the Bank participation for similar social
projects in Brazil. The Federal Government, BNH, and the State of Rio
Grande do Sul have agreed to finance in a timely way the balance of US$16.2
million (Section 3.01, draft Loan Agreement; Section 2.01, draft IPEA
Project Agreement; Section 2.01 draft State-BNH Project Agreement). Under
the national component, Bank financing would amount to US$8.5 million, and
the Federal Government financing to US$2.4 million. The states would
provide project-related services amounting to an equivalent of US$2.1
million. Under the pilot component, Bank financing would amount to US$7.8
million, BNH's share to US$5.6 million, and the State of Rio Grande do
Sul's share to US$3.9 million. An amount of about US$1.2 million is
included in the State financing for start-up of community programs. In
addition, the State would provide project-related services amounting to an
equivalent of US$2.2 million.
62.       A special account for the project in the amount of US$1.5 million
(estimated four months' disbursements) would be established in the Central
Bank. Under the pilot operation, BNH would on-lend Bank funds and its
counterpart financing to the State of Rio Grande do Sul. The State would
provide the remaining balance. All funds under the pilot operation would
be channeled through the State's FUNDURBANO.
63.       Cost recovery mechanisms were agreed upon for the pilot compo-
nent, during negotiations. For water works, local communities benefitting
from the project would be required to set tariffs at a level sufficient to
cover operations and maintenance, equipment replacement, as well as a
minimum 30% of investment costs, including interest and monetary
correction. These arrangements are satisfactory, compare favorably with



- 19 -
similar projects and represent a major departure from full grant financing
of the rural water sector in Brazil. Socio-economic studies satisfactory
to the Bank would be undertaken by SURBAM to determine the communities'
capacity to pay and the percentage would be increased depending upon the
studies' results.  Communities would cover at least 10% of investment cost
through initial contributions. These contributions would be a minimum of
2.5% in cash payable before the initiation of works and 7.5% during the
construction period in cash, labor or kind. The remaining 20% of the
investment cost would be covered through tariffs and amortized over 18
years at 7.5% interest. The balance would be borne by the State
government. For sanitary units, SURBAM would recover the full cost of the
units under the same lending terms as those charged for water supply.
SURBAM would administer repayments which would be deposited in FUNDURBANO.
No recovery of costs by the Government is envisaged for the national
component, which consists mainly of studies and technical assistance.
64.       Average monthly water charges per connection (US$2.16) satisfy
tariff law requirements under PLANASA, which provides that minimum monthly
charges should not exceed 35% of one Readjustable National Treasury Bond
(ORTN)(US$2.27). Based on the average tariffs, ahout 80Z of the benefitted
families will be able to afford the services; the remaining 20% will be
charged minimum tariffs or in some cases service standards will be
lowered. A monthly charge of US$2.53 is estimated to fully recover the
costs of sanitary units. This is reasonable as acquisition of units is
elective. Thoqe who are unable to pay, but willing to provide labor, would
receive latrines on a grant basis. During negotiations, an agreement was
reached on a revenue covenant including an annual review of tariffs, and on
the automatic adjustment for inflation (Section 3.05, Schedule 2, draft
State-BNH Project Agreement).
Procurement and Disbursement
65.       Proctrement under the Project would be carried out following Bank
guidelines. All cotntracts for equipment and materials exceeding US$100,000
and for civil works exceeding US$500,000 would be awarded on the basis of
international competitive bidding. Equipment and materials would be
grouped to obtain packages in excess of US$100,000 with the exception of an
aggregate of up to US$200,000 under the technical assistance component and
US$500,000 under the pilot component that would be contracted under local
procurement.  For the pilot component, it was agreed that annual purchase
programs would be submitted to the Bank for approval (Section 3.06,
Schedule 1, draft State-BNH Project Agreement). Under these assamptions,
approximately US$11.0 million or 34% of project expenses would be awarded
under ICB. The nature of the civil works precludes the efficient packaging
of services to be bid. Works would be carried out in more than 200
communities by different executing entities, and with the active
participation of the communities. These works, amounting to approximately
US$7.9 million or 24% of the project cost, would be carried out by small
local contractors and force account. Local procurement procedures ensure
adequate competition and are consistent with Bank procurement guidelines.
66.       Technical assistance and consultants' services, amounting to
US$10.7 million or 33% of total project cost, would be procured in



- 20 -
accordance with Bank's Guidelines for the Use of Consultants. To ease the
administrative burden on IPEA and the coordinating unit for the technical
assistance component, a master contract for consultants' services with PAHO
under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank would be awarded.
67.       Prior Bank review of socio-economic and feasibility reports,
community contracts, and prequalification, bidding documents, awards, and
contracts, would be required for equipment, materials, and civil works to
be procured under ICB.  SURBAM and IPEA would maintain all relevant docu-
mentation for local procurement of goods and services. Bank missions would
carry out an ex-post review by sampling. IPEA and SURBAM would employ
consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment would be satisfactory to the Bank (Schedule 1, II., draft IPEA
Project Agreement; Schedule 1, II., draft State-BNH Project Agreement).
68.       The Bank would disburse as follows:  37Z for materials and equip-
ment and 95% for consulting services, under the technical assistance
component; and 58% of BNH's disbursements to SURBAM, under the pilot
component. Loan disbursements would be made against statements of
expenditures prepared by IPEA for the technical assistance component and
SJRBAM for the pilot component. The detailed documentation would be
retained by IPEA and SURBAM for inspection during supervision missions.
Disbursements would be completed by the Closing date of June 30, 1989.
Disbursement under a group of ongoing water supply loans in Brazil
(1656-BR, 1823-BR, and 1850-BR) indicates that disbursement profiles are
about two years shorter than the standard Bank disbursement profile of
eight years. The proposed disbursement period (4 years) takes irto account
that: (a) the pilot component is going to be implemented in Rio Grande do
Sul, which is--administratively and institutionally--among the most
developed states of Brazil; and (b) the national component-including the
support to be provided to the Northeast states--consists mainly of studies
and technical assistance, and should be fully implemented well before June
1989.
Benefits and Risks
69.       The main benefits associated with the national component of the
project will be the institutional, organizational, financial and technical
improvements expected from the studies included in that component. While
such benefits can not be quantified, the positive effects of reorganizing
the rural water supply and sanitation sector, introducing investment
efficiency and cost recovery, increasing levels of service and maintenance
and improving health would be sizable.
70.       For the pilot component an estimated 106,000 persons would
benefit from water service coverage through house connections. About
40,000 persons would benefit from the sanitation component. Approximately
80% of families in the communities selected earn below two minimum
salaries, and 88% fall below the poverty line of three minimum salaries.
As plans are to provide full water service coverage in each eligible
community, the project would thus have a very significant impact on the
poor. It is also estimated that on a cost basis, the poor would be the
beneficiaries of about 78% of the costs of the water supply and sanitation



- 21 -
physical works. Moreover, important benefits are expected from improved
health, lower mortality rates, gains in investment efr;ciency and in funds
recovery. Because these benefits are difficult to quantify, no rate of
return has been calculated.
71.       The execution of the national studies and technical assistance
couponent depends on the cooperation of three ministries. To some extent
the risk associated with the need for such cooperation will be minimized by
retaining the PAHO to undertake administration and contracting. None-
theless, continuation of cooperation by the ministries in the new adminis-
tration which took office in March 1985, would be essential.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
72.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Federative Republic of
Brazil and the Bank, draft Project Agreements between the Bank and IPEA,
and between the Bank and the State of Rio Grande do Sul and BNH, and the
Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4 (iii) of the
Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive Directors
separately.
73.       Special conditions of the loan and conditions of effectiveness
are discussed throughout this report and summarized in Section III of Annex
III.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
74.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
75.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
April 5, 1985
Washington, D.C.



ANNE I
- 22-                                          Page   of 5
URAIL                 - MCIA INtCAYOUU DATA 3U4CU
SAUL        UIRN0R01113 (V81123  AVRAOI) a
803T               (301  81038? 3l7KThZ)f
tueoL iUL SCN   NIBBHLE 1           NIDDLC c
196!    197OLb-   gVnRuTimLk    IAT. AIRIA CMA                EuRopE
An  (T         Q. a)
TOTAL                            3512.0      3512.0     3512.0
ACRICULTURAL                     1636.4      1981-2     2352.1
orP     CoiT  (IS)                  330.0        100.0     2240.0           2106.6                   230.3
31330 CONStUPTION ME CAPITA
(IIOANS OF OIL EQUZJALEIT)       264.0        612.0      740.0            n5.s                    1122.8
muuaTnM  Alm via sTAnnsC
POPULATIOHNHID-TYZA (THKUSANDS)  72594.0    95347.0   126603.0
URBAN POPUIATION ( OP TOTUAL)     44.9         55.8       68.8             6b.5                     46.8
POPULATION RWOJICTIOS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (HILL)                         181.1
STATIONARY POPULATION (HILL)                           303.6
POPULATION N TRI                                         1.6
POPUIATION DENSITY
PEM SQ. IN.                      8.5         11.3       14.6             35.7                     82.9
PUR SQ. KM. ACRI. LAND           44.4        46.4       52.7             92.4                    158.9
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (E)
U-14 TRS                       43.6         42.7       40.9             39.9                     31.6
15-64 * S                       53.8         54.3       55.6             5s.0                    61.1
65 AND ABOVE                     2.6          3.1        3.5              4.1                      7.1
POPULATIONI GROWTH RATE (Z)
TOTAL                             3.1         2.8        2.3              2.4                      1.6
URBA                              5.7         5.0        4.1              3.6                      3.7
CRUDE 8I3TH RATE (PCR TIOUS)       *2.7        35.0       31.2             31.3                     23.4
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER SHOUS)       12.9        10.3        8.1              3.1                     8.8
CROSS REPRODUCTION RATE             3.0         2.4        1.9              2.0                      1.6
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORES ANNIAL (TH1US)          *-       111.0      203.6 Ic
USERS (Z or NANNIESD UOHEE)        ..          ..         ..             40.3
FOeD -D flTI
INDEX OF FOOD PROD. PER CAPTA
(1969-71-100)                      89.0       102.0      133.0            114.3                    114.5
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES CZ OF REQUIRSENTS)     106.0       104.0      107.0            110.6                    126.6
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)        64.0         62.0       60.0             67.3                    89.7
OF WHICH ANINAL AND PULSE      35.0        34.0       36.0 ld          34.1                     34.5
CHILD (ASES 1-4) DEATH RATE        19.4        12.5        8.0              5.7                     5.2
EKfALYR
LIFE EUPECT. AT UIRTI (YEAS)       54.7        58.9       63.8             64.7                    67.4
INFANT kDRT. RATE (PER TDOUS)     116.2        98.6       73.4             60.6                    54.2 
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (rOrP)
TOTAL                              ..        55.0       77.1 I*          65.4
URBAN                             *.         73.0       88.87;           78.1
RURAL                             ..         28.0       56.8 7;          46.2
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL
(I OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                              ..        58.0       64.8 le          52.9
URBAN                              ..        85.0       83.7 7e          67.0
RLRAL                             .-         24.0       31.7 7-          24.5
POPULATION PER PHYSICIN         2210.0       2130.0                      1917.7                  1065.6
POP. PER NURSINC PERSON         2810.0       1120.0                       815.8                   764.4
POP. PER HOSPITAL NED
TOTAL                           310.0       270.0      250.0 Ie         367.2                    326.3
URBAN                           250.0       320.0         ..            411.5                    201.5
RURAL                             ..           ..         ..           2636.3
AENISSIONS PER HOSPITAL RED          *-        18.4                        27.3                    20.0
SmLm
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                             5.1         4.3        4.9 /.
URBAN                              ..         4.6        4.7 7e;
RURAL                             ..          5.2        5.3 7..
AVERAGE NO. OF PERSOHS7ROOh
TOTAL                                         1.1          *               * -
URBAN                              ..         1.0
RURAL                                         1.2
ACCESS TO ELECT. (2 OF WELLIH)
TOTAL                            38.7        *7.6       67.4
URBAN                              ..        75.6       B8.5
RURAL                             ..          8.4       20.6



ANNLx I
- 23 -                                                 Page 2 of 5
2rSlL                 - OCL SIMICAT3  DATA INICET
N 2MRrLu                                           aBours tw gcmcc AVM.B
MOlT                 (ROBT RECENT hITbIAhE)&
ECENT         MIDDLE INCUM            MIDDLE INCD
19401    1i704L       lTlATuia      RAT. MICA L CAR              EUROPE
ADJUITED ENrOLIENT XATIO5
PRDKAKuT   ToTAL                  95.0         84.0        93.0 att         103.4                    101.1
MAIE                   97.0         14.0        93.0 Ii          106.3                    105.1
FluLIZ                 33.0         84.0        93.0             104.5                     96.7
IECONVDART TOlUL                  11.0         26.0        32.0             43.2                      19.1
AIWZ                    110         26.0        29.0 loh          42.3                     68.S
JI1IUU                 10.0         27.0        35.0              44.5                     50.6
VOCATIONL (x 01 SCOIUAXY)           18.6         16,7        59.2 /b           33.6                     21.6
PUPIL-TECHER RATIO
PRSY4                             33.0         28.0        26.0              30.1                     25.1
SEOBCEnAR                         13.0         13.0        14.0              16.8                     20.3
ADULT LITERACY RATE (1)             61.0         66.2        76.0 /t           79.5                     75.6
PAUISSENR CARS/TIIOUSAND POP         7.6         16.6        48.9              46.0                     54.7
RUDXO uCZIvu/uouua  pop             65.4        108.4       165.1             225.6                    164.9
TV RECEIVERU/THOUAJID POP           16.5         44.3       119.7             107.2                    123.8
NERSPAPE  ("MALY  aENnAL
IlNTEREST") CIRCMATIW
PER TROUND POPMIATO               52.9         35.6        64.0 A            63.5                     96.3
CINUW Aamu  ATZENDACICAPITA          4.4          2.0         1.8               2.8                      2.9
Lama
TAL LABOR FORCE (CTOyS)          23326.0      30411.0    40365.0
FIDALE (PERCENT)                  17.2         20.1        23.2              23.2                     34.3
ACUICULTURE (PZRCENT)             51.9         45.6        29.9              31.5                     40.7
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                14.8         18.3        24.4              23.9                     23.3
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                             32.1         31.7        31.8              32.2                     42.9
KALE                              52.7         50.3       4*.9               49.3                     54.7
FEKALE                            11.2         12.6        14.8              15.2                     31.0
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO            1.4          1.4         1.4               1.4                      0.9
PRCENT OF PRXVATE INC(r
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 52 oF HOUSEUDLDS            ..
HIGHEST 20X or NOUSEHOLDS         60.0         63.5        62.0,.
LOWEST 202 F BOUSECOLDS            3.8          3.2         2.8 a*'
LOVZST 40Z or UOsEOLDS            10.8          9.0         9.4               ,.
ro  TART nRPS
ESTI.ATED ABSOLUTE POVErTY INCTS
LEVEL CUSS PE  CAPI)
URIBA                               ..           ..          ..             28. 2
RURAL                               ..           ..         150.0 /d        184.0
ESTDIATED RELATIVE POVERTY- !WrQ4
LEVEL CUSS PER CAPITA)
UDRAN                               ..           ..       465.0 /d         522.8
RURAL                               ..           ..       332.0 Td-         372.4
ESTD(ATED POP. BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERT  INCME LEVEL tI)
uBNn                                .. -..                                     ..
RURAL                               ..
NOT AVAILABLE
NOT APPLICABLE
N O T E s
T The group verages for *acb indicator are Population-weighted arithmetie means. Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on avatlability of data and is not uniform.
lb   Unlese otherwise noted, "Data for 1960" refer to aty year betVeen 1959 and 1961; "Data for 1970"' between 1969 and
1971; and data for "Moat Recent Estimte" between 1980 and 1982.
lc  1975; Id 1977; /a 1976; /f 1979; /R Beginning 1973 prImry and secondary education cover age group. 7-16 and 15'17
iuatead of 7-10 and 11-i'Tn earlier years; therefore. moat recent estimates are not comparable with earlier data;
lh 1978.
JUNE, 1986



- 24-                                                                           ANNEX I
Page 3 of 5
mama I ate          dthea    era dueso FMa domenia -Ml JSMS 5l R*fmkll daedtol d nFtal., La thed ata,1 hedlad Shea She, god s-a he tmboreatmaRt
_ 2acehm              satwh Saab at.oaaadadt.ad do      a&mmd- campS. mmm  2 dIltos-O.S        K oma tea o.loltau- She 6S*.  WA damon a"h.          oa  model to
moth   re..6  m oltda  took . Socie  .d amen~s. as-meSa MleW Itlsron hOna  made".
the --ast lane   draP-f en itthe s    aoapV oroop at She ejloal NaMa,  ii (23 e macimlad    Mra       . saSh  sohl Saete advtian lO-.. att  Shed SOmrp danaw .t alto
-boot mooatt, IeIaoopa tee 'OSfl t.aosIR alt apel.r.er  itp areo 'OUddt  ten Omat Africa ad cadd1eA tm.r  to commaN bore  .9 aacsaor aocterttnt
.1t1IaLeatcal  it the rit--ea    stat  data She .nrnae .- pantacto   -iVAcd -r1ttoaeai  fMm  taW -aS tdlaae  MaS a1-m aotu Md s-toitte  at lbd dato    la
uMP tan dm1 ot lbS BoateaSsatsdd  lim  theNW daeo at drl oaa 40eon   the laSmoat  dspad. -d Sb enS tahtlBy of Wea  ad 5.a  aettamff.  ~etb   wei he
emaroisd mactaa  erc   t-SoSae..sah.   ha ..euaiao ala Salt caSteS. Stiaut  the  .I tat   alo   Ssdtcam, a a tin                                     Sbdd  It. oaup ad
bLl* 1aeSaUSf dead osaptIoSo 1ad        wetio  taled aonal IW.iIiaiieSt. 4 14                    -V      l   a sdi t ecoe  at aSas."lty tanct.
itca    tat  ot.h4nc    c.%uS  heusen - f,astat   dtnhAd,wMalah-t nI  seSot.
Mftel,tl  SOto. Stor   fcatt.ae  .cn  todoerls at ptreodaotay                       atee   (a.-ordold tenet. -seance aROOM, prSlaa  scram  Mad
poar-a  -ftr"i and t'ame.  eee.-. a  to. Peess   a.                            ac"Itte  ..Ilotini-
tap  at.  ett  [fol -aNt at   i.t *aa 'tai..a a.m   oa  gram..                         mattat  at pabit cad prtata- ".rarol      waeostlIad heapaolu  cod
local. Ilia. oad l11t data.                                                                ae at tit-2    elPaaetc 0. tcabttateae  erasdtso partakelpoty motualitL
core et  ma iateded. Nr-ki Sapaa           -b-e,. taoS    heels  -d
locllYccainaaao ae  a~tt  -.ic  appalcat --dacipSat. as ciaati                       edoloet COMMsf  eat poOAaael  aao1tl.d by a Ssaae  (heR1 laye asci L9
pritrt eeetcoatendItO~*aP.tec.-c. aaaa-o  Id.a   tpdn~k-. -atelsat                 macaa  as-M. eadMtt. te.0 a 1 Iats . trtIa-pctcco.ttoit    -d
and waaocere  elioautetaa, asItarsa alatcaoPar apIcal ILIA                                  proti. a Stattad faIoa at asdtmt PFIcataS.
malt, a  ama at.                                                                               - Isaac ocher at ishtaaaae So - dtaabarusadodo   1-10 de ba
b.c- . .1 IJ irhe  StG te ots.                                                $r        -   batsaddes It"._adr,t
orm Faa.t lea cram  et tMOM,tOtIM                  c1psapitcct1                    Ab al JS aid-Sd   9Uit                            o   -k 9On
ereta It  ta   it aras ias-r  raFFec oaaerf.lalte  atSe                          thecasi  at.,           hard-e- -  coci say - tel IOc he anteie-  a
as-qz aoaoctaat' lug, talc, a  1940 dat..                                                 h  hoohlddh     t  alatMtnt.  ,   pdarpsae.
'M'q k=- Citrnet 1poretatl  paa1-ctLadd,     bonad enL.  .IL                                                               ~c, *.-nfp
See  papa sac  op da ma       Wk. thIr -cutatt   a0 terttttty                     d ioP. rtapettc1tt.  heaSttmag aattao ea.aestetNcir--
rakio. Prejmatte parmaotaldra  n  sfala  risc ce"ara  at abree                                     pat..
Scatt  asciie  tarng aemooatas  a  strat sracame11 alit ecearr  add                  a-.ra  cc Naasce,ysrsa   tStaa-ti    ahaa                         rrat -
eo6t ta  a    cent, -a  ta-te Nots.aaoa  alhinc   m77.1                                tattcaa-    llaamteaisrre  S  tai  aat       grito
gad a. Y  aeroalaa tr.  1crtatlty rifat o   oee tlal  a t ternaaat taLct  wroad. a0 .-ta atacc  saaotalr
= ;.ata   matte  L. elta   airdtrn:1a le  es   ta-S  a  pt teSt,
1tco    eraai.   ilh tace-  Ia ae nito."eda. nichi els
setaaei   -t.ao,a  a  tIrata,taaata  samca   cre
itratcaey .eaaticcs  -. to  a   afchas  tO.- am  --eo-lepetc  rt.l-  Y                      a            -           ..-f           -  ne td.nit  eta aS I-L.
rdan te-i ca  ."'I"  -,e  i ta  partod. SmIte iia-Paattte ftstltty                         -iiT  fiiUiV  oFi'erm   i sen  a, p-rs-o- et  2t,.ra
raa  hea   aatcactt  rctao  it re acot-S Cast                                             rrtct   -ktatwe eetoeter, =ns 1ta  te-ndde atttdre  opd- a.I
r..Arfsdst    raoo-tl   acehareact.   the b4latrt  c  aaacrc -SitMg                                Stfl-cc               . imta Ofcch   at 08c. of1aeaa   tr.
,rrciScare Ya.auorr eaet   lora   cemdah                                           at            m   raaire baa  a.t aha  ahd- fise  oisaSon
tat, aJ the   - Ojed rhersatcriama atte 0.pattecte cc the                              `Iaadorr scant - cae.I  -la cat  ants - dtcted - Mt-d'talr
tinl. Ow 'th  niln oltstt  nt tNS Stat ros ti  -I-.sc     tent.                           sentlc  raat  orsa    a  niaa .-cae-e  re0t  tret--mac-
cretate  st.eae  -  atheeadaatn   cotes .. -retMt1   d .ad Sir~ai                            aedopera  os-. mac   aytse   arotatm  tatOscan   tar
herod et  tantaocrartranatiaa   tet alta  hi his  aeasi   SI,-                  -pIsnI' 1,    N! a  17tcm   t,.   .src.a.e                 rc
Is, ot  ser eh  setrsproostt  rat ma ..istd ae TRWth                          ic1rottraetd
ater -r a rareicaca Oe ruse  ain  a, s-ae..sd iaiscete er  ts  tea.nltcctcrat Sees.s tcrsrt - sssonstrnt - ~st.ctaasi taeta-cttM
etteaeemtnerrssasct.a  c heeeenc  t resi  a an      Ic ad  traeea.  ea,ct 't sre r-tta   nmcl-.src
ranaa..os oetam.  erlI t,s--I-ascr  .eno   ...tr.  ssr.at..eea.c I a'end-oraal  - cns-dN`---msa
saaerd,  aistaoe                                          tcrat.rcrber 'ric - eMer. cad.s.-m.c -            *  t.st  a-a-
Cer a.- Ie  ca.tas   od- Cacn L    atg..- tir                 d . .s.ossa  dad-                     a.ersrc  ertn74aa Soosplnr   gl tan    i  tr
I       L.~ ta., atl  o  teal Jsao.;   -L-MU
paaWam    te. taS. s aMt c   -dse. M'tima taw                                             . aartetad tee  lIe .101s  icac: ealt    .Ootereeo-L.heinant.i
ror.ataaas   - srchtt    psrrt L"   rsc - aptsen ieab  ec-   aed-d                         aatr   eltls
.tscaet  ac-tahea Intea   -  rhe  -  aeat as-t  rae. t srhe                ardtt  en17 itsrat  e.hame-       abst - aw  L-a reeeeanbe
rapalotace tee Ide-n. Ite-At. ictIYM.02.    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~        .aftarame14ddrants-n   h r-atrt a_.1 hanaa tea rcta itdS  alma
-eeeaemacd  mI,a             L.c de---ntpetepraecidrpStltotd  ostase-i -trirtear
f."ac PlanSon         1  -AL-t.a rie   It-dsoa9eh- mea   et- at -crce                     rim he    pdittp  ttStNOW.e1t il Iat tat  SeaeA.
rat.rtenlas   lea  Sea-no  .. s-rtSd      -1rin=    n0  ci  C...t.                  satS,- airs.              .-1             ..- -                       R.
c    at ral-eatoq  ito ir6raalatiq - as-% taweo -.,are                                                                   d    to   o      11         -        %.1-
pnatat-id   tr  am  sarmactidI itt -s-free Mesa.14.cam-c et                           urn cenp      -.
rtttd-herco-     ic    ont.       eadatf.teag  tar" ass-                                TS-l-eo- A!eniteaao  t          .eeiaccotlrMaatcs pares. Seto            of:san
.iacra    d.astisra   asgo toM s-sores ar shi ace - ca-oem   _d.                     tersos sad  ocesr.t-e  Mee        "l             OM-ts.  t  e&.V  oa..urat
nit.odit ruas-le  c lt  nold so ltlc. -rea1sota catednaeo                                 ecei~ierrr      iertr   otean   aato   aet
nt-.La  cm in. P-a-t.edai     . ttee crdate  St nA. d      aet-d  to                   paalrcae.  s-W          r  nprsto   tttlltrrrn    Wt-. It
maid a          Iota-   sicmdc  rea        us"tn  atmet-ca, Sara  ie   sad-mel dna
am._ene  s-ae  acnt-rtn. at"S,  KeI sZsc.   SsMlepa4s- 
Rt  MI=t Iert-o ratnrc   tnrreil aNdaO mn.lre e s-M.tcad S. tree.stcI  rind   a-anid-cae,'                                        i,       at.ctr-is
e   Lra   qaattsc  tMa   ape. otadit   -id.at     sewa-1 I  par rtte  pat            parenip  it ttadl, a.acJ..Matc. paatta- c   t   p   aprtny
eft, tC,". d  Ona.  -l f erort.!ca  aerstaco antaeas-t  ,  eec-d,                          reULMteamM-s ecrareatheL papiles,a  eing. tMa  tRea .
s-te  anertlendbypa   eda bptrt.ncre -ssWid-yJ-I                                                eq o  - hdLr  toaec  amr-  Stsat -dia-ft
"It'al t   a   ac   andra  cetiAd-t   1 4fo. "ar  eatht.                                   Iosta   O           ac   Ies             ttl
il  eeahidtaei  a   ia-ac   tt   ate       1 M dasa.                          a     ---  L eapantti1h    - .   b    .IE.atd
- rantsaaair f nssmrtr sta   car Spt - rranto rctate  t pot euttt   -             dM-fnr   tee  ttett -c tdo ett" hSd  - b-etabyr.ba
netef ac Wt 06  s    ot- total ctcb pet. eq7 aW took    r  a-
pat  L-etto  Stg -idh at see  te    he ac-ted ens-ca.  Than.p                      pastoft-ssn  ma
eli   n tal-p ste  Sa   et ..1 ga-  thae  casit  a   '8                             h  atca.cctnar   rsipeaneseceo  garstaa
atcla  u  .-t  itas  ntM    ta Rt carte   cppaa  by l    M oteaetectaeriec   cteat ct
ieee.         atttatlokmyna-ta.
-d -M-M- W  -d_1d-  dr.-    - tft  -                                eamciaedj-tsartatttser  et d  teca a cua mce
.LMI- ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~ttttdioaot  aa  Sair  errtrnLae  cret     ab



-25-                                            ~~~~~~~~~~MUN   I
- 25 -                                                          Page 4 of 5
8CONOMIC INDICATOU
Population'       126.8 millian (1982)
GNP For Capital 12S82.240 (1982)
Indiator                                  Aount                       Avrer   Anlnuul  crnerw      CZ)            Sihre of cOP at Narket Prtc.s (2)
(millionE U85 Curr                                                                     (a) (at Con tant 1970 Prce)    _  (at Current Pricei)
,989  ,rrw nt        1963-70(at Conmt1-t  1973-80    1983-8               1970        1975      1961 b/
Natioal Acounts
Cream -oGatLc Product In                           209.801                7.7        10.6        6.9         1.9            100.0      100.0      30O.D
Agriculture                                       21.189                 1.9        3.7        4.7         2.2            10.2        10.9       10.1
Industry                                         77.417                 9.2        11.6        7.6         1.9            35.8        17. 2      3. 9
Services                                         111.195                6.0        10.7        6.8         1.8            54.0        51.9       53.0
Con u ptlan                                        168,632                7.7         9.8        5.7         0.5            77.8        71.9       80.3
Gromn Investment                                    37.135                9.4        14.6        5.2        -0.4            22.7        32.1       17.7
Exportm of Coods end US                             23.626                8.2        11.2        7.3        11.8             6.7         7.4       11.3
Imports of Coods and NFS                            19.594               14.5        17.2        2.8         1.2             7.2        11.4        9.3
Groom Domsttc Savinao                               41 |169                7.9       12.9        6.1         2.7            22.2        28.       139.7
Amount                  Averea  Anual Incrm   (2)               Co_Soettion of Merchandlme Trade (2)
(Million US5 Current)            (at Cooatant 1970 PrSae)                      (at Current Priea)
1983                1970-75         1975-8      1981-e6                 1970         1975       1983
MerchandiSe Trade
Merchandiox Exports                                21.899               11.1            7.7            12.4                 100.0        300.0      100.0
Primary c/                                      10,603                8.3             1.1            6.1                   76.7        62.7        48.4
aInufacture. dJ                                  11.296              28.2            1a.2            19.5                  2Z.5         34.8       51.6
Hmrchlandie Import.                                15.429               14.8           -3.3           -0.6                  100.0        100.0      100.0
Food (cereal)                                      968               -6.7            17.5           -1.3                    4.5          3.D        6.3
Petr_l,-m                                        5.179                7.6             4.3           .8.7                   11.2        25.4        53.0
Machine"_ and Equi mP t t/                        2.505              15.2            -7.5           -0.3                   36.2         32.2       16.2
Other                                            3,777               28.4            -1.9            1.3                   48.1         39.4       24.5
1975          1976           1977          1978           1979          1980          1981        195Z        1983
Primea and Term of Trsda
GP Daeflator (1970 - M0)                30.1 45.I3                   632.7          592.5       1,399.4        2,724.6     5.696.8    11,'10.8    268272.4
Excang-  late (Cr51US S)                  5.1           10.6          14.1           13.1          26.9           52.7        93.1        350.0       577.1
Export Price Index (1970 - 100)         176.0          192.0         226.0          228.0         266.0          290.0       252.0        225.1       191.7
Import Price Index (1970 - I1O)         242.0          255.0         256.0          317.0         389.0          431.0       474.0        522.0       493.5
Term of Trade Indax (1970 - 100)         72.0           75.0          79.0           72.0          65.0           67.0        53.0         43.1        35.6
AN   of CUP
(St Current C.amitro Primes)
1970           1975             197            1980 L        1981 j   1982 Il
fPbhe Financ  (Central Govenmnt)
Current Rownue                                                                 16.6           19.8             20.8            20.1          18.9     21.2
Current lxpendtture                                                            14.4           15.8             17.6            19.8          20.2     25.4
_           ASurplue (   or deficit                                                         2.2            4.0              3.2             0.3          -1.4     -4.2
Capital Expenditure                                                            2.6             3.8              3.7             4.1           3.5      3.4
Financtng (Net)                                                                0.4            -0.2              0.5             3.9           4.9      7.6
1965-70          1970-75           1976-80              1981-86
Other Indicator.
CNP Crouth late (1)                                                            7.7             10.7               6.6                  1.8
CUP per Capita Growtb Rate (1)                                                 4.6              7.7               4.0                 -0.O
Pnergy Cauqitlon Crowth late (Z)                                              7.2               5.7               6.5 J
ICOR                                                                          2.9               2.2               4.3                13.0
Marginal Sanine Rlate f/                                                     20.5              27.9               7.8                 38.7
tIort Elasticity  _                                                           2.2               1.6              -0.1                 0.6
a/  At market price; converted at average exchange rate.
b/   Estimate.
Z/   Include, coffee (bers and moluble). otber agricultural prodocts. and mineral..
dt  Includes manufactured and *emi-procemed products.
e/I  Includes transportation mteriala.
f   The 19814S6 projection are calculated salng the  1emat squares mthod.
ii   1980-1982 include government aspenditeree affected through the monetary  ebdget and  some minor government funds.  o well as transfers to the
federal enterprimes.
Source: Conjuntura Economics.   I: Bauce Centrel do Irazil: Brazil Standard Model (world biank).                                          Deceeber 20. 1984



- 26 -
or mans_.    _ CAL AM -                                                                               214WI
(4313a  339-                                                                                         I' ini   pl)d  S
,pwAdk         123.  IUjm  (193
14 OqIIW 33s MR.= (1J)
UCL                                                  MM   k4
197        17         177        1978        197        EU ln                     1 1911 1992           190 198      M         196
srn   of m           d _  dv4w-* 42                          4,0t3      -3,3       -4,06    -MID*,0      -42.354    -1.173         -L4.31      4.171       -2.43      4.165    -X.00
dp.u of  N,67L                                             20113 1_.1            1263        35,244     3,6132     2333           24,164     2I."         511      30.331    34.962
3 o                         -4 2,210                      4318 ,     4023    -1.4W1    -28,064    -2MtO    -M2ONO                -1.397    -15.42P9   44,=37       -17.013   -3.7
Ikt Ef    I                                     -3.733     -2.13      -2.55      -4.2D7     .4,33J      -4.621     -.549         -2,4       -10.313    -12.m      -13.714   -13,257
(CC   cMed 1t_ t p        )    /             (-.43      (-,1.33    (.20I    (-240)   (-4.181)   (.1               9179) eC-LM,    C- 9.55)  (- 9.9D1)  (-11.79  (-11.2115)
lIt n-fads emim                                 -1.429     4.57       41.5      -1.03       -2,37      -3.130    -2.37           -3.2D0     -,33        -2.479     -3.769    4,133
lMt                         t     _                   2           1          -         71         is         348        197
Omug          blan I_                               700      4.017      4,037      -6.035    -30,01      -12.396    -11.971        -14.3       -6,171      2463       -4,165    -3.m
k 1 I                                               392 S      959         3    10  1.071      1,*)        1,121.0    1.569           9"I         417         13        732        02
IIT Im  (M)                                       4,00        5,5u2       ,5D      10.018       5,297      3.4750    9.413t          6,4        3,79        8,147      3,159     3,295
31h                                             (46.WM     (1,16D)    (9.3)   (13.164)   (11,723)   (106)   (17.39               (13.M)    (7.331)   (17.073)   (13.995)  (19.352)
USr n                                          (-2,32)   (-2,617    (-3.653)   (43.146)   (-64,1)   (-6.10.0)  (-7.336)         (-7.333)   C-3.&)  t49251  t&10.133) (-14.057)
_mul1imI 1 a _d  (tU)                               490       -WI         -W         -357       -e1         416       -72             -09         123       -O        -1,0D    -1.04
Ot3w cqaI  u.t. d/                                  218        96       -14.5        455         6211      4.03       1.313          4.011      1,574      -1.812      1.649         -
c ow   (In)  t                                        95       4.192        433      -4,62         ,3521     3.321       46            4.01          2Z      -3.30      -1.075    -1,197
_            _amd..  Ve    fI                       4,041      6,5         7.256     HIII5       9,699       4913      7?.D            3.6C       3,53D      7.13D      8.455      9,652
_nr_       . m _ dl 4atQ                                4          6.3        7.2         0.I3       6.4        3.6         4.1            2.2        L2         4.7        4.4        4.1
1975       1976        977       1973        1979       193        11             i2         W  3/
1IHdit            tUn       dlmb_W        _      23,29      23,33       3,M33401     ,49       51,362     %,M5       634612    7D0D            79.58D
3lc_ ad P*Ic1y          D4 33.704                          17.M34     21.33      32l        33.4"8      3,210      43,.m          47.5M      )6.346
aft%dl -arm                                    3.9W       4,43       4.717      5.401       5,80S       .416      7.244          3.173     IDIOM
mm                                           (I.Og3      (1.217)    (1.413)    (1a         (1D)    (2,E09)    (2.319)           (2.736)    (3.655)
(2ote4a     0.214)    (3.304)    (37W9       (4,07)    (.34,7)    (4.93)         (5044)    (6.4)
_esmnn   _                                    9,277 7    24938      14.M       23MM3       29330      31,34      34,576         39.411     43,010
kti.84 'r InWm                                  9.592      11.133     33.Cl      16,152     15,364      15.605     19.792         23011     21.512
tbdm1A         dd jt (pb:lc aft)                  3.679       4.62       .411      102.09      X40        14.041     14.95          15.37      U.916
1           3d1mbmwma d    Mt X lo.               6.911       SIM        9,M6      25.14       11,725     I0015      15,059         12.759      7,333
14bUe asd pslcly  _m1                           3,M1        4.91       5422      10.116      9.152       6.805      4.997          7.915      7.095
-f1 cl         ",du'                            42          045        l          490        44          467         28            670      1.IOZ
1Da                                             25D         13         2!         275        302        343         317            623      1,201
og           jl                                  119        1o          92        136        2C6         192        189            216        218
Fkt_e   _2,991                                           4.233      4,862      9.,16      3,197       7,3S2      8.393          4.41       4.571
ktiw     _                                      3.194       3.29       3.861      5.018      2,D7        3.192      6 .01          4J14         235
Debt S5II
debt                         _       e            4.m95  *     ,322  5.642          3,332      11.147     13.146     14.,69         16.61      11.206
4rnet (e)                                      a.67n4    (1.4Th       (1.651)    (2,4Z )    (3.5        (5.42      (7.778)        (9.296)     7.672
_        s 2 of      s of QS 4D                                 31. 43.0  7   3        51LD       6L         tOL         51             71.6       47.4
r       _I :n a   Q                                   2.9         .6         3.0        3.?        4.3        4.8         5 5.5.3                   5.6
_          tA~l==   a      04p1U  d4e () ( /            67         7.6        L3          9.9       11.2        12.3       15.2           12.7       11.4
0401d.1                                               7.7        7.9        L0          7.5        &3         9.1         9.8           109        10.5
_&_________  , _             _trd -_ _                  9.0        IL3        10.0       10.        11.5        9.8         9.7           10.9        9.3
134        13.3       16.1       14.S        14.0       IL9        13.8           t3.7       12.9
ktl-ow  _awm                                          17.0       9.3        6.7         9.3       11.2        t.7        L9             ID.2        L4
iill nD4d .7                                                     4.3        4.1         36. 3.6               3.8        3.6            3.9          4_
l"S,  d        /ul   Ma   d           ldr.n   CZ)     3.5        Li         3.2         La         2.6        3.4        7 6            4.9        16.4L
UDdbt onvire 3X4 d4e tw4-n M                          2.5        3.2        3.7         2.7        2.2   L              2.2            2.5         46
_oMaUT  dtnomm of8LS dabc omxt _sd 1g
Ihbg it4- 6. .4di   5 ya                                                     5S
I_e4- an -I~- 10    u                                                        95
aImhdrn inamt co AMCdstr md                                                                                                                                7J l .2. 198
ow   mf   obi  d    a 1 m1  4-1        toa   mwf    in..4I.
IV lltda I           - 18 ad  1  ad adrni.
IF/ n        a a ad 343- _   ac in 43            rtm CCm
T1 Pjd1 3444 sd0  t
T/ lidRE  sa    d 1u    ^1 _1- dl           m    .1  ISJL
Gm&G *.
4T   w    i Wad dxt          bmIbr.
Y _ _adi         mubi Okwd ld).
S5:in   11u.  IMM  34 hSad         -1 :   l4t 1A,, 1973-3   M); DV.



- 27 -                         ANNEX II
Page 1 of 3
THE STAIUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BRAZIL
A. S31ARY STATEMENT OF LOANS
(As of September 30, 1984)
Amount less Undis-
Loan #   Year            Borrower                   Purpose        Cancellations  bursed
(US$ Millions)
Sixty-five loans fully disbursed                                      2,619.4
1075     1975 Brazil                             Roads                  110.0         6.9
1151     1975  Companhia Siderurgica Nacional  Industry                  95.0         1.7
1152     1975  Companhia Siderurgica PauLista  Industry                  60.0        12.3
1195     1976 Brazil                             Rural Development       12.0         2.3
1207-5   1976 Brazil                             Feeder Roads            55.0         2.7
1317     1976  Brazil                            Agro-Industry           83.0        27.0
1362     1977 State of Minas Gerais              Rural Development       42.0         2.2
1406     1977  Petrobras Fertilizantes           Fertilizer              52.0          .5
1411     1977 Fertilizantes Vale do Rio          Fertilizer              55.0          .7
Grande S.A. - VALEFERTIL
1452     1977 Brazil                             Education               32.0        12.6
1488     1977 Brazil                             Rural Development       11.0         3.0
1525     1978 Banco Nacional da Habitacao        Sewerage               110.0       57.6
1537     1978 Brazil                             Rural Development       24.0        14.8
1538     1978 ELETROBRAS                         Power                  130.0       22.7
1557     1978 Brazil                             Roads                  114.0        27.7
1562     1978 COPESUL                            Petrochemicals          85.0          .9
1568     1978 Brazil                             Agric. Extension       100.0        26.1
1589     1978 Brazil                             Rural Development       37.0        18.0
1654     1979 Banco Nacional da Habitacao        Sites and Services      93.0        11.7
1656     1979 Banco Nacional da Habitacao        Water and Sewerage    100.0        22.3
1714     1979 Brazil                             Rural Development       26.0        18.5
1720     1979 Brazil                            Urban Development        70.0       29.4
1721     1979 COPEL                              Power                  109.0       31.4
1728     1979 Brazil                             Rural Development       40.0       24.9
1729     1979 Brazil                             Irrigation              28.0         7.3
1730-5   1979 Brazil                             Roads                  110.0       33.8
1822     1980 Brazil/BNDE                        Pollution Control       58.0       56.8
1823     1980  Banco Nacional da Habitacao       Water Supply           130.0       31.3
1824     1980  CEEE                              Power                  114.0        73.2
1839     1980  Brazil                           Urban Transport         159.0       53.0
1850     1980  Banco Nacional da Habitacao       Water Supply           139.0       42.4
1867     1980  Brazil                            Education               32.0        23.4
1877     1980  State of Minas Gerais             Rural Development       63.0        52.8
1895     1980  ELETROSJL                         Power                  125.0        92.6
1924     1981  Brazil                            Rural Development       56.0       30.2
1939     1981  ELETROBRAS                        Power                   54.0       44.8



- 28-                            ANNEX II
Page 2 of 3
A. 0JMARY STATEWEMT OF LOANS (Continued)
(As of September 30, 1984)
Amount less Undis-
Loan #   Year           Borrower                    Purpose       Cancellations  bursed
(USS Millions)
1965     1981  EB7U                             Urban Transport         90.0       63.4
1970     1981  Banco Nacional da Habltacao      Water Supply           180.0      120.9
1989     1981  Brazil                           Alcohol Development   250.0       139.2
2015     1981  Brazil                           Agriculture             29.0       19.0
2016     1981  Brazil                           Agriculture             60.0       27.2
2060     1982  Brazil                           Agriculture             67.0       39.5
2061     1982  Brazil                           Health                  13.0        6.9
2062     1982  Brazil                           Highways               240.0       88.5
2116     1982 Brazil                            Agriculture             26.4       18.0
2138     1982  ELETROBRAS                       Power                  182.7      152.9
2163     1982 Brazil                            Agriculture             26.4       21.2
2170     1982 Brazil                            Urban Development      123.9      107.4
2177     1982  Brazil                           Rural Development       42.7       34.9
2193     1982 Brazil                            Urban Development        8.9        6.8
2196     1982  CVRD                             Iron Ore               304.5      148.8
2224     1982  Brazil                           Feeder Roads           154.0      137.7
2225     1982 BNDES                             Development Banking   220.0        50.3
2249     1983  Banco Nacional da Habitacao      Water Supply           302.3      251.8
2268     1983  Brazil                           Agro-Industries       400.0       374.0
2269     1983  Brazil                           Rural Development       67.8       61.8
2343     1983  Brazil                           Urban Development       52.7       48.7
2347     1983  Brazil                           Export Development    352.0        85.8
2348     1983  Brazil                           Agriculture           303.0        10.0
2353     1983  Brazil                           Agriculture             65.2       61.0
1729-1   1983  Brazil                           Agriculture             7.7         7.7
2060-1   1983 Brazil                            Agriculture             22.8       22.7
2364     1983  Eletrobras                       Power                  250.6      227.9
2365     1983  Eletrobras                       Power                 222.8       202.0
2366     1983  Brazil                           Education               20.0       19.9
2412/1   1984  Brazil                           Education               40.0       40.0
2446r  1984 Brazil                              Federal Highways      210.0       210.0
24477    1984  State of Sao Paulo               Health                  55.5       55.5
2448/T   1984  State of Sao Paulo               Health Studies          2.0         2.0
Total                                                9,725.3 /2
Of which has been repaid to the Bank                 1,588.2
Total now outstanding                                8,137.1
Amount sold                              45.8
Of which has been repaid               45.8            0.0
Total now held by Bank                               8,137.1
Total undisbursed                                               3,782.9
/1 Not yet effective.
75  No IDA credits have been made to Brazil.
Note: The status of the projects listed in Part A is described in a separate report
on all Bank/IDA financed projects in execution, which is updated twice yearly
and circulated to the Executive Directors on April 30 and October 31.



- 29 -                                                        ANM  it
asp 3 of 3
a. SaME    Ci tIC 1NUES001  (a d Saptaar 3D. 1966)
Fina                                                                                                                             AantE in t5S ItIliW
Ylr                                        0 b I I g o r                                    1mW of heatn                     lam        Equity    Thatl
199                  Slam  do Bnail CLa. de  El ricidab                                Elctrical 9iqpe                         2.00       -        2.l00
1956                 Olirkraft, S. A. rslulai e PlqAl                                  Rdp Kd  Fimr                             1.2        -        1. 2)
1958                 D. L RL  Plmtief    doD Sotl, S. A.                               IAtawetiw Rts                           0.45        -        0.45
1958                 WlyrOvmrlia  do 1nail, S. A. - Iztara m e rulr.io                 Iter Veicle                              2.45       -        L45
1959                   upha   Nimi  do   Coinem  lPortlad. S. A.                       Gnt                                      1.2D       -        1.2D
1959                _oim    Calulaow. S. A.                                           Iblp                                     44rJ       -        4.0
196/196W1972         hA  Vize. S. A.                                                   Stee                                     8.D)       1.93     9.93
19b6/1969             ipel a relutes Cutarhme, S. A.                                   RIp ad Ppepr                             3.78      3.41      7. 29
19b7/1972            Ultrifertil, S. A. - klstrli e GOn:lo da FerUtitzuta              Fertillse                               8.22       3.03     13.25
1969                 Ietrupmfc. lIk, S. A.                                             Ietnrtulcua-l  5.50                                2.L8      6.l
197D                 Pltoleftna. S. A. W=lua  e CoMrclo                                Petrodawcabl                             5.50      2.15      8.38
1971                 (teum. S. A. blatria e Comerclo                                   Petnidacaa                               4.b       1.44      6.04
1971                 Rto Cede - Ca_ni  de doCAoi do Sal                                 a]P                                     4.97       -        4.90
1972/1975/1981         xpiata de Cl,nto Ncol de Minn                                    ne                                    169.14      b.7U    175.64
1973/7477/81/83/84   CGatda Siderurgim de  aSwrs - aOR                                 stma                                    76.97     12.27    89.24
1973                   npital Mabduet 3wlqunnt Fund - FLMh Impital ri er DewLopsut                                              5.10       -        5.00
1973/1971/1193       Eqrpn de RDiuiolviVnetO de  ace PMierald  - WMUN. S. A.   ld.! Intu mad Rerft                             85.0D      8.74    93.74
1974                  IrtatrLs Vllas. S. A.                                            Elveot  ai h1 1trial FqhOOe 6.00                    -        6.hC
1974                 Fabrics de Tado Taumpe, S. A.                                     T tlbel                                 31.0        -       31.0D
1975/1979            Cqxmw Carba   Isntrim  ltd.                                       carta  ade                               6.18      1.19      7.37
1975                 Qidteno tdate, S. A.                                              Petr_dmalnIs                            10.31       -       W0.0)
1976                 Santtta I1aria - Taetit do Ibra, S. A.                            Texttl                                   6.45      1.31      7.45
1976/1980            Tesr S. A. - Tecil Ccirbuas  do txdete                            Tcilee                                  16.20       -       16.2U
1977                 Flu S. A. Prodjacs Ibtalngita                                      rr. ad Alatnm Citsbp                   2D.00       -       2D.OD
1977                  exanso Rio do Worce S. A.                                        Mlini                                   15.00       -       15.OD
1978                  ncal Sideurgue S. A.                                             tr  ao  Steel                            7.00      3.0W     10.0D
1979                 Volvo do Smlkl tem  e Vaala. S. A.                                totor VLedcles                          60W01      5.27    65.27
19                   Hering do  tordeste S. A. - Mlhs                                   lalfrude Casts                          241)       -        2.0D
19E0                  1ide do Pa  S/A - 1iass - Agrntndur. b,iatrls
e erco de aOlegtse                                             blm-i                                   3.50       1.W      4.50
198)                 Villare Iheatria do Bows S. A. - VUASA                            tmr  MA  Stel                            5.WD       -        5.00
1980                 Pf1 - Cathids Inuetrl  de Pollpoplmno                             Ontals and Petrtnhaduts                 15.00      2.00     17.0
19E0                  Detilr1s Claurte S. A.                                           Oials and Petrohicals                    -         0.25      0.25
198D                 S eta Amada Qdata  ea neral S/A                                   Fertilzr.                               35.00      6.00    41W00
-            1983                  Fbistul Petroautds                                                Ceicals ad   emt caljs                 43.00       5.OD    48.00
1981                 Umulpar                                                           !ry ad CiptslMadckts                     -         1.50      1.50
1981                 GapwutA Brkileim  de Agrpeaiarna -  ua3'E                         Food ad Food PEoamasg                    5.50      3.00      8.50
1981                 Tritnfo                                                           Owstcls ad Petradodas                   46.0)      4.00      D.00
1982                 Clanto CAlE                                                       remie ad rastctim  Matelials            40.00      5.OD    45.00
1982                   ilgteaizg S. A.                                                 ?iey Capital tiMet                      3D.00      0.45    30.45
1963                 Cia Riogrndene de Pertcipsvoes (CRP)                               Iony COwital Miret                     -          0.06      0.06
19,3                 Atlm FrlgNifiD                                                    Food ad Food Procsarg                   13.0W      -        13.0)
1983                 Gkqrha D-de do AhP. (aiEPm)                                       Pal. Oil                                6.10       -         6.10
1983                 PSA - Papel de 1'qrna S-P.                                         ip4s Paper Puns                        56.02      5.17    63.19
1983                 Soo/S.A                                                           Food aMd Food Pn,maizg                   3.0       2.50      5.50
1983                 CMM                                                              C(ls  ad COGIrUtat3n rMaerials           35.00      -        35.C0
1984                 CGapSl Aloca1quiS.c   Md                                          aNdala  and Petrxoducals                20.00       -W      24.00
Trsal Crone Gatan                                                                             925.6       93.67  1,019.53
ls  Ckuoallasm. Te1           .  Ipemym  amd Sall                                             647.07      15.13   662.31
TOs Gd.nza Nms Held by IFC                                                                    278.79      78.54   357.33
Toeal (Udiaburamd                                                                             136.55      13.49   150.04



_ 30 _            ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
BRAZIL
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND PILOT RURAL WATER
SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
Supplementary Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Elements
(a) Time taken to prepare project: 12 months
(b) Agencies which prepared the project: IPEA (SEPLAN), Ministry of
Health, BNH, SURBAM
(c)  First presentation to Bank: January 1984
(d)  First mission to review project:  January 1984
(e)  Appraisal Mission:  November 1984
(f)  Negotiations:  March 1985
(g)  Planned Date of Effectiveness:  August 1985
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Action
None.
Section III: Special Conditions
1.   Loan Conditions
(a) detailed schedule and terms of reference for carrying out
preparation work on the Northeast investment program would be
submitted by mid-1986 (para. 50);
(b)  IPEA would enter into individual agreements with each of the
Northeast states defining responsibilities regarding project
execution, funding, procurement, auditing and accounting (para.
50);
(c) SURBAM would enter into contracts with each community before
commencing works (para. 56);
(d) SURBAM would assist the communities in establishing their
contribution to investment and responsibility for operation and
maintenance (para. 56);
(e) SURBAM would assist the community in setting a tariff to cover
operations and maintenance, and minimum 302 of investment cost of
water supply systems and 100% of sanitary units (paras. 56 and
63-64);



- 31 -           ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(f) Progress reporting, monitoring Indicators and interim and final
evaluations would be undertaken at agreed dates (para. 57);
(g) study and techaical assistance findings and recommendations would
be discussed with the Bank (para. 57);
(h) project accounts and the special account would be audited by
independent auditors satisfactory to the Bank (para. 57);
(i) all subprojects would meet agreed upon selection criteria and
would be presented to the Bank for approval (para. 58);
(j) funding requirements would be maintained on the terms agreed
with the Bank (para.-61);
(k) purchases would be made in accordance with an agreed program
which will be updated annually (para. 65); and
C1) IPEA and SURBAM would employ consultants satisfactory to the Bank
(para. 67).
2.   Special Conditions of Effectiveness
Ca)  At least ten contracts between SURBAM and communities along with
final designs and costs would be submitted (para. 56); and
(b) the execution of suitable arrangements to transfer the proceeds
of the loan to IPEA and BNH and from BNH to the State of Rio
Grande do Sul (para. 62).



!--1-0T                                                                                                              Wt   4,
, --  / 'E,   ~   _  .                                        BRAZIL
-10 j )r                                                              WATER SUPPLY AND SEWEl
PERCENT SERVICE LEVELS BY
VENEZUELA                       '.                                         1983/1987
SURINAME
\GUYANA
Wi .~A/RENCH
COLOMBIA                                   1            I ,        GA nm
*.\        , paRORAIMA  ,
\ ~ ~~~~                                            -   ,                                                   . =
''         ~/                                          -  '      (^S
MARANHAO    f     )
A  M  A  Z O   N  A  S                            P      A   R  A- 
I.-                                      :j-j~~~~~~~~~~::            jJ"'~~~~~~~~~fj~~~~~~ PIAUI'I  
A C R EA:11:
ACE R E                                                     ___U/
i  l":  se                     /               --              f    t    W   -/    (        r  JJ-
PER                          \RNOI               (                    ! MATOl-P^U  
Pa     ER    ,             -\ ON0N pG R O  S S O            r B         A  H I   A
--  --                                                 1 ORAS
-> 4    wcne. SupP&r            BOLIVIA            MATO GROSS                      I N A S   E R A I S 
-~Water Supply                                    DSL~SIT 
-200                                                                  : .       SAO PAUL
G*at~~ Z                          - .'          AEPIRAtRO
Sewerage                        PARAGUAY    I   / -- L              - -a:
Stale Boundaries
7. International Boundaries                        ' ,    S          A        S l
1   RIO GRANDE             1 *E                         0 100
/      &                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~KILOMETERS
ARGENTINA                 DO  SUL          1MLES0O  O
-3XRo ~ ~   ~        ~        ~       ~ ~              %                                  fl s  ,o __w, 
)  URUGUAY,                                                            -
70_                             e-                       S                            4P



IERD 16941
BRAZ I L
-PPLY AND SEWERAGE
VICE LEVELS BY STATE
1983/1987
IL1~~~~~~~~~'
..~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4
.~ ~ ~~c            / .
:                   EARA   / -O e  RANOE
Al~~-   r'a.-H  -m-
"PIAUI 
..  */e -                     9.4...?/ ..'* 1    rj]
'  (  {fl~..I1baa:PERN4AMBUCO
X       \      g       t j 00  NORTE \   ' ~
r   f  B  A H  IA A- ;
JMINAS GERAIS
- m-   '1 5ESPIRITO  * e
,.J s NEIRO
~~~~~~D e
3 11 _f
3 I I N            KILOMETERSO 10, 300, 500
MILES  6   100  260  30
i  r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~?
.        ar ..- __ c.a..uaid _a___.a_
4fl                         30






