Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 11549
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND PILOT RURAL WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
(LOAN 2532-BR)
JANUARY 12, 1993
Infrastructure Division
Country Department I
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-General
Operations Evaluation
January 12, 1993
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:    Project Completion Report on Brazil
Technical Assistance and Pilot Rural Water Supply and
Sanitation Prolect (Loan 2532-BR)
Attached is a copy of the report en6.tled "Project Completion Report
on Brazil - Technical Assistance and Pilot Rural Water Supply and Sanitation
Project (Loan 2532-BR)" prepared by the Latin America and Caribbean Regional
Office with Part II provided by the Borrower.
The project's overall objective was to formulate, at Federal and
State levels,a program of policies, institutions and development plans for rural
water supply and sanitation and to demonstrate the effectiveness of this program
through a pilot project in the State of Rio Grande do Sul. This objective was
not achieved.
Given repeated changes in administration, government commitment to
the project proposals was eroded, and support for the institution-building and
for the funding and cost recovery policies did not materialize. Preparatory
studies for rural water programs were carried out in 21 States but, in the
absence of funding prospects, further work on them was abandoned.  The pilot
project could not be implemented due to the State's financial problems and it was
transferred to another State, Minas Gerais where it was successfully implemented
after being adjusted to meet that State's requirements.
The project is rated as unsatisfactory and its sustainability as
unlikely. Useful initiatives launched in a number of States deserve further Bank
support as they may provide the foundation for future effective programs for the
development of the neglected rural water and sanitation sector of Brazil.
The quality of the PCR is satisfactory and its conclusions are
appropriate. No audit is planned.
Attachment 
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients onLy in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without WorLd Sank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND PILOT RURAL WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
(Loan 2532-BR)
CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
Currency unit             Cruzeiro (Cr$)
US51.00                   1 1,848.0 (1984)
=   6,200.0 (1985)
US$1.00                   Cruzado (Cz$)
-    13.66 (1986)
-    39.23 (1987)
=   262.01 (1988)
SUS1.00                   New Cruzado Dollar (NCz)
=     2.83 (1989)
SUS1.00                   Cruzado Dollar
=    68.55 (1990)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
meter (m)                   =   3.28 feet
kilometer (km)             -   0.62 miles
square kilometer (sq km)  =   0.39 square miles
hectare (ha)               =   10,000 square meters or 2.47 acres
PRINCIPLE ACRONYMS USED
ABES      -  Associacao Brasileira de Engenharia Sanitaria e Ambiental
(Brazilian Association of Sanitary Engineering)
BACEN     -  Banco Central do Brasil (Central Bank of Brazil)
BNH       -  Banco Nacional da Habitacao (National Housing Bank)
CEF       -  Caixa Economica Federal (Federal Savings Bank)
CERB      -  Companhia de Engenharia Rural da Bahia (Rural Engineering
Company of Bahia)
CISR      -  Conselho Interministerial de Saneamento Rural
(Interministerial Council on Rural Sanitation)
COPASA    -  Companhia de Saneamento de Minas Gerais (State Water
Company of Minas Gerais)
CPP       -  Comunidades de Pequeno Porte (Small Communities Program,
under PLANASA)
IPEA      -  Instituto de Pesquisa Economico e Social (Institute for
Economic and Social Planning)
FNS/MS    -  Fundacao Nacional de Saude/Ministerio da Saude (National
Health Foundation/Ministry of Health)
FSESP     -  Fundacao Servicos de Saude Publica (Public Health Services
Foundation)
HAS       -  Ministerio da Acao Social (Ministry for Social Welfare)
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



PRINCIPLE ACRONYMS USED Cont.
MBES      -  Ministerio da Habitacao e do Bem-Estar Social (Ministry of
Housing and Social Welfare)
MDU       -  Ministerio do Desenvolvimento Urbano e Meio Ambiente
(Ministry of Urban Development and Environment)
MEFP      -  Ministerio da Ecoonomia, Fazenda e Planajamento (Ministry
of Economics, Finance and Planning)
MHU       -  Ministerio da Habitacao, Urbanismo e Meio Ambiente
(Ministry of Housing, Urban Development and Environment)
MINTER    -  Ministerio do Interior (Ministry of the Interior)
MS        -  Ministerio da Saude (Ministry of Health)
OPS       -  Pan American Health Organization
PAHO      -  Pan American Health Organization
PAPP      -  Programa de Apoio ao Pequeno Produtor (Small Farmer
Program)
PCR       -  Project Completion Report
PESR      -  Programa Estadual de Saneamento Rural (State Rural
Sanitation Program)
PIASS     -  Programa de Interiorizacao das Acoes de Saude e Saneamento
(The Program for Community Health and Sanitation)
PLANASA   -  Plano Nacional de Saneamento (National Sanitation Plan)
PNSR      -  Projeto Nacional de Saneamento Rural (National Rural
Sanitation Project)
PRORURAL  -  Programa Nacional de Saneamento Rural (National Rural
Sanitation Program)
SAR       -  Staff Appraisal Report
SEPLAN    -  Secretaria de Planejamento da Presidencia da Republica
(Presidental Planning Secretariat)
SES       -  Secretaria de Saude (State Health Secretariat)
SNS/MAS   -  Secretaria Nacional de Saneamento/Ministerio da Acao Social
(National Sanitation Secretariat/Ministry of Social Action)
SWC       -  State Water Company
SUDECO    -  Superintendencia de Desenvolvimento do Centro-Oeste (West
Center Regional Development Agency)
SUDENE    -  Superintendencia de Desenvolvimento do Nordeste (Northeast
Regional Development Agency)
SUDAM     -  Superintendencia de Desenvolvimento da Amazonia (Amazon
Basin Regional Development Agency)
UCP       -  Unidade de Coordenacao Geral do Projeto (Project
Coordinating Unit)



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND PILOT RURAL WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
(Loan 2532-BRI
Table of Contents
Page No.
PREFACE ....... .................................................
EVALUATION SUMARY .ii
PART I.   PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE .1
Project Identity.                                                 1
Background .1
Project Objectives and Description.                               2
Project Design and Organization.                                  3
Project Implementation.                                           5
Project ReBUts.                                                   6
Project Sustainability.                                           7
Bank Performance.                                                 8
Borrower & Implementing Agencies Performance                      9
Project Relationships .10
Consulting Services .10
Project Documentation and Data .11
Lessons Learned .11
PART II.  PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE .13
National Technical Assistance Component .13
Pilot Component .17
PART III. STATISTICAL INFORMATION .20
Related Bank Loan .20
Project Timetable .21
Loan Disbursement .21
Project Implementation .22
Project Costs and Financing .23
Project Results .25
Status of Covenants .29
Use of Bank Resources .31
ANNEXES:
ANNEX I .33
ANNEX II .37
ANNEX III .41
MAP IBRD No. 16948 (Feb. 1983)






- i -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND PILOT RURAL WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
Preface
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Technical
Assistance and Pilot Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Project, for which Loan
2532-BR in the amount of US$16.3 million was approved on May 7, 1985. The
loan was closed on September 30, 1990, fifteen months after the Appraisal's
estimated date of June 30, 1989. US$3.96 million were canceled.
The PCR was jointly prepared by the Infrastructure Division,
Country Department I of the Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
(Preface, Evaluation Summary, Parts I and III), and the Borrower, i.e., IPEA
(Instituto de Pesquina Economico e Social) and CE (Caixa Economica Federal)
(Part II).
Preparation of this PCR was started during a final supervision
mission of the project in April, 1991, and is based, inter alia, on the Staff
Appraisal Report, the Loan, Guarantee and Project Agreements, supervision
reports, correspondence between the Bank and the Borrower, and internal Bank
memoranda.






- ii -
BRAZIL
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND PILOT RURAL WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Evaluation Summary
Obiectives
i.        The Project was designed to assist the Government of Brazil in
establishing a policy for providing water supply and sanitation in rural
areas, defining sector goals at the Federal and State levels, designing
institutional responsibilities and helping prepare State programs. The
Project consisted of two components, the National Technical Assistance
Component and the Pilot Component.
Implementation Experience
ii.       The Technical Assistance and Pilot Rural Water Supply and
Sanitation Project was the first comprehensive effort by the Government and
the Bank to create a cohesive policy to provide water supply and sanitation
for rural areas. Recognizing the disparate responsibility for administration
of rural water supply and sanitation, the Project was well prepared in that it
endeavored to bring together all the appropriate agencies, and included input
from the State representing the municipalities. Likewise, the Project's
timing was appropriate in that it responded to the Government's own
recognition of the relative neglect of rural areas, although it had recently
relegated socially oriented programs to a lower priority in the interest of
increasing agricultural output. Achieving such goals was hampered by
dispersed sectoral responsibility, institutional and political rivalries,
unclear investment priorities, inadequate funding, the absence of a financial
structure for undertaking works, but especially indecisiveness by the
Government during the project implementation. Nonetheless, the Project
components completed, as planned, comprehensive studies of rural water supply
and sanitation, made recommendations, and installed pilot systems in rural
communities.
iii.      The Project was implemented in a climate of radical and frequent
changes in policies, politics, institutional responsibilities, and especially
the management of water supply and sanitation. This was brought about by an
awakening of democracy within the country, and resulted in the abandonment of
federal development programs, such as the National Sanitation Plan (PLANASA),
and a decentralization of decision-making to local levels. The Project's
preparation, implementation and supervision spanned three different federal
administrations. The Ministries responsible for water supply and sanitation
were reorganized four times during project implementation, and fell under the
aegis of 15 Ministers. Within that period, rural water supply and sanitation
were treated jointly or separated and shared with the Ministry of Health, the
Public Health Services Foundation (FSESP), the Ministry of Urban Development,
and the National Housing Bank (BNH). Although a coordinating committee from
these agencies was created, the uneven backing and participation of its
members, particularly the low interest expressed by BNH, resulted in a lack of
decision-making at the federal level which adversely affected the preparation
of the components as well as execution of physical works. Finally, a change



- iii -
in Government in 1990 completely revamped the ministerial system, reducing the
number from 27 to 12, the current number.
iv.       In addition, a new Constitution was promulgated which withdrew
federal support for rural water supply and sanitation, effectively reassigning
it to the municipal level which was always nominally responsible. That is,
because municipalities did not have the technical wherewithal to provide these
services, they had contracted with state and federal agencies to furnish
technical and financial support. The new Constitution thus effectively
desegregated and reduced federal and state support, and increased municipal
responsibility. It did not, however, clearly specify the new responsibilities
at each level, adding further to political indecision and the other management
uncertainties noted above.
v.        All these administrative changes in handling the subsector were
instrumental in hampering Project implementation. The changes also set back
progress made in other Bank ongoing operations in drawing attention to rural
water supply and sanitation as well as in approaching it as an integrated
subsector, rather than as discrete activities to be staged at different times.
Thus, attempting to overcome these hurdles, which the Project was able to
mollify but not completely overcome, was, at the same time, one of the
Project's strongest and weakest points. The latter, predictably, affected
project implementation adversely.
Results
vi.       In view of the prior absence of a policy for systematically
handling rural water supply and sanitation, coupled with managerial
constraints during implementation noted above, the Project satisfactorily
attained its goals. That is, it successfully laid the groundwork for
attaining its future objectives in determining sound financial policies and
affordable tariffs, and in fostering community participation. (See Annex II
for details.) In particular, it was instrumental in formulating PRORURAL
(Programa Nacional de Saneamento Rural), a national policy for rural water
supply and sanitation, issued by the Ministry of Social Action and the
Ministry of Health. It did not, however, succeed in actually creating a
federal counterpart to serve as a conduit for implementing these programs in
all 26 states or within the remainder of other Ministries which deal directly
or indirectly with water supply and sanitation.
vii.      The Project was instrumental in promoting sector reorganization to
increase attention to rural water supply and sanitation which had been
neglected in favor of its urban counterparts. The Project also made
considerable inroads in cost-recovery and completed project preparation
facilities in the pilot program to serve as a model for replication throughout
the country. It did not complete its assistance to the Northeastern States or
the Small Farmer Program (PAPP). Even though preparatory studies were
completed in 21 states, it was decided not to continue with the preparation of
an investment program for these states because Government institutional
weaknesses, the absence of realistic possibilities for funding such programs,
and poor maintenance at recently built water systems all mitigated against the
likelihood of recuperating investment costs or of Government follow-up.
Nonetheless, although there are considerable variances between the Appraisal
and final targets for works, the Project did largely achieve its objectives in
substance by upgrading the level of service (see below). It did not, however,



-iv -
leave behind institutions which can carry out these objectives. Even the
Ministry of Social Action, the present seat of responsibility, has only a
meager staff and virtually no budget to carry on the work initiated by the
Project. The positive results within the Project, however, rest squarely with
the dedication and innovation on the part of the IPEA (Instituto de Pesquina
Economico e Social) and COPASA (Companhia de Saneamento de Minas Gerais)
staffs who faced and overcame considerable unforseen obstacles.
viii.     The National Technical Assistance Component's main accomplishment
was to stimulate interest at state and local level in rural water supply and
sanitation, and of particular importance, the promotion and acceptance of cost
recovery at local level, based on studies of affordability. The efforts of
the Project have helped institutionalize these principles at the state level.
As part preparation of a national plan for the year 2,000, project staff in
IPEA were instrumental in promulgating specific rural water supply and
sanitation plans in 21 states. Nine states and two ministries have formally
incorporated such plans. Perhaps most important, despite the spate of
ministerial changes in personnel and policies since the Project began, the
Federal government now accepts rural water supply and sanitation as a package
aimed at the well-being of the population, i.e., water, sanitation, health,
solid waste, drainage as integrated and interrelated services.
ix.       The Pilot Component in Minas Gerais got off to a late start, having
been transferred from Rio Grande do Sul in 1988. Of the initial target of
execution of 200 subprojects only for community water systems, the State Water
Company of Minas Gerais (COPASA) actually installed water supply, sewerage and
treatment systems in 136 communities. Whereas the component fell short of its
numerical target, it more than compensated for this shortfall by upgrading the
systems installed. To a certain degree, this shortfall was exacerbated by
political pressure which appeared more concerned with increasing physical
works, without adequate appreciation of community involvement and technical
assistance. Key features of the component's success, however, were (i) to
work with the community at their pace; and (ii) to promote combined objectives
of water, sanitation, and health, and administrative self-sufficiency through
cost recovery. Most important, they were able to upgrade sanitation systems
from latrines to sewerage and treatment, and install water and sanitation in
the villages at a per capita cost of US$160, when estimates for water alone
were US$120, and sanitary units US$300.
x.        The transfer from Rio Grande do Sul itself contributed to the
shortfall and other problems. That is, this type of project goes beyond the
normal responsibility of a water utility. Typically, water companies and
other agencies responsible for water supply and sanitation are oriented toward
the technical and commercial aspects of project management favoring urban
areas and do not contain staff adequately trained to deal with these
socioeconomic issues. A monumental effort was required to assist Rio Grande
do Sul to develop programs for rural areas and to address appropriate
socioeconomic issues. The time-lag created by the transfer and the labor-
intensive effort both precluded the same degree of effort devoted to
preparation of community involvement in the Pilot Component for Minas Gerais.
Sustainability
xi.       The promulgation of the new Constitution, the uncertainties of its
application toward states and municipalities, when coupled with the continued



v 
absence of strong political direction, collectively, seriously call into
question the sustainability of the Project's successes in implementing a
national policy and providing technical and financial assistance to
municipalities. As a technical assistance and pilot operation, the Project
was executed under the implicit assumption that follow-up loans would be
possible. This assumption of additional Bank funding is no longer valid,
since the Federal government has indicated, at least for the time being, that
it does not expect to continue its plan to borrow from the Bank for rural
water supply sanitation at the Federal level. The Federal government,
however, has indicated its intention to assist the States with resources for
municipalities, but none of these funds have yet been released. The Project
itself, however, did not strengthen the capabilities of states to carry out
their programs individually. Since federal support has been put on hold,
implementation of rural water supply and sanitation programs will depend on
each state, but without the mechanisms or funding to do so. Until this
occurs, the risks of delay, or even implementing, the benefits of national
policy are moderate. To date, there has been little real progress in this
area.
xii.      In view of the recent intrusion of cholera into Latin America, the
sustainability of these efforts increases markedly in importance. Inasmuch as
cholera has thus far spread primarily in rural areas, rural water supply and
sanitation are indispensable for effective prevention.
Findings and Lessons Learned
xiii.           As a result of the experience, several lessons can be
inferred. It is clear that in dealing with individual states, it is difficult
to know whether promised federal support will actually materialize, or be
diverted for institutional and political reasons outside the Project itself.
Furthermore, the very states that need assistance most are least capable of
requesting or managing assistance in the form of a program or a project. It
may therefore be necessary to build into projects a longer implementation
period to account for these unpredictable but inevitable occurrences.
xiv.      For certain kinds of expenditures in rural-focussed projects, the
application of the Bank's procurement guidelines can inadvertently create
rigidities which can cause delays. To avoid this, the Bank should concentrate
on financing the purchase of pipes and other equipment that can be grouped and
thus bid formally, leaving the remainder to counterpart funding. Selection of
such materials can be planned in advance.
xv.       Where administrative changes can be anticipated, the timing of a
project is crucial. In retrospect, the timing of this Project was
inappropriate in that it did not account for the political rivalries and
uncertainties that were a fundamental part of Brazil's transition to
democracy, nor the lack of federal support. Thus, it is necessary to be more
explicit in planning for specific remedial measures in advance. In such
cases, it might be necessary to build in a longer implementation period. For
example, a project should be timed to start when a period of 3-4 years of
political stability appears probable according to national electoral cycles.
(In this Project, however, it was impossible to predict the sequence of
ministerial reorganizations.)



- vi -
xvi.      In projects involving cost-recovery and affordability, more
attention should be paid within the project to economic incentives. This
lesson is all the more important when applied to rural areas where payments in
kind are easier for the rural poor than cash payments, requiring a lengthier
and more labor intensive program of community involvement. Some of the
legitimate issues raised by technical specialists within the implementing
agencies (viz., the 2.5% cash contribution) may be considered a hardship
because of insufficient time to organize the community, as defined by their
estimates and past experiences, for which they deemed as much as eighteen
months as necessary for the process.
xvii.     Similarly, projects should pay more careful attention to the time-
lag and the high labor-intensive input for the Bank, Borrower and Implementing
Agency when dealing with community participation, particularly in rural areas.
Typically, water companies and other agencies responsible for water supply and
sanitation are oriented toward the technical and commercial aspects of project
management favoring urban areas and do not contain staff adequately trained to
deal with these socioeconomic issues. Having initially attempted to address
community participation with its existing staff, COPASA eventually hired
consultants to do so, with a marked improvement in implementation of the
Component thereafter.






PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND PILOT RURAL WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
(LOAN 2532-BR)
PART I. PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
A.   Proiect Identity
Project Name:  Technical Assistance and Pilot Rural Water Supply and
Sanitation Project
Loan Number    2532-BR
RVP Unit    : Latin America and the Caribbean
Country      :  Brazil
Sector       : Water Supply and Sewerage
Subsector   : Rural Water Supply and Sanitation
B.   Background
1.        In the early eighties, when the project was prepared, the Brazilian
population totaled approximately 120 million. In 1980, 67% of the population
lived in some 8,160 urban settlements. The rural population, or 38 million
people, lived in some 34,000 rural communities ranging from 200 - 5,000
inhabitants.I According to the Public Health Services Foundation (FSESP),
the high infant mortality rate --- 77 per 1,000 --- was due primarily to
diarrheal diseases. Inadequacies of water and sanitation facilities
constituted the major causes of death and illness in rural areas. This at a
time when piped water supply coverage in dispersed rural areas was only 3%,
and sewerage even less, compared with 74% and 35% coverage respectively for
urban areas. In small communities, about 30% of the population was connected
to public water systems, and there was virtually no sewerage. About 43% of
the rural population used water of questionable quality from rivers, streams
and unprotected wells; and 32% had some kind of excreta disposal.
2.        In the 1960's, the Federal Government assumed responsibility for
the sector, which had traditionally been managed, albeit inefficiently, by
local administrations and municipalities. It created the National Housing
Bank (BNH) which assumed overall responsibility for the sector. State Water
Companies (SWC's) were created in all the states to plan and extend sector
services. In 1971, BNH initiated a major effort to improve water and
sanitation services throughout Brazil through a national sanitation plan,
PLANASA. The northeastern states, being the poorest, were designated as a
priority and were accorded cross-subsidies through preferential lending rates.
During the subsequent decade, water coverage increased from 38 to 89 million
people. PLANASA was also instrumental in promoting investment planning at the
state level, establishing a national tariff system, and introducing economies
of scale. The thrust of these efforts and their concomitant benefits were,
however, urban in nature until 1979 when the Program for Small Communities
1/ In Brazil, the distinction between "urban" and "rural" is based on
political administration rather than population size.



- 2 -
(CPP) was created. Unfortunately, because of the dire financial situation of
the early eighties, attention to socially oriented projects for rural areas
was deferred, in conjunction with Government efforts to expanding agricultural
output and productivity.
3.        The Technical Assistance and Pilot Rural Water Supply and
Sanitation Project was the first effort by the Government and the Bank to
create a specific system to provide water supply and sanitation for rural
areas. Establishing such a policy was hampered by dispersed sectoral
responsibility, institutional and political rivalries, unclear investment
priorities, inadequate targeting of funding, and the absence of a financial
structure for undertaking works. The agencies involved with the subsector
were, for the most part, weak and did not coordinate their activities, with
the result that transfer of technology and the opportunity to benefit from
lessons learned were lost. Sector development was further constrained by
political motivation in the selection of investments and the lack of attention
to technical training, cost recovery, community participation, and follow-up
for operations and maintenance, which often led to the outright abandonment of
the systems.
4.        The Project was consistent with Brazil's sector development
objectives and overall policies, which had already been incorporated in ten
other Bank loans totaling US$1.07 billion. (See Part III, Table 1 for list.)
In addition to extending urban water and sewerage supply, the Bank has
supported establishing a National Tariff Law, strengthening and standardizing
SWC's procedures, decentralizing BNH's preparation and supervision activities
to regional offices and setting up a uniform accounting system for the SWC's.
For the 1980's, the government strategy was directed at consolidating the
achievements made over the past decade and extending them to rural areas.
5.        Rural areas received renewed priority owing to the importance of
agricultural output to Brazil's overall economic recovery which had begun when
the project was prepared. In the Northeast, in particular, these efforts
complemented poverty alleviation and improving living conditions as a means to
stem migration to the south. Rural water supply and sanitation were viewed as
complementary to increasing production and productivity. As the first effort
to create a cohesive policy, the Project functioned as a catalyst for bringing
the ministries working in the subsector together and for providing finance and
technical assistance which would not have been otherwise available.
C.   Proiect Obiectives and Description
6.        Although the Government had made noticeable strides in increasing
agricultural production and productivity, while at the same time improving
overall standards of living in rural areas, it had not yet developed a
strategy for providing rural water supply and sanitation. The project
objectives were to assist the Government in this undertaking, specifically
focussing on:
(a) assisting the national and state Government in defining rural water
supply and sanitation objectives, policies, and institutional
responsibilities;
(b) assisting the state Government in strengthening sector
institutions;



- 3-
(c)  supporting Government programs to develop and improve conditions in
depressed areas of the Northeast region;
(d) testing and evaluating delivery of sector services through a pilot
project;
(e) improving productivity and welfare through provision of sanitation
services (water, excreta disposal and sanitation-related home
improvements) to rural inhabitants in the State of Rio Grande do
Sul;
(f) promoting community participation in the planning, execution and
operation and maintenance of water supply and sanitation services;
(g) promoting the use of low-cost water and sanitation technology.
7.        The project had two components:
(a)  The national technical assistance component was designed to
finance: (i) studies of the organization of the sector and the
reordering of institutions, financial policies, including a system
of finance, tariffs, and cost recovery; community promotion; and
training requirements; (ii) an inventory of technologies and
technical standards; (iii) the preparation of state investment
plans; (iv) special assistance to ten Northeast states for project
preparation including implementing community participation
programs; and (v) equipment. The component was also finance
special assistance to the emergency water works included in the
Northeast's Small Farmer Program (PAPP) to be financed by proposed
rural development projects.
(b) The pilot component was designed to support the above objectives by
testing and evaluating sanitation in the State of Rio Grande do Sul
(later shifted to Minas Gerais) including engineering of about 200
community water systems, 10,000 individual sanitation units, 5,000
latrines, technical assistance, training and equipment. The
experiences gained would serve as input to preparing national
policy.
D.   Project Design and Organization
8.        The Project was designed in response to a request, in 1983, from
the Brazilian government to help develop the rural water supply and sanitation
subsector. A Bank sector study, undertaken about the same time, concluded
that a technical assistance operation with a pilot component to test
applications would be needed to define policies, strengthen institutions and
gain experience before undertaking a full-scale lending operation. Thus, the
Project's design and objectives were shared and understood by all relevant
parties.
9.        As a pilot endeavor, the Project tested new technologies and
approaches, including cost-recovery and a community-supported system for
operation and maintenance, together with combining water supply and
sanitation. Its scope and scale, thus, were appropriate in light of
objectives.



- 4 -
10.       Recognizing the disparate responsibility for administration of
rural water supply and sanitation, the Project was well prepared in that it
endeavored to bring together all the appropriate agencies, and included input
from the State representing the municipalities. Likewise, the Project's
timing was appropriate in that it responded to the Government's own
recognition of the relative neglect of rural areas, although it had recently
relegated socially oriented programs to a lower priority in the interest of
increasing agricultural output.
11.       Even though the Project's objectives were well understood, the
roles and responsibilities of institutions responsible were not clearly shared
and accepted by all the agencies involved. BNH, for example, was reluctant to
participate in the Project because of unclear government support and
institutional rivalries and, indeed, assumed a defensive posture throughout.
Clarification of these roles was a fundamental objective of the Project. That
is, responsibility for rural water supply and sanitation was, prior to the
Project, distributed among several federal and state agencies, frequently
falling under the aegis of rural health programs for want of a better
administrative umbrella. Three main agencies were involved: (i) BNH to
provide assistance, under a PLANASA program combining loans and grants,
through SWC's to communities with fewer than 5,000 inhabitants. (Technically,
many of these are classified as "urban" because they function as
administrative centers, even though they are rural in character.); (ii) FSESP
to conduct programs extending water and sanitation infrastructure, mostly
through grants, to rural areas with endemic diseases, and; (iii) the Program
for Community Health and Sanitation (PIASS), an interministerial program under
the Ministry of Health, to introduce integrated health facilities including
water and sewerage into small communities. Other regional development
agencies managed by the Federal Government, plus several specialized technical
agencies were also involved2. The rural communities themselves also played a
role.
12.       Collectively, these agencies did pioneering work in providing a
good knowledge of the rural subsector, its growth possibilities and its
constraints. Nonetheless, interagency rivalry was more typical than
interagency coordination. Although a coordinating committee was created, the
uneven backing and participation of its members, particularly the low interest
expressed by BNH, resulted in a lack of decision making at the federal level.
In fact, the Institute for Economic and Social Planning (IPEA), attached to
the Presidential Planning Secretariat (SEPLAN) was selected because, in
addition to its technical qualifications, it was viewed as a neutral agency.
13.       Thus, attempting to overcome this discord, which the Project was
able to mollify but not completely overcome, was, at the same time, one of the
Project's strongest and weakest points. The latter, predictably, affected
project implementation adversely.
2/   e.g., the Northeast Regional Development Agency (SUDENE), the West Center
Regional Development Agency (SUDECO), and the Amazon Basin Regional
Development Agency (SUDAM); the Rural Engineering Company of Bahia (CERB), and
the Brazilian Association of Sanitary Engineering (ABES).



-5-
E.   Pro-ect Implementation
14.       The Project was implemented in a climate of radical and frequent
changes in policies, politics and management of rural water supply and
sanitation. Indeed, the Project's preparation, implementation and supervision
spanned three different federal administrations. The Ministries responsible
for water supply and sanitation were reorganized four times3 during project
implementation, and fell under the aegis of 15 Ministers. Within that period,
rural water supply and sanitation were treated jointly or separated and shared
with the Ministry of Health and FSESP. Although a coordinating committee from
the federal agencies responsible was created, the uneven backing and
participation of its members, particularly the low interest expressed by BNH,
effectively resulted in a lack of decision making at the federal level which
adversely effected preparation of the components as well as execution of
physical works. A change in Government in 1990 completely revamped the
ministerial system, reducing the number from 27 to 12.
15.       Finally, a new Constitution was declared which withdrew federal
support for rural water supply and sanitation, effectively reassigning it to
the municipal level which was always nominally responsible. That is, because
municipalities did not have the technical wherewithal to provide these
services, they had contracted with state and federal agencies to furnish
technical and financial support. The new constitution thus effectively
desegregated and reduced federal and state support, and increased municipal
responsibility. It did not, however, clearly specify the new responsibilities
at each level, adding further to political indecision and the other management
uncertainties noted above. These administrative changes in handling the
subsector were instrumental in setting back progress made in approaching rural
water supply and sanitation as an integrated subsector, rather than as
discrete activities to be staged at different times.
16.       The most critical variances between planned and actual project
implementation, directly pertain to the works proposed in both components,
which resulted in a delay of loan effectiveness (from August, 1985 to August,
1986), a cancellation of US$1.3 million and reallocation of US$2 million,
which was also eventually canceled, from the National Technical Assistance
Component and transferred to the Pilot Component, as well as the selection of
a different state, Minas Gerais. The already complicated situation was
aggravated by the dissolution of BNH and its replacement by CEF, Caixa
Economica Federal, in November, 1986, requiring renegotiation of the Project
and Loan Agreements.
17.       Loan effectiveness was delayed because the debt limit of the State
of Rio Grande do Sul (RGS) had been reached by commitments to other activities
contracted while the component was being prepared. Extending the limit
required Federal Senate authorization before an lending contract between BNH
and RGS could be signed. In order to start the National Component, the Bank
and the Government agreed to sign the BNH-RGS lending contract as a condition
of disbursement, on condition that the Loan Agreement be amended once it was
declared effective. The Government also decided to transfer the component to
another state.
3/ i.e. Urban Development and Environment (1985), Housing and Environment
(1986), Social Welfare (1987), and Social Action (1990).



- 6 -
18.       The National Assistance Component was intended to contain technical
assistance for approximately 60 subprojects in 10 northeastern states. This
never occurred. Even though preparatory studies were completed, it was
decided not to implement these parts of the component since Government
institutional weakness, the absence of an investment program, and poor
maintenance of recently built water systems all mitigated against the
likelihood of Government follow-up. At an advanced stage of the project,
budget for this technical assistance was to have been transferred to Minas
Gerais, but was eventually canceled. Nor did implementation of the pilot
component of the Rio Grande do Sul ever materialize, since the State was
unable to secure approval from the Congress for entering into a contract for
the CEF. Consequently, in November, 1987, the Loan Agreement was amended and
a new Project Agreement was signed which permitted the execution of the pilot
program in other states. The State of Minas Gerais signed a contract with CEF
and the pilot program got underway at the end of 1988.
19.       During project preparation, the Bank realistically assessed
potential risks and incorporated practicable counterbalancing measures. That
is, the Bank recognized that the project would depend on the cooperation of
three ministries administering large studies and technical assistance
components. In addition, the Bank also recognized the necessity of continuing
cooperation with ministries of a new administration which took office just
three months before the project was approved.
20.       To some extent, to minimize the risk associated with the large size
of the project, the Project retained the Pan American Health Organization
(PAHO) to undertake administration and contracting. PAHO's intervention was
timely and efficient in overcoming many of these difficulties, offsetting some
of the institutional rivalries, and keeping the Project from encountering more
delays.   The Ministry of Health also provided helpful assistance to IPEA as
part of a managerial committee.
21.       While it is true that the Bank should have been able to anticipate
a certain amount of change because of elections, it is hard to imagine that it
could have predicted the difficulties of lending to Rio Grande do Sul, the
radical transformations in ministerial structure, their changed priorities and
responsibilities, the abolition of BNH, and the repercussions of the new
Constitution. Nor, as a project largely of technical assistance, could it
control the political constraints resulting from the Government's reluctance
to provide backing and support at the federal level.
F.   Proiect Results
22.       Although there are variances between the Appraisal and final
targets for works, the Project did largely achieve its objectives. The
National Technical Assistance Component's main accomplishment was to stimulate
interest at state and local level in rural water supply and sanitation, and of
particular importance, the promotion and acceptance of the concept of cost
recovery at local level. The efforts of the Project have helped
institutionalize these principles at the state level. As part its preparation
of a national plan for the year 2,000, project staff in IPEA were instrumental
in promulgating specific rural water supply and sanitation plans in 21 of the
26 states. Nine states and two ministries have formally incorporated such
plans. Perhaps most important, despite the spate of ministerial changes in
personnel and policies since the Project began, the Federal government now



-7-
accepts rural water supply and sanitation as a package aimed at the well-being
of the population, i.e., water, sanitation, health, solid waste, drainage as
integrated and interrelated services.
23.       The Pilot Component in Minas Gerais got off to a late start, having
been transferred from Rio Grande do Sul in 1988, the date originally scheduled
for completion of the Component. It was nonetheless able to accomplish its
targets for works. Most important, they were able to upgrade sanitation
systems from latrines to sewerage and treatment, and were able to install
water and sanitation in the villages at a per capita cost of US$160, when
estimates for water alone were US$120, and sanitary units US$300. It also
markedly improved the physical environment in these communities. Of the
initial target of preparation of 200 community water supply subprojects
accompanied by some 15,000 individual sanitation units or latrines, the State
Water Company of Minas Gerais (COPASA) team upgraded the individual sanitary
units to community sewage collection and eventually installed water and
sewerage systems, most of them with treatment, in 136 communities. Whereas
the component fell short of its numerical target, it more than compensated for
this shortfall by upgrading the systems installed.
24.       To a certain degree, this shortfall was exacerbated by political
pressure which appeared more concerned with increasing physical works, without
adequate appreciation of community involvement and technical assistance.
Bearing in mind that the pilot program was a largely labor-intensive effort,
this represents a considerable accomplishment for COPASA given the shortened
time-frame for implementation, coupled with the fact that COPASA's strengths
lay in the commercial and technical spheres. Moreover, community support ---
and patience --- wavered because of the delays in meeting promised targets
created by the irregular availability of funds and the repeated political and
institutional changes noted earlier. Feeling rushed because of the date for
loan closure, COPASA initially attempted to address community participation
with its own staff. Recognizing their own deficiencies in dealing with
socioeconomic matters, they eventually hired consultants to help with
community participation, after which implementation of the component improved
markedly.  A key feature of COPASA's approach was to work with the community
at their pace, and to promote combined objectives of water, sanitation, and
health, as well as administrative self-sufficiency through cost recovery,
building in as much as eighteen months lead time.
25.       The transfer from Rio Grande do Sul itself contributed to the
shortfall and other problems. That is, this type of project goes beyond the
normal responsibility of a water utility. A monumental effort was required to
assist Rio Grande do Sul to develop programs for rural areas and to address
appropriate socioeconomic issues. The time-lag created by the transfer and
the labor-intensive effort both precluded the same degree of effort devoted to
preparation of community involvement in the Pilot Component for Minas Gerais.
G.   Project Sustainabilitv
26. The promulgation of the new Constitution, the uncertainties of its
application toward states and municipalities, when coupled with the continued
absence of strong political direction, together, seriously call into question
the sustainability of the Project's successes in implementing a national
policy and providing technical and financial assistance to municipalities.
The Project's intention was to help the states acquire the institutional



-8-
capability to manage rural water supply and sanitation systematically. It
thus partially achieved this objective in both components by laying the
groundwork for future activities. However, as a technical assistance and
pilot operation, the Project was executed under the implicit assumption that
follow-up loans would be possible. This assumption of additional Bank funding
is no longer valid, since the Federal government has indicated, at least for
the time being, that it does not expect to continue its plan to borrow from
the Bank for rural water supply sanitation at the Federal level.   The Federal
Government, however, has indicated its intention to assist the States with
US$140 million, with US$40 million to be made available in 1991. None of
these funds have yet been released. More important, however, the capabilities
of every federal institution dealing with the sector have been compromised, if
not destroyed. The Project itself, however, did not strengthen the
capabilities of states to carry out their programs individually. Since
federal support has been put on hold, implementation of rural water supply and
sanitation programs will depend on each state, but without the mechanisms or
funding to do so. Until this occurs, the risks of delay, or even
implementing, the benefits of national policy are moderate. To date, there
has been little real progress in this area.
27.       Both of the implementing agencies have been affected by this
outcome. The staffing and funding of the team in IPEA, now transferred to the
Ministry of Social Action, are not assured at a level adequate to continue
their promotional activities or technical assistance in the remaining states
which have not formally incorporated rural water supply and sanitation plans.
Of particular concern to COPASA are funds to purchase sinks and toilets and to
pay plumbing costs to hook up individual houses, not completed before the
project closed, in the 136 villages where they have installed the public
systems. They fear that they may also lose community support that took so
long to build up by not meeting their promises. (It was the Bank's premise,
however, and included in the Loan Agreement, that cost-recovery should also
apply to pilot schemes.) While the latter is a concern, the risks are minimal
in dealing with COPASA/MG, since they are a dedicated group, and have
performed admirably in meeting their commitments in three other loans. This
will, however, entail a delay in completion. (See Annex III.)
28.       In view of the recent intrusion of cholera into Latin America, the
sustainability of these efforts increases markedly in importance. Inasmuch as
cholera has thus far spread most rapidly in rural areas, rural water supply
and sanitation are indispensable for effective prevention. The last cholera
epidemic in Latin America took place over a century ago, and cholera has
effectively been an insignificant health problem for over thirty years.
Regrettably, current expectations are that, even if the current epidemic is
curtailed, cholera will linger as a potentially significant problem for at
least a decade, and possibly longer.
H.   Bank Performance
29.       The main strengths of the Bank' performance come from its
persistence in promoting rural water supply and sanitation and aiming to
define a systematic approach and appropriate institutions amidst an atmosphere
of institutional rivalry which had heretofore favored urban water supply and
sewerage. These efforts were consistent throughout the project, but greatest
during Preparation and Appraisal. Prior to the Project, programs involved
with rural development, such as PAPP, tended to be highly politicized,



-9-
focussing on works, without due attention to community involvement in
preparation or, later, in operations and maintenance. During project
preparation, the Bank held long discussions with PAPP and other government
representatives in an effort to devise a long-term program. It was conceived
to meet a specific need, and address specific institutional weaknesses, viz.,
as technical assistance and a parallel pilot program, to be followed by a
full-fledged investment program.
30.       Bank supervision, because this was an innovative and comprehensive
technical assistance loan, was designed to be heavy, with initial
concentration on the national component. By and large, even though visits to
IPEA were infrequent, salient problems were resolved as best as possible
through candid discussions and a spirit of cooperation. (Some problems, in
particular the transfer of the pilot component to Minas Gerais, frequent
ministerial changes, and the new Constitution, lay outside the purview of the
Project.) Bank supervision of the Pilot Component was, however, notably weak,
partly because it had anticipated a higher level of supervision from federal
institutions, i.e., BNH/CEF. In the absence of an interlocutor at the federal
level, supervision was seriously deficient.
I.   Borrower & Implementing Agencies Performance
31.       Unquestionably the implementing agencies' main strengths stem from
the dedication of the IPEA and COPASA teams working on the Project against a
background of repeated administrative changes and resource constraints caused
by the economic crisis of the mid-eighties which increased costs through
inflation and delayed the release of funds.
32.       The BNH/CEF performance has been less than ideal, for reasons
already described under the "Implementation" section above. In particular,
BNH's reluctance to carry its share of the administrative burden of the
project, or even provide nominal political support in the early years, when
interministerial cooperation was essential to the institution of state-level
programs, made IPEA's job all the more difficult. Even after having recovered
from the disruptions of the dissolution of BNH, and accounting for the fiscal
crisis of the mid-eighties, CEF has been slow and frequently passive in its
handling of the Project. The Project was based on the understanding that
federal institutions would provide adequate supervision. In the case of BNH
and CEF, this did not happen.
33.       Under the circumstances, IPEA's performance was admirable, not only
with technical assistance, but also with administrative support to the states.
IPEA's activities in the Project were seriously hampered by the Government
inaction, the sluggish performance and eventual dismantling of BNH, the
sequence of various Ministerial changes, and the reassigning of responsibility
for rural water supply and sanitation to the states and municipalities. They
were able to stimulate interest in 21 of 26 states sufficient to initiate
official rural water supply and sanitation programs (a process which, in some
cases, had to be repeated because of change in personnel due to national
elections). The programs helped to consolidate diverse organizational
responsibility for the subsector. Most important, they produced a national
plan, Brazil 2,000, which led to the Program for Rural Sanitation - PRORURAL,
published by the Ministry of Social Action and the Ministry of Health (1990).
Other promotional outputs include 63 pamphlets/short papers, 14 videos and
nine books.



- 10 -
34.       Given their late start with the component, COPASA's accomplishments
are impressive, especially considering the labor intensive efforts required
for community involvement. COPASA's main problems encountered were in dealing
with bureaucracy, and encountering political interference in selection of
projects, not based on technical criteria. The discontinuity of resources and
inflation also hindered performance. COPASA's innovation in working with the
community were able to calculate and collect tariffs for those systems
implemented, and most important, upgrade service levels for sanitation at a
relatively low cost.
35.       The implementing agencies raised three issues that they feel leave
room for improvement with Bank procedures. First, cash contributions of even
2.5%, as required in the Project, are difficult at the community level.
Minimum percentage compliances, even of 2.5%, can be too high for communities,
which actually can provide larger sums in labor and local materials. Second,
the Bank's procurement requirements when applied to rural circumstances lend
themselves to inefficiency, abuse and artificial price-setting. In
particular, the 45-day bidding period is not always possible in rural settings
with such a dispersal of suppliers. Third, requiring cost-recovery at the
federal, state, and local level within the same project is cumbersome and
makes project development difficult. Cost-recovery at the community level is
also administratively difficult, even if people have resources, which is not
always the case.
36.       Both implementing agencies felt very strongly that efforts such as
this will require follow-up funding quickly so as not to lose the momentum of
preparatory work. Unfulfilled expectations created at the local level result
in discrediting federal institutions.
J.   Project Relationships
37.       The vagaries of the macroeconomic situation can obviously affect
the release of national funds to state and local levels. The Bank should seek
methods for funding activities directly at the state and local level.
38.       The Bank should also be more careful in specifically describing
items that it will finance under the loan, in helping with negotiating
subcontracts, and assisting the Borrower to concentrate Bank funds on the type
of materials that meet the criteria of the procurement guidelines. IPEA, for
example, tried to advance work by signing contracts with states. Since,
BNH/CEF, and not IPEA, was the Borrower, the Bank was unable to approve these
transfers of funds. COPASA, similarly, made commitments involving procurement
that were unacceptable to the Bank. Both cases caused delays.
K.   Consulting Services
39.       The National Technical Assistance Component underspent its loan
amount for consulting services because consultants were not financed under the
loan, e.g. the States preferred to pay for preparation of plans themselves, or
consultants services were contributed by other ministries, e.g. the Ministry
of Health and Ministry of Urban Development. They also budgeted salaries at
levels higher than were actually paid in local terms.



- 11 -
L.   Proiect Documentation and Data
40.       The Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) provided a useful framework for
the Bank and the Borrower during implementation, and eased the task of
rewriting the Project and Loan Agreements necessitated by the change of venue
for the Pilot Component from Rio Grande do Sul to Minas Gerais.
41.       Relevant data necessary to prepare this PCR were readily available,
and the staff of the Borrower and implementing agencies accessible and
cooperative.
M.   Lessons Learned
42.       As a result of the experience, several lessons can be inferred.  It
is clear that in dealing with individual states, it is difficult to know
whether promised federal support will actually materialize, or be diverted for
institutional and political reasons outside the Project itself. Furthermore,
the very states that need assistance most are least capable of requesting or
managing assistance in the form of a program or a project. It may therefore
be necessary to build into projects a longer implementation period to account
for these unpredictable but inevitable occurrences.
43.       For certain kinds of expenditures in rural-focussed projects, the
application of the Bank's procurement guidelines can inadvertently create
rigidities which can cause delays. To avoid this, the Bank should concentrate
on financing the purchase of pipes and other equipment that can be grouped and
thus bid formally, leaving the remainder to counterpart funding. Selection of
such materials can be planned in advance.
44.       Where administrative changes can be anticipated, the timing of a
project is crucial. In retrospect, the timing of this Project was
inappropriate in that it did not account for the political rivalries and
uncertainties that were a fundamental part of Brazil's transition to
democracy, nor the lack of federal support. Thus, it is necessary to be more
explicit in planning for specific remedial measures in advance. In such
cases, it might be necessary to build in a longer implementation period. For
example, a project should be timed to start when a period of 3-4 years of
political stability appears probable according to national electoral cycles.
(In this project, however, it was impossible to predict the sequence of
ministerial reorganizations.)
45.       In projects involving cost-recovery and affordability, more
attention should be paid within the project to economic incentives. This
lesson is all the more important when applied to rural areas where payments in
kind are easier for the rural poor than cash payments, requiring a lengthier
and more labor intensive program of community involvement. Some of the
legitimate issues raised by technical specialists within the implementing
agencies (viz., the 2.5% cash contribution) may be considered a hardship
because of insufficient time to organize the community, as defined by their
estimates and past experiences, for which they deemed as much as eighteen
months as necessary for the process.



- 12 -
46.       Similarly, projects should pay more careful attention to the time-
lag and the high labor-intensive input for the Bank, Borrower and Implementing
Agency when dealing with community participation, particularly in rural areas.
Typically, water companies and other agencies responsible for water supply and
sanitation are oriented toward the technical and commercial aspects of project
management favoring urban areas and do not contain staff adequately trained to
deal with these socioeconomic issues. Having initially attempted to address
community participation with its existing staff, COPASA eventually hired
consultants to do so, with a marked improvement in implementation of the
Component thereafter.



- 13 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND PILOT RURAL WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
(LOAN 2532-BR)
PART II. PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
A.   National Technical Assistance Component'
1.        The National Technical Assistance Component, called "The
Institutional Studies, Technical Assistance and Reorganization of the Rural
Sanitation Subsector Project," was carried out by the Instituto de Pesquisa
Economica Aplicada (IPEA), and managed by a project coordinating unit, the
Unidade de Coordenacao Geral do Projeto (UCP), with the participation of the
Ministerio do Desenvolvimento Urbano e Meio Ambiente (MDU), the Ministerio da
Saude (MS), and the Pan American Health Organization, (PAHO).
Bank's Role
2.        Since the beginning of negotiations between the Brazilian Government
and the Bank, until the final stages of the Project, the relationship with the
Bank team was objective, which enabled both parties to have a constructive
dialogue. (Before this Project, IPEA had already had other positive
experiences with the Bank, especially with Loans 2347-BR, Export Credit
Project, and Loan 2348-BR, Agricultural Export Project). It can be concluded
that the Bank's role in this project was satisfactory, taking into account the
friendly and cooperative spirit of its staff who, in spite of the distance,
were always ready to support and clarify any problem. It should also be
stated that the high level of technical competence throughout the various
phases of the Project facilitated the road to solving difficulties.
3.        The Bank's presence was stronger at the outset of the Project
(1986/1988), when problems were more acute because it encountered difficulties
with the Loan Effectiveness and subsequent transfer of the Pilot Component to
a different state (described below). This was appropriate inasmuch as the
Project needed a greater level of technical assistance at that time.
4.        The period coinciding with the conclusion of the Project (1988-1990)
was very productive and deserves Bank's attention when evaluating the results.
It was during this time that the State governments, observing the principles
embodied in the Project, established policies and proposals for rural
sanitation, non-existent prior to the Project, through their Programa Estadual
de Saneamento Rural (PESR). A new Federal Government, established in 1990,
1 This section is based on a report "Projeto de Assistencia Tecnica e
Piloto de Saneamento e Abastecimento de Agua Rural (Acordo de Emprostimo No.
2532-BR): Relatorio de Conclucao do Projeto, Parte II," prepared by
IPEA/DT/CPS-CAN, Brasilia, May 1991.



- 14 -
incorporated the Project studies and proposals to introduce, in December of
that year, PRORURAL, which would implement the Project's actions and works.
Problems and Difficulties
5.        Throughout the long process, various problems affected the Project,
especially at the outset. Among them, two were particularly important:
(a) delay in effectiveness of the Loan Agreement, and
(b) numerous institutional changes.
6.        Effectiveness of the Loan Agreement.  The fact that the Pilot
Component had to change states, from Rio Grande do Sul to Minas Gerais,
produced serious delays at the beginning of the Project which adversely
affected implementation of the Technical Assistance Component. That is, Loan
effectiveness was delayed for a year (from August, 1985 to August, 1986), and
necessitated a renegotiation of the Loan Agreement (November, 1987).
7.        Institutional Changes.  Most important, the Technical Assistance
Component encountered a myriad of institutional and managerial changes
throughout the entire Project. From 1984 to 1990, the three Ministries
involved with project implementation were reorganized several times and
directed by no less than 15 Ministers!2 These repeated changes clearly were
reflected in the development of sector activities, since both the
Interministerial Council on Rural Sanitation (CISR) and the UCP, who were
responsible for managing the technical assistance component, were under these
Ministries. Moreover, in addition to a new Federal government, many state
governors and municipal officials also changed, creating in their wake,
problems with the Project, and especially with communication among the State
PESR teams responsible for implementing the technical assistance.
8.        Similarly, the budget established by the Federal Government in 1987
and the new Brazilian Constitution of 1988, further adversely affected the
Project's development of programs. An unfortunate outcome of these
transformations in policy and organization was that the Project's technical
2    During Project preparation (1984), the rural sanitation subsector
fell under two ministries: BNH, within the Ministry of the Interior (MINTER);
and the Public Health Services Foundation (FSESP), within the Ministry of
Health (MS). When the Loan Agreement was signed (1985), the BNH transferred
from MINTER to the newly created Ministry of Urban Development and the
Environment (MDU). In 1986 BNH was dissolved, and its portfolio, including
sanitation sector, was subsumed by CEF. In 1987, the MDU changed its name to
the Ministry of Housing, Urbanization and Environment (MHU). In 1988, the MHU
was abolished and replaced by the Ministry of Housing and Social Welfare
(MBES), which, in turn was also abolished, and the sanitation sector
transferred back to the Ministry of Health. In 1990, with the arrival of the
new Government, the sanitation sector was taken by the newly created Ministry
of Social Action (MAS).



- 15 -
team was completely dismantled, dismantling with it the institutional memory
of the Project .
Technical/Operational Problems
9.        In spite of the Project's concerted efforts to fulfill National
Technical Assistance Component within this climate of recurrent changes, even
though it did create the underpinnings for a national policy, it could not
carry out its targeted objectives: (i) technical assistance to PAPP (Programa
de Apoio ao Pequeno Produtor), (ii) preparation of 600 projects for the
Northeastern States, and (iii) research on appropriate technologies in rural
sanitation. (See Table B, Annex II). These first two activities were
canceled, in agreement with the Bank, and US$2.5 million were transferred from
the Technical Assistance Component to the Pilot Component.
10.       Cost estimates in the Appraisal Report were, in reality,
underestimated due to economic measures taken by the Project's management
(UCP), for example:
(a) the consultants' salaries paid through PAHO (OPAS) were lower than
those foreseen by UNDP (PNUD);
(b) IPEA supplied the Project, with no charge to UCP, practically half
the team technicians, plus equipment, vehicles and other support;
and
(c)  payments for the consultants to advise the PESRs were unnecessary,
according to CISR, since these were to be carried out by local
technicians, provided by the Project UCP.
Financial Problems
11.       Even though the Agreement called for adequate budget to pay for the
Technical Assistance Component's planned expenses, a deterioration in the
Brazilian economy caused delays in releasing resources for the Project. This
contributed to the slowdown of the external funding being released by the
Central Bank of Brazil (BACEN) and, therefore, increased the financial burden
for the Brazilian Government regarding the commitment fees stipulated by the
Bank on the unutilized balance of the Loan.
12.       Related to financial matters, it should also be mentioned that the
Federal government accorded low priority to the sanitation sector, in general,
and to the rural sanitation, in particular. Until 1990, none of the Federal
budgets included substantial provisions for sanitation, and the few resources
given by the Federal Government came usually from the MS through FSESP.
Concerned by this situation, the Government requested Bank assistance for the
preparation of a rural water supply and sanitation project at the national
level, which contained a clear definition of financial sources and IBRD
financing. AS this Loan did not materialize, MAS and MS, in December 1990,
created PRORURAL, with budgetary resources.
Project Results



- 16 -
13.       In spite of problems noted above, the Project was successful and
surpassed its expectations. The decision of the Brazilian Government to
analyze the rural sanitation subsector was very important, since, prior to the
Project, there had been no comprehensive approach to deal with the subsector
and related issues. Several factors contributed to a job well done: a
technical team responsible for the Project, directly attached to a Government
agency; allocation of enough financial resources; the search for Latin
American and Caribbean experiences through technical cooperation agreements
with PAHO (OPAS); and the partnership with FSESP, which had considerable
experience in rural sanitation. The Project also laid the groundwork which
will certainly influence the authorities of the subsector in the future: a
diagnosis of the national situation in rural sanitation; the development of
technical and scientific knowledge in the area; the creation, by the State
governments of inter-disciplinary and multi-sector technical groups
responsible for 22 FESRs; pilot experiments in water supply, sewage and
residential sanitary improvement in several rural communities. Most
importantly, the Project influenced the creation of rural sanitation at the
federal government level through the National Secretariat for Sanitation (SNS)
in the MAS and the Public Health Services Foundation in the MS, as well as at
the State level, through the activities of these Ministries and some State
Water Companies.
14.       The achievements of the Technical Assistance Component are
summarized in Annexes I and II, which lists the promotional materials produced
by the Project (books, pamphlets, audiovisuals and seminars) as well as
compliance with the Loan covenants.
15.       It is clear that, because of the Project, a consciousness about the
problems of rural sanitation and health has been created at various government
levels in Brazil, the positive effects of which will be passed on to the rural
areas themselves. It is also gratifying to mention that IPEA's efforts had
immediate results, contrary to most action plans which never get implemented
in Brazil. PRORURAL is a natural extension of the Project and is in its first
implementation stages (1991-1994).
Recommendations
16.       Based on the Project's experience, some recommendations should be
taken into account for future activities:
(a) in loan agreements with international organizations, the
implementing responsibilities should be given only to one agency;
(b) the Federal Government should give priority to basic sanitation,
with alternative financial sources, either national or
international;
(c) the Federal Government should give priority to freeing budget
resources, already allocated to PRORURAL for 1991, and guarantee the
allocation of new resources for subsequent projects;



- 17 -
(d) the work begun in the Project work should be continued through MAS
and MS so the States can implement their own policies, based upon
those of the PESR, by strengthening the responsible agencies and by
allocating resources meant for the subsectors;
(e) preserve, as much as possible, the institutional memory of similar
works by maintaining the technical team, so they can train other
teams.
B.   Pilot Component3
17.       The Minas Gerais State, through the State Water Company, COPASA/MG,
was responsible for the implementation of the pilot component of the Rural
Water Supply and Sanitation Project.
18.       Clearly, the most important accomplishment of the Pilot Component
was to provide a higher level of services than expected. That is, the Pilot
Component as proposed in the Appraisal Report and Project Agreement was
improved, drawing on COPASA's previous experience. First, the Pilot Program
applied efficient criteria for tapping water sources.' Based on sound
hydrogeological studies, COPASA identified the least cost alternative sources
for water supplies. Second, COPASA built dynamic excreta disposal systems
(sewers, with treatment wherever possible), in cases which cost less than the
static systems, viz., upgraded latrines.
19.       Both these features enabled the Pilot Program to surpass the
forecast targets of the Loan, which was predicated on a cost of $120.00 per
capita for improved water supply alone. The Pilot Program delivered not only
improved water supplies, but also provided sanitation systems as well for an
approximate cost of $162.00 per capita. These sanitation systems consisted
of: i) sewerage, in many cases with treatment, or, ii) where sewerage was not
feasible, improved sanitary facilities, i.e., latrines that were structurally
upgraded and included improved kitchen and washing facilities as well.
20.       The Pilot Component benefitted 136 communities with water supply,
sewage and sanitation improvements, with an aggregate population of 178,000
inhabitants (See Annex III for detailed breakdown). The average population
was 1,313 inhabitants, which meets the conditions of the Project Agreement for
project population.
This section is based on a report "Relatorio BIRD, Parte II",
prepared by the Companhia de Saneamento de Minas Gerais, COPASA/MG, June,
1991; and "A Experiencia em Saneamento Rural da Companhia de Saneamento de
Minas Gerais", December, 1990 (80 pages).
4    Selection criteria in order of priority for water supply sources
should be: good quality surface water, gravity-fed or pumped, shallow
groundwater (requiring only treatment by simple disinfection, slow-sand
filtration), or deep groundwater.



- 18 -
Pilot Component Preparation
21.       The Pilot Component was initially anticipated for Rio Grande do Sul
but, in 1988, was transferred to Minas Gerais, which met all the economic-
financial conditions to receive the loan funds for the component. Minas
Gerais, because of its central geographic location and because of its
different socio-economic and hydrologic regions, represents a diverse range of
Brazilian geographic areas and was well-suited for a Pilot rural water supply
and sanitation project at a national level.
22.       In 1986, the National Housing Bank (BNH) was abolished and its main
responsibilities were transferred to the Federal Savings Bank (CEF) which
assumed all rights and obligations under the present Loan. While the
disruptions of the institutional changes occurred before the Pilot Component
was initiated, CEF did not provide technical assistance that could have
increased COPASA's efficiency in preparing and executing the component.
Pilot Component Implementation
23.       By and large, the Pilot Component was carried out efficiently by
COPASA and is characterized by three main features:
a)   Mobilization:  The Pilot Component included a strong educational and
community participation component which was useful to develop
awareness about the real benefits derived from improved sanitation,
and also helped the local leaders to operate the system.
b)   Appropriate Technology:  Various economies of scale were made by
consolidating water and sanitation systems without compromising the
standard of services.
c)   Tariffs:  To meet the operation and maintenance expenses, by working
with the communities, COPASA designed appropriate charges based on
affordability and level of service appropriate to each community.
24.       Nonetheless, the Pilot Program did encounter a number of
difficulties that impaired COPASA's performance. In particular, the selection
of communities was strongly influenced by political considerations during the
municipal and state elections of 1988-90. In addition, the promulgation of
the new Constitution led to a certain degree of political, economic, and
financial uncertainty during the implementation period.
Bank Performance
25.       The following are some comments that reflect COPASA's assessment of
the Bank's performance during the Pilot Component, and thus, by implication,
ideas that should be stressed in future projects.
a)   Consultants' Services and Procurement:  Specifically in these kind
of rural programs, procurement of goods and services should be
contracted locally (i.e., local, municipal or regional) if they are
available. This would result in several spin-off benefits:



- 19 -
stimulation of local commerce through infusion of resources;
diversification of appropriate materials and equipment;
strengthening technology and its proper utilization; support from
local leadership which can positively influence local opinion and
support; facilitation of training of skilled labor; and avoidance of
creating local cartels so common in large scale procurement.
b)   Public International Bidding:  The required deadline to publish,
open, and evaluate bids takes approximately 6 months, implying a
delay in works which can interfere with the process of developing
community support.
c)   Initial Contribution by Cooperative's (Community Association):  Cash
contribution from the Community Associations should be changed to
contributions in kind, i.e., of labor, local materials, land
contribution, since the rural communities, generally, do not have
financial means to contribute cash.
Borrower's and Implementing Agencies' Performance
26.       The following are comments the reflect COPASA/MG's assessment of the
Borrower's and Implementing Agencies' performance:
a)   Community Selection:  Because of the Municipal and State elections,
the program was subject to varied political interference, which led
to, among other aspects, a low level of participation by Community
Associations or their representatives, because of a confusion about
the Program's objectives.
b)  Project Funding:  At the Federal, State and Municipal level, delays
were encountered in the transfer of funds, resulting from lack of
resources, high inflation, and internal organizational changes.
These factors negatively affected works and clogged the availability
of finances to support the program.
c)   Socio-economic Situation:  During 1988-91, the country went through
social, economic, financial and political changes. These caused
changes in commercial and legal regulations, which, in turn,
influenced the subsequent funding of works, setting back the
program's targets which, in turn, resulted in an unmotivated and
dissatisfied population.
e)   Financial Policy:  The costs of works increased more than the
inflation in the country, thus producing cost overruns.
f)   Administrative Organization of the Community Associations:  A poor
job was done to improve accounting, administrative or other
organizational records or lists of activities, which made it
difficult to implement community management at that level. Some of
improvements were eventually incorporated by the municipalities as a
result of the Pilot Component.



- 20 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
TEChITCAL ASSISTANCE AND PILOT RURAL WATIR SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJEC
( Louln 25 32-BR )
PARtT I I11
STP!STY CAL INrORMATLON
1.   Related Bank Loans
Amount
Year of   USS
Number    Title                Purpose                         Approval  million
0757BR    Sao Paulo Water      Extension of water supply       1971       22.0
Supply               and construction of new
*ewerage works
0758BR    Sao Paulo            Sao Paulo sewerage              1974       12.0
Pollution Control   collection and disposal
Project
1009BR    Minas Gerais         Deoign and construction of    1974         36.0
Water Supply and    water and sewerage facilitiee
Sewerage
13093R    Minas Gerais Water  Extension of water supply        1976       40.0
Supply and           and sewerage; policy and
Sewerage Project    education for sanitation
in small communities
1525SR    Greater Sao Paulo   Sewerage collection and          1978       110.0
Sewerage Collection disposal in Sao Paulo
and Treatment
Projoct
16S63R    Northeast Water      Water supply and mewerage       1979       100.0
Supply and           in the States of Bahia,
Sewerage Project    Ceara, and Pernambuco
18233R    Southern States      Water supply and sewerage       1980       130.0
Water Supply and    in the States of Parana,
Sewerage Project    Santa Catarina, and Rio
Grand* do Sul municipalities
18S0SR    Third Minas Gerais  Extension of water supply        1980       139.0
Water Supply and    and sewerage to the capital,
Sewerage             medium-size cities and small
communities
19703R    Multistate Water    Extension of water supply        1981       180.0
Supply and           and sewerage in Amazonas,
Sewerage Project    Goias, M. Grosso do Sul,
Para, Paraiaba, and Federal
District
2249BR    Water Supply and    Institutional development        1983       302.3
Sewerage Sector      improve urban environmental
Loan                 and health conditions
2983BR    Water Project for   Extension of water, waste-    1988          80.0
Municipalities and  water and solid waste
Low-Income Areas    services to urban poverty
centers, and in cities with
municipally owned water
utilities
3102BR    Water Sector         Support of Sao Paulo's          1989       280.0
Project in the       State Water Company's
State of Sao Paulo  investment program,
emphasizing sewerage and
water to small and medium
cities
TOTAL:  1,431.3



- 21 -
2.   Proiect Timetable
Date            Date             Date
Item                            Planned          Revised          Actual
Identification                  Feb 83                            Feb 84
Preparation                     May 84                            May 84
Appraisal Mission                Sep 84          Nov/Dec 84       Nov/Dec 84
Loan Negotiations               Jan 85           Mar 85           Mar 8S
Board Approval                  Mar 85           May 85           7 May 85
Loan Signature                  Aug 85           Aug 86           1 Aug 85
Loan Effectiveness              Aug 85           Aug 86           14 Aug 86
Loan Closing                 30 Jun 89        30 Jun 90           30 Sep 90
Loan Completion                 Dec 88                            31 Jan 91
3. Loan Disbursemeunts
Bank                           Disbursements (in USS Million)
Fiscal Year          Estimated                Actual             Actual % of
And Quarter          Cumulative             Cumulative            Estimated
Sep, 1985             1.S0
Dec, 1985            2.00
Mar, 1986            3.10
Jun, 1986            4.20
1217
Sep, 1986            5.40                   1.50                  27.78
Dec, 1986            6.60                   1.60                  24.24
Mar, 1987            8.00                   1.64                  20.50
Jun, 1987            9.40                   1.65                  17.55
1988
Sep, 1987            10.90                  1.65                  15.14
Dec, 1987             12.30                 1.72                  13.98
Mar, 1988             13.30                 1.98                  14.89
Jun, 1988            14.30                  2.19                  15.31
1989
Sep, 1988            14.90                  2.37                  15.91
Dec, 1988             15.50                 2.53                  16.32
Mar, 1989             16.00                 3.12                  19.50
Jun, 1989            16.30                  3.19                  19.57
1990
Sep, 1989            16.30                  3.74                  22.94
Dec, 1989             16.30                 4.86                  29.82
Mar, 1990             16.30                 7.78                  47.73
Jun, 1990             16.30                 9.02                  55.34
1991
Sep, 1990            16.30                  9.27                  56.87
Dec, 1990             16.30                 9.36                  57.42
Mar, 1991             16.30                11.08                  67.98
Jun, 1991             16.30                11.08                  67.98



- 22 -
4.   Proiect Implementation
Appraisal            Actual (or
Estimate              PCR Estimate)
Indicators                            Installations         Installations
National Technical
Assistance Component
Preparation of subprojects               600                   0
Pilot Component
-- Rio Grande do Sul
a.  Preparation of subprojects             200                   0
b. Construction/expansion of
water systems                        200                   0
c. Production and installation of
-- individual excreta
disposal systems            10,000                   0
-- latrines                        5,000                   0
-- Minas Gerais!/
a.  Preparation of subprojects             200                 136
b. Construction/expansion of
water systems                        200                 136
c. Production and installation of
- individual excreta
disposal systems            10,000               6,500
- latrines                         5,000              2,787
- sewerage systems                     0                136
l/These are summarized in detail in Annex III.



- 23 -
5.   Prolect Costs and Financing
A.   Proiect Costs
Avoraisal Estimate
Local      Foreign              Local       Foreign
Costs     Exchange              Costs      Exchange
Costs        Total               Costs        Total
(USS M)                         (USS M)
National Technical
Assistance Component
Coordinating Unit        358.3      287.0        645.3
Studies               2,420.7       524.5      2,945.2
State Investment
Plans                 646.5       129.0        775.5
Project Preparation
(Northeast State.) 2,336.5   1,001.0        3,337.5
Equipment                350.0      150.0        500.0
PAPP Assistance       1 202.4       570.0      1,772.4
Subtotal              7,314.4   2,661.5        9,975.9      NA        NA        4,2001/
Pilot Component
Coordinating
Committee              352.5      100.0        452.5       942.7      609.5   1,552.2
Studies-Engineering/
Training               721.4      409.0      1,130.4
Construction of
Water Systems       6,836.3   2,930.0        9,766.3      9,456.2  6,113.2  15,569.4
Operation of Water
Systems                350.0      150.0        500.0
Sanitary Units        2,394.3   1,026.0        3,420.3      4,760.1  3,077.3   7,837.4
Technical
Assistance              --        424.0        424.0
Equipment                171 6       73.5        245.1
Subtotal             10,826.1   5,112.5    15,938.6   15,159.0   9,800.0  24,959.0
Base Costs
(12/84 Pricesfl      18,140.5   7,774.0    25,914.5
Physical
Contingencies (5%)   907.0        388.7      1,295.7
Price Contingencies
(7/85-6/88)         3,695.8   1,584.3       5,280.1
Total Project Cost  22.743.3   97J7.0        32 32490.3                         29,159.0
2/   Based on the loan agreement, coats for the National Technical Assistance
Component have been estimated, since the office responsible for the component
was disbanded. These figures are low because: a) US$3.96 million were
cancelled (as explained in Part I); and, b) many line items cost less than
estimates because of a high level of contribuutions-in-kind by various
particupating agencies (as explained in Part II). Nor do these costs include
federal expenditures for activities complementing those of the Component.



- 24 -
5    Proiect Costs and Financina
B.   Proiect Financino
Planned
Source                    Proiect Amount        Revised               Final
(USS M)            (USS M)               (USS M)
National Component          8.5                6.5                   3.7
Pilot Component              7.8               9-& 898
IBRD Subtotal                 16.3              16.3                  13.5
CounterDart
Federal Government             -                  -                     -
National Component           2.4               2.4                   0.4
Pilot Component                0
BNH/CEF
National Component            -                 -                     -
Pilot Component              5.6               5.6                   6.4
States
National Component           2.1                -                   0. 1V
Pilot Component             La.               9.5                    8.B
Counterpart Subtotal          16.2              17.5                  15.7
TOTAL                         32.5              33.8                  29.2
Comments: US$3.96 million were eventually cancelled.
3/Estimates; actual figures unavailable.



- 25 -
6.   Proiect Results
A.   Direct Benefits
Appraisal     Estimated at       Estimated at Full
Indicatorq                 Estimate       Closina Date         Develolwment
National Technical
Assistance ComDonent
Preparation of designs
for villages                 600               0                        0
Pilot Component
-- Rio Grande do Sul
Number of communities
Water                   200               0                        0
Latrines             10,000               0                        0
-- Minas Gerais
Number of communities
Water                   200             136                      136
Latrines             10,000           6,500                   13,605
Sewerage                  0             136                      136
Comments: See also Annex III.
6.   Proiect Results:
B.   Economic Impact
Economic                   Appraisal                        Actual
Rate of Return                Estimate                 (At Final Development)
Underlying
Assumptions                                 NOT APPLICABLE IN TECCNICAL
ASSISTANCE PILOT PROJECT



- 26 -
6.   Proiect Results:
C.   Financial Impact
Economic            Without          Future with
Rate of Return         Pro,ect            Project            Actual
NOT APPLICABLE IN THIS TECHNICAL
ASSISTANCE AND PILOT PROJECT
Other Financial
Indicatorsc
Fiscal Impact



6.   Proiect Results:
D.   Studies
Purpose as
Defined at                                                                   Impact of
Studies              Appraisal                                   Status                             Studies
A. National
Component
Institutions         Evaluation of existing                     Completed                          Studies have all
organizations, identi-                                                       contributed to the
fication of means of                                                         promulgation of a
improvement and training                                                     systematic approach
needs.                                                                       to rural water
supply and sanitation
Finances             Preparation of policies                    Completed                          at the federal,
for investment, operations,                                                  state, and community
tariffs and cost recovery.                                                   level.
Recommendations for
organizational improvement,
financial criteria, user
affordability, cost
recovery and training.
Community            Definition of alternatives                 Completed
Promotion            for community participation,
legal arrangements, technical
assistance and training.
Human                Analysis of sector training                Completed
Resources            programs for national
training plan, emphasizing
operations and maintenance
and administration.



Purpose an
Defined at                                                                  Impact of
Studies              Appraisal                                  Status                             Studies
Engineering          Inventory of rural water                   Completed
technologies, development of
low-coat alternatives,
definition of institutional
arrangement. and training
needs, production of
educational material.
Investment           At state level, diagnosis of               Completed
Plan                 community sector service. and
capabilities, formulation of
targets, consolidation of
stats plans nationally.
PAPP Support         Reinforce administration,                  Partially                         Cancelled
promote pilot experiences,                complete
establish cost recovery and
tariff procedures, promise
community participation and
education, technical
assistance.
Project              For each of 10 Northeast                   Partially                         Cancelled
Preparation          states, prepare approximately              complete
60 subprojects.
B. Pilot
Component
Studies and          Prepare work for implementa-               Completed                          Laid the basis for
Engineering          tion of 200 subprojects,                   for 136                            promotion of rural
including communlty educatlon                                                water supply and
and promotion, legal arrange-                                                sanitation with
ments, socio-economic and                                                     cost-recovery at
water surveys, engineering                                                    the local level.
designs, plans for operations,
maintenance, administration
and tariffs



7.   Status of Covenants
Covenant                                                    Deadline for
Loan Agreement V    Subject                                      Compliance            Status
Wi1th IPEA
2.06 (a)             Submission of detailed plan and            June 30, 1986          Partial compliance but
terms of reference for Northeast                                 eventually cancelled.
investment preparation.
With CEF (COPASA)
Sch. 2,              All subprojects vill meet                 As needed               Partial compliance.
Para. I              agreed selection criteria.                                        Subprojects often
selected by political
criteria. Some commun-
ities above 2,000
range because old
census data used.
Sch. 2,              Before construction of any sub-           As needed
Para. 2              project, state and comunities
will sign a contract detailing
comunity participation in the
construction, financing, operation
and maintenance of the systems.
1/ On November 18, 1987, the Bank and the Government signed an Amending Agreement to the Loan Agreement
recognizing the merger of the BNH (Banco Nacional de Habitacao) into the Caixa Economica Federal (CEF) and
an expansion of the Project to allow financing under the Loan of activities carried out by either the State
of Rio de Janeiro do Sul (RS State) or by the State of Minas Gerais (MS State). On the same date, the Bank
and CEF signed a Project Agreement which superceded an earlier Project Agreement with BNH and the RS State
(dated October 17, 1985).



Covenant                                                       Deadline for
Loan Agreement 1'   Subject                                        Compliance             Status
Sch. 2,               Purchases will be made in                   As needed
Para. 6               accordance with an agreed program
(revised)             to be updated annually.
Sch. 2,               Tariffs will be charged to the              As needed
Para. 5               communities to cover operations
Sch. 3,               and maintenance and a minimum 30S
Paras. 2L3            of investment costs of water supply
systems and 1002 of sanitary units.
Loan Projects
3.01, 2.01(a)         Federal Government, CEF & states will   As needed                     Partial compliance
make the timely provision of counter-                                 delays due to economic
part funds,                                                           crisis and slow
processing by CEF.
1/ On November 18, 1987, the Bank and the Government signed an Amending Agreement to the Loan Agreement
recognizing the merger of the BNH (Banco Nacional de Habitacao) into the Caixa Economica Federal (CEF) and
an expansion of the Project to allow financing under the Loan of activities carried out by either the State
of Rio de Janeiro do Sul (RS State) or by the State of Minas Gerais (MS State).  On the same date, the Bank
and CEF signed a Project Agreement which superceded an earlier Project Agreement with BNH and the RS State
(dated October 17, 1985).



8.   Use of Bank Resources
A.   Staff Inputs
(Staff Weeks)
1984      1985     1986      1987      1988      1989      1990     Total
Preparation                    5.0
Appraisal                      8.0
Negotiations
Supervision                              2.0     3.0       2.2       1.2       2.0       0.6
TOTAL



S.   Use of bank Resources
B.   Missions
Performance
Stage of          Honth/    Number of        Days in      Specialization         Rating        Type of
Project Cycle       Year         Person        FieldV       Represented           Status        Problems
Preparation          Hay, 84           1          10         Engineer
1          10         Economist
Sep., 84         2           2          Engineer
2          2          Fin. Analyst
Oct., 84          1          1          Loan Officer
Appraisal            Nov., 84          1          10         Loan Officer
1          10         Engineer
1          10         Fin. Analyat
1          10         Economist
Supervision          Apr., 85          1           2         Engineer
1           2         Fin. Analyst
July, 85          1           2         Engineer
1           2         Fin. Analyst
Oct., 85         2            2         Engineer
Jan., 86          1           1         Engineer
June, 86         2            2         Engineer
Sep., 86         1           10        Engineer
Nov., 86         1            1         Engineer
Jan., 87          1           1         Economist
Mar., 87          1           5         Engineer
June, 87          1           5         Engineer
Apr., 88          1           2         Engineer
June, 88         3            2         Engineer
Sept., 88         1           2         Engineer
Jan., 89          1           1         Engineer
Mar., 89          1           1         Engineer
June, 89          1           2         Engineer
July, 89          1           5         Engineer
Sept., 89         1           1         Engineer
Apr., 90          1           2         Engineer
Sept., 90         1           1         Engineer
2/ For combined missions, an estimate of 2 days per staff member was used. For more than one person, "Days
in Field" represents group total.



- 33 -
ANNEX I
A.  Technical Documentation Produced by PNSR
1.   Institutional Development
* Brazil Rural Sanitation National Program (310 p.), December/87
* Subsidy for the Development of Rural Sanitation Support Programs in
Brazil (141 p), 1988
* Definition of the Methodology and Instruments to Collect Information
(60 p.), April/87
* Organizational Analysis of the Acting Federal Institutions in the
Rural Sanitation Field: Description of Activities, Analysis of the
Institutional Capacity (70 p.), August/87
* Analysis of Plans and Federal Programs about the Rural Sanitation
Subsector (80 p.), June/87
* The Organization of a Basic Sanitation Sector in Brazil (19 p.),
September/87
* Preliminary Steps for the Creation of a Rural Sanitation National
Program (10 p.), November/86
* Institutional Development Sub-Program (6 p.), October/87
* Technical Support Organization - OTEC, for the Rural Sanitation
National Program (6 p.), February/88
* Table of the Rural Sanitation National System (PNSR). Preliminary
Version - August/87
* Role of the States in PNSR's Actions. Preliminary Version (15 p.),
May/90
* Talking about Rural Sanitation in Brazil (22 p.), September/90
* Proposed Institutional Organization Models for Rural Sanitation
Execution (31 p.) December/90
* Proposed Rural Sanitation Attendance, Supervision and Technical
Support System (94 p.) December/90
* Proposed Rural Sanitation Implementation Evaluation System (14 p.),
December/90
* Proposed Rural Sanitation Alternative Models for Operational
Organization (124 p.), November/90
* Proposed Rural Sanitation National Program in the HAS (20 p.)
December/90
* Operations Manual for the Rural Sanitation National Project with MAS
(48 p.), December/90
2.   Financial Economic
* Analysis to pay for Water Supply Improved Systems (Search). (20 p.),
Feb. 88
* Financial-economic simulation model of the National Basic Rural
Sanitation Program (11 p.).
* Financial Equation Proposal for Rural Water Supply and Sewage in Rural
Communities (58 p.), October/88. (Preliminary version)
* Financial System for the National Rural Sanitation Program
(Preliminary version) (23 p.), August/87
* Cost-Benefit Evaluation for Public Health Program. (8 p.), 1987.
* Rural Sanitation Subsector Diagnoses-Economic-Financial Aspects (44
P-)
3.   Human Resources Development
* Human Resources Program (57 p.), October/87
* Survey and Analysis of the Human Resources Present Situation in the SP
State (44 p.), August/87
* Human Resources Present Situation in the Rural Sanitation Subsector
(19 p.)



- 34 -
* Human Resources in Health (10 p.)
* Communication, Information and Document (29 p.), April/88
* Human Resources Present Situation-in Rural Sanitation in the MG State
(42 p.), August/87
4.   Education and Particioation
* Community Promotion of Participation Reports (100 p.) September/87
* Education Subjects (97 p.)
* From Learning to Teaching (12 p.), June/88
* Rural Sanitation Education and Participation (255 p.), 1989
(preliminary version)
* Community Participation in Rural Sanitation Projects (Present
Situation), September/87
* The Education and Participation Processing Basic Rural Sanitation (29
p.), June/88
* Community Participation in Rural Sanitation Projects: An Exploratory
Study of the Brazilian Situation (27 p.), May/87
* Preliminary Proposal for the Preparation of a Community Education and
Participation Subprogram (15 p.), October/87
* Education and Participation Subprogram (27 p.), July/88
* Education and Participation: Its execution in the PLSR (96 p.),
April/89
* Education and Participation and Appropriate Engineering: Training for
the Local Rural Sanitation Operation (88 p.), October/88
* Execution of the Education Process and Participation in Local Rural
Sanitation Projects (22 p.), July/88
* Educational Processes Proposal in Local Rural Sanitation Projects (30
p.), August/88
5.   Enaineerina of Technical Develo2ment
* Present Situation of Rural 'anitation in the Engineering of Technical
Development in the RS, SC and PR States (130 p.), 1987
* Diagnosis, Directives, Project, Solution Proposals, and Search
Subprogram (48 p.), October/87
* Survey of the Present Situation and the Technology in the Hato Grosso
do Sul State (24 p.), June/87
- Survey of the Present Situation and the Technology in the SP State (78
p.), June/87
- Technical consulting Report: Analysis of the Present Situation and
Applied Technology: MA, PI, CE, and MR (167 p.), June/87
* Consulting Report: Analysis of the Present Situation and Applied
Technology: PE, PB, AL, SE, and BA (141 p.), July/87
* Present Situation in the Rural Sanitation Engineering and Technical
Development Area - Goils and RJ States (72 p.), December/87
* Present Situation in the Rural Sanitation Subsector: Report (81 p.)
* Analysis of National Experience in the Rural Sanitation
Administration, Operation and Maintenance, in Existence for over Two
Years - Piaui State (25 p.), December/89
* Instruction for the Elaboration of Rural Sanitation Local Projects (10
p.), March/88
* Execution of Experimental Actions: Orientation for Implementation (53
p.), January/88
* Technical Consultants' Report: Analysis of the FNS Proposed
Methodology for Appropriate Technologies, in Agreement with CET/ESS's
Proposal (31 p.), September/90
* Technical Consultants' Report: Evaluation of the Experimental Action
II in Rural Sanitation (44 p.), December/90
* Consultants' Report of Rural Sanitation Actions in the Pelhaus,
Jaguaruana and Boa Viagem (CE) States (44 p.), December/90



- 35 -
6.  Rural Sanitation Government Plannina
* Brief Diagnosis, Subject and the Brazilian Government Strategy on
Rural Sanitation - Document Presented at the Water Supply and
Sanitation Regional Symposium: A Primary Element of Health (16 p.),
September/86
* Rural Sanitation: A Latin American Experience - Document Presented at
the Sanitary and Environmental Engineering at the 14th BR Congress (41
p.), September/87
* Government Action on Rural Sanitation - Document Presented at the 14th
ABES Congress (25 p.), September/87
* Experimental Actions on Rural Sanitation; Strategic Assistance (10
p.), June/90
* Training for Rural Sanitation Technical Integration - Casimiro di
Abreu (RJ) - Final Report, May/89
* National Program for Basic Rural Sanitation Studies, Technical
Assistance and Preparation Project of the National Program for Rural
Sanitation (72 p.), February/85
* Development Works by the Rural Sanitation National Project, Short-term
Perspective - Document Presented at the Rural Sanitation International
Seminar, September/88
* Initial Documents which started the Rural Sanitation National Program
7.   Documents Published by IPEA. 'Rural Sanitation" (in book form)
X Rural Sanitation Local Project - Engineering, Social, and
Economic/Financial Integration
* Rural Sanitation Bases for Policies and Program Formulation (2nd
edition)
* Subsidies for Rural Sanitation State Programs
* Conceptual and Methodical Basis for Rural Sanitation Education and
Participation (2nd edition)
Methodical Subsidies for RS Education and Participation (2nd edition)
Subsidies for the Discussion of Tariff Matters in Rural Sanitation
* Computer Model for RS Financial Programming
* Case Studies for Elaboration Methodology Alternatives in RS Education
PNSR Experimental Actions
* Subsidies for the Establishment of a Human Resources Development
Program for RS
B.   Seminars, classes, workshops and others, promoted by PNBR, in order to
recycle the State and Federal Technical teams (HAS and NS/FNS)
* Training courses on Education and community participation in rural
sanitation, held between July 13-24, 1987, in Cauaia-SE
* Work technical meeting on rural sanitation, in order to discuss
policies and directives for appropriate technical alternatives. Held
August 17-21, 1987, Brasilia, DF
* Training for the formulation of PESR to the State Technical teams of
Sergipe, Rio Grande do Norte, Paraiba, Espirito Santo and Rondonia.
November 21-25, 1988, in Natal, RN
Seminar on State Proposals evaluation, with Mato Grosso and Parana
technicians. December 14-16, 1988, Brasilia, DF
Seminar on "Rural Sanitation Education and Pa-ticipation".  Brasilia,
DF, June 1988
"Technical Meeting of the Rural Sanitation Pilot Project - Parana and
Minas Gerais". Belo Horizonte, November 8-10, 1989
'Seminar - Campo's Labor Office for co-production of educational
materials in the Vila da Gloria (SC) community. January 1989 to May
1990



- 36 -
* Seminar - Campo's Labor Office for co-production of educational
material in the Vila do Lago de Limao (MA) community. October to
December 1989
* Seminar - Campo Labor Office for co-production of educational material
in the Sao Miguel (AL) community. October to December 1989
* Rural Sanitation International Seminar (promoted by ABES/AIDIS, PNSR),
where the currant production as a result of PNSR were discussed. Rio
de Janeiro, September 1988
* Regional meeting on rural sanitation State programs - Campo Grande,
September 19-21, 1990
* Health educators meeting on rural sanitation education and
participation. Maeeio, October 22-26, 1990
* Rural uanitation work meeting - scope of the FNS regional directives,
geared to rural sanitation technical assistance of the MAS. Brasilia,
November 19, 20, 21, 1990
* Training of the new rural sanitation technical team of the Alagoas
State, responsible for the State rural sanitation program - Maceio,
December 3-6, 1990.
C.   Audiovisuals
1.  Video
* Experimental actions I in Vestia and Jauru (MS)
* PNSR Pilot Project in Minas Gerais
* Rural Sanitation State Programs in Santa Catarina
* Experimental actions II in Santa Helena (MA) community
* Rural Sanitation Program in Parana (SANEPAR)
* Experimental action II in the Lavador (PR) community
* Rural Sanitation International Seminar
* An Institutional Matter - an important factor in rural sanitation
 Institutional Development - transformation factor
* Perspective of the PNSR development actions - Practical view
 Education and Participation - Experience in Vila da Gloria (SC)
* Education and Participation - Experience in Vila do Lago de Limao (AM)
* Education and Participation - Experience in San Miguel (AL)
* Experimental Action II in the Sao Sebastiao (CE) community
2.   Slides and Photoaralhv
E Experimental Action II in the Santa Catarina, Parana, Sao Paulo,
Sergipe, Ceara, Alagoas, Para Amazonas, Maranhao, Goias and
Pernambuco States



ANNEX 11
A. DIRECT BENEFITS
INDICATOR                             FORESEEN IN THE APPRAISAL              RESULTS REACHED             COMMENTS
1. ELABORATION OF RURAL               24 Programs                           21 Programs                 IPEA had agreements with 22 States, of which
SANITATION PROGRAMS                                                                                  21 finished their PERS. These works are the
PESRs                                                                                               bases for Investment proposals, by the States.
for the National Rural Sanitation Program
implemented by MAS.
2. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE TO            Give assistance to the executing      -                           Not executed lexplained in item 7.1 Part A of
PAPP                              agencies of the water community                                   Table B).
comnponent of the Northeast Project
10 States
3. PREPARATION OF RURAL               600 projects, 10 in each state        -                            Not executed lexpalined in Item 7.1 Pert A-3 of   '
WATER SUPPLY AND                                                                                     Table B).
SANITATION PROJECTS
4. PREPARATION OF NATIONAL            -                                     Existence of a national      In 1984 both the Government and the Bank
RURAL SANITATION                                                        policy on rural              agreed that less than 7% of the Brazilien rural
PROGRAMS                                                                sanitation progress in       populdation was supplied by public water and
the aector Institutional    sewage. They also agreed that Rural Sanitation
structure; improvement     in Brazil was mainly restrained by national
in financia allocation.     Government policies, lack of an institutional
structure and insufficient financial resources for
the sector. Through the experience learned
from loan 2532-BR, we could list mome
important planning, such as: (al creation of
MAS, plus a specific sector to care about rural
anitatdon, attached to the Ministry of National
Health. Ibl creation in the new FNS structure.
of a coordination responsible for rural senitation
at MS level; Ic) creadon. in 22 States, of
specific technical teams in charge of rural
s*nitation: Id) In 1990. MAS formulated
nationa senitation policies when PRORURAL
was creatad INedonal Rural SanitatIon
Programn: anti Id adlocation by PRORURAL of
budgetary financia resources of US$200
mnilion, not reirmbursable. for rural sanitation
during 1991-94.



INDICATOR                             FORESEEN IN THE APPRAISAL              RESULTS REACHED             COMMENTS
5.  EXPERIENCES IN RURAL                                                     50 systems                  IPEA had an agreement with the States for
SANITATION                                                                                           water supply, sewage end residential sarnitation
improvements In the rural communities. During
the first stage 11988/89) 16 States benefitted.
and during the second stage 11989/90), 12
states benefitted.
6. HUMAN RESOURCES
CAPABILITY
6.1 FUNCTION OF                                                          22 teams approx. 160        Through IPEA's agreement with the States for
STATE TECHNICAL                                                       technicians                 the production of PESRs. technical inter-
TEAMS                                                                                             institutional and Inter-disciplinary technical
teams were created to take care of the State
rural sanitation problems. After the work was
finished, some of them were absorbed by the
State governments.
6.2 TECHNICAL                                                            Approx. 858                 IPEA, through agreement with CENDEC.
TRAINING AT                                                           technicians                 pertom ed 5 regional training modules in the
FEDERAL, STATE                                                                                    sanitation and health areas of the States .... 3
AND MUNICIPAL                                                                                     In the Northeastern region. 1 in the Center-
LEVELS                                                                                            West, and 1 in the Southern region, In spite of
an encounter between project technicians and
FNS In the Rio de Janeiro State.
6.3 FEDERAL                                                              30 technicians              UCP had, throughout the Project. a total of 38
TECHNICAL TEAMS                                                                                   naltonal and International technical consultants
who formed en Inter-disciplinary team.
30 were Brazilian, 15 belonging to IPEA, MHU
and MS. and 15 hired by IPEA/PAHO. Once
thw works were finished, and after training
MAS and MS technicans, the team was
dimantled. IPEA abosorbed 3 multi-professional
technicans at senior level.



B. LOAN COVENANTS
Covenant                       Object/Action                     Date of                  Status'         Comments
Committment
7.1 LOAN AGREEMENT
1 - 3.01 IB)                 The B3orrower should give the      -                       1
resources to IPEA for Pan A as
subsidy.
2 - 3.04 la)                 The iBorrower shell supervise Part A    0710S/88           1               With the extinction of MHU in 1988. CISR was
of the Project through the Rural                                           Joined by SEPLAN-PR and MS representatives.
Senitation Inter-Ministerial                                               Thi contributed to the weaskening of CISR.
Committee (CISR)                                                           which had Its last meeting 7/5188. Once the
policies and directives had been established.
the work continued without problems.
3 - 3.04 lb)                 The Borrower shal coordinate the   12/31/90                1                As CISR. UCP was affected through MHU
techical and adminstrative aspects                                         extinction, but kept active until the end of the
of Part A through the General                                              Project.
Coordination Unit of Project-UCP
4 - 3.04 Ic)                   Preparation of a National Water   12/31/90                 1               In 1987, a document entitled 'Brazil: National
Pan A - 1                   Supply and Rural Senitation Plan.                                          Rural Sanitation Program' was published 310
Including the following studies and                                        pgs. i being re-published in 1988 with the title
activites:                                                                  Subsidy for the Development of a Support
Program for Rural Sanitation in Brazil' 1141
(a) Evluation of the existing                                              pgsl. Besides these two documents, there
Federal and State organirational                                           were 24 studies about the Institutional area,
structure criteria definition to                                           various course. seminaers and workshops.
reorganize the existing Institutions,                                      There are 3 docunwnts taken from 'Rural
inckuding: II) preparation of                                              Senitation' end edited by IPEA.
amendment ninutes to the existing
legislature: liil inter-institional
definition: and Iiii) identification of
the Faderai and State personnel
training needs.



Covenant                        Object/Action                        Date of                  Status           Comments
Committment
(bl Preparation of Financial Policies    12/31/90            1                In Rural Sanitaiton' there were 2 works
for investment end operational rural                                          published about basic rural financial training,
water supply systems, including: (i)                                          plus 6 technical documents, courses. seminers
tariff and cost recovery policies;                                            and workshops, with the participation of
recomnendations on the                                                        Federal and State technicians. An international
organizations's changes and the                                               se"iner on tariffs was held in Brazil from May 5
responsibilities allocation for the                                           to June S, 1987. with the participation of
sector's finances and alternative                                             technicians and Or. John Briscoe, representing
resources flow; (iii) financial criteria                                      the Bank.
definition of priorities, including
payment conditions to the
consumers; and liv) training of
Federal and State personnel In the
financial area.
(c) Alternadve definitions for the  12/31/90                  1               ThI was one of the project's priority and IPEA
comnmunity participation In the                                               published 3 documents from 'Rural Sanitation.'
preparation of nural water supply                                             Thi produced 3 case studies bV the Project in
administration and operation,                                                 the Santa Catarina, Amazonas and Alagoas
Including: i a comprdative analysis                                           States, with the direct participation of Federal
of conmnunity participation In other                                          and State governments and the community for
sectors; lii) a study of legal                                                training Federal. State and Municipalities
judgments needed for cormunity                                                 parieipating In training. Besides, 13
participation; liii) Identification of                                        documents about community participation were
technical assistance end traning                                              publshed, plus courses, serninars and
needs In community promotion.                                                 workshops in different states.
(dl Analysis of different training  12/31/90                  1
programs In the sector, evaluations
of necessities and prepration of a
netional training plan, with
emphasis in construction, operation
end maintenance of rural water
supply systems and services
administration.
'Status: 1, Satisfactory; 2. Compieance; 3. Moderate; 4, Unsatisfactory



- 41 -
ANNEX III
General Information Table
Proposal         Proposal       Actual up to
Units                  2532-BR         COPASA MG        April 1991
1. Water
- Water Intake              Supply of 200          58 units         55 units
- Wells                     systems with           78 units         78 units
- Pumping Stations          deep wells,           122 units        105 unit.
- Water Mains               pumping,              162,665 m        137,810 m
- Chlorination Stations   water main,             103 units         19 units
- Chemical Storage          reservoirs,            33 units         27 units
- Treatment Plant           distrib.               33 units         31 units
- Slow Filter Plants        network, and            6 units           5 units
- Reservoirs                house                   8,877 m3         8,320 m3
- Distribution Networks   connect.                517,359 m        508,926 m
- House Connections                            29,796 units    29,173 units
Total Water System                        200               136               88
2. Sewerage
- House Connections                            26,706 units
- Collection Sewers                               467,739 m
- Interceptors                                     41,382 m
- Sewerage Treatment                               48 units
Facilities
- Septic Tanks                                  3,762 units                   l
Total Sewage System                         0               136               87
3. Sanitary units                      10,000     13,605 units       6,500 units
individual
sanitation
systems;
5,000
latrines
4. Total Sanitary Units                15,000            13,605      6,500 units
*Of the 6,500 structures constructed, about 800 were equiped with sanitary
wells. The proposed objective will be completed by December, 1991 with State
and Municipal Funds.






IRRD 169QA
to*         BRRZIL t   !  eoZFEBRUARY U3j
B9RRZ I L
WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE
PERCENT SERVICE LEVELS BY STATE
VENEZUELA                                               1983/1987
SURINAME
\ uGUYANA  $,    FGUNA
C OLOM B IA            SI                         .       
RORAIMUA _                                               A NT/C  OCEAN
Ir~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IU
i ~     ~~~~~ L.                                                                               ERNA M-BUCO  AAP 
P1 vA                                                 -m-A
W AterA Z O N         < Spy  BOLIVIA  p  ) GRO                   ER- S     EARA   / R10-GRADE
( s ,_ / } < \  -4 'S                                             -..                   DO NORTE
SAO PAULO --L    fl/ C PIAU
2A  C  R  E                          _<    If                              7          -     E--Nc ft 
P E R U                 ROND09LA    (^      UAT                                              \ 0, t D AHIA /  Is uP
I             /                            I  A .
!Wcnttr supply BuOLIVIA           MAOGRS DSO               I N  G E R A I S-r
.1  RIO GRANDE ~~;t          !               tO    0 PA00 L
w ^                   J  .E* sio ~~~~~~~~~~~*e S 11'0
300                     ~~~~~~~~~~ARGENTINAj  DO SU                          MAILES   td  o
)l URUGUAYA 
XQ=t l mA---\ as1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~F



