Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 5438-BR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
BRAZIL
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND PILOT RURAL WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
April 15, 1985
Projects Department
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official dutis. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Calendar 1984                 March 20, 1985
Currency Unit   =   Cruzeiro (Cr$)
US$1 = CrS1,952               US$1 = 4,007
Cr$1 = US$0.00051             Cr$l = US$0.00025
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ABES      -    Asociacao  Brasileira de Engenbaria  Sanitaria e Ambiental
(Brazilian Association of Sanitary Engineering)
BNH       -    Banco Nacional da Habitacao (National Housing Bank)
CORSAN    -    Companhia Riograndense de Saneamento (State Water Company of
Rio Grande do Sul)
FSESP     -    Fundacao Servicos de Saude Publica (Public Health Services
Foundation
FUNDURBANO-    Fundo Urbano (Urban Investment Fund of Rio Grande do Sul)
IPEA      -    Instituto de Planejamento Economico e Social (Institute of
Economic and Social Planning)
MINTER    -    Ministerio do Interior (Ministry of Interior)
ORTN      -    Obrigacoes  Reajustaveis   do  Tesoro  Nacional   (National
Treasury Bond)
PAHO      -    Pan American Health Organization
PAPP      -    Programa de Apoio ao Pequeno Produtor (Small Farmer Program)
PIASS     -    Programa de Interiorizacao das Acoes de Saude e Saneamento
(Program for Community Health and Sanitation)
PLANASA   -    Plan Nacional de Saneamento (National Sanitation Plan)
PROSAN    -    Programa de Saneamento (Community Sanitation Program of Rio
Grande do Sul)



FOR OMCUL USE ONLY
SEPLAN    -    Secretaria  de  Planejamento  da  Presidencia  da  Republic..
(Presidential Planning Secretary)
SES       -    Secretaria de Saude (State Health Secretary - Rio Grande do
Sul)
SUDENE    -    Superintendencia de Desenvolvimento do Nordeste (Northeast
Regional Development Agency)
SURBAM    -    Superintendencia de Desenvolvimento Urbano e Administracao
Municipal (Secretary of Interior, Regional Development and
Public Works, Department of Urban Development and Municipal
Administration of State of Rio Grande do Sul)
This document has a restriced distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their oflficial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



BRAZIL
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND PILOT RURAL WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY .....................                          uiii-v
I.    THE SECTOR .......................*.............** ......             1
Sector Development and Organization  ........................        I
Level of Service .......................    .......................see...    2
Subsector Constraints... .............                              3
Government Strategy and the Bank's Role........sees........          4
IIo   THE PROJECT .... .......... ses..        . *             ......      6
Background   .      .       ..     ...................... . ...      6
Project Objectives...b...j e    c    ti..v.......e.... ........ o.s. .  6
Project Executing Agencies. ........... . ... o. ........ ..*.       7
Project Descriptions..,* .    .      .*.se.. .......*                7
Project Implementation.e ............ .. ......................      9
Selection and Design Criteria.................r............         10
Project Cost, Financing and Recovery Plan .................         11
Affordabilityo ........... ,                                          ........................... 13
Prccurement and Disbursement.                 ............          13
Status of Project Preparation.                     .......          15
Benefits and Risks.......... ... .           ....                   15
III.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECO      OMENDATIONS   ...                   16
LIST OF TABLES
2.1   Project Cost Estimates ...............................              11
2.2   Project Financing Plan  - ......o .. ............                   12
2.3   Project Cost by Procurement Method... ............. .........       14
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited
Brazil from November 26 to December 8, 1984. The mission was comprised of
Messrs. Emilio Rodriguez, Engineer; William Roach, Financial Analyst; and
Emmanuel Mbi, Economist.   The mission was assisted by the Loan Officer,
Ms. Carolin Crabbe.



-ii-
Page No.
LIST OF ANNEXES
1.    Bank Loans to Brazil for Water Supply and Sewerage ..........  18
2.    Project Description .......o........................*..   19-20
3.    Terms of Reference for the Development of Rural Water Supply
and Sanitation Sector            ...........   ..........  ......  21-28
4.    Tentative List of Communities ...............................      29-34
5.    Project Cost ...............................................  35-36
6.    Project Implementation Schedule....*........................  37
7.    Organization Charts for the National and Pilot Components...  38-39
8.    BINH's Finances .......  ---9.........                 ,      ^   40-49
9.    Cost Recovery in the Pilot Component......................  50-51
10.   Loan Disbursement Schedule                ........                 52
11.   Monitoring Indicators.d      l     ct             o     r ......53
12.   Selected Reference Documents and Data Available in Project
File .........                                                   54-55
MAP
IBRD Map No. 16948 - Brazil - Water Supply and Sewerage Percent Service
Levels by State 1983/1987



(iii)
BRAZIL
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND PILOT RURAL
WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:      Federative Republic of Brazil.
Project         Institute of Economic and Social Planning (IPEA) and the
Executing       Secretary of  Interior,  Regional  Development,  and  Public
Agencies:      Works,   Department  of  Urban  Development  and  Municipal
Administration of the State of Rio Grande do Sul (SURBAM).
Amount:        US$16.3 million equivalent.
Terms:          Repayment in 15 years,  including 3 years of grace, with
interest at the Bank's standard variable rate.
Beneficiaries: The pilot component will benefit 200 low income communities
consisting of about 146,000 people in the State of Rio
Grande  do  Sul.    The  results  of  the studies  undertaken
through the national technical assistance component will
benefit eventually the rural poor throughout Brazil and
particularly in the less developed Northeast Region.
Relending      For  the  national  technical  assistance  component,  the
Terms:         Borrower will make available the proceeds of the loan to
IFEA  on  a grant  basis.    For  the pilot  component,  the
Borrower will make available the proceeds of the loan to the
National Housing Bank (BNH) on the same terms as those of
the loan.  BNH will onlend them to the State of Rio Grande
do Sul through SURBAM for 18 years including 3 years of
grace at 7.5%.   STJRBAM will enter into agreements with
participating  communities  which  will  make  an  initial
contribution to investments and repay a minimum of 30% of
cost at 7.5% interest plus monetary correction for a term of
18 years.
Project        The objective of the project is to assist the Government of
Description:   Brazil in establishing a policy for providing water supply
and sanitation in rural areas, defining sector goals at the
Federal and State levels, and institu:ional responsi-
bilities.  The national technlcal assistance component will
finance (a) studies of the organization of the sector and
the reordering of institutions, financial policies, includ-
ing, a system of finance, tariffs and cost recovery;
community promotion; and training requirements; (b) an
inventory of technologies and technical standards; (c) the
preparation of state investment plans; (d) special assist-
ance to ten Northeast states for project preparation



- iv -
including implementing community participation programs; and
(e) equipment.   The component will also finance special
assistance to the emergency water works included in the
Northeast's Small Farmer Program (PAPP) to be financed by
proposed rural development projects.   The pilot component
will support the above objectives by testing and evaluating
the delivery of services. It will finance water supply and
sanitation in the State of Rio Grande do Sul including
engineering and construction of about 200 community water
systems, 10,000 individual sanitation units, 5,000 latrines,
technical assistance, training and equipment. The experien-
ces gained will serve as an input to preparing national
oolicy.
Risks:         The proposed project depends on the cooperation of three
ministries in administering a large studies and technical
assistance component.   To some extent the risk associated
with the large size will be minimized by retaining the Pan
American Health Organization (PAHO) to undertake administra-
tion and contracting. Nonetheless, continuation of coopera-
tion by the ministries of the new administration which took
office in March 1985 will be essential.
Estimated Project Costs:
Local    Foreign       Total
…----US$ thousand-----
National Technical
Assistance Component
Coordinating Unit                 358.3       287.0      645.3
Studies                         2,420.7       524.5   2,945.2
State Investment Plans            646.5       129.0      775.5
Project Preparation
(Northeast States)            2,336.5    1,001.0   3,337.5
Equipment                         350.0       150.0      500.0
PAPP Assistance                  1X202.4      570.0   1,772.4
Subtotal                        7,314.4    2,661.5   9,975.9
Pilot Component
Coordinating Committee            352.5       100.0      452.5
Studies-Engineering/Training      721.4       409.0   1,130.4
Construction of Water
Systems                       6,836.3    2,930.0   9,766.3
Operation of Water
Systems                         350.0       150.0      500.0
Sanitary Units                  2,394.3    1,026.0   3,420.3
Technical Assistance                   -      424.0      424.0
Equipment                          171.6       73.5      245.1
Subtotal                       10,826.1    5,112.5  15,938.6



-v-
Local    Foreign       Total
…----US$ thousand------
Base Costs (12/84 Prices):        18,140.5    7,774.0  25,914.5
Physical Contingencies (5%)        907.0       388.7   1,295.7
Price Contingencies
(7/85-6/88)                    3,695.8    1,584.3   5,280.1
Total Project Cost              22,743.3    9,747.0  32,490.3
==w=====   ======a =
Local Costs include about US$0.5 million equivalent of indirect taxes on
industrial products.
Financing Plan:                             _
Local   Foreign   Total
…----US$ million---
Bank                                 6.6        9.7    16.3
Government                           2.4          -      2.4
BNH                                  5.6          -      5.6
States                               8.2          -      8.2
TOTAL                               22.8        9.7    32.5
Estimated Disbursements:
1986   1987   1988   1989
Bank Fiscal Year                      -------Us$ milion…
Annual                       4.2    5.2    4.9    2.0
Cumulative                   4.2    9.4   14.3   16.3
Rate of Return:      N.A.



PART I - THE SECTOR
Sector Development and Organization
1.01       In the past two decades, Brazil has greatly expanded its water
supply and sewerage network, but services have been largely concentrated in
urban areas, while rural arees, which would be addressed by the proposed
project, have been neglected. In the 19609, the Federal Government assumed
responsibility for the sector, which haa traditionally been managed, albeit
inefficiently, by local administrations and municipalities.  It created the
i           National Housing Bank (BNH) under the authority of the Ministry of Interior
(MINTER) which assumed overall responsibility for the sector. Within this
framework, State Water Companies (SWCs) were formed in all of Brazil's
states,  to plan  and extend  sector  services.    In  1971,  BNH created a
national sanitation plan, PLANASA, tlherein launching a major effort to
improve water supplv and sanitation throughout Brazil. During the next ten
years, an additional fifty million people received water supply and/or
sewe.rage services, with sixty-five percent of Brazil's cities of over 5,000
inhabitants benefitting.  Much has been achieved:   investment planning at
the state level has been strengthened, a national tariff system established
and economies of scale introduced.
1.02       While responsibilicy for the urban water supply and sanitation
sector is clearly defined, the same does not apply to rural areas.  There
are a number of federal and state agencies which provide services in Brazil
but they form part of rural health programs aimed at extending medical
services. For the most part, there is little coordination among the agen-
cies,  and  institutional  rivalry  is  prevalent.    Moreover,  investment
plenning  and  funding  are  inadequate.    Total  expenditures  for  rural
sanitation between 1978 and 1983 have averaged about US$14 million per year
which is far below the minimum requirement estimated at US$180 aillion per
year.
1.03       There are three main agencies involved in providing rural water
and sanitation services.   The first is BNH, which provides assistance to
the SWCs through the small communities program it established in 1980.  The
program, part of PLANASA, finances water systems in comtmnities of less
than 5,000 inhabitants.   Systems are financed through a combination of
grants (702) and loans.  There are about 15 million people living in small
communities of which 11.4 million are classified as urban.   In Brazil,
urban small communities are cla3sified as such if they are administrative
centers, irrespective of their size or location.  While BNH supports only
those small communities which fall under the "urban" classification, in
fact, a majority are rural in character.
1.04        The second major institjtion providing rural areas with water
supply and sanitation is the Fundacao Servicos de Saude Publica (FSESP),
established in 1947. FSESP, whose primary goal is to improve health, is a
public agency whose manager is nominated by- the Minister of Health.



-2-
It provides water and sanitation principally in rural areas, by extending
Infrastructure and services mainly  in  regions  of  Brazil  vith endemic
diseases and where large government infrastructure projects are under-
taken. About 1.100 of FSESP's 8,600 technical and administrative staff are
assigned to its water and. sanitation works; other staft are assigned to
epidemiology (particularly eradication of schistosomiasis and Chagas'
disease),  environment,   training,   general   health  and  administrative
functions. Most of FSESP's investments are grants, hut it charges adminis-
tration fees for systems with houne connections.
1.05       Another program under the auspices of the Ministry of Health ls
the Program for Community Health and Sanitation  (PIASS).   PlASS is an
inter-ministerial program administered by a small aataff located In the
Ministry of Health.   The Program alms at Introducing basic,  lntegrated
health facilities--Including water supply and sewerage--in small communi-
ties. The Program is undertaken through the States' Secretaries of Health.
1.06       Other agencies involved in the sector Include regional develop-
ment agencies managed bv the Federal Government, Rtich as the Northeast
Regional Development Agency (SUDENE), thie West Center Regional Development
Agency (SUDECO), and the Amazon Basin Regional Development Agency (SUDAM).
The regional development agencies provide grant financing to state agencies
such as the SWCs.  This financing Is provided con an ad-hoe basis, without
appropriate technical assistance and follow-up of operations and mainte-
nance.    Specialized  ttehnical  agenctes,  such as  the Ruiral Engineering
Conpany  of  Bahia  (CERB)  and  the  BraztlIan  Association  of  Sanitarv
Engineering (ABES) and the rural communities themselves are also Involved
in the sector.
1.07       The pioneering work of thene agencies has provided a good know-
ledge of the subsector, its growth possibilities and constraints. However,
muhe needs to he done, particularlv through cle:arer definitton of organiza-
tional responsibilitv. Institutional  qtrengthening,  finance and improved
coordination.
Level of Service 
1.08      As indicated above, although Brazil hni9 made great strides in the
pnit two decades to expand itt  water sutpplv  nd newerage network. rural
aru*as have received little attention In this respect.  This Rap has widened
ove-r thie past four years its; Brazil has shi fted  its development focus to
expaniding agr1cultural nuttput and prodietivitv In orrder to redroqs  the
finauncial si!uation nf the cotintrv.  Sociallv-turiented prolects for rural
areas have hoen deferred .and tintil thev are re!n%t.atetd waterhnr..e diseases
wl1 V)Irnt I ltlu  to tak  a hi lgh to II in thv cruntrvside, particularIav among
In!;ints whert tht mLrt;lf tv rate is 77/i .000) IIvo hbIrths.
L.0'      In 19FHf, .iivit 1V. of Brazi I's ppti!at Ion nf 119 million lived In
ru ral areass.  .1-t: t  ^ I  thn t- toal pf)pu':tt ion was ronInIeCtre to a public
wator s-tm.  I? ur          o .i:-.'. 7*'. of th. p|.tziat ona had p!poed water but



- 3 -
only  3Z did  in  ruLral areas.   In  small communities  (classified  by atithori-
ties  as urhban  hiut predominantilv  rtiral,  ahbot  30%  of  thte  poplation  was
connectt-d tni pitbhlir wa.ter -';vtt'-lmsi.  Abultit 43% of  t- he. ritral population usres
Water of qtiestionaibhl!' qiiai tv   IrueII ri vrrs, streams. and  tInprol-eetecd  wells;.
The sttituItionI  witli r-spe'rt  1to     ; sanitarion  is  less  favorable'.   Onlv  2S%  of
Brai l's total population  wa3%  connerted  toe seweratt  tivstvms.   onlv  3S%Z of
th.- popielat tfii 1Hving  In tirtin cuflatittilft':i lhld s-werage, whilS  I only  32Z of
the   ntnttl rIru .  poptilat ion  lead  saniltattion  fartllties.    Ahbout  3t of  the
popul ation  ii sinAil cnmmuni ties was eonnilected  to  stwerage s vsremn.
I. r1        The' IlveveI ot servire In the' Sr at.' of Rio ('rAndt dIn Sul, where the
pilor eompoen t *I  the prjectviI wi  he' ext--t!red, Is compasrnbhl 'to  the  rest
of Irai1zil.   Abuts?  2.S million  people *r  1'X2  of the totAl s4tate poppulation
ot  7.8S  mill1tnn  live' In  rurnl nre'as.  Abotit 4X  of  Its riral pptulaution  had
I)tblihIrv-prvi'ledtl w.ater  telir olii litmttse  rnuinleCt ItinS. *%  t hrcuugh  standpipes
midlt wells an'id 9!Z rel1ie    on tmprnti cted wells, rivers or sqprings.   Sanita-
tint.  %ervirs  lagged  i tarthe'r  hei -Iin!i witli niilv  2Z  ot  rural  cotmtilitirses
l iTikedto ra pah lic stewe-'age' sv,:te ni. s'; I c tank!; cor cont 1 rolled  pit% .   The
re-r d:[ *isltns'd i: was r fIn filpen: si   x   rivers;, %t rean. nr lakes.*  Rio Grande
do  Sn:l has  abutindant stir! s;Ie' and  1:rotiidw.ittr rv!'g.tir-rs wviiili reent I v have
been  threatefl'I byv c-hlnica l run-ott  and  coiltami nation  from waste elimilna-
tio,l  as the  St.ite'r; ngrnul'ei-strril  bane  has expanded.   Ri1o  Grand.e do  Sul
was  selected  as .1 plnt  state  br-cau.e  i' f I t% Intere;t In the  prnloet,  its
itlillty  to  prnvitde  I unid , thel firt th:at  It mirrors  thie  pToTble-m    faced  hv
RrazIl as a whinle in thiS  *;rrtor, and oi winig, also to its ex.'cut'n  capabil i-
ties  and Its strong  c'oprf rative rncovement.
1. 11          From  lQIMl  tlhrourh  198/a  the  StAte  Invecrted  abotiut  11;$3 million
anntally  In rural water sumpp'v .and sanitatinn.  Me'st of this (84Z) has been
prrovider!l hv hINIl throuigh  1'I.ANASA'- small cI unnunities  program and  the  State
Water ComrpaTny n' His' Grandlt- dlo Stil (COPSAN).  The balance of the Invrstuurnt
has  blern  prnvided  hr  the  State  Stcretarv o f li-alth  (SF.S) and  Its  Rutral
Sanitation  l'ro:-:r.nm  (PIMlSAN) a.nd  the  Serret.rv  of  thr'  interior and  Public
wori-c    PROiAN, which  rere-iv s I in.inring  from  FS!SP  and  h'lASS. constrticts
sra;l  water  svstenes   uad  smail:ntioii  units,  andt    providen  education   In
h:ir i enr .
Sithscrlor Constrra1nts
I . I        Thi  , rri jert  I C t hie iirt .:      I-r1   bv the (:.'v# rnme't  it lira;i I atid
t he 1la.ik t- rr'.: f a .-+r'.ts iVe' pe l- ' tn provide ':.l   t .r stjpli lv and(l*al t alt inn
in ruiaa  nrea';.   -In :jilt,   r't;ahIi j;!jitl g91r!, ; p'''! -I   il:lC  he rr:n han:perer   bv
the'  f.irt  tha' rr*;pnnst  itv  for  tlit  .-rcur  !   *;httredl  "v nt-veral vnlnl-
trie-%.  le:mling  tn   1'lit.rall  rivalrIrc,  su rlI-r   inv-stment  prinr;ties,
Inarlrutiarte  :n.ind n,- . ati t'  .h-. ri. .-   !  .,   I ia-1l.-il  %truicture  for  under-
t .4kin   works .  The ai:rnv i. s wilit-1 clresenlt 1 vrov .df rjral  water and s;alit-
.athLnti are- fer  :1'  no.;  part weak and  do not  coordinate  theIr actfvities,
with  the  -rsult that  the  trninsfr'r  of  technoioogv  and  the  opportunity  to
tenefit  fron  ex;erience  are  lost.    The  fact  that  Investmentc  in  rtiral



-4-
water supply and sanitation are not programed and often are politically
motivated,  is another  constraint  to  sector  development.    In  addition,
operatfon and maintenance  of rural water and sanitation  systems  is not
sustained; more often than not, the lack of attention and follow-up leads
to systems betng abandoned. Technician training, cont recovery mechanisms
and community participation programs are other areas: which have not been
fnlly explnred.   The project will a.isiazt thc Government's effortx to e2al
with tht-s.e problemN; throi.gh natlanwide studlea and a uilot rase to test
method!; and  their  application, wirh  the  intention of providing a sound
baNis lor estahitshing n poliev which wotIld have nn appropriate inatitu-
t i ona 1 and fit nnne 1ial f rimework.
Governme-nt Strategy and rh.- BAnk's Role
1.13        Brazil hn3 made eonisiderable progress in extending water supply
4and sewerage terViceS to the urban population by restructuring and streng-
rheniing sector  Instittztions an1  creating PLANASA.  The Bank lhas fostered
this growth  throtigla  ter) wattr  supply  and  sewerage  projects  totalling
1INS1.07 billion (Autnex 1). Four nf the earlv projects have been completed,
.11helt with Jelav:I. nnd some cont overrins, Anld are considered  to have
.ichtvcd 1nc.st tf thelr objectives.'/    In addition t., expanding the water
supplv and sewer.agt  netwuurk, Bnnk-7nupported prolects have contrlbuted to
-stablistilng a National Tarift la,w. standardizing the SWC's proce'duires.
derentraliwAiipg MNtl's pri-p.iratitn and  supervisioz' activities  to regional
"  tI-%s :nd setting u1p , uinfform a.-counting 4v,L,'m for Lhe S1'Cs.   During
thc  I9L8Qrc, the  %t-atvgv  liar t1he  se.tor  should  loceus  Rt  ¢onsolidating
neh1i-vements rhrouaglh a ftllow-up to the on--g!,ing Wiiter 'u:p,iy and Scwerage
S.ector Project (Ln-in 2249-4W).  It shoilld aim  at upgrading  the level of
;.-rvictv in  rural areas  1n order to  immprove the standard  of living  and
1r.aith  o.nt I ..n  of the  rountrv 's p}roorr rc:sdeu,itn.   RtarRl areas are
receiv1ii-i  reu;vwrd pr4orircv n..t .,'lv becauie of poverty coniuierations but
mwiinj, nlsa to -he Impor.ance of apg.ricultiral outptut tc BrAzil's economic
rv ecv.vv.    The  Xortlieas:t  Region  weuld! figure  pro'minently  In  a  rural
.tr.aterv In thic rer.rert, .n  itR dte. lnpmetit 1 ags hehind all other are.as o.f
Br.az i1
1.14         The Government Is : uw  turr'ng Its atention to qtrengthening
rural wAter and  manitation  .ctlvitvs*  to  eomwplevp-.-ne programs aimed  at
Inireasing  produ<ctlout and  prodtuctivitv.   As the project reprerents the
firut effort to  create  a coh,-:Iv. pn3lcv  to  provide  wriLer supply  .ind
san *attnn In ruiral areas, i follow-1up np ration foc:z :-ing at larger-scale
Implment.atton--prohalyv fn rheu Nurthea.-sr-wotltd he e-Asrable.  Thbe Ean's
rn!. in  the  prolect  is  ene  at j  r.t.lv;st for bring' Rg tl-c  itilistries
wo)rk!nr  In  the  su');.ector  rog,et t r l anr n   for  prJvitnyir  finance  and
I.'  Proi jct Performanee Atidit Reports for the. Sto hnuiln Water Supply and
?oe luation Lontrol Rrolect tirzportued 'v Loans 757-BR an,' 75!-9lR (Report
N. 0 '29,  aCn!'-T5' .n4  t'"v  Y'nas c.erals Water Suopiv ond Stweragre
Prou'ert  %tiunpir ed  'hv  Loatn  !O110Q-3RF 'R-,rt  Xn. 46h?,  SEC.483-7U0).
A PreC;et Cn       I,, lon Doc.--rt f-,r the   n.d ;:.s Geraic 1;ater  upply
;.ru' Scwerage i'-'4ec!t ;urported h)v Loan !:r'Q-3R ha. been piepared ;nc no
a,ld 1  rLnorw       I -. .1 sag -2



technical expertise which would not otherwise be available.   As a pilot
endeavor, the project will test new technologies and approaches, including
the recovery of costs and a community-supported system for operation and
maintenance. Considerable research has been done on providing rural water
and sanitation, but few developing countries have adopted a national
policy. This project provides the vehicle for establishing good procedures
and promoting rational development of rural water and sanitation services
in a large country-



-6-
PART II - THE PROJECT
Background
2.01       In 1983 the Government requested Bank assistance to develop the
rural water supply and sanitation subsector.  A Bank sector study, under-
taken in early 1983 concluded that a technical assistance operation with a
pilot component to test applications would be needed to define policies,
strengthen institutions and gain experience before undertaking a full-scale
lending  operation.    The project  supports  this conclusion by including
studies (national technical assistance component) and a test case for
delivery of rural water and sanitation services in a southern state (pilot
component).   For regional balance, the project also includes support for
emergency works  in  the  less-developed  Northeast.         The  project  was
appraised in November-December 1984. Negotiations were held in Washington
in March 1985.   The Brazilian delegation was led by Dra. Stael Martins
Baltar, Presidential Planning Secretariat.
Project Objectives
2.02      Although the Government has made noticeable strides in increasing
agricultural production and productivity while at the same time improving
the overall standard of living in rural areas, it has yet to develop a
strategy for providing rural water supply and sanitation.  The objectives
of this project will be to assist the Government in -this undertaking,
specifically focussing on:
(a)  assisting the national and state Governments in defining rural
water supply and sanitation sector objectives, policies and
institutional responsibilities;
(b)  assisting the state Governments in strengthening sector institu-
tions;
Cc)  supporting Government programs to develop and improve conditions
in depressed areas of the Northeast region;
(d)  testing and evaluating delivery of sector services through a
pilot project;
(e) improving productivity and welfare throTugh provision of sanita-
tion services (water supply, excreta disposal and sanitation-
related home improvements) to rural inhabitants of Rio Grande do
Sul;
(f)  promoting community participation in the planning, execution, and
operation and maintenance of water supply and sanitation ser-
vices;
(g)  promoting hygienic habits ' the population; and
(h)  promoting the use of low-cost water and sanitation technology.



-7-
Project Executing Agencies
2.03      IPEA was created in 1964 for the purpose of carrying out economic
studies and assisting public entities on development. IPEA, an autonomous
entity reporting to the Ministry of Planning, has about 1,100 employees,
including 600 technicians.   The Bank has had a positive experience with
IPEA in the carrying out of studies under Loan 2347-BR (Export Credit Proj-
ect) and Loan 2348-BR (Agricultural Export Project).   IPEA's accounting
system follows standard Brazilian Government requirements and is s&tisfac-
tory.   Currently, an audit is carried out by the Secretary of Internal
Control (SECIN) and supervised by the National Accounting Tribunal.
2.04       SURBAM was created in 1975.  Its principal responsibilities are
to provide technical assistance and training to municipalities and assist
in urban and regional planning.   SURBAM has 84 employees, including 65
technicians and professionals.    SURBAM has  agreed  to hire  specialized
consultants to assist in the administration of the project and would
contract specialized services with CORSAN (water supplies), PROSAN (sanita-
tion systems), and the University of Vale de Rio dos Sinos (community
participation). SURBAM and the Urban Investment Fund of Rio Grande do Sul
(FUNDUTRBANO) accounting follows standard Brazilian Government requirements,
allows for separate project records, and is satisfactory.   Currently, an
audit  is carried out by the State's Controller General.   Organization
charts are in Annex 7. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that:
(a)  accounts and financial statements for IPEA, BNH, and the State of
Rio Grande do Sul for eacb fiscal year, starting with fiscal year
1985, will be audited by external auditors satisfactory to the
Bank and in accordance with generally accepted accounting prin-
ciples; and
(b)  by April 30 (IPEA and BNH) and June 30 (State of Rio Grande do
Sul) of each subsequent year, certified copies of the audited
financial statements and audit report will be submitted to the
Bank.
Project Description
2.05      The project consists of a national technical assistance component
(US$13.0 million or 40% of the project cost) and a pilot component (US$19.5
million or 60% (Annex 2)).
2.06        The technical assistance component will consist of consulting
services and equipment to develop a national rural sanitation plan which
will include an institutional set-up and financial and technical policies.
Terms of reference for studies and technical assistance under the proposed
loan have been prepared (Annex 3). The national component will be executed
through a coordinating unit established in IPEA and staffed with foreign
and local consultants (120 man-months). The coordinating committee will be
headed by IPEA and will include representatives of the Ministries of
Interior and Health.



-8-
2.07      The development of the national rural water supply and sanitation
plan under the technical assistance component will include the following
for each of the areas mentioned below:
(a)  Institutions    (i)  Evaluation  of  the existing organizational
structure; (ii) establishment of criteria to reorder the institu-
tions; (iii) preparation of amendments of existing legislation;
(iv) definition of inter-institutional coordination; and (v)
identification of staff training needs;
(b)  Finances   (i) Preparation of firancial policies for investment
and operation and maintenance of systems, tariffs, and funds
recovery; (ii) recommendations on changes -ifn the present organi-
zation and assignment of responsibilities in sector financing and
alternative flow of funds; (iii) definition of financial criteria
for setting priorities; (iv) analysis of users' affordability,
tariffs and other sources of financing and charges for services;
and (v) identification of staff training needs;
(c) Community promotion (i) Definition of alternatives for community
participation in the preparation, construction, operation, and
administration of the systems; (ii) analysis of community parti-
cipation in other sectors; (iii) preparation of required legal
arrangements;   and  (iv)  required  technical  assistance  and
training;
(d) Human resources (i) Analysis of the different training programs
in the sector; (ii) evaluation of the needs; and (iii) prepara-
tion of a national training plan for the sector with emphasis in
construction, operation and maintenance of systems and on the
administration of services;
(e)  Engineering  (i) Inventory of technologies for rural water sup-
ply; (ii) development of alternative technical standards for
project design emphasizing low-cost technologies; (iii) defini-
tion of institutional arrangements for project design, execution,
and operation and maintenance; (iv) production of education
materials; and (v) training needs; and
(f) Investment plan preparation (i) At the state level, diagnosis of
sector services, and financial, institutional, and technical
capac'ty; (ii) formulation of sector service targets and develop-
ment of investment alternatives for the decade; and (iii) con-
solidation of the state plans in a national plan.
The studies will be completed by end-1986 and will require 616 man-months
of consultants, 372 man-months of support staff, and approximately 900
man-months of counterpart staff at the state level.
2.08        An important feature of the project is the special technical
assistance to be provided to. the ten Northeast states.   This assistance
will complement emergency water supply works undertaken as part of the
Small Farmer Program  (PAPP).   These works are being financed in part
through three proposed projects, Northeast Rural Development I, II,



-9-
and III, to be presented to the Board in FY85 and FY86.  The assistance
will concentrate on the strengthening of the administration of the water
supply program, the promotion of the communities, the establishment of cost
recovery policies, and on completing agreements with the municipalities and
communities to construct, operate, and maintain the systems.  SUDENE will
coordinate supervision to be provided under the Northeast Rural Development
projects and this project.  At the state level, a total of 264 man-months
of consultants and 400 man-months of counterpart staff will be needed.
Completion is expected by the end of 1987.
2.09       The ten Northeast States will also receive special assistance in
the preparation of a full-scale rural water supply and sanitation invest-
ment program. The preparation work will consist of socio-economic studies,
housing census and hydrogeological surveys, final designs, tariff studies,
and promotion and legal contracts for approximately 600 communities,
representing the first two-year investment of the program.   Preparation
assistance includes consulting services and equipment. It will be carried
out in the period 1987-88 in order to take advantage of the recommendations
from the studies (para. 2.07) and pilot program (para. 2.10).  Agreement
was reached during Loan negotiations on the submission by June 30, 1986, of
terms of reference and a detailed schedule for the execution of this
program. In addition, for the assistance for the emergency works described
in para. 2.08 and for the preparation work mentioned above, individual
agreements will be entered into with each Northeast state setting forth
responsibilities  for  execution,   funding,  procurement,   auditing  and
accounting.
2.10      The pilot component will be carried out in Rio Grande do Sul and
will include:   (a) project preparation and construction of 200 community
water systems, 10,000 individual sanitary units, and 5,000 latrines; and
(b) technical assistance, training, and equipment to organize state agen-
cies in the delivery of sanitation services to the rural population.
Project Implementation
2.11       The Federal Government will be the Borrower.  The national com-
ponent will be executed through a coordinating unit established at IPEA.
An Interministerial Committee comprised of the Ministries of Planning
(SEPLAN), Health and Interior will provide guidance to the coordinating
unit. This committee and the coordinating unit for project execution have
been established. BNH will be responsible for overseeing the pilot opera-
tion and through the Interministerial Committee will convey the experiences
and lessons from the pilot component to the technical assistance cor-
ponent.   SURBAM will be, in collaboration with beneficiary communities,
responsible for planning and execution of the pilot component.  The Bank
has had considerable experience with the national agencies and the State of
Rio Grande do Sul and overall it has been a fruitful one. The project will
be executed in the period July 1985 to June 1988 (Annex 6).
2.12      Under the national component, IPEA will sign contracts with con-
sultants for studies and technical assistance, with the states for the pre-
paration of state investment programs and with the Northeast states for the
special technical assistance and project preparation facilities. Under the
pilot component, SURBAM will contract various project activities with



- 10 -
CORSAN, PROSAN, and the University of Vale de Rio dos Sinos.   Agreement
was reached during Loan negotiations that participating communities will
sign a contract before construction of any subproject detailing the works
to be carried out, the community's contribution to investment and
responsibilities for operation and maintenance, and the formula for setting
tariffs. SURBAM will provide follow-up supervision and control of systems
operation and maintenance and cost recovery. For technical matters SURBAM
will receive assistance from CORSAN for water supply and PROSAN for sanit-
ation.   These two institutions are experienced and have qualified per-
sonnel.
2.13      Draft contracts, a plan for project progress reporting, and moni-
toring indicators have been prepared.   Agreement was reached during Loan
negotiations that an interim and final project evaluation will be carried
out by December 31, 1986 and June 30, 1988, respectively, and that
executing  agencies  will  discuss  with  the  Bank  the  findings  and
recommendations of the technical assistance and the plan for implementing
the recommendations.
Selection and Design Criteria
2.14       The following selection criteria, which were agreed upon during
Loan negotiations, will be applied to all communities participating under
the pilot  component:    (a)  populations  of  200-2,000  inhabitants;  (b)
subprojects must represent the least-cost alternative for providing water
services; (c) water supply subproject costs must have a per capita
construction cost of less than US$120 at December 1984 prices; (d) studies
demonstrating the availability of reliable and economic sources of water
must be completed; and (e) a water supply and sanitation committee must be
set up in each community to participate actively in the planning and
construction of the system, and the future administration, operation, and
maintenance, including the. commitment to recover costs (para. 2.20).    A
preliminary list of communities has been agreed with SURBAM (Annex 4). In
addition to the selection criteria, the degree of cost recovery will be
tied to the level and quality of services to be provided which will be
negotiated and agreed upon between SURBAM and the community.
2.15      Water services provided through the project will be by house con-
nections with the exception of services in low-density population areas
where it is planned to install public standpipes.  In most cases, ground-
water sources will be used; water treatment, except for chlorination, will
not be required.   Sanitary units will comprise a detached shelter for a
complete toilet, a septic tank, and an external tap for washing.  Kitchen
installations will be connected whenever possible. Sanitary units have an
estimated cost of US$300 which will be 100% recovered. When people cannot
afford these units, simple latrines will be provided free. Systems will be
relatively sin-ple to operate and maintain. SURBAM will provide training to
the communities for operation and routine maintenance and backup for major
maintenance.   CORSAN will regularly test water quality.   The experience
with the selection criteria and with execution of works will be
incorporated with a view toward replicability into the technical assistance
work under the national component.



- I1 -
Project Cost, Financing and Recovery Plan
2.16      Project costs are detailed in Annex 5 and summarized in Table
2.1.
TABLE 2.1: Project Cost Estimates
Foreign       Local        Total       X
…-----------US$  000…
National Component                     2661.5       7314.4       9975.9      39
Coordinating Unit                       287.0        358.3        645.3       3
Studies                                 524.5       2420.7       2945.2      11
Investment Plan Preparation             129.0        646.5        775.5       3
PAPP Support                            570.0       1202.4       1772.4       7
Project Preparation -
Northeast states                     1001.0       2336.5      3337.5       13
Equipment                               150.0        350.0        500.0       2
Pilot Component                        5112.5      10826.1      15938.6     61
Coordinating Committee                  100.0        352.5        452.5       2
Studies - Engineering/
Training                             409.0        721.4       1130.4       4
Water Systems - Construction           2930.0       6836.3       9766.3      37
Water Systems - Operation               150.0        350.0        500.0       2
Sanitary Units                         1026.0       2394.3       3420.3      13
Technical Assistance                    424.0          0          424.0       2
Equipment                                73.5        171.6        245.1       1
Base Cost (Dec. 1984 prices)           7774.0      18140.5     25914.5    100
Physical Contingencies (5%)             388.7        907.0       1295.7
Price Contingencies                    1584.3       3695.8       5280.1
(July 1985-June 1988)
Total Project Cost                     9747.0      22743.3      32490.3
The total cost of the project excluding interest during construction is
estimated at US$32.5 million equivalent. The foreign exchange component is
estimated at US$9.7 million or 30% of the project cost.  Costs are based on
December 1984 prices and include physical contingencies of 5%. Price con-
tingencies of US$5.3 million or 19X of 1984 project costs are based on
estimated international inflation of 8% in 1985, and 9%, thereafter. The
local component includes about US$0.5 million equivalent of indirect taxes
on industrial products.    Technical assistance and consultant costs are
based on those of similar internationally and locally recruited experts in
Brazil.   The cost includes 218 man-months of foreign consultants,  1,025
man-months of local consultants, 612 man-months of support staff, and 1,300
man-months of counterpart staff.   Construction costs are based on unit
costs developed by CORSAN and PROSAN during implementation of ongoing
programs in the pilot project state.



- 12 -
2.17      The project financing plan is presented in Table 2.2.
TABLE 2.2: Project Financing Plan
(US$ Millions)
Counterpart
Federal
Component      Bank        Govt.        BNH     States    Total
National        8.5         2.4         0        2.1        13.0
Pilot           7.8         0           5.6      6.1        19.5
Total           16.3        2.4         5.6      8.2        32.5
%               50           7           18       25       100
The Bank Loan of US$16.3 million (50% of total project cost) will finance
total foreign costs and US$6.6 million in local costs.   This is in line
with the usual participation for social projects in Brazil.  The Federal
Government, BNH, and the State of Rio Grande do Sul have agreed to finance
the balance of US$16.2 million.   Assurances were obtained during loan
negotiatior.s on the timely availability of counterpart funds from the
Federal Government, BNH, and the State of Rio Grande do Sul.  Under the
national component, Bank financing will amount to US$8.5 million, and the
Federal Government financing to US$2.4 million.   The states will provide
project-related services amounting to an equivalent of US$2.1 million.
Under the pilot component, Bank financing will amount to US$7.8 million,
BNH's share to US$5.6 million, and the State of Rio Grande do Sul's share
to US$3.9 million.   Initial community financing amounting to about US$1.2
million is included in the State financing.   In addition, the State will
provide project-related services amounting to an equivalent of US$2.2
million.
2.18      A special account for the project in the amount of US$1.5 million
(estimated four months' disbursements) will be established in the Central
Bank.   The Federal Government will provide all funding for the national
component which consists mainly of studies and technical assistance on a
grant basis.  Under the pilot operation, BNH will on-lend Bank funds and
its counterpart financing to the State of Rio Grande do Sul.   The State
will provide the remaining balance.   All funds under the pilot operation
will be channeled through the State's FUNDURBANO.
2.19       The role of BNH in the project is three-fold:  (a) it provides
its own resources for the pilot project; (b) acts as a channel for Bank
loan funds for the pilot component; and (c) participates in the coordinat-
ing committee for the technical assistance component.   BNH has been the
Borrower for about US$1.0 billion in Bank loans for water supply and
sewerage projects.  BNH's present status is presented in Annex 8.



- 13 -
2.20        Under the pilot component, cost recoverv mechanisms have been
agreed (Annex 9).  For water works, local communities benefitting from the
project will be required to set charges at a level sufficient to cover
operations and maintenance, equipment replacement, as well as a minimum 30%
of investment  costs including interest and monetary correction.   These
arrangements are satisfactory, compare favorably with similar projects and
represent a major departure from full grant financing of the rural water
sector in Brazil. Socio-economic studies satisfactory to the Bank will be
undertaken by SURBAM to determine the communities' capacity to pay and the
percentage will be increased depending upon the studies' results. Communi-
ties will be actively promoted and will cover at least 10% of investment
cost through initial contributions. These contributions will be a minimum
of 2.5Z in cash payable before the initiation of works and 7.5% during the
construction period in cash, labor or kind.   The remaining 20% of the
investment cost will be covered through tariffs and amortized over 18 years
at 7.5% interest.  The balance will be borne by the State government.  For
sanitary units, SURBAM will recover the full cost of the units under the
same  lending  terms  as  those  charged  for  water  supply.    SURBAM  will
administer repayments which will be deposited in FUNDURBANO.
Affordability
2.21      Tariffs and structures will be based on socio-economic studies to
determinc local ability to pay. Average monthly water charges per connec-
tion (US$2.16) satisfy tariff law requirements under PLANASA, which
provide that minimum monthly charges should not exceed 35% of one Readjust-
able National Treasury Bond (ORTN - US$2.27). Based on the average tariffs
about 80% of the benefitted families will be able to afford the services.
For the remaining 20Z,minimum tariffs will be charged or in sorae cases
service  standards  will  be  lowered.    A monthly  charge  of  US$2.53  is
estimated to fully recover the costs of sanitary units.  This is reasonable
as acquisition of units is elective.   Those who are unable to pay, but
willing to provide labor, would receive latrines on a grant basis.
Procurement and Disbursement
2.22       Procurement under the Project will be carried out following Bank
guidelines. All contracts for equipment and materials exceeding US$100,000
and for civil works exceeding US$500,000 will be awarded on the basis of
international competitive bidding. Equipment and materials will be grouped
to obtain packages in excess of US$100,000 with the exception of an
agregate of US$200,000 under the technical assistance component and
US$500,000 under the pilot component that will be contracted under local
procurement. During negotiations, the parties agreed to a purchase program
for the pilot component that will be updated annually. Under these assump-
tions, approximately US$11.0 million or 34% of project expenses would be
awarded under ICB.  The nature of the civil works precludes the efficient
packaging of services to be bid.  Works will be carried out in more than
200 communities by different executing entities, and with the active
participation of the communities. These works, amounting to approximately
US$7.9 million or 24% of the project cost, will be carried out by small



- 14 -
local contractors and force account.  Local procurement procedures ensure
adequate competition and are consistent with Bank procurement guidelines.
2.23         Technical assistance and consultants' services, amcunting to
US$10.7 million or 33% of total project cost, will be procured in accord-
ance with Bank's Guidelines for the Use of Consultants. To ease the admin-
istrative burden on IPEA and the coordinating unit for the technical
assistance component, a master contract with PAHO for consultants' services
under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank will be awarded.
2.24      Project costs by procurement method are presented in Table 2.3.
TABLE 2.3: Project Cost by Procurement Method a/
(US$ millions)
Project Element                        Procurement Method           Total
ICB      LCB    Other    N.A.       Cost
Equipment and Materials         11.0       0.7         0      0       11.7
(4.1)    (0.1)        0      0       (4.2)
Civil Works                        0       5.7        0       0       5.7
0     (2.0)       0       0      (2.0)
Consultants                        0         0     10.7 b/   0       10.7
0        0    (10.1)      0     (10.1)
Counterpart Salaries               0         0        0    4.4        4.4
Total                           11.0       6.4     10. 7   4.4       32.5
(4.1)    (2.1)   (10.1)      0     (16.3)
a!  Figures in parenthesis are the respective amounts financed by the Bank.
b/ US$8.2 million will be under a master contract with PAHO.
Prior Bank review of socio-economic and feasibility reports, community con-
tracts, and prequalification, bidding documents, awards, and contracts,
will be required for equipment, materials, and civil works to be procured
under ICB.  SURBAM and IPEA will maintain all relevant documentation for
local procurement of goods and services.  Bank missions will carry out an
ex-post review by sampling. IPEA and SURBAM will prepare master contracts
for consultant services; contracts and consultants' qualifications will be
satisfactory to the Bank.
2.25      The Bank will disburse as follows:  37% for materials and  equip-
ment; and 95% for consulting services under the technical assistance com-
ponent; and 58% of BNH's disbursements to SURBAM under the pilot com-
ponent. Loan disbursements will be made against statements of expenditures
prepared by IPEA for the technical assistance component and SURBAM for the
pilot component.  The detailed documentation will be retained by IPEA and
SURBAM for inspection during supervision missions.   Disbursements will be
completed by June 30, 1989 (Annex 10).   Disbursement under a group of
ongoing water supply loans in Brazil (1656-BR, 1823-BR, and 1850-BR)



- 15 -
indicates that disbursement profiles are about two years shorter than the
standard Bank disbursement profile of eight years.  The proposed disburse-
ment period (4 years) takes into account the technical assistance aspects
of the project, the disbursement experience per above, the Government high
priority to the Northeast and the ongoing negotiations of the consulting
services master contract.
Status of Project Preparation
2.26          Project preparation conforms  to the proposed implementation
schedule.   Under the technical assistance component,  the administrative
support unit has been set up and staffed.   Final terms of reference for
main project activities are completed with the exception of tCose for
project preparation in the Northeast which would be ready by June 30,
1986.   Model master contracts for consultants' hiring, project monitoring
indicators, and plans for progress reporting were agreed during Loan
negotiations.    Under  the  pilot  component,  SURBAM  has  established  and
staffed the executing unit; presented a detailed cost recuperation
proposal; submitted monitoring indicators, plans for progress reporting
(Annex 11), and all relevant model contracts.   SURBAM will present all
contracts formalizing project execution including transfers of funds and
ten contracts with communities for the execution, repayment, and operation
and maintenance of water supply and sanitation works together with
socio-economic studies, subproject final designs and costs prior to Loan
effectiveness.
Benefits and Risks
2.27        Due to the nature of the project, benefits cannot be quantified
reliably; therefore, a rate of return has not been calculated. The current
disorganization in the rural water supply and sanitation sector has
resulted in low investment efficiency and low levels of public water supply
services.   Past Government  investment has not been properly maintained
leading to the abandonment or major disrepair of many systems.  Onlv 3% of
the rural population had public water supply services in 1980 and adequate
sanitation levels were even lower.  The situation is further aggravated by
the drought in the Northeast where alternatives to public supplies are not
available. A modest goal of 50% coverage for rural public water supplv in
the decade would require an investment of about US$2.0 billion.  Based on
past performance, the goal is highly unrealistic if major changes are not
introduced in the sector.   Improvements  in sector efficiency would also
likely result in substantial savings in investment to achieve 50% cover-
age. The project will attempt to bring about these changes by providing a
reorganization of the sector, a strengthening of sector institutions, and
sound  Financial  planning  and  policies.    The  results will  be  improved
project preparation, efficient investment and funds recovery, better oper-
ations and maintenance, and broader and better sector services.
2.28        An estimated 106,000 persons will benefit from the water supply
component of the Rio Grande do Sul pilot project, and the service coverage
through house connections in rural areas will more than double to 10% by
1988.  About 40,000 persons will benefit from the sanitation component of



- 16 -
the pilot project. The health, environmental and social improvemcnts which
have not been quantified will generate additional benefits.
2.29       Data from the 1980 cenRus, updated In 1983, show that in Brazil
as a whole, 88% of the rural populatlon earns less chan two minimum sala-
ries,  below the paverty level  of three minimum salaries.2/   Sixtv-tlx
percent earn less than one minimum salary.  In the Northeast Region, the
poverty level Is higher.  Because of the nature of the project (studies,
consulting services, etc.), the direct Impact on the poverty group can only
be established for the pilot state.  The development of coherent policies
and a long-term program for provision of water to the rural population will
represent a significant step In improving the quality of life of rural
residents, most of whom are poor.   In the pilot statc, census data show
that 80% of families in the commtinities tentatively included in the project
(Annex 4) enrn below two minimum salaries, and 88X fall below the poverty
line of three minimum salartes. As plans are to provide full water service
coverage in each eligible community, the project wiJl thtis have a very
significant impact on the poor. It is also estimated that on a cost basis,
the poor will he the beneficiaries of about 78% of the costs of the water
supply and sanitation physical works.
2.30       The project depends on the cooperation of three ministries in
administering a large studies and technical assistance component. To some
cxtent the risk associated with the size will be minimized bv retaining
PAHO   to  undertake   administration   and   contracting.         Nonetheless.
continuation of cooperation by the ministries of the new administration,
which took office in March 1985, will be essential.
PART III - AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
J.01    NDuring negotiations, assurances were obtained that:
(a) accounts and financial statements for IPEA, BNH, and the State of
Rio Grande do Sul for each fiscal year will be audited by
external auditors (para. 2.04);
(b) detailed plan and terms of reference for Northeast investment
preparation will he submitted by June 30, 1986 (para. 2.09);
2/ On an anntial basis the three minimun salarv threshold corresponds
approximatelv to one-third of the national per capita income.



- 17 -
(c) SURBAM and communities will sign a contract, detailing community
participation in the construction. financing and operation and
maintenance of the systems, before construction of any aubproject
(para. 2.12);
(d)  semi-annual progress reports will be submitted to the Bank (para.
2.13);
(e)  Interim  and  final  evaluation  of  project  components  vill  be
performed (para. 2.13);
(f) study and technical aumistance findings and recommendations will
be d1sriunsed with the Bnnk (parm. 2.13);
(g)  all subprojects will meet agreed uipon selection criteria (para.
2.14);
(h)  timely provision of counterpart funds by the Federal Government,
BNH and the State of Rio Grande do Sul wtil be made (para. 2.17);
Ci)  tariffs vill be charged to the communitier to cover operations
and maintenance, and a minimum 30% of Investment cost of water
supplv svstems and 100% of sanitary units (para 2.21); and
(j) purchases will be made In accordance with an agreed-upon program
to be updated annually (para. 2.22).
3.02      As a condition of Loan effectiveness:
(a) all contracts formalizing project execution arrangements includ-
ing transfers of funds will be submitted (para. 2.26); and
(b) ten contracts between SURBAM and communities along with final
designs and costs will be submitted (para 2.26).
3.03      Wtth the above assurance", agreements and condittons, the prnject
would be suitable for a Bank loan of USS16.3 million to be repaid over 15
years, which Ineludes three years of grace.



- 1HA-
5Am~~
lW3ICAL A.SIJqtQf AND PllOD tiAR tlJYY AND S%AWAiGIN F lT
aw.k Lnmi to HrazlI for WItwr Sugulv aid SmFarr
March 11111
Year   rami Mi.  AmKnit/ Ih*'Wr                 1twpX.                          h.r.ntw                         COmntu
(IISS MlJIljam)                                      rA___ _   nt  1 .ikaw.mt      _
Potsct wxrcraafully ac lt1d.
172   Th7-l       .1  Ctar Uuter   aS  Pa1I hnter diatvhacttl             1                          P1o.1ct pwtforim o  it tvwert
GzqAw         and .torqjr (S'AVC/SAU.)                                        (PPNR) dated Awprl 4, 1910.
Project macuufully aml..teS.
1Q71  7%R-wR    j'.* tl C1ty Watrr    cw lhado _tl 4p  onlIe.tim          10alml Ion                 PARW  dat d Apul 4. 19Hn. Ftnal
QuWwv        ai  diopnal (IlflW/SAWUiP)                                       lomi mrt takaud from tS15$
1d11lm.
Prx),Ject srfafully todtta.
I 19t-  lltl-W    lb,n  i2W         Wauer msIwv Im  triuWr  In            HU            1(i         Project a'qlettlon  Wrt  (Pat)
thr  Stato n, uinw Ikradi                                       dated .hta  tO. 19t1.
Q?.1, lly-w    41n.n  NM            Uhter nuppiv ml a,r ' I n             am            inn I                mwct wrfutlyv cupletd.
thP State of 2TWm  Ge-raLA                                      Pit dantd 1w 1R, 1%R.
I 117I1 1 I5-Ik I 10.01  NM         .'wal Ie Stion ad                      71            -OR         Ibuplt,      uiVw efforts to
ditpuAl In tlr cltv of Sm                                       r*fonrmlate prnject, lrmliAn
Pailo                                                           mitIe" amt .    titu
ogugl lition tucme of f inwidal
I 79  26 Ih-lR  I(.n  NM       l      ter amspplv amd aewraw               IR)           1'          PrIect nw anrU   a.utttod ad
In thu State. of  1AhIA,                                        ohiectiwa .tIuld be attained by
3Wra. AMi PefnwMjm                                               "d-19R5.
I gm1   I PC-t-    I in.n  In       WAter mupply mid wrW    In             101)          q2          Project n,w  1n= camedttAd and
thr states rr flarm. Fstta                                      nhlectfwe nhild 1h attairnd bw
Catarina. mu Rlo (rndr dn                                         i-190V.
ttI]  I(-ftm   I 1.t)  NM           Third 'trw  (.rai. Wate.r               MDl                     tlpdatd pmroject rnxitto t tdule
%LwlY ad SarMp                                                  to hpi. pal  in faid-1985 to
attain proket objectlwa by
enl1911h.
tllqml   1 7HtR  lttn.ll II         Ittltatt IWt r IJv aid                  55            )          Project tvvnr  nlwly.
Srqt  Proiect In thr State.                                     A moqlete revitqi It sd_h1wi
of Amminm, Galas. M. Giumi                                       In add-I 5.
do SL. Para, 'Parajbh       thr
Fwdrral ntXtrtct.
I'iW  ZZ&A'.-U II.,. 1 2W          Wmter %twIv,y m     r  Xe               11           IDPrlct  ewnation proamdiw
Crtar Lnmn.                                                     ImTr rapidlv thin forcatad.
-"Ptal:        1.071.3



- 19 -
ANNEX 2
Page 1
BRAZIL
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND PILOT RURAL
WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
Project Description
National Component
a)   Sector studies.   Includes work to be carried out in the following
areas:
(i)   institutions.   Evaluation of the existing organizational struc-
ture, establishment of criteria to reorder the institutions,
elaboration of amendments for existing legislation, definition of
inter-institutional coordination, and identification of staff
training needs;
(ii)  finances.  Preparation of financial policies for investment and
operation of systems, tariffs, and funds recovery.  Recommenda-
tions on changes in the present organization and assignment of
responsibilities in sector financing and on alternative flow of
funds. Definition of financial criteria for setting priorities.
Analysis of users' affordability. Recommendations on tariffs and
other sources of financing and charges for services.    Staff
training needs;
(iii) community promotion.   Definition of alternatives for community
participation in the preparation, construction, operation, and
administration of the systems. Analysis of community participa-
tion in other sectors.   Required legal arrangements.   Required
technical assistance and training;
(iv)  human resources.  AnalyLis of the different training programs in
the sector, evaluation of the needs and, preparation of a
national training plan for the rural sanitation subsector with
emphasis in construction operation and maintenance of systems and
on the administration of services;
(v)   engineering.   Inventory of technologies for rural water supply.
Develop alt-:rnative technical standards for project design
including water quality emphasizing low-cost technologies.
Definition of institutional arrangements for project design, exe-
cution, and operation and maintenance.  Production of education
materials and assessment of training needs;



- 20 -
ANNEX 2
Page 2
b)  Investment plan preparation.  At the state level, diagnosis of sector
services (at community level), and financial, institutional, and tech-
nical capacity. Formulation of sector service targets and development
of investment alternatives for the decade. Consolidation of the state
plans in a national plan;
c)  PAPP's support.  Reinforce the administrdtion of the program at central
and state level.  Promote pilot experiences in project administration
at municipal and community level. Establish cost recovery and tariff
procedures and financial management structure. Promote community par-
ticipation in the preparation, execution, and operation and maintenance
of  systems.    Community  education  and  training  of  operators  and
administrators.   Technical assistance on engineering with emphasis in
appropriate technology and definition of least cost alternatives;
d)  Project preparation facilities for the Northeast states.   In each of
the ten states, approximately 60 subprojects will be prepared. Prepa-
ration works include community education and promotion, legal arrange-
ments, hydrogeological surveys, engineering designs, socio-economic
surveys, including tariff studies, and plans for systems' operation and
administration.     The  project  also  includes  required  equipment.
Detailed project description would be ready by June 30, 1986; and
e)  Equipmeit.  Required for the coordinating unit and central consulting
group which includes office equipment and vehicles.
Pilot component
a)  Studies  and  engineering.    Approximately  200  subprojects  will  be
prepared. Preparation works include community education and promotion,
legal  arrangements,  water  source  surveys,  engineering  designs,
socio-economic surveys, including tariff stuaies, and plans for
systems' operation and administration;
b)  Water systems.   Construction or expansion of about 200 water systems
comprising:   a drilled well, pumping equipment, chlorination facili-
ties, water transmission, storage taak and distribution network includ-
ing house connections. Operation and maintenance for two years. Spare
parts and tools for operation;
c)  Sanitary units.    Production  and installation of  10,000 individual
excreta disposal systems comprising: a detached shelter, toilet, lava-
tory and shower, and a septic tank.   Connection of this installation
with kitchens. 5000 latrines;
d)  Technical Assistance and Training.  Consultant services to SURBAM, and
on-the-job training for staff working in project execution; and
e)  Equipment.  Office equipment and vehicles.  Sludge pumps.



- 21 -
ANNEX 3
Page 1
BRAZIL
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND PILOT WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
Terms of Reference for the Development of Rural Water
Supply and Sanitation Sector
Institutional Aspects
Activities should include:
1.    evaluate  t.e existing organizational  structure  of  the water
supply and sanitation sector at federal, state and municipal
levels. Analysis of past performance of institutions participat-
ing in operational, financial and technical sector activities;
2.    set up criteria and alternatives for sector reorganization, for a
division of responsibilities of sector institutions at the levels
and areas mentioned in Section 1;
3.    prepare legal instruments to amend existing legislation, paying
special attention to the overlapping of sector responsibilities
or activities;
4.    define  inter-institutional  coordination and  channels of  com-
munication; and
5.    assess  training  needs  and  design  human  resources  training
programs for the decade with special emphasis in managing and
planning.
Financial Aspects
Activities should include:
1.    review existing financial policies of the water and sanitation
sector at  federal,  state and municipal  levels.    The review
includes past and projected investment, operation and maintenance
costs,  tariffs,  sector  financing  and  return  on  investment.
Develop alternative financial policies and prepare recommend-
ations for the interministerial committee;
2.    review the existing financial organization of the sector, and the
responsibility of the various sector agencies.   Propose altern-
atives for assigning responsibilities for the execution, coordin-
ation, supervision and control of sector finances.   Activities
should be coordinated with the consulting group responsible for
the institutional aspects;



- 22 -
ANNEX 3
Page 2
3.    review of the sector flow of funds and terms and conditions of
funding at  federal,  state  and  municipal  levels.    Recommend
alternatives in accordance with the financial system proposed in
2 above;
4.    review financial criteria for sector investment priorities for
water supply, sanitation, and health education in rural communi-
ties and develop financial criteria for future investments;
5.    define the different components of the operation and maintenance
costs for water supply and sanitation systems and their sources
of financing;
6.    review  existing  depreciation  and  amortization  criteria  and
propose indices;
7.    assess affordability of services to users and develop altern-
atives for community financial participation.   This activity
should be especially coordinated with the consulting group
working on the community participation area;
8.    review existing sources of financing and recommend alternatives
for financing at federal and state levels as well as external
participation;
9.    review tariff levels and structure  at municipal,  state,  and
regional levels and propose alternatives which should provide for
progressivity and cross-subsidization between different income
population brackets;
10.    define sources and uses of funds for the states and national
sector investment programs;
11.    assist states in the preparation of state programs;
12.    review the adequacy of state and national programs  in using
efficiently and equitably the available funding; and
13.    evaluate training needs and coordinate required programs with the
consulting group studying human resources.
Because of the need to complement ongoing projects,special
emphasis should be given to activities in the Northeast states.
Community participation
Activities should include:
1.    review community participation in the construction, operation and
maintenance and administration of rural water supply and



- 23 -
ANNEX 3
Page 3
sanitation ongoing programs.   Define models for community part-
icipation and develop policies and strategies for future pro-
grams;
2.    review community participation in past and ongoing infrastructure
projects (power, solid wastes, etc.) as well as experiences in
other Latin American countries;
3.    define legal arrangements and documents required to support the
alternatives proposed;
4.    assess affordability by the beneficiaries at regional and state
levels in coordination with the consulting groups working on
financial aspects;
5.    define the assistance required to organize the communities and
prepare a schedule for the implementation of this assistance in
coordination with the consulting group in charge of human
resources;
6.    design the participation of the communities in the different
stages of project preparation, execution, operation, maintenance
and administration of services;
7.    design assistance required to train staff responsible for the
implementation of the programs at the state and community levels;
8.    design assistance to be provided to PAPP;
9.    execute the program designed in 8 above;
10.    assist the states in formulating the state sector investment
plans;
11.    evaluate regularly the pilot program in the state of Rio Grande
do Sul and transfer experiences to other states;
12.    evaluate past and ongoing programs in health education in Brazil
and propose policies and strategies;
13.    design assistance required to promote health education.   This
should be coordinated with the consulting group working in human
resources;
14.    design assistance on health education programs for PAPP;
15.    execute technical assistance in 14 above; and
16.    assist states in planning health education programs.



- 24 -
ANNEX 3
Page 4
Human Resources
Activities should include:
1.    identification of institutions providing training in the water
supply and sanitation sector, assess past and ongoing programs,
review costs and identify sources of financing. Review the role
of state universities of the private sector, and international
organizations in the training sector.  Special attention should
be given to the coordination with other consulting groups working
in other areas; and
2.    elaborate a proposal for a national training program for the
rural water supply and sanitation sector.   Attention should be
given to the coordination and efficient use of the existing
training resources.   Training should cover project preparation
and execution, community promotion, operation and maintenance of
systems, and administration.
The annual training program should cover the decade and should be
prepared in coordination with the other consulting groups working in other
areas.  The program should take into account the state proposals and the
existing training institutions. Visits to works or on-the-job training may
be arranged with any sector institution if the institutions have experience
in the subject to be studied.
A great deal of the training required for rural water supply and
sanitation programs should be in operation and maintenance of small water
supply systems, in small excreta disposal systems, and/or housing con-
nections and improvements.  Emphasis will be given to train medium level
staff.
Special coordination should be provided with consulting groups
working with engineering aspects and with community promotion, in order to
design minimum cost systems using the minimum standard of quality to
provide acceptable services and taking into account community participation
in the construction, operation and administration of the systems.
In supporting the states, action should be concentrated in
assistance from central levels through consultants to state staff and to
their supervision.
In order to coordinate training actions and to avoid overlapping
of efforts, the training program should propose an institution to manage
and control the program at the federal level.



- 25 -
ANNEX 3
Page 5
When providing assistance to the states in developing state
training programs, priority should be given to states under PAPP.   It is
important to provide staff involved with that NE program with well designed
visits and short courses.
The pilot program to be carried out in Rio Grande do Sul should
be monitored to gain experiences that may be replicated in the national
program.
When studying the institutions working in sector training
emphasis should be given to levels of renumeration in the sector and to the
preparation of a job grading exercise.
The group should assist the states in the preparation of training
programs included in the states' investment plans.
Engineering Aspects
Activities should include:
a. Water Supply
1.    gather and analyze existing bibliography on execution, operation
and administration of rural water systems;
2.    gather information on materials and equipment suitable to be used
in rural water systems;
3.    review  design  standards  taking  into  account  reliability  of
services, labor available in rural. areas, and materials and
equipment suitable for rural systems;
4.    review standards of quality for water;
5.    review standard designs for water supplies used by the federal
and regional institutions;
6.    promote meetings to discuss new available technologies for small
water systems;
7.    study possibilities for coordination between state institutions
and state universities for research;
8.    working together with the Ministry of Health to develop hygiene
education materials related to water supplies;
9.    promote development of new materials and equipment directed to
decrease costs;



- 26 -
ANNEX 3
Page 6
10.    support PAPP;
11.    assist the states in preparing the state investment plans, with
special emphasis on the Northeast states;
12.    monitor the pilot program in Rio Grande do Sul and evaluate
experiences; and
13.    participete  in  the  preparation  of  the  national  investment
prog;am.
b. Excreta Disr*sal
1.    gather and revi!w existing bibliography;
2.    study  ongoing  programs  in  the  country  and  experiences  of
international organizations;
3.    study the adaptability of sanitary installations with habits of
the target population;
4.    study the use of low cost alternative materials produced at local
levels;
5.    develop techniques to: (i) reduce investment and operating costs;
(ii) optimize the acceptability of installation by users; (iii)
increase community participation in project execution and systems
maintenance; (iv) extend the useful life of installations; and
(v) provide services that may be upgraded gradually;
6.    support PAPP;
7.    assist states in preparing state investment plans;
8.    monitor the pilot project  in Rio Grande do Sul and evaluate
experiences; and
9.    participate in the preparation of the national plan.
States' Investment Plans Preparation
Activities should include:
1.    Analyze and evaluate rural water supply and sanitation sector
(identification of communities and existing services);
2.    promote coordination between state and local level institutions;



- 27 -
ANNEX 3
Page 7
3.    evaluate existing capacities at the state level on human resour-
ces, materials, technology, and financial resources to determine
required technical assistance;
4.    define intermediate and final goals for the decade in the states
and analyze of available projects;
5.    coordinate water supply and sanitation sector activities with
agriculture, health, etc;
6.    define  required  institutional  strengthening  of  the executing
agencies including management, administration, finances, and
human resources to be able to assume the proposed responsibili-
ties;
7.    define required  technical  support  from coordinating units  at
central level; and
8.    define  contractual  arrangements  between  federal,  state  and
regional institutions.
Components of the State Plan
1. Summary
2.  Background
3.  State planning
3.a. State data
3.b. Legislation
4.  Diagnosis
4.a. Analysis of rural water supply and sanitation sector
4.b. water resources
4.c. service coverages in water supply and excreta disposal
4.d. institutional arrangements for execution of projects,
administration and operation and maintenance of systems.
5.  State plan
6. Policies



- 28 -
ANNEX 3
Page 8
7. Objectives
8. Goals
9. Strategy
10. Institutional arrangements
11. Investment plan for water supply, excreta disposal and
hygiene education.
11.a. commercial aspects
11.b. operating expenses
1 1.c. depreciation
ll.d. tariffs
ll.e. financing plan
ll.f. debt service
l1.g. financial projections
The central organization will consist of a group of specialists
to cover five macro regions.
Special emphasis should be given to states under PAPP.
National Investment Program
Activities should include:
1.    evaluation of state plans (objectives), impact on development,
national policies, implementation schedule, required capabilities
and costs;
2.    consolidation of state plans in a National Rural Water Supply and
Sanitation Plan for the decade; and
3.    preparation of two national seminars on sector planning.   The
first will discuss the proposed plan features. The second will
be carried out in the final stages of plan preparation and will
be directed to inform authorities of the proposed plan.



- 29 -
ANNEX 4
Page   I
BRAZIL
TSCHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND PILOT RURAL
YATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
Tentative List of Communities
Municipality          Community                1980 Population
Alegrete                   Passo Novo                        852
Bom Jesus                  S.Jose dos Ausentes               715
Cachoeira                  Cerro Branco                      441
Carlos Barbosa             Arco Verde                        169
Catuipe                    Inhacora                          995
Cotipora                   Cotipora                          882
Guapore                    Dois Lajeados                    .'92
Itaqui                     Massombara                        :103
Lajeado                    Boqueirao do Loao                 i85
Conventos                        311
Marques de Sousa                 532
S.Clara do Sul                   514
Vila Progresso                   680
Piratini                   Vila Cancelao                     621
Rolante                    Rlozinho                        1.317
St. Maria                  Silveira Martins                  459
S.Antonio da Patrulha      Palmeira                          779
Sao Gabriel                Santa Clara                     1.012
Sao Sebastiao do Cai       S.Jose Hortencio                  977
Capela Santana                 3.504
Sao Valentim               Vila Alegre                     1.524
Alecrim                    Lajeado Pilao                     189
Alpestre                   Esq. Gaucha                       212
Farinhas                         231
Arroio Grande              Sta. Izabel do Sul                543
Pedreiras                         146
Barracao                   Espigao Alto                      262
Boa Vista do Burica        Vila Cacador                      184
Bom Jesus'                 Sto Inacio                        384
Bom Principio              Sao Vendelino                   1.799
Bossoroca                  Ivai                              105
Braga                      Pedro Garcia                      340



- 30 -
ANNEX 4
Page   2
BRAZIL
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND PILOT RURAL
WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
Tentative List of Communities
Municipality          Community                1980 Population
Cacequl                     Umbu                              308
Cachoeira do Sul            Paraiso do Sul                    235
Rincao da Porta                   473
Tres Vendas                       408
Caicara                     Ipoacu                            250
Camaqua                     Banhado do Colegio                500
Pachera                           311
Campo Novo                 Vila Turva                         253
Carazinho                   Santo Antonio                     312
Casca                       Santo Antonio                     218
Cerro Largo                 Linha Cacador                     184
Chapada                     Bol Preto                         2(7
Crissiumal                  Esquina Gaucha                    179
Dois Irmaos                 Santa Maria Herval                712
Dom Pedrito                 Torquato Severo                   350
Erexim                      Quatro Irmaos                     219
Erval Seco                  Arco Iris                         297
Farroupilha                 Nova Milano                       264
Fontoura Xavier             S.Jose Herval                     176
Frederico Westphalen        Osvaldo Cruz                      148
Castelinha                        214
Vista Alegre                      511
Taquarassu                        706
Gaurama                    Aurea                              567
Centenaria                        120
Gravatai                   Morungava                          530
Guaira                      Sertao Santana                    417
Eldorado                          109
R.Pedras Brancas                1.955
D.Retiro do Guaiba                449
Mariana Pimentel                  291
IJui                       Chorao                             165
Independencia              Esq. Buel                          216



- 31 -
ANNEX 4
Page 3
BRAZIL
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND PILOT RURAL
WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
Tentative List of Communities
Municipality          Community                 1980 Population
Irai                        Vila Dorotea                      189
Vila Goroto                       239
Itaqui                      Borore                             108
Itatiba do Sul              Sete Lagoas                       241
Jaguari                     Nova Esperanca                    701
Lagoa Vermelha              Caseiros                           567
Clemente Argolo                   214
Andre da Rocha                    236
Lajeado                     Canudos                           204
Fao                               204
Lavras do Sul               Ibare                             260
Liberato Salzano            Linha Xisto                       225
Pinhalzinho                       143
Tres Municipios                   207
Marau                       Vila Maria                         545
Camargo                           460
Marcelino Ramos             Vila Suzana                        198
Pinhalzinho                       216
Miraguai                    Tronquelra                         245
Montenegro                  Brochier                          452
Harmonia                          494
Pareci Novo                       423
Nonoai                      Rio das Indios                     147
Nova Petropolis             Picada Cafe                       731
Pinhal Alto                       242
Osorio                      Itati                             305
Passinhos                         365
Palmitinho                  Pinheirinho                       228
Basilio da Gama                   552
Parore                      Santa Cristina                    465
Campos Vicente                    547
Pinheiro                    Machado                            190



- 32 -
ANNEX 4
Page 4
BRAZIL
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND PILOT RURAL
WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
Tentative List of Communities
Municipality          Community                1980 Population
Planalto                    Sao Gabriel                       502
Santa Cruz                        202
Sao Luiz                          207
Rio Grande                  Taim                              266
Rio Pardo                   Rincao del Rei                    609
Bexiga                            400
Albardao                          180
Santa Cruz do Sul           Gramado Xavier                    181
Rio Pardinho                      426
Formosa                           387
Erveiros                          217
Santa Maria                 Dilermo de Aguiar                 545
D-Outros Balnearlos             1.895
Sao Martinho                      239
Arroio do So                      244
Santa Rosa                  Esquina Candeia                   207
Santiago                    Florida                           16.
Unistalda                         407
Tupanduba                         258
Sto. Antonio da Patrulha  Entrepeladdo                        156
Sta. Antonia das Missoes  Sao Jose                            207
Santo Augusto              Tiradentes                         216
Sao Bor1a                   Itacurubi                         250
Carruchos                         435
S.Francisco de Paula        Rincao dos Xroeff                 208
Tainhas                           203
Cazuza Ferreira                   369
Sao Gabriel                 Tiaraju                           221
Sao Jeronimc.               Barao do Triunfo                  268
Sao Jose do Norte           Bojuru                            327
Estreito                          151
B.5a Sec. da Barra              1.260
Capivaras                         819



- 33 -
ANNEX 4
Page 5
BRAZIL
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND PILOT RURAL
WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
Tentative List of Communities
Municipality          Community               1980 Population
Sao Jose do Ouro           Tupanci                          272
Sao Sepe                   Vila Nova                        611
Vila Block                       470
Soledade                   Mormaco                          233
Bela Vista                       215
Vila CCosta                      198
Tapejara                   Charrua Baixa                    276
Taquara                    Padilha                          400
Taquari                    Rincao Sao Jose                  340
Tenente Portela            Barra da Guarita                 988
Torres                     Tres Forquilhas                  310
Gloria                           205
Rua Nova                         265
Tres Passos                Tiradentes                       350
Triunfo                    Passo Liaso                      187
Tupancireta                Jarl                             340
Vagaria                    Sao Manoel                       721
Venancio Aires             Mariante                         559
Viadutos                   Carlos Gomes                     314
Viahao                     Aguas Claras                     547
Viatiba                    Barra do Rio Azul                187
Taibate                    Mato Queimado                    338
Carlos Barbosa             Arroio Canoss                    197
Curro Largo                Santo Antonio                    200
Constantina                Engenho Velho                    289
Estrela                    Xingu                            174
Garibaldi                  Cel.Pilar                        200
Garibaldi                  Daltro Filho                     284
Garibaldi                  Linha 27 da B.Vista              205
Ejui                       Cel. Barros                      155
Nonoai                     Trindade                         729
Nova Brescia               Coqueiro Baixo                   200
Palmeira das Missoes       Jaboticaba                       616
Passo Fundo                Coxilha                          953



- 34 -
ANNEX 4
Page 6
BRAZIL
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND PILOT RURAL
WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
Tentative List of Communities
Municipality          Community               1980 Population
Salvador do Sul            Barao                            552
Salvador do Sul            Poco das Antas                   344
Santa Cruz do Dul          Sinimbu                          534
Santo Angelo               S.Miguel das Miss.               609
Santo Augusto              Sao Valerio                      697
Sao Marcos                 Pedras Brancas                   300
Soledade                   Ibirapuita                       698
Tenente Portela            Derrubadas                       553
Tres de Maio               Alegria                          722
Tres de Maio               Progresso                        260
Tucunduva                  Pratos                           777
Truguaiana                 Barra do Quarai                  949
Truguaiana                 Sao Marcos                       481
Camaqua                    Santa Rita Sul                   934
Canoas                     Berto Cirio                    1,000
Canoas                     Santa Rita                       969
Canoas                     California                       300
Flores da Cunha            Mato Perso                       200
Frederico Westphalen       Pinheirinho                      300
Garibaldi                  Tamandare                        295
Osorio                     Capivari                         630
Rio Grande                 Ilha dos Marinheors            1,348
Rio Pardo                  Capivarita                       778
Rio Pardo                  Passo do Sobraddo                752
Sto.Ant.da Patrulba        Caraa                          1,080
Sao Gabriel                Vacacai                          822
Sao Nicolau                Pirapo                           400
Sapiranga                  Ararica                        1,010
Sapiranga                  Picada Hartz                   1,605
Taquari                    Vila Paverama                    648
Teutonia                   Canabarro                      2,742
Torres                     Morrinhos                        497
Tres Cahoerias                 1,660
Vacaria                    Vila Ipe                         961



- 35 -                         ANNEX 5
Table 1
BRAZIL
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND PILOT RURAL
WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
Project Cost
Projected Annual Investments
(US$ 000)
Total       1985       1986        1987       1988
National Component                 9975.9      370.0      2400.0     3450.0     3755.9
Coordinating Unit                   645.3      100.0       210.0      220.0      115.3
Studies                            2945.2      100.0      890.0      1000.0      955.2
Investment Plan Preparation         775.5        0           0        427.6      347.9
PAPP Support              .        1772.4      170.0       800.0      802.4        0
Project Preparation -
Northeast states                 3337.5        0           0       1000.0     2337.5
Equipment                           500.0        0         500.0        0          0
Pilot Component                   15938.6     1795.0      7420.0     6206.7      516.9
Coordinating Committee              452.5       75.0       150.0      150.0       77.5
Studies/Designs                    1930.4       20.0       700.0      200.0       30.4
Water Systems - Construction       9766.3     1300.0      4450.0     4016.3        0
Water Systems - Operation           500.0        0           0        125.0      375.0
Sanitary Units                     3420.3        0        1900.0     1520.3        0
Technical Assistance                424.0       70.0       170.0      150.0       34.0
Equipment                           245.1      150.0        50.0       45.1        0
25914.5     2165.0     9820.0      9656.7     4272.8
Physical Contingencies (5%)        1295.7      108.3      491.0       482.8      213.6
December 1984 Project Cost        27210.2     2273.3    10311.0    10139.5      4486.4
Price Contingencies                5280.1       90.9      1326.0     2333.8     1529.4
Total Project Cost                32490.3     2364.2    11637.0    12473.3      6015.8
in= X _ = w " " _ _ _ ""   l u s s w f s = B s



- 36 -
AiN  5
Tihbe 2
DOL ASSISE! AMD PIWr RRAL Wa1 Sa  AND 5fATIN ERDM
Proect Cos
National Campoomt Ccmaulcmt costs
Forelg      coat      Iocal      Cost      9uort       Cost       Total     aost
?mndt     llSS'0OD  NtI           US$'000 K imtbo  LS WS'000   N mt     UB$'000
Qrlzlat hlg  iit          30       195.0       90       363.0        -           0          12D      558.0
btitiAul  Aspects         6       39.0        78       218.4       72          72.0       156       329.4
Flvzioes/Fry              12        78.0      126       352.8        -         114.0        252      544.8
tmity Participtic          0        0          85       238.0       24          24.0        109      262.0
-aiig                      0         0         72       201.6       48          48.0        120      249.6
hiwfag                     9        585        %         268.8      66          66.0        171      393.3
Tnwstit FU.               12       78.0       120       336.0       48          48.0       180       462.0
PARP Tadmtcal asistam   60         390.0      2D4       571.2        -           0         264       961.2
Prepqatian fir Invntory
nNIbrtheat stati         0        0           0         0          0           0           0         0
129      838.5      871       2549.8     372         372.0       1372     3760.3



BRAZIL
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND PILOT RURAL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
ProJect Impenmentallon Schedule
bo        _        195 ss_                     1986                          17                        1911
COMPONENT   a.FTER        1     2      3      4      11     2      3      4       1     2       3      4      1     2      3      4
PILOT R.G. DO SUL  _
11. Pwqect Supervision cd .h_
Assistonce & Trning                      -                            -
2. Community Roorntion                             -       -     -
3. Studies. Designs. Controcts                     -
4. Water Supply Systems                                                  -          
6 Sanitary Unlns
NAIIONA
1. Project Supenrvssort &
Technical Assistance-                                                 -      -      -      -      -             -      -    -
2 Sector Studis                             _      =             - =    =       =      =
3. Inestment Plans Preporation                                                                     -       _       -      _
4. PAPP Support                                            _                           _      _
5. Rooc Preparation NE
PROJECT EVALUATION
Wld Bank-27291
0%



- 38 -
ANNEX 7
Page 1
BRAZIL
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND PILOT RURAL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Orgonkaztbon Chart tor Nationad Component
ffA    intaffr*mmiaiom"Mite
|   I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
I
Wo4lId Donk-27292



- 39 -
AM= 7
Pa-ge 2
BRAZIL
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND PILOT RURAL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Organization Chart for Pilot Component
Int. h Op. 
9IJRSM 
CoordhO  I
=mt MnTcd Adv. Un-t
& AwMaants
&Vport Staff
,11  11111 B11
World Bank-27293



- 40 -
ANNEX 8
Page 1
BRAZIL
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND PILOT RURAL
WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
BNH's Finances
General
1.          BNH is a Government-owned bank, established in 1964.  BNH is
administratively and financially independent and reports to the Ministry of
Interior.   Its lending activities are concentrated in low-cost housing
urban development and sanitation.   It also acts as the guarantor of the
Brazilian savings and loan system.
2.          The Bank through its Water Supply and Sewerage and Urban Divi-
sions has signed loan agreements with BNH in the amount of US$1,130
mlllion. As of December 31, 1984, the Bank had disbursed NS$667 million,
and BNH had repaid US$122 million, leaving a principal balauice outstanding
with the World Bank of US$545 million and an undisbursed balance of US$463
million.
3.        BNH annually prepares and updates a three-year budget and lending
program, which is submitted to the Federal Government for approval. Begin-
ning in 1982, the Federal Government has placed limits on BNH's lending as
part of its adjustment program. Sectoral and regional loan allocations are
determined by the Government's public investment policy; sector demand and
absorptive capacity; undisbursed funds under existing contracts; limits on
indebtedness; and BNH's profitability.
4.        BNH's accounting records are computerized and reliable.  Standard
financial statements, following generally-accepted accounting principles,
are produced in a timely manner. BNH's accounts are audited annually by a
large, respected Brazilian external auditing firm.   The firm issued an
unqualified opinion on BNH's 1983 financial statements.   Almost all of
BNH's assets and liabilities are denominated  in UPCs.   The UPC is a
Brazilian monetary unit adjusted quarterly in accordance with the percent-
age increase granted to national treasury bonds.  The value of the UPC is
approximately US$6.50. In four of the past six years (1978-83), correction
of the UPC lagged considerably behind inflation. The lagging was particu-
larly acute in 1979-80. During 1984, the Government maintained a policy of
adjusting the UPC with inflation. The principal result of the lagging UPC
has been a net transfer of resources from depositors in the Employees
Indemnity Fund (para. 5) to BNH loan beneficiaries.



- 41 -
ANNEX 8
Page 2
Past and Present Finances
5.          BNH's principal sources of new funds are deposits in the FGTS.
The FGTS ia financed by an 8% payroll contribution from all employees
covered by labor legislation. Pa.ticipants in the FGTS may withdraw their
contributions when unemployed or for house purchase or retirement.   FGTS
performance is highly sensitive to Brazil's macro-economic performance.
6.         Summary BNVH financial statements are presented in Attachments 1
and 2. BNH continued to expand its operations during 1980-82, although at
lower growth rates than those achieved in the 1970s.  The loan portfolio
increased from UPC 923 million at year-end 1979 to UPC 1,605 million at
year-end 1982, an average annual increase of 20% (6Z in real terms). Total
assets increased 17Z p.a. (3% in real terms) over the same period.   New
lending peaked at UPC 324 million annually in 1981 and 1982. New lending
was fueled principally by the 15% annual growth (2% in real terms) in the
FGTS from UPC 826 million at year-end 1979 to UPC 1,275 million at year-end
1982.   Yearly internal cash generation from operations averaged UPC 36
million during 1980-82, down from the UPC 42 million generated in 1979.
Cash operating receipts during 1980-82 grew at about 132 p.a. (5% negative
growth in real terms), while operating and financial expenses increased 45%
p.a. (21% in real terms).  Interest receipts were affected by the lagging
of the UPC behind inflation, slightly lower portfolio yields and longer
grace periods reflecting BNH's decision to direct its lending operations to
poorer regions and lower ranges of the housing market. Higher administra-
tive expenses resulted from BNH's decentralization of operations and the
lagging of the UPC while higher financial costs were attributed to a more
highly leveraged debt/equity structure (8.3:1 in 1979 to 11.7:1 in 1982)
and a more costly mix of liabilities.
7.          BNH's financial performance deteriorated sharply beginning in
1983 as a result of the continuing recession in Brazil and Government
adjustment policies.
a. FGTS
Net receipts of the FGTS fell precipitously (53%) in 1983 to UPC
70 million from the historic high of UPC 150 million achieved in 1982. Net
FGTS receipts dropped another UPC 14 million (20%) to UPC 57 million in
1984, although the situation appears to have stabilized in the fourth quar-
ter.  Increases in unemployment eroded the FGTS contribution base and led
to major withdrawals from the fund.   Government wage policy resulted in
lower real wages, a further erosion of the FGTS contribution base and
greater use of the fund to service home mortgages.   FGTS gross deposits
fell UPC 63 million (16%) from 1982 to 1984.  FGTS withdrawals as a per-
centage of gross deposits increased from 61% in 1982 to 82% in 1984.



- 42 -
ANNEX 8
Page 3
b. Loan Portfolio Performance
The continuing recession and restrictive Government wage policy
also adversely affected BNH's return (principal and interest payments) on
its loan portfolio. Principal and interest payments dropped slightly from
UPC 160 million in 1982 to UPC 158 million in 1984; however, the percentage
of payments to the average outstanding loan portfolio dropped from 11% in
1982  to  9%  in  1984.    Loan  delinquencies  increased  forcing  a  major
renegotiation of payment terms in June 1984 between BNH and its borrowers.
The renegotiations covered all of BNH's operations, and almost 50% of the
value of the BNH loan portfolio has been renegotiated. Despite several BNH
measures in 1983 and early 1984 to ease the financial burden at the final
borrower level, delinquencies remained high.   As of August 1984, 22% of
mortgage holders in the BNH housing system (including the savings and loan
associations) were behind in their payments by more than three months.
Historically, delinquencies in the BNH housing system have run at about
7%.   As mentioned above, BNH acts as guarantor of the savings and loan
system.  Based on deposits, the savings and loan system is approximately
2.3 times bigger than ENH. Major mortgage foreclosure proceedings were not
instituted. I-stead, the Federal Government together with BNH developed a
package of financial incentives in September 1984 (Decree 2164) to address
the high delinquencies in the housing system and ease the financial burden
of the final borrowers. The Decree provides for past due mortgage payments
to be reclassified as current; a one-year sliding scale of reduced monthly
payments depending on timing and amount of house purchase; and tying
mortgage payments more closely to the timing and amount of salary
increases.   Larger financial incentives are provided to mortgage holders
who purchased houses in 1981 and later, as mortgage holders who purchased
houses before 1981 benefited from the large UPC correction lag in 1979 and
1980. Costs are to be borne by the Federal Government, through the annual
issuance of UPC 15 million in bonds over a ten-year period; financial
intermediaries; new home purchasers; and BNH.
c. Savings and Loan Systems
BNH acts as the central banker and guarantor of the savings and
loan system. It administers the insurance and liquidity funds of the sys-
tem. A major shakeout occurred in the savings and loan system in 1983-84.
High delinquency rates and sluggish growth in passbook savings   (due in
part to negative real returns and illiquidity of accounts) coupled with
peak beginning of the quarter savings withdrawals led to liquidity and
insolvency problems in the system.   BNH intervened and is presiding over
the liquidation of eight savings and loan associations that failed during
the last two years.  BNH also drew heavily on funds to maintain the sys-
tem's  liquidity.   Net  BNH resources used to cover the system's needs
amounted to UPC 24 million in 1983-84, which is in sharp contrast to BNH's
net increase in funds of UPC 27 million from the savings and loan system in
1982.   The Government has adopted policies and incentives  to hold and
attract passbook deposits. These savings now provide a positive real rate



- 43 -
ANNEX 8
Page 4
of return and are more liquid.  The interest Is also tax exempt.  Passbook
savings grew at slightly under 8% during the year ending September 30,
1984. BNH established a new major source of low interest, long-term funds
in 1984.  The new fund (FAHBRE), created by deposits from the savings and
loan associations, is designed to assist BNH's low-cost housing program.
FAHBRE deposits totalled UPC 50 million in 1984.
d. Liquidity
BNH experienced liquidity problems in 1983, particularly at the
beginning of each quarter, when becausc. of the quarterly monetary correc-
tion of FGTS and passbook savings dep,sits, withdrawals peaked, creating a
heavy demand on BNH's resources. BNH was able to meet this demand without
resorting to direct Government assistance.  In response, BNH curtailed its
lending (para. 7f) and relied on its portfolio of Government bonds, its
main source of liquid funds.  Government bonds held by BNH moved sharply
downward during the first eight months of 1983, from a high of UPC 70
million at year-end 1982 to a bottoming-out at UPC 17 million in August
1983. Since then, BNH's liquid position has shown a sustained improvement;
its portfolio of Government bonds increased to UPC 88 million in October
1984.   Government policies providing incentives to passbook savings and
limiting public sector investments eased BNH's liquidity requirements.
e. Financial Position
BNH's total assets at June 30, 1984, were UPC 2,009 million. Tbe
loan portfolio amounted to UPC 1,795 million or 89% of total assets at June
30, 1984. Loans are backed by state and municipal Government and financial
institutions guarantees and mortgages.   The allowance for doubtful loans
was UPC 55 million (3.1% of the loan portfolio) composed of loan install-
ments past due more than 90 days (UPC 18 million) and loans in liquidation
(UPC 37 million).  The allowance for doubtful accounts includes the effect
of  BNH  renegotiations  with  its  borrowers.    BNH.  following  Brazilian
accounting practices, does not present a balance sheet category for non-
performing loans as required in the United States.  BNH's equity (UPC 131
million) was 7Z of its loan portfolio at June 30, 1984. The FGTS amounted
to UPC 1,409 million, or 70% of BNH's total liabilities and equity at June
30, 1984.  Other elements of BNH's capital structure at June 30, 1984,
included housing and savings and loan systems deposits (UPC 163 million, 8%
of liabilities and equity) and outstanding loans payable (UPC 112 million,
6Z of liabilities and eauity). World Bank loans payable amounted to UPC 74
million or 4% of BNH's liabilities and equity at June 30, 1984.   BNH's
annual average loan portfolio yield during 1982-84 was 5.3%, while its
annual financial expense on average liabilities and equity was slightly
below 4.0Z.
f. Lending
The reduction in total sources of funds available to BNH, the
decrease in effective housing demand, the need to improve liquidity and the



- 44 -
ANNEX 8
Page 5
Government's limits on public sector investments combined to severely
curtail BNH lending in 1983-84.   New lending operations declined UPC 48
million (15%) from UPC 325 million in 1982 to UPC 277 million in 1983. New
lending in 1984 was UPC 170 million, a 39% reduction from the 1983 level.
BNH lending has been increasingly targeted at the poorer North and North-
east regions, social interest housing and sanitation. During 1979-83, 65%
of net FGTS deposits were capLured in the more prosperous Southeast region
while only 50% of these resources were applied in the Southeast.   During
the same period, 16% of net FGTS deposits were captured in the North and
Northeast regions, while 27% of these resources were applied in these
regions.  Almost 50% of BNH's 1984 lending program was targeted at social
interest housing and 25% in the sanitation sector.
Future Finances
8.        BNH projects an improving financial performance beginning in 1985
based on the following key assumptions: (a) continued growth in the economy
(5% p.a. incr, c in GNP with reduction ln unemployment reflecting directly
on FGTS receipts); (b) improvement in return on its loan portfolio (prin-
cipal and interest payments) reflecting BNH and Federal Government measures
taken in 1984 (loan portfolio renegotiations and Decree 2164-para. 7(b));
Cc) increased effective housing demand and depletion of accumulated housing
stock; (d) stabilization of the savings and loan system with no new inter-
ventions; (e) continued attractiveness of passbook ravings; and (f) relaxa-
tion of government wage policy.
9.          BNH forecasts a modest improvement in 1985 with more favorable
performanice in 1986 and 1987, especially in the growth of FGTS deposits and
loan portfolio returns.   New lending is projected at UPC 260 million in
1987, below the UPC 298 million achieved in 1980.
10.        The whole BNH system is financially fragile on both the assets
and liabilities sides.   The realizable market value of its assets may be,
at present, less than the liabilities --both because there is no market for
urban infrastructure and because the prices of housing and other real
estate are currently depressed, sometimes below the value of the mortgages
financed through the system. The liabilities of the system are vulnerable
to deposit runs, which could be provoked by higher effective interest rates
on alternative financial instruments and fears of possible deindexation.
The savings and loan system, where large amounts of passbook savings are
concentrated in relatively few accounts which could be shifted quickly to
alternative investments,  is particularly vulnerable.   In addition, a new
recession could lead both to slower growth of FGTS inflows and passbook
savings deposits as well as to increased withdrawals by individuals seeking
to compensate for their falling incomes.   While it is unlikely that the
Government would per&!,' these events to come about, since the impact could
affect the entire financial system, any additional large scale bailouts
could affect the credibility of the mortgage system.



- 45 -
ANNEX 8
Page 6
I1.          This financial fragility of the BNH system places major con-
straints on the conduct of monetary policy. It is also one of many factors
which now converge to favor a continuation of Brazil's economic recovery.
To continue the recovery and achieve a sustainable rate of growth will
require a reasonably favorable international economic envirco,ment, success-
ful completion of economic stabilization, continued realignment of economic
incentives, and major improvements in public sector management.   Over the
longer term, the stability and efficiency of the BNH system is best pro-
moted by encouraging its integration into a liberalized national financial
system in the context of broader financial sector reform. In the meantime,
for the reasons cited above, BNH's financial projections would be affected
by a downturn  in  Brazil's  macroeconomic  performance  and/or  Government
measures affecting wages, savings, and interest rates. It also remains to
be seen if loan renegotiation and Decree 2164 measures are sufficient to
cut loan delinquencies to levels assumed by BNH.  BNH's financial perform-
ance will be monitored during Bank supervlsion missions, and the Bank will
Beek to strengthen BNH as part of a broader effort to support financial
sector reform.



- 46 -
AN£X3 8
Attachment 1
8AZIL
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND PILOT RURAL WATER SUPPLY
AND SAITATION PYCJECT
Cash Flow Sctatemintc  for Year. Ktded llecember 31
(urc 000) I/
Actual                        Zetirnted             Pr*l.cted by on
1980         1981l        192         1983          198.           1915         2986         1987
Operatntl Ruceipt.
Intevret Ince_                55,354       bO,68R       69,1b1      70.325         69,019        79,060       84,500       90,0S0
Service Chrgem                31,313        5,H63        4,357       4.391           3,350         2,870        bo000        8,000
Other Incom                    5 ,ID        7.370        H.472      8R345           9.310         4.060        10.386       10.9l6
Total Receipts              64L647       73;921       81,990      63,n61         81,879        86,590      101,08b      109,036
operatinjt Eupens..
Administratlive Expenme       11,746       15.522       24,713      21,163         20,384        21,790        24,480       27,400
Ftnanclsl Cxpenme.             5,833        s.5,0       12,008      16.933         18,810        22,260       25,200       206900
other                          7,485       20.694       10.323       9.964           5.4118       4,530         4,166        3,942
Total Cxpen.ev              25.064       41.721       47,046      48,060         44.882        48.588       53.846       56.242
Internal C-ah from
Operations                    39.583       32,:00       34,944      35,001         36,997         38,002      47,240        50,794
Sources
Internal Cash from
Operatlon.                  39,583       32,200       34.944      35.001         36,997        38,002       47,240      530794
FCTS Dposit. (Groim)           --            ---       3s6b116    3b6,710         322,700       338,440       382,000     420,000
VCTS WlthMrawls                -             -        (235.954)  (29A.368)       (266.0721    (271 .905)   (282.000)   (300.000)
FCTS Depocts (st)           120.203      135,913      150,162      70.342         56628         66.535       100,0oo      120,000
Other Deposlts               (22,988)      50,039       23,6b1      29,145          50,734       27,590        29,000       21,W00
Loan Principel
Repay_nwts                  K9,371      100,459       90.971    110,167          68,771        91,413      103,500      110,450
loan.                          2.694        5,205       17.850      17,523         22.497        22.700       22.000       22,000
Covernent Transferu                0             0       7.080      12.202          9.893         11,875      24,000       25.000
Other                         71.918       60.948        7.572      10.854         17 767        22.}10       26.514       28.514
Total Sources              300.751      390.764      332.;74    285,234         283,287      20,427       352,254      377.755
Applications
Debt Servier                     510          964        2,141       3.110          9.852        12,850        15,460       17,100
Treasury fond.                 3,222       63,104          287      (8,787)        59,440         9,254        39.000      46,000
riNSOCIAL                          0            0            0           0          3,221          7,380        5.500        S.500
other                            926          938          549       0,834         30,798        21,567       41,494       48.158
N1v Loans                    298.302      324.529      324.942    276.997         169.746       222.346      250.000    M260.=o
Total Applications         302,900      389;535      327,919    280,154         273,287       273,397      351,434      376,753
Change In Cash                   (2,199)        1.229        4,355       5,080          8,000         7,030          800        1,000
I/ lUpCwUSsb.5



BRAZIL
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND PILOT RURAL WATER SUPPLY
AND SANITATION PROJECT
Summary Balance Sheets as of December 31
(UPC 000) 1/
Actual                         Estimated            Projected by BNH
1980        1981         i982         1983          1984          1985        1986         1987
Loans Receivable              1,141,400   1,385,900   1,604,700   1,774,700    1,855,000    1,929,300   2,073,700   2,221,700
Other Assets                    105,200      120.600      151.500     184,300       187.800       168.800      189.800      227.400
Total Assets             1,246,600   1,506,500   1,756,200   1,959,000    2,042,800    2,098,100   2,263,500   2,449,100
FGTS Deposits                   978,400  1,137,OpOO   1,274,900   1,363,600    1,439,300    1,508,100   1,608,200   1,728,200
Other Liabilities               147.600      237.800     343,200      451,000       469,300       464,900      519,500      574,000
Total Liabilities       1,126,000   1,374,500   1,618,100   1,814,600    1,908,600    1,973,000   2,127,700   2,302,200
Capital and Reserves            120,600      131,700      138,100     144,400       134,200       125,100      135,800      146,900
Total Liabilities
and Equity            1,246,600   1,506,500   1,756,200   1,959,000    2,042,800    2,098,100   2,263,500   2,449,100
I/ IUPCICUS$6.5                                                                                                                        1
-



- 48-                        PAninEa
BRAZIL                        Attachient 3
TECE1ICAL ASSISTANCE AND PILOT RmRAL wATER SupPLY
AND AN F&TSO RJC
UPC millions                 N,t Deposita
30
1982
to
JAN  FEV  MAR - ADA  MAI -JUN - JUL- "£0   LT  OUT  NOV  DEl
30       -                  
20
1983 to
0l .~  - -
JAN  FEV  mAR  AR  MAI  JUN  JUL  AGO  SET  OUT  NOV  DEZ
30
20
1984  io____
0               n
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



BRAZIL
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND PILOT RURAL WATER SUPPLY
AND SANITATION PROJECT
Passbook Savings
Met Deposits
UPC millions
- .   -   -     nr-                          1          -- _- - _ _ _4
50
L.J~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'
__      _ _  _       __  _  _  _  _  __   _       _  _  __  _  _  _  _  _      _  _  _                 i
"orS                                                      98



- 50 -
ANNEX 9
Page 1
BRAZIL
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND PILOT RURAL
WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
Cost Recovery in the Pilot Component
1.        Tariff levels and structures in communities served by the project
will be based on financial needs and socio-economic studies determining the
inhabitants' capacity to pay.
2.        Water tariffs will provide revenues sufficient to cover:
(a) operating and routine maintenace costs;
(b) replacements or extraordinary repairs of major systems com-
ponents; and
(c) debt service taking into account the initial community contribu-
tion and ability to pay, such that a minimum 30% of system
investment - cost is recovered (18 years amortization at 7.5%
interest, plus monetary correction).   The initial contributions
will be a minimum of 2.5% in cash payable before the initiation
of works and 7.5Z during the construction period in cash, labor
or kind.
3.         Water systems will not be metered; therefore, a system of pro-
gressive tariffs based on fixtures in each house will be used to set
monthly charges.
4.          Tariff levels will .be reviewed annually by SURBAM and will be
adjusted during the year to allow for adjustments due to inflation.
5.          Full cost will be recovered for the individual sanitary units
under the project.   The cost will be recovered during 18 years at 7.5%
interest plus monetary correction.
6.             Minimum average water tariffs for a typical system (350
population with 70 connections and 1000 m3 monthly production) are as
follows:



- 51 -
ANNEX 9
Page 2
Monthly Operating and Maintenance Costs
Operation                 1/2 month labor      Cr  54000
Energy                    Cr 33.75/m3              33750
Maintenance Electrical                               5133
Maintenance Network                                 11681
Chemicals                                           2490
Quality Control                                    14000
Cr 121054
or USS 80.32
Cost/Connection/Month               US$ 1.15
Capital Recovery                         1.01
Minimum Average Monthly Charge       US$ 2.16



- 52 -
ANNEX I0
BRAZIL
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND PILOT RURAL WATER
SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
Loan Disbursement Schedule
Quarterly                Cumulative Disbursement
Bank Fiscal Year              Disbursement                     -----------------
and Quarter Ending            (USS million)       (US$ million)              Z of Total
FY1986
September 30, 1985                 1.5 1/               1.5                        9.2
December ,1, 1985                  0.5                  2.0                       12.3
March 31, 1986                     1.1                  3.1                       19.0
June 30, 1986                      1.1                  4.2                       25.8
FY1987
September 30, 1986                 1.2                  5.4                      33.1
December 31, 1986                  1.2                  6.6                      40.9
March 31, 1987                     1.4                  8.0                       49.1
June 30, 1987                      1.4                  9.4                       57.7
FY1988
September 30, 1987                 1.5                 10.9                      A6.9
December 31, 1987                  1.4                 12.3                       75.5
March 31, 1988                     1.0                 13.3                       81.6
June 30, 1988                      1.0                 14.3                       87.7
FY1989
September 30, 1988                 0.6                 14.9                       91.4
December 31, 1988                  0.6                 15.5                      95.1
March 31, 1989                     0.5                 16.0                       98.2
June 30, 1989                      0.3                 16.3                      100.0
1/ US$1.5 million disbursement for Special Account; recovery assumed in FY89.



- 53 -
ANNEX I I
Patge 1
BRAZIL
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND PILOT RURAL
WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
Monitoring Indicators
National Component
1. Activities under 'Sector Studies" and 'PAPP Support" would be monitored through a critical
path study.
2. Monitoring of project preparation for the NE would be through number of communities with
socio-economic and engineering studies completed and draft contracts ready, based on ternm
ofreference to be submitted by June 30, 1986.
Year Semester
Pilot Component                                 Total    85/2nd  86/1st  86/2nd  87/1st  87/2nd
1. Number of water systems completed               203         33      45       45     40        40
2. Number of house connections installed        25,000      4,000   5,500   5,500   5,000   5,000
3. Installed production capacity m3/day         20,000      3,200   4,400   4,400   4,000   4,000
4. Kilometers of distribution network built        875        140     190      190      170     185
5. Population served                           106,000    17,000  23,000  23,000  21,000  22,000
6. Number of sanitary units                     10,000        -     2,800   2,800   2,200   2,200
7. Number of latrines                            5,000        -       500   1,500   1,500   1,500
8. Number of persons trained: a) operators,        406        -        80      100     100      126
b) administrators       406        -        80      100      100     126
9. Number of community contracts signed            203         63      70       70     -        -



- 54 -
ANNEX 12
Page 1
BRAZIL
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND PILOT RURAL
WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
Selected Reference Documents and Data Available in Project File
A. Selected Reports and Studies Related to the Sector
1. BRAZIL: Study of Selected Water and Wastes Sector Issues Rural
Water Supply and Sanitation, IBRD No. 4583-BR, 8/12/83 (two
volumes).
2.  BRAZIL:  Water Supply and Sewerage Sector Project, IBRD No 4229-BR,
2/28/83.
3. Project Completion Report for Loan 1309-BR, IBRD, 5/18/1984.
4.  BRAZIL:  Water Supply and Sewerage -  a case study, Paulo Cezar
Pinto, ABES, October 1984.
5. Proposed Northeast Rural Development Project - Rural Water Supply
Components, Back-to-Office Report, 12/1/83.
6.  Saneamento Basico en Areas de Esquisotossomose, 1983/84, Ministerio
da Saude, no date.
7. Saneamento como Atividade dos Servicos Basicos de Saude,, Anais do
lo. Seminario, Realizado em Natal, RN de 15 a 18 de Junho de 1932.
B. Selected Reports and Studies Related to the Project
1.  Projeto Nordeste: PAPP--Recursos Hidricos: Sintese do Subcomponente
*Abastecimento da Agua e Melhorias Sanitarias de Pequenas Comunida-
des-, Regiao Mineira do Nordeste, SUDENE, Novembro 1984.
2. PAPP -- Abastecimento de Agua para Comunidades Rurais, SUDENE, no
date.
3.  Programa Nacional de Saneamento Basico Rural-Termos de Referencia,
Inter-institutional Working Group, SEPLAN, 11/23/84.



- 55 -
ANNEX 12
Page 2
4.  Populacao, Numero de Com"sidades e Investimentos para o Programa
Nacional, W. Sanches, 12/6/84.
5.  Coordinacao de Componentes de Assistencia Tecnica (PAPP), S. Braga,
12/6/84.
6.  Proyecto de Saneamiento Rural--Mision de Preparacion, -Componente
Nacional, J. Mora, 5/84.
7.  Relacionadas con a Participacao das Comunidades, --Comentarios e
Termos de Referencia, U. Sanches, 12/6/84.
8.  Projeto Piloto de Agua e Saneamento Rural--Estado do Rio Grande do
Sul, A. Dianderas, 12/6/84.
9. Brasil-Estado do RGS, Projeto Piloto de Agua y Saneamento Rural--
Mision de Identificacion, J. Mora, 2/84.
10. Projeto de Saneamento Rural, CORSAN, PROSAN and the University of
Rios Sinos, May 1984.
11. Relatorio Anual das Atividades do IPEA, Exercicio de 1983, IPEA,
4/26/84.
C. Working Papers and Workshpets
1.  Project Preparation Working Papers, Inter-institutional Project
Preparation Team, SEPLAN, November 1984 (in two volumes).
2.  Projeto Nordeste: Custos de Capacitacao dos Diversos Segmentos do
Projeto Nordeste por Estado, SUDENE, 11/26/84.
3.  Socio-Economic Worksheets by Municipality, State of Rio Grande do
Sul.
4.  Information System on Mortality, FSESP/SES State of Rio Grande do
Sul.



VENEZUELA                f
;   I_--,                 @\GUYANA
COLOMBIA  i                 i 
rS~~~~~OAM  't.,. v-XY
:             1t
A M A Z 0 N A S
r~~~~
(                   l        
AC  C     E           ]
P E R U         \RONDONlA
00                *  -*_._
f-i,
, . .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C
'ater Supply           BOLIVIA
Sewage                      PARA(
- - Stats Boundaries
Internotional Boundaries
ARGENTIr
-3D
.  .~~~~~~~~~0



'                                  I  . iii'i.   I.I
WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE
PERCENT SERVICE LEVELS BY STATE
1983/1987
SURINAME
\GUYANA              ./FRENCH
(GUIANA
RORAIMA
\   >  J< M APAM.A
'   /   I                  \~/ 
J                                     /A  A
-AI.A         :l    L.RAND[
_                                                          A    .4.,
)_                      ,                         *          ....~~~~'.r. 
BOLIVIA               ... . .
/                   l   \  -          .     !          * 1.M:l   ;;RANDE~~~~~'A%   W~
(            .              .                                             4'   ;,E
PARAGUAY~
ARGENTINA1                                               ml
! ~  ~       ~      ~      . ;-s  .-, -... 
)URUGUAY~
I~~~~~~~~~~~~ _  JS.-






