Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
Repon No. P-4337-EGT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO USt7O MILLION
TO THE
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
FOR A
CHANNEL MAINTENANCE PROJECT
June 3, 1986
Tbis document has a restricted distributon and may be used by recipients only in the performsnce of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
Currency Equivalents
Currency Units:                            Egyptian Pound (EE)
(As of October 1985)
£E 1.00                           =     US$0.75
US$1.00                           =     £E 1.33
£E 1.00                           =      100 Piastres (PT)
ERgyptian Fiscal Year
July 1 to June 30
Abbreviations and Acronyms
CHB     =  Channel Maintenance Board
EPADP = Egyptian Public Authority for Drainage Projects, Ministry of
Irrigation
FAO/CP = Food and Agricultural Organization/World Bank Cooperative Program
GOE     =  Government of Egypt
HAD     = High Aswan Dam
ICB     =  International Competitive Bidding
iS      =  Irrigation Sector, Ministry of Irrigation
LCB     =  Local Competitive Bidding
M       = Million
M&F     = Monitoring and Evaluation
MOA     = Ministry of Agriculture
MOI     = Ministry of Irrigation
O&M     =  Operation and Maintenance
PECs    =  Public Excavation Companies, Ministry of Irrigation
USAID   = United States Agency for International Development
WRC     = Water Research Center, Ministry of Irrigation
WRI     = Weed Research Institute, Ministry of Irrigation



FOR OFFICIL USE ONLY
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
CRANNEL MAINTENANCE PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                 Government of the Arab Republic of Egypt.
Amount:                   $70 million equivalent.
Terms:                    20 years, including five years grace, at the
standard variable interest rate.
Implementing Aeency:      Ministry of Irrigation.
Project Obiectives        The objectives of the project are to (i) help
and Description:          increase agricultural productivity through more
efficient functioning of the irrigation and drainage
network, (ii) introduce relevant and cost-effective
methods of channel maintenance, and (iii) strengthen
the capabilities of project-related institutions.
The traditional system of channel maintenance
involving large-scale excavation would be changed by
introducing balanced work-cycles of weed mowing,
chemical treatment and desilting for various
channels. This action became necessary following
the commissioning of the High Aswan Dam: the reduced
silt load in the Nile below Aswan has changed the
principal maintenance requirement from silt removal
to the control of weeds. The loan would finance the
upgrading of the equipment fleet of contracting
agencies, including private sector companies;
cycle-based maintenance schedules would be
introduced over the entire 48,000 km network of
public channels; and technical assistance would be
provided to the agencies organized under the
Ministry of Irrigation for channel maintenance,
including the Irrigation Sector, the Weed Research
Institute, and the Public Sector Excavation
Companies to improve management, planning and
monitoring.
Benefits and Risks:       The project would lead to improved maintenance at
lower costs. Better maintenance will directly
benefit the entire irrigated area by improving the
This document ha a stricted distnbution and may be used by recpients only in the performace
of their ofAcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be discosed without World Bank authorirationL



- ii-
capability of the canals to meet peak irrigation
demands, and also the effectiveness of surface and
subsurface drains in timely removal of excess
water. Similar maintenance techniques have been
successfully used elsewhere and, on a pilot basis,
in Egypt; thus the risks of failure are negligible.
Estimated Project Costs:                           Local   Foreign  Total  S of
-    (US$ million)-   Total
Equipment, materials,        25.6    57.4       83.0   66
and technical assistance
for contractual agencies
Equipment and technical       5.8      3.6       9.4    7
assistance for Ministry
of Irrigation
Total Base Cost              31.4    61.0       92.4   73
Physical Contingencies        1.9      3.1       5.0    4
Price Contingencies          14.8    14.7       29.5   23
Total Project Cost           48.1    78.8      126.9  100
Financinz Plan:
Bank                          -       70.0      70.0   55
GOE                          48.1     8.8       56.9   45
Total                        48.1 1/ 78.8      126.9  100
1/ Includes about $15.7 M for import duties and taxes.
Estimated Disbursements:
Bank Fiscal Year
1987   1988   1989   1990   1991   1992   1993   1994
(US$ million)
Annual                  3.0    8.0   12.0   12.0   10.0   10.0    9.0    6.0
Cumulative             3.0   11.0   23.0   35.0   45.0   55.0   64.0   70.0
Economic Rate of Return: Given that the project would improve maintenance at
lower cost, the Net Present Value (NPV) approach has
been used to evaluate project benefits. T1e NPV over
30 years, at a discount rate of 122, would be LE44 M,
and would become negative only for substantial
increases in capital costs (50S) or annual operating
costs (30X).



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF
THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO
THE ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
FOR A CHANNEL MAINTENANCE PROJECT
1.       I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Arab Republic of Egypt for the equivalent of US$70 million to help
finance a Channel Maintenance Project. The loan would have a term of 20
years, including five years of grace, at the standard variable interest rate.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.      A report on "Current Economic Situation and Growth Prospects"' (Report
No. 4498-EGT) was distributed to the Executive Directors on October 20, 1983.
An economic mission visited Egypt in November and December 1985; this section
is based on the findings of that mission. Country data sheets and
macroeconomic accounts are presented in Annex I.
Background
3.      Between 1974 and 1980, the Egyptian economy grew by 9% per annum,
stimulated by an extraordinary increase in foreign earnings. Current account
receipts rose by 25S per annum over this period while capital inflows
increased by 50X per annum. The main sources of external income were oil
exports, workers' remittances, Suez Canal earnings and tourist receipts, which
in total grew from $700 million in 1974 to $8.8 billion by 1980/81, comprising
over 70% of total export earnings. Other commodity exports fell from $1.6
billion to $1.1 billion over the same period as the real effective exchange
rate appreciated and the domestic economy absorbed more of what was produced.
Current account outflows grew by 20% per annum. Capital goods imports rose
the fastest, by 33Z per annum, reflecting an investment boom, while the import
of intermediate goods increased by 9Z per annum, and of consumer goods by 15%
per annum. Agricultural imports grew particularly rapidly, from $1 billion in
1974 to $2.7 billion by 1980/81.
4.       Egypt's fiscal and monetary situation improved over this period for
essentially the same reasons. The surpluses of the petroleum corporation and
the Suez Canal Authority flowed into Government revenues, which increased from
27X of GDP in 1974 to 43% of GDP by 1980/81. Even though Government
expenditures rose from 48% to 58% of GDP, the budget deficit fell from 21% to
16X of GDP over the same period. Public saving soared, from just over LE 100
million to LE 1.9 billion, and both foreign and domestic bank financing of the
budget deficit fell as a percentage of the total deficit.
5.      While Egypt's resource position improved dramatically over this
period, the domestic economy suffered growing inefficiencies. A
disproportionate share of GDP growth occurred in the energy and service
sectors, while the agricultural and industrial sectors fell as a proportion of



GDP. The combination of rapid inflation abroad and fixed prices at home
created growing distortions in the domestic economy. Controlled prices for
consumer goods, energy, transport, rents, public sector wages and foreign
exchange lagged far behind international or economic prices. Even domestic
prices for many of the same goods were higher in the uncontrolled parts of the
economy. This resulted in a severe duality in the economic system. Although
fixed prices avoided stressful adjustments in the living standards of those
with access to controlled goods and services, they created major distortions
and inefficiencies in domestic production.
6.       Egypt's population, soon to reach 50 million, is large and growing by
about 2.5Z per annum. Almost half of this growth is concentrated in the
greater Cairo area. Arable land is quite limited, with an average density
higher than Bangladesh or Indonesia. The family planning program is weak.
The economy, despite its rapid growth, provided insufficient employment
opportunities in the productive sectors. Value added from oil production and
the Suez Canal rose from 5X of GDP in 1974 to 18S in 1980/81 but employment in
these two sectors increased to less than 1% of the labor force. Little of the
growth of the labor force was occupied by the agricultural and industrial
sectors (about 15S). A larger portion was absorbed in the construction, trade
and finance sectors (about 252). The bulk (over 502) was employed by the
Government itself, swelling budgetary outlays. The remainder either emigrated
or joined the ranks of the unemployed.
Recent Developments
7.      Egypt's economic situation began to deteriorate in 1980, reflecting a
sharp decline in the growth of external resources. Between 1980/81 and
1984/85 current account receipts grew by only 4% per annum, while current
external outflows rose by 6% per annum. Imports grew faster than exports,
even though capital goods imports fell by 62 per annum. Net capital inflows
increased by only 3% per annum over the period as debt service payments from
previous loans mounted. Fiscal revenues grew slowly, falling as a percentage
of GDP from 43% in 1980/81 to 35% in 1984/85. Expenditures also fell, from
582 to 57S of GDP, but not by as much as revenues. Public saving declined by
almost 50Z and the overall budget deficit rose to 22% of GDP by 1984/85. The
growth rate of GDP decelerated, although it was still in the 52-6% range in
1984/85.
8.       The immediate cause for this downturn was the decline of Egypt's main
foreign revenues--oil exports, workers' remittances, Suez Canal tariffs and
tourist receipts. The price Egypt earned for oil exports peaked in 1980 and
has fallen since. For a while an increased volume of oil exports more than
offset the initial price decline. However, from 1980/81 onwards the price has
fallen faster than the export volume has increased, resulting in declining
revenues in every year. Workers' remittances fluctuated. They rose rapidly
to $2.9 billion by 1980/81, fell sharply to $1.9 billion in 1981/82, grew to
$3.9 billion by 1983/84 and fell back to $3.6 billion in 1984/85. These short
run fluctuations are better explained by changing domestic policies governing
exchange arrangements and internal stability than by underlying employment
conditions and aggregate saving abroad. Earnings of the Suez Canal rose from
$780 million in 1980/81 to $974 million in 1983/84 and then fell to $897



-3-
million in 1984/85. These receipts reflected the traffic through the canal,
which was affected by the production of oil in the Gulf. Officially recorded
tourist receipts fell from $511 million in 1980/81 to $409 million in
1984/85. There has been little growth in tourism over this period. An
increasing proportion of tourist expenditures are exchanged outside the
banking system, and therefore not recorded in official statistics.
9.      The Government's response to this situation has been hesitant. A
comprehensive and vigorous program of reform of the fiscal, monetary, balance
of payments and productive sector policies has been needed now for sometime.
Although the Government has often considered the problem and possible
solutions, the policy response hss been inadequate. As fiscal revenues from
oil exports and the Suez Canal fell, the Government took measures in 1984/85
to reduce the budget deficit. These included increases in bread and cigarette
prices, eeveral taxes, electricity tariffs and selected output prices of
public sector companies. Nevertheless, these actions were insufficient to
offset the overall decline in fiscal revenues and the budget deficit continued
at over 221 of GDP. The Government also restrained the growth of imports by
raising their price and extending import controls. In January 1985 the
Government introduced a more flexible and depreciated rate of foreign exchange
for use in commercial banks. This rate, which is set by a Central Bank
committee, has depreciated but not by as much as the market exchange rate.
10.     The 1985/86 budget, as presented to the People's Assembly, contained
substantial measures to begin to reduce the excessive deficit to a target of
14X of GDP. These included substantial increases in the price of energy,
increased taxes (particularly custom duties), curbs in the growth of subsidies
and adjustments in the prices of many products of public sector companies. So
far, not more than 151-201 of these measures have been put into effect.
However, late in the fiscal year the Government introduced an additional set
of measures to raise revenues and curb expenditures. At any rate, it is
estimated they will have only a modest impact on the 1985/86 outcome and, as a
result, the budget deficit will remain at around 211 of GDP.
II.     The deterioration in the external environment continued in 1985/86.
Egypt's export price of oil fell between December 1985 and March 1986.
Consequently Egypt's oil revenue is expected to be $500 million to 600
million less than in 1984/85. At the same time, workers' remittances are
anticipated to fall by $300 million to $400 million from last year's level
and, given the number of hotel cancellations, tourist receipts will not
increase. On the other hand, earnings from the Suez Canal may remain
unchanged. Scheduled debt service will increase to over $4.5 billion.
Reflecting the amortization of past loans, net capital inflows will fall by
$300 million, despite a rise in capital grants of over $300 million. With the
fall in current account receipts and the rise in the debt service ratio, Egypt
will have to cut imperts sharply for lack of foreign resources to finance
them. This will reduce the growth rate of GDP.



- 4-
Development Potential and Constraints
12.     The external resource position facing Egypt during the remainder of
the 1980s is less favorable than in the 1970s. Nevertheless, with appropriate
policies the country has substantial potential to revive non-inflationary
economic growth with a viable balance of payments. Egypt has a large domestic
market, a diversified industrial base, ideal agro-climatic conditions in the
cultivated areas, a surplus of energy, a key geographical location and a
large, skilled labor force. Egypt will continue to enjoy a large inflow of
external resources, although at a diminished level. The severity of Egypt's
present economic difficulties is a direct reflection of the problems caused by
inappropriate policies. A sufficiently comprehensive and vigorous reform to
alter these will enable Egypt to put the economy back on a path of sustainable
growth. The Government has been making some of the needed policy adjustments
in the last few years, but at too slow a pace.
13.     The fiscal deficit should be reduced.  On the revenue side, the most
important measure is to raise energy prices to world market levels, which even
after their recent fall are still more than double Egyptian prices. Other
public sector output prices should be increased to economic levels. Tax
collections should be enhanced and made more elastic. Growth in public
expenditures should be reduced by constraining the growth of current outlays,
targetting consumption subsidies better and rationalizing the public
investment program. Credit expansion should be further dampened and domestic
interest rates should be raised and restructured to improve resource
allocation and stimulate private savings.
14.     The current account deficit in the balance of payments should be
brought down. The most important measure should be the unification and
depreciation of Egypt's various exchange rates, with the resulting cost
increases passed on to ultimate users of imported goods. The foreign trade
regime should be liberalized, with che import controls simplified and made
more uniform and with export controls relaxed.
15.     The productive sectors should be reformed.  Both agriculture and
industry have great scope to produce more of what is consumed and to export
more of their output. The energy sector can be made more efficient, mainly by
rationalizing consumption through price increases and by substituting natural
gas for scarcer fuels more rapidly. The public sector can be made more
effective by improving management and organization, strengthening its finances
through pricing and other measures, and allowing public sector companies more
autonomy. The private sector can be stimulated through a more realistic
exchange rate, freer access to imported goods at world market levels, and
fewer restrictions over private investment. Egypt must look to the private
industrial sector for most of the growth in manufactured exports required in
the medium and long run. These policy issues have been at the center stage of
the Bank's dialogue with the Egyptian authorities on economic management
(para. 23).



-5-
External Debt and Creditworthiness
16.     Egypt's creditworthiness has been adversely affected by external
developments and a deficient domestic policy response. Imports, investment
and economic growth will have to be cut drastically to accommodate the
scarcity of foreign resources. Even with substantive policy reform, a short
period of stabilization is inevitable, during which the budget and external
deficits are brought down by reducing public expenditures and imports. The
stress of adjustment could be eased through increased external financing.
With speedy adjustment across a broad front, the economy can resume growth in
the 4X-6X range in the medium-term.
17.     Egypt's external debt is large and burdensome.  At mid-1985, the
publicly guaranteed medium- and long-term civilian debt was reported at
$17 billion. Private non-guaranteed debt is about $800 million. Other
banking system obligations, not reported in the Debt Reporting System, are
estimated at $10.6 billion, of which $5.6 billion is short-term debt. In
addition to this $28 billion of civilian debt is an estimated $7.8 billion of
military debt. Total scheduled debt service paymants in 1984/85 are estimated
to have been about $3.9 billion, giving a debt service ratio of 35S. During
1985186, debt service payments are projected to rise to $4.3 billion, or 43%
of current account receipts.
18.     Without adequate economic policies, import cuts and support from the
interuational community, Egypt's external debt service will become
unsustainable. It is pressing for the Government to undertake appropriate
policy actions and then approach the international community to enlist support
for restructuring its debt and for increasing the flow of fast-disbursing
assistance, until policy action restores economic growth and viability in the
balance of payments. The Government recognizes the urgency of the matter and
has begun to take some measures. These need to be accelerated and made more
extensive. With such action, the Bank, the IMF and bilateral agencies can
support a reform program to ease the path of adjustment and restore economic
health.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN EGYPT 1/
19.     As of March 31, 1986, the World Bank Group had made 46 loans and 29
credits to Egypt. Total commitments as of that date amounted to $2901.9
million, of which $2185.2 million had been disbursed. 2/ About 34% of
approved operations finances projects in the industrial sector, while 182
supports agriculture, 18X transport and telecommunications, 18% power and
energy, and 10 the social sectors (including education, population, urban
development and water supply and sewerage). Annex II contains a summary of
Bank loans and IDA credits as of March 31, 1986.
1/ Part II is substantially the same as Part II of the President's Report No.
P-4107-EGT (Third Vocational Training Project) dated May 31, 1985,
approved by the Executive Directors on June 25, 1985.
2/ These commitments exclude loans for $558.3 million financing six projects
in the industrial, agricultural, education and transport sectors, signed
but not effective; and a loan for $100 million for the Construction
Industry Project, approved by the Board, but not yet signed.



-6-
20.     The strategy underlying Bank activities in Egypt during the 1970's
and early 1980's aimed at rehabilitating war damaged capacity, improving
maintenance practices, eliminating critical deficiencies and bottlenecks to
development, and helping the setting up and strengthening of institutions. To
achieve these goals, the Bank supported development in a wide spectrum of
sectors and served not only as provider of direct financing but also as a
catalyst for bilateral and multilateral aid to Egypt.
21.      In support of this strategy, the Bank helped the Government
rehabilitate the Suez Canal, and assisted in maintain.ng the productive
capacity of the agriculture sector. Bottlenecks in the transportation sector
(particularly ports) and in the power sector were also addressed with Bank
financing. Attention was also given to the provision of productive inputs,
with special emphasis on imported materials and energy. Deficiencies in the
areas of cement production, textiles, agricultural productivity and skilled
manpower were eased through projects in the respecLive subsectors. Private
sector activities were fostered through five operations aimed at assisting
small and medium-scale industry and through two loans for agro-industries.
More recently, export promotion has received increasing support. Most
projects included important technical assistance components aimed at
strengthening the implementing agencies and other sector institutions. The
Egyptian Public Authority for Drainage Projects (EPADP), the Egyptian
Electricity Authority, the Development Industrial Bank, the Suez Canal
Authority and the newly created Export Development Bank are good examples of
institution-building efforts supported by the Bank in Egypt.
22.     The Bank strategy for the future will focus on helping the country
restore macroeconomic balance through improved investment allocation, resource
mobilization, export promotion and employment policies. To this end, efforts
will concentrate on projects that raise output, exports, productivity and
employment in agriculture and industry. Further lending is also planned to
promote private sector activities. Other projects planned to be financed will
facilitate economic development by providing the necessary transport and urban
infrastructure, as well as skilled manpower. The Bank's past experience in
these sectors is being complemented by substantial economic and sector work to
enhance policy advice to the Government.
23.     Continued dialogue is proceeding on macroeconomic and sector policy
issues, including energy pricing, agricultural incentives, and fiscal
disequilibria among others. The dialogue would hopefully lead to agreement on
some important policy actions that currently preclude Bank cooperation in
energy and relaLed activities that would be good candidates for Bank
assistance. These include quickly-disbursing sector lending, besides loans
for power generation, energy conservation, industrial restructuring,
fertilizer production, and gas development. Progress in this area would also
facilitate the reactivation of cofinanciers meetings to help finance an
important share of Egypt's resource gap.
24.     Bank and IDA disbursements in FY85 represented 11% of Egypt's medium-
and long-term capital inflow. The Bank and IDA shares of total external debt
outstanding and disbursed (excluding military debt) were about 6% and 4%,



-7-
respectively, as of June 30, 1985. It is estimated that in FY86, debt service
payments to the Bank and IDA will be about 42 and 0.2Z, respectively, of
Egypt's external debt service payments. Disbursements that had shown a rising
trend in recent years, and reached $347 million in FY84, as a result of
improvements in overall project implementation and of better knowledge of the
Bank's disbursement procedures by the Egyptian authorities. There has been,
however, a marked decline since then to $257 million in FY85 (and to about
$140 million so far in FY86) as a result of shortage of local currency
allocations, delays in procurement, and inadequate project management. These
problems are being addressed through project implementation reviews and
increased Bank supervision efforts.
IFC
25.      IFC's equity participations and lending commitments for projects in-
Egypt as of March 31, 986, totalled $105 million. Most of the Corporation's
activities have been lending operations. The most important projects financed
are a project for an agricultural complex primarily for sugar beet, a building
mater5als project in Suez and a reinforcing bar project at El Dikheila.  IFC
has provided technical assiW:ance in the design of Inceatives to private
sector invebtments and in the development of the capital market. IFC is
considering several other private sector and joint venture projects. A
summary of IFC operations in Egypt is given in Annex II.
PART III - IRRIGATION AND DRATNAGE SUBSECTOR
Introduction
26.     Egypt has a total area of one million (M) square kilometers (km')
or 238 M feddans (fec). About 96S of the area of the country is desert, and
the remaining 4%, concentrated mostly in the valley of the Nile and its delta,
is densely populated, averaging 1,300 persons/km2 and is agriculturally
productive. This arable area of some 6.4 M fed amounts to only 0.14 fed per
capita-amongst the lowest levels of availability in the world. Despite these
constraints, agriculture accounts for about 18Z of the GDP and 40S of total
civilian employment.
27.     The land base for agricultural production consists of 5.5 M fed of
"old" lands and 0.9 M fed of reclaimed lands. The "old" lands include all of
the fertile areas in the valley of the Nile and the delta where about 971 of
Egypt's total agricultural production is generated. The productivity of this
limited land resource depends upon irrigation. Following completion of the
High Aswan Dam (HAD) in 1968 and the provision of perennial water supplies to
all irrigated areas, cropping intensities and water use per unit of area
increased. A consequence of intensified irrigation has been a rising
groundwater table, and increased problems of waterlogging and salinity. More
intensive irrigation has also required higher peak discharges from the canal
system; thus the demands placed on both the irrigation and drainage channels
have become more severe. In parallel with these changes, the HAD resulted in
much reduced silt loads in the irrigation water and with clear water and
increased use of fertilizers, conditions became propitious for weed growth in
irrigation and drainage channels. Thus, while the demands on the system were



-8-
increasing, the maintenance needs were changing from silt removal to weed
control, and became a key constraint to the efficient functioning of both the
irrigation and drainage channels. For sustaining gains in agricultural
production, it has become essential to make optimal use of existing land and
-ater resources and obtain a higher level of efficiency in the operation and
maintenance of the drainage and irrigation infrastructure. The Government of
Egypt (GOE) has, therefore, accorded high priority to improving the drainage
conditions in the agricultural land as well as to removing the constraints
that prevent the channels from operating at their design potential.
Bank/IDA Involvement in the Subsector
28.      Past operations in the subsector have sought to address major
elements in the development strategy. The Bank serves as the executing agency
for the Water Master Plan, a UJNDP-financed project for planning water
development and use. The Technical Assistance Project (Credit 1162-EGT) was
designed to help the Government develop an institutional capacity to undertake
planning and feasibility studies for agricultural projects; as a result,
suitably equipped Project Planning Departments have now been established in
she Ministry of Irrigation and Land Reclamation. The major component of Bank
lending, in terms of numbers of projects and resources committed, has been a
series of five drainage projects covering about 2.6 million fed of irrigated
area. The ongoing Irrigation Pumping Stations Rehabilitation Project (Loan
_270-EGT) is the first phase of a national program to prevent crop losses due
to irrigation/drainage pump failures and to strengthen the institution
responsible for running the system.
29.      Past Bank lending for irrigation and drainage has highlighted the
following important lessons, which have been incorporated into the design of
the proposed project: (a) the most effective projects are simple, and
preferably involve only one Ministry; (b) newly established organizations are
generally slow in mobilization; (c) the project implementation period needs to
take account of factors that may cause delays, such as procurement problems,
shortages of staff, and inadequate budgetary allocations for projects; and (d)
the strengthening of Government agencies involved in furthering development of
existing resources is the highest priority.
Other Donor Support for Irrigation and Drainage
30.      A brief summary of other externally supported programs and projects
in the subsector of irrigation and drainage follows:
(a)  Dutch-Egyptian Bilateral Program. Dicch technical assistance for
drainage and channel maintenance started in December 1975. A report
on aquatic weed control was :ssued in 1978. The Dutch Government has
also supported research by the Weed (Control) Research Institute
(WRI) on biological weed control. In addition, a four-year (1983/87)
ongoing program aims at training the staff of the Egyptian Public
Authority for Drainage Projects (EPADP) in construction management
and maintenance of drainage facilities.



-9-
(b) USAID Program. Three projects funded by USAID relate to improving
irrigation facilities and to strengthening manpower development. Of
the two completed projects, the Agricultural Canal Reconstruction and
Maintenance Project provided channel maintenance equipment amounting
to about $30 N between 1978 and 1982. The ongoing Irrigation
Management Systems Project covers 10 sub-projects with USAID input
totalling $139.5 M and is scheduled for completion in 1987. The
sub-projects include: replacement of 11,000 deteriorated water
control structures throughout the Irrigation System; a telemetry
system (260 locations) to monitor and improve system operation;
training and manpower development, and irrigation improvement.
(c) The Canadian International Development Agency also is funding an
irrigation and drainage improvement program in some 50,000 fed in the
East Delta.
Nile River IrriRation and DrainaRe Systems
31.     In Egypt, irrigation initially depended on annual flooding of the
Nile. The area served was gradually extended by a canal system which has
evolved since the 1840s when perennial irrigation began on a significant
scale. The system is functional, but in many respects is not as efficient as
it could be. A serious problem exists with regard to the maintenance of
irrigation and drainage channels, caused both by the improper techniques
currently in use and by the unique combination of conditions which encourages
profuse weed growth.
32.     The Ministry of Irrigation (NOI) is directly responsible for the
operation and maintenance (O&M) of all public irrigation canals (through its
Irrigation Sector or IS) and drainage channels (through both the IS and
EPADP). The total length of canals and drains is approximately 48,000 km.
7he privately owned farm header ditches (called mesgas) extend to over 80,000
km. of which some 12,000 km. are large mesqas serving 200 fed or more. The
WRI, which operates under the Water Research Center (WRC), provides technical
support in weed control. Mesqa maintenance is the responsibility of the
farmers, who may undertake the work themselves, employ private contractors, or
request the MOI to maintain the channel at their expense. Where mes!a
maintenance is unsatisfactory, the MOI has legal authority to perform worn at
the expense of the farmers.
33.     The IS is responsible for providing technical guidance to, and
supervision of, the field organization for O&M of the canal system and, at
present, maintenance of some 8,200 km of open drains. Under the direction of
a First Undersecretary, the headquarters' organization has three main
departments, each headed by an Undersecretary, concerned respectively with
budget and accounts, maintenance, and water distribution. The field units
comprise 19 Irrigation Directorates which are subdivided into 41 Inspectorates
and 167 Districts. The IS has a work force of 9,500 staff, including some 600
engineers and over 1,000 technicians directly concerned with O&M activities.
Directorates cover areas ranging in size from 170,000 to 600,000 fed of land
under irrigation and are appropriately staffed to carry out all O&M



- 10 -
functions. The Directorate staff, in turn, provide supervision of the
District Engineers who are directly responsible for O&M of the system in areas
up to 50,000 fed.
34.     The EPADP, a semi-autonomous authority, was established in 1973 to
implement IDA-financed drainage projects. In 1979, the Authority was also
given responsibility for the maintenance of open drains associated with
subsurface drains. At present, it is responsible for some 8,500 km of open
drains and will increasingly take over responsibility for this from the IS
with the expansion of subsurface drains. The Undersecretary for Maintenance
in EPADP administers 9 field Directorates which, in turn, are divided into 50
Centers and, for maintenance of field drainage, into 214 subcenters.
Directorates range in size from 150,000 to 300,000 fed of drained land and
Centers from 40,000 to 50,000 fed. The staffing structure and management
functions of Drain Maintenance Directorates and Centers are similar to those
of Irrigation Directorates and Districts, respectively.
Planning and Budgeting
35.     Channel maintenance is financed through the Government's general
budget. Annual budgets are established by the OI in three categories: (i)
salaries and wages for permanent MOI employees in the IS and EPADP; (ii)
maintenance contracts between the IS and EPADP on the one hand, and four
Public Excavation Companies (PECs) organized under MOI and private contractors
on the other, and (iii) a fund for chemical weed control. The budgetary
process is satisfactory, but the allocation of funds is oriented to
traditional channel excavation rather than to current maintenance needs,
particularly weed control.
36.     Annual maintenance expenditure in 1983/84 averaged £E 1,200/km, and
the average cost/fed of irrigated land was £E 10, or about 1% of the gross
annual agricultural income. Total expenditures (£E 42 M) on maintenance
contracts have increased by about 50% since 1980/81. This level of funding
would be adequate to meet expenditures projected for the maintenance schedule
under the proposed project.
Institutional and Policy Related Issues
37.      Institutional issues in the sector include the shortage of trained
personnel, the unattractiveness of public sector wage scales, and deficiencies
in formulating work programs. While the public companies engaged in channel
maintenace are familiar with different maintenance modes, both the allocation
of budgetary resources and the unit rate structure established for maintenance
works have tended to encourage silt and mud removal, rather than weed
clearance operations. These rates were revised effective September 1985 to
provide iuducements for weed mowing. The proposed project would provide the
impetus for the introduction of an integrated maintenance system through
balanced work-cycles of weed mowing, chemical treatment and desilting for
various channel types. Since herbicides provide the only effective method of
controlling submersed weeds in the larger canals as well as water hyacinth in
the canals and drains, it is important to ensure that their use does not pose



- 11 -
environmental or health hazards. While there are satisfactory regulations
governing the approval and use of herbicides, in practice the arrangements for
the transport, storage and application safety of herbicides-including
Acrolein, a "restricted use" herbicide-has to be managed better.  The
institutional arrangements envisaged under the proposed project would help
secure the safe and effective use of the herbicides. The existing
arrangements for maintenance of mesgas place the responsibility on the
farmers; however, when there is poor maintenance, it leads to shortages at the
tail-ends, necessitating extension of the irrigation cycle and increasing the
return flows to drains. Under the proposed project, the Irrigation
Directorates, in collaboration with the concerned Agricultural Cooperatives,
will closely monitor the muaintenance of mesqas serving more than 200 fed (in
total about 12,000 km) and, !fhere necessary, carry out required maintenance
works at the cost of beneficiaries. Also, the Irrigation Directorates,
working in cooperation with the concerned Agricultural Cooperatives, would
ensure maintenance of smaller mesgas by farmers and, should they fail to do so
properly, would undertake such maintenance at their cost. As a result of the
project, the total channel maintenance costs are expected to decline. At
present, there is no direct recovery of costs of channel maintenance; however,
the agricultural sector is subjected to a variety of levies and taxes.
Keeping in view the objective of reducing the fiscal gap, it was agreed that
during the period of project implementation, the Borrower and the Bank will
from time to time exchange views and reach an understanding on the specific
targets and measures for recovery of the maintenance costs of irrigation and
drainage channels. Such measures will be discussed in the context of an
action plan formulated by the Borrower by December 1987, in accordance with
the Borrower's regulations in force, and will aim at achieving such cost
recovery in the time frame of the proposed project. They would also be
followed up regularly in connection with the supervision of ongoing irrigation
and drainage projects.
Part IV - THE PROJECT
Project History
38.     As inadequate maintenance of channels became particularly apparent, a
proposal for a project to improve the maintenance system was discussed in
Washington with the Minister of Irrigation in September 1983. During a
follow-up Bank mission in March 1984, the project outline and a timetable for
preparation were agreed. The project was prepared by the Ministry of
Irrigation (MOI), with assistance from consultants recruited under an IDA
Technical Assistance Credit and from two FAO/CP missions visiting Egypt in
November 1984 and May 1985. Based on MOI's 12-Year Channel Maintenance Plan
(September 1985) and an FAO/CP Project Preparation Report (July 1985), Bank
appraisal took place in September/October 1985. Negotiations were held in May
1986, with a Government delegation headed by Dr. Shafey, First Undersecretary
of the Ministry of Planning and International Cooperation.  A staff appraisal
report entitled "Channel Maintenance Project" (No. 6044-EGT, dated May 29,
1986), is being distributed separately. The main features of the project are
summarized in the Loan and Project Summary and in Annex III. Maps No. IBRD
19445 and 19446 (attached) show the project area.



- 12 -
Project Rationale, Objectives and Bank Involvement
39.      Two factors are of major significance in any consideration of
agricultural development in Egypt: first, the main source of growth will have
to be from the "old lands" (para. 27); and, second, any strategy for
increasing agricultural production in these lands must give high priority to
removing major constraints affecting the performance of the installed
irrigation and drainage facilities. By aiming at improvement of the
maintenance of canals and open drains throughout the old lands, the project
would make an important contribution to removing an increasingly severe
constraint to the reliability and equity of water distribution as well as to
the adequate functioning of drainage. In view of the critical importance of
maintenance of irrigation and drainage channels for accelerating agricultural
productivity, the Bank views this project to be of high priority. The project
would be fully consistent with the recommendations made for improved channel
maintenance in several Bank reports issued since 1982.
40.      The objectives of the project are to: (a) increase agricultural
production by a more efficient functioning of canals and open drains;
(b) minimize the need to undertake major investments for the rehabilitation of
these channels, and (c) contain or reduce maintenance costs. To achieve this,
the project would: (a) assist MOI in a phased introduction of modern
maintenance techniques appropriate to current needs; (b) strengthen the
existing institutional capacity of the agencies concerned with channel
maintenance; (c) enhance the productivity of the staff and equipment of the
four MOI-administered Public Excavation Companies (PECs) involved in channel
maintenance; and (d) increase the role of private contractors in carrying out
routine maintenance works.
Approach to Channel Maintenance
41.      Weeds of various types, such as emersed/ditch-bank, floating,
submersed and mixed, currently infest 68% (33,000 km) of public canals and
drains which total 48,000 km in length. As stated, the traditional system of
maintenance involving large-scale excavation is no longer an efficient and
cost-effective method of keeping channels free of weeds and in good shape.
The proposed project would substitute the present maintenance system by
balanced work-cycles, requiring: (i) weed mowing and desilting for channels up
to 2 meters bed-width, and (ii) an integrated scheme of weed mowing, desilting
and chemical treatment of weeds for larger channels. On the basis of
experience available in Egypt and elsewhere, maintenance cycles have been
established for each category of canals and drains for which the MOI is
responsible. Introduction of the new system will take about six years and has
been phased in a way which is consistent with a readjustment of working
practices, the training of personnel, and utilizing the existing equipment as
far as possible, while introducing the new equipment primarily as a substitute
for worn out machinery. Because of their wide acceptability, effectiveness,
and low toxicity when properly applied, the herbicides Glysophate and Dalapon
are proposed for controlling emersed/ditch-bank weeds; and for controlling
floating weeds, the application of Ametrine and Diquat is proposed, as
explained, with sufficient safeguards (para. 37). While the treatment of
submersed weeds in larger canals with Acrolein-a restricted use
herbicide--will continue, the project will promote its handling, storage and



13 -
application safety by trained personnel in accordance with prescribed
guidelines, including the KOI directives, manufacturer recommendations, and
the Bank's guidelines. In addition, the project would support MOI's ongoing
effort in biological weed control, such as the use of grass carp.
Proiect Description
42.     The project consists of:
- an investment component to modernize Egypt's channel maintenance
capabilities, including the provision of equipment, spare parts and
herbicides (except Acrolein which will be financed by [OI as
recurrent costs), and the construction/improvement of residential
buildings, workshops, and stores for herbicides;
- an incremental recurrent costs component for institutional
development aimed at strengthening the agencies involved in channel
maintenance; and
- a technical assistance and training component which would include
both expatriate and local specialists for upgrading the channel
maintenance data base, programs and procedures as well as
appropriate in-service training programs for professional and
technical staff of concerned organizations.
43.      Investment Component (Base Cost $87.1 M).  The project would finance:
(i) procurement of maintenance and support equipment, spare parts and vehicles
for the contracting agencies, which include private sector companies ($67.8
[0; (ii) provision of vehicles and office, field and laboratory equipment for
the implementing agencies ($3.6 M); (iii) purchase of herbicides ($13.5 M);
and (iv) civil works ($2.2 M).  The maintenance equipment requirements have
been based on the phased replacement of the existing equipment by a balanced
mix of mowers, excavators and self-propelled herbicide sprayers and of support
equipment, vehicles and spare parts to the minimum necessary. The contracts
for the procurement of equipment would include the provision of training aids
as well as assistance in operational training by equipment suppliers'
technicians for one year. The implementing agencies, namely the IS, EPADP and
WRI, would receive computer facilities for data coding and analysis as well as
specialized field and laboratory equipment for in-channel monitoring of
herbicide residue. The quantities of herbicides (Glysophate, Dalapon,
Ametrine and Diquat) required for weed control are based on the lengths of
canals and drains to be treated annually for various weed types and on the
mauufacturerst recommended rates of application.  The use of Acrolein will be
equal to the average quantity applied between 1982-85. The civil works
include construction of four stores for safe storage of herbicides, and of
essential additional housing in the Irrigation Directorates and workshop.
44.      Incremental Recurrent Costs for Institutional Development:  (Base
Cost $2.8 M). The project would finance the incremental recurrent and related
O&M costs of the additional staff required for strengthening: (i) the office
of the Undersecretary Maintenance at the central level; (ii) the field



- 14 -
Directorates and Districts under the IS, and (iii) the weed control and
monitoring and evaluation (M&E) units in the WRI.
45.      Technical Assistance and Training (Base Cost $2.5 M).  The project
would provide specialists and consultants as follows:
Channel Maintenance Prozrams and Procedures by the IS and EPADP: 39
person-months (36 in resident status) of a channel maintenance
specialist and 7 person-months of an equipment expert.
Weed Control by WRI: About 29 person-months of short-term experts to
strengthen WRI in areas such as botanical, chemical and biological
weed control as well as chemical analysis, including in-channel
monitoring of Acrolein residue.
Operational Planning and Manpower Development by PECs: 27
person-months of short-term specialists to assist PECs in
establishing planning units and management information system as well
as in upgrading workshop operations, equipment preventive maintenance
and equipment evaluation.
Financial Manatement by PECs: 51 person-months of experts
specializing in financial management for upgrading PECs financial and
inventory control systems.
46.      Appropriate in-service training programs, designed along functional
lines, would be carried out to meet the project's needs for professional and
technical staff in implementing agencies, and for engineers, mechanics and
operators in PECs.
Organization and Management
47.      The MO0 would be responsible for overall planning and coordination of
the project. For this purpose, a Channel Maintenance Board (CMB) would be
established. A suitably qualified and high ranking official designated by the
Minister of Irrigation would be the Chairman of the CMB; and the First
Undersecretaries of the IS and Planning and Follow-up Department as well as
the Chairman of EPADP, Water Research Center (which controls the WRI), and the
Irrigation Public Sector Authority (a holding company for PECs) would be its
members. The CMB would (a) ensure coordination among the implementing
agencies, (b) review and approve annual work programs, and (c) monitor the
status of project execution. To assist the CMB in technical matters and in
monitoring the project, a Technical Committee chaired by the First
Undersecretary (IS) would be established. The Technical Committee would
include the Undersecretary (Maintenance) as its Executive Secretary and
representatives of EPADP, PECs and WRI. The Technical Committee would meet at
least once every three months to monitor project activities, coordinate the
annual work plans with project targets, review specifications for
project-related goods and ensure their timely procurement, evaluate equipment
performance, recommend to the CMB unit rates payable for various types of
channel maintenance activities, monitor training programs, and carry



- 15 -
out other works or studies as the CMB may assign. Establishment of the CMB
and the Technical Conmittee are conditions of Loan effectiveness.
48.     The project would be implemented through existing institutions of the
MDI, namely the IS, the EPADP and the WRI, with the First Undersecretary of
the IS providing the key role of the Project Director. The project would
strengthen as necessary the office of the Undersecretary Maintenance to assist
the First Undersecretary IS in all project related activities, including
preparation of annual work plans, compilation of project accounts, handling
procurement and withdrawal documentation, preparing quarterly reports and the
project completion report. Assurances have been obtained with respect to
reporting requirements such as the submission to the Bank of annual work
plans, quarterly progress reports and completion report. Each of the 19
Irrigation Directorates and 167 Irrigation Districts would be strengthened by
the addition of a Chief Engineer Maintenance and a Maintenance Assistant
respectively. The Weed Control Unit in the WRI would be strengthened by the
addition of one senior botanist, two weed research scientists, two laboratory
technicians and five botanically trained weed scientists and technicians, to
provide necessary back-up and training support in the use of herbicides.
Also, a M&E Unit would be established in WRI having two analytical chemists,
two computer system analysts, five data coders, a senior monitoring engineer
and five field monitoring assistants. Formal assignment of key staff required
for the strengthening of the above units is a condition of Loan effectiveness.
49.      The project would provide technical assistance to the IS, WRI and
PECs. The consultants for the IS would assist in developing improved programs
and procedures for channel maintenance, and those for the PECs, in setting-up
planning units, improved workshop operations, and computerized systems for
management information, financial management, and inventory control. The
training programs by the implementing agencies (particularly the IS and WRI)
and the PECs will be carried out under arrangements satisfactory to the Bank.
The training coordinator in the IS, with assistance from a channel maintenance
specialist, will design the training program for the IS, EPADP and WRI, and
the program would be implemented after review by the Bank. The PECs would
provide both off-site and on-the-job training to professional staff, mechanics
and operators, using existing facilities with training aids supplemented under
the project, as well as technicians provided by equipment suppliers. Emphasis
would also be placed on developing and implementing an on-the-job training
program by the WRI and the technicians of the suppliers of self-propelled
sprayers in the use of the herbicides. Such training would be directed mostly
to the PEC's application crews as well as to the field engineers and
technicians of the IS and EPADP. No engineering design is involved with the
proposed project since all activities relate to the maintenance of the
existing channels. A work program for the period 1986-88 was agreed to during
negotiations.
Implementation
50.      The project implementation period of six and a half years represents
the transition period between current practices and the proposed future
maintenance system. Procurement of most of the equipment and herbicides will
be completed by December 31, 1991. Construction of new stores for herbicides



- 16 -
and essential staff housing would begin in 1987. Training of senior staff
would be carried out during fiscal years 1988 to 1990, while for other staff,
throughout the project implementation period. Most of the consultants' work
would be completed by December 1990, while some of the specialists tasks would
continue on a short-term basis until the end of the project.
51.      Annual work programs have been drawn up for the period 1986-88 to
facilitate project implementation. Also, assurances have been obtained that
the work program, reviewed by CMB, would be submitted to the Bank by June 30
of each year. The program would include: a review of progress achieved in the
preceding year, in light of targeted objectives, including procurement, works,
manpower development and training; a brief description of all activities to be
undertaken in the following fiscal year; an estimate of funding requirements
for such activities, including recurrent costs for maintenance works, and a
financing plan to secure the funds required in local and foreign currencies.
A mid-term review of the project would be done by the end of 1989. The
objectives of the review would be an in-depth analysis of the progress made in
meeting the project objectives and to agree on any changes in project
components and their funding requirements.
Cost Estimates and FinancinR
52.      The total cost of the proposed project is estimated at $126.9 M,
including about $15.7 M import duties and taxes and $34.5 M for physical and
price contingencies. The foreign exchange component is estimated at about
$78.8 M, or 62% of total cost. Estimates are based on recent bids received in
Egypt and on quotations from suppliers, appropriately adjusted to early 1986
estimated unit prices. Staff salaries and training allowances are based on
rates within the PECs and EPADP. Physical contingencies are estimated at 10l
for civil works, technical assistance and staffing, and at 5S for all other
items. Price contingencies are based on increases in local costs of 141 in
1986 and 131 per annum thereafter; while for foreign exchange costs they are
based on increases of 7.21, 6.81, 6.81, 7.01, 7.11, in the years 1986-90,
respectively and 4% per annum for 1991 and 1992.
53.      The proposed loan of $70 M would finance 891 of the project's
foreign exchange cost; the Borrower would finance the remaining element of
foreign exchange costs and 100l of local costs. Also, the Borrower will meet
in full the annual recurrent costs of the channel maintenance program, which
is estimated to decline from its current level of LE 44.6 M to LE 34.7 N (in
1985/86 prices) at full project development in 1992/93.
Procurement
54.      The table below summarizes the proposed procurement arrangements.



- 17 -
Suumary of Proposed Procurement Arrangements a/
Proiect Component           ICB bJ   LCB      Other b/    N/A c/   Total
-($M4 Equivalent))-
-Naintenance Equipment            39.5      9.7     10.4 d/     32.0      91.6
(39.5)   (1.2)   (10.4)                 (51.1)
-Equipment for MOI                 0.4      2.4      0.2 d/      1.4       4.4
(0.4)   (0.3)    (0.2)                  (0.9)
-Herbicides                       15.9      -        -           2.8      18.7
(15.9)                                  (15.9)
-Civil Works                       -        3.4      -           -         3.4
-Technical Assistance and          -        -        2.1         1.4       3.5
Training                                         (2.1)                  (2.1)
-Strengthening Institutions        -        -        -           5.3       5.3
Total                           55.8    15.5      12.7        42.9     126.9
(55.8)   (1.5)   (12.7)                 (70.0)
a/ Figures in parentheses are the amounts to be financed by Bank loan; minor
discrepancies due to rounding.
b/ If parallel financing is arranged, donor procedures would apply to selected
goods.
c_ Local costs including $15.7 M for import duties and taxes.
dJ Representing cost of spare parts to be procured directly from original
foreign manufacturers or other small items to be procured by obtaining
quotations from at least three suppliers.
Three contracts for all maintenance equipment including 3pare parts amounting
to 201 of the value of such equipment, three for herbicides and two contracts
for S0DI equipment and goods would be awarded on the basis of International
Competitive Bidding (ICB) in accordance with the Bank Guidelines. The total
value of these items (excluding local costs) will be about 71Z of the foreign
cost of the project or 80Z of the Bank loan. Domestic preferences of 15Z or
the applicable customs duty, whichever is lower, would be granted. Additional
spare parts amounting to about 141 of the Bank loan will be procured from
suppliers or manufacturers of equipment for which the parts are needed.
Exempted from the above procedures would be small items costing less than
$100,000 or small contracts of up to $50,000, the total value of which would
not exceed $2.0 M. Contracts would be let out to public and private
contractors for civil works amounting to about $3.3 M and for routine
maintenance of channels up to 2 meters bed-width, following local competitive
bidding procedures acceptable to the Bank. These works are not suitable for
ICB, and are to be fully financed by the Government. Transport vehicles
excepting double cabin pick-ups are produced/assembled locally and will be



- 18 -
procured and financed by the Borrower following local procedures acceptable to
the Dank. Consultants for tarious project activities will be engaged in
accordance with the Bank Guidelines for the Use of Consultants.
Disbursements
55.     The proposed Bank Loan of $70 M would be disbursed over eight years
(FY87-94) as follows: (a) equipment, spare parts and herbicides-100S of
foreign and of domestic expenditures ex-factory, and 50X of local expenditures
for such items procured locally, and (b) 1001 of the foreign exchange costs of
experts' services.    special account of $3 N would be set up to facilitate
timely disbursements of eligible expenditures. The special account, when
established, would be operated in accordance with standard Bank guidelines.
The Bank would continue to accept, in appropriate cases, withdrawal
applications for direct payment or agreements to reimburse. It is anticipated
that disbursement wo ld be completed by June 30, 1994, about one year after
the scheduled compleon date for the project.  This schedule is marginally
fa.6'er than the countfry average (eight years versus nine), but the nature of
the expenditures to bt financed and channel maintenance being an ongoing
activity, with a system for planning and execution in place, justifies a
slightly shorter period of disbursement.
Accounting and Auditing
56.     All agencieslinvolved in channel maintenance would be subject to
Government expenditure control and auditing procedures, which are considered
satisfactory. Project accounts would be maintained separately and adequately
to reflect, in accordance with sound accounting practices, the project
cperations, resources and expenditures. These accounts would be audited
annuAlly by the Government's Central Audit Organization-an independent
auditor-and the audited accounts together with auditors' report, of such
scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested, would be
submitted to the Bank as soon as available but not later than six months after
the end of each fiscal year.
Monitoring and Evaluation
57.     Monitoring of physical and financial aspects of the project would be
carried out principally through periodic progress reports, annual work
programs and the proposed mid-term review (para. 51). Assurances have been
obtained that, with assistance from the project-financed consultants, the IS
and WRI would prepare an M&E program, submit it to the Bank by September 30,,
1987, and implement the agreed program. Such a program would include the
standard procedures, the forms for data collection and the computerized
procedures for data storage, processing and analysis. Emphasis with regard to
field data would be put on: surveys for weed occurrence; the hydraulic
condition of channels; assessments of quantities of desilting, deweeding and
chemical treatment of weeds, and of the effectiveness of chemical treatment
including proper application practices for Acrolein, together with sampling
and analysis for its presence at water intakes and other critical locations.
Evaluation would focus on ascertaining the effectiveness of the proposed



-19 -
maintenance system, the applicable costs, the efficiency in equipment
availability and usage, and the efficiency in the use of herbicides, in
particular Acrolein, and the possibility of reducing the use of herbicides.
Environmental Issues
58.     While better functioning canals and open drains would improve both
the general environment and rural health conditions, the use of herbicides to
control regrowtb of aquatic weeds following the mechanical removal of weed
biomass is critical to the success of the project. The four herbicides
(Glysophate. De1apon, Diquat and Ametrine) proposed for the control of
emergent, ditch-bank and floating weeds have low mammalian toxicities when
properly applied, and are recommended and approved for use in many areas of
the world. Assurances were obtained that MOI would effectively apply its
existing directives, and herbicides manufacturers' recommendations for the
handling, storage and application safety of above herbicides and of Acrolein
or Magnacide X-a restricted use herbicide.  In this context, the relevant
Bank guidelines have been made available to the Borrower and the MOI.
Acrolein has been used by MOI since 1975 for the control of submersed weeds.
However, while the use of Acrolein is proposed to continue under the project
for lack of an acceptable or cost-effective alternative, a principal issue
involved is the method of handling and use by MOI of this herbicide.
Agreement has been reached on a program for: upgrading the storage of
Aerolein, the handling of this herbicide in heavier-walled steel containers,
providing equipment required for its application safety, the training of
personnel for safe handling and application, and the setting-up a monitoring
program by trained personnel, including in-channel water sampling and
analysis. Evidence of adoption of necessary measures is a condition of Loan
effectiveness .
Project Benefits and Risks
59.     The proposed project would improve the maintenance of irrigation and
drainage channels by introducing technologies which are suited to present
maintenance needs, replacing methods which were developed to meet quite
different circumstances. The costs of the proposed system are lower than the
costs of continuing with the current methods: the capital costs of phasing in
the new machinery would be less than the costs of replacements required to the
existing fleet, and the operating costs under the proposed system would be
lower than current costs of maintenance in every year, except marginally in
the second year of the project.
60.     With positive incremental benefits and negative net costs, the
conventional rate of return is not applicable, and the Net Present Value (NPV)
approach to computing benefits is preferable. At a 121 discount rate, over 30
years, the NPV of the project would be EE 44 M, based solely on cost savings.
The NWV would remain positive for large increases in the capital costs of
machinery (+501) or the operating costs of equipment (+301). Under these
circumstances, and given the fact that the technologies to be applied are
already proven elsewhere in the world, the risks of project failure are
minimal.



- 20 -
PART V - RECOMENDATION
61.     I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A.W. Clausen
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
June 3, 1986



-21-                                            AUN    I
Page 1 of 7
sLLL L-
usia    moLt~o smvr  o* 
1   a§ -   UTD" -  ". zv  & g  W            LT  . 4102L  & CA
a Clnma sq.m ~        ~       M          iik    2a A.Numg" "laloL                         AT MAUAC
ToTaL                             1001.4      IOD1       1001.4
SUIWlIURAL                          24A         33.4        284                  .
o   M  0*3  (M..                                              700.*G            1124.9                   1375.9
- sm=wius MnGa
IKIdRUAS Ol OXL RQUWASIT           195.0       212.0      49.0                623.9                     M2
wu_nm  - vm cels
uaLATINU,Nl0TA  CTIuUMU)  25832.0    25052O              45149.0
1114 UCUTAIII (RO  TOTRA)           57.9        42.2        44.6               49.0                     57.7
An 111           n
POPUIA   M   RA 2"00 a (LL)                               62.3.
ca a   NIILAT,aIO  (ELLS                                 312.0
UOIAZE      PA 1 U101 Nt                                  1.0
PUOFLAEO    I2
7R  SQ. 1U.                       25.5        33.0       45.1               57.3                      45.0
M3  SQ. Un.  t3. UN             1041.2      112.5       1545.0             470.1                      91.1
FNAITII  A02 1lT2M3   CZ)
0-14 13                          42.1        41.5        39.1               43.5                    32.5
15.4  TN                          54.7        54.9       57.1               5.0                       57.1
5* M10  _                          3.1         3.2 2..   32.                                           4.2
NIOULAZ'l0u 0 0 RAn  CZ)
T0AL                               2.4         2.5         2.                IA                        2.4
UlA                                4.1         2.5         2.9               4.                       32.
Clow Kn11 3AT (PU TWOS              44.2        3.5        33.2.              *0.0                      50.9
aUIX 3131 USSPU 2m0W                20.2        17.2        10.9              11.5                       0.0
cuE  uEPnUCTKUN 21                   5.1         2.9         2.2               2.0                       2.0
PAN PL?   MS
ACCWIOS. ANMUAL (TAU.3)                      204.0        57.0A 4e
usCIS Wor NUUOD w1                 ..           -         24.0              21.4                      453
14ci oD mm eo . M  CAPTa
(1905-71.100)                       95.0         9.0        U.0               95.1                     109.4
7U CAPTA UPMT OP
CAL0X7 tX 0X IUN UiIUUTS)         97.0       100.0      123.0              110.2                     112.2
P305MNB (CRAM  FU DAY)             9.0        69.0       51L.0              77A                       49.4
of 36108 ANEIAL An FULl          19.0        17.0        19.01             17.5                      24.2
CLD CAGU  1-4) u1 RnS               22.9        19.1        14.0              12.5                       4.3
LIFE MtPKT. AT UR  ClEaR)           44..        49.9       57.5               57.3                      44.3
IPANrT MT. 33 (M  TaIo)            128.5       117.2      102.0               96.3                      59.7
TOTL                                         39.0         75.0 It           67.2                      65.3
133AM                             39.5        94.0        53. 7A            92.4                     .7S.5
RUL                                ..        93.0        "4.0 7e            45.6                      44.2
£CCZ5 TO COtA D30L
(Z OF FOFULATZaO
TaTAL                              9.          .         25. /e             45                        56.3
U                                  ..          ..        4.0 a              02.0                      73.4
RAL                                            .          10.0              28.4                     25.1
IOPUU2ZC  F  33msc1               2550.0      19OO.      970.0 4c 431.0                              1909.1
Po  3U 1133C  PENC                1930.0 la  1620.0      1500. 713 6.0                                30S.2
7lOP in NIMAL mm
TOTAL                            400.0       440.0       490.0 if          621.8                     ISIAS
uREAM                            510.0 o    320.0        E0.0              5 O45.0                   422.0
RURAL                           2190.0 77  .2130.0     241o.n0 ;          23113                    2716.7
ASSS1 Pvi HOSPITAL MD0                                     20.                25.7                      27.5
AVERSE SUIZ  OP  USUOLD
TOTAL                              *.2 15
033*3                              4.6         ..         *.0..
RURAL                              ..          ..
A1cuss n0. Or PKRSoI/CO
TOTAL                                                      1. Sj 
013*31.4                              ..          .                  ..
UL                                                        .
PoCUNTAS5 OP AERLISS VITT EE!T.
TOTAL                                                     U .7 f
DREAM                    ~~~~ ~ ~~~37.3  .       76.9
RURAL..lS6J



- 22 -                                            ANNEX I
T AI LS 2  3^                                Page  2  of  7
gt~~~~ ALS  IIeo       L        l _ 34S( b
I~;   2            -  ORAl IN     TR6 DATA        CbiIOIITED AVERAGCS) 
LUST                     (MOST 3z?  s1TIMAT) /b
UlRUIW          IffULI tNCOIS           MIDrLs TlOsI
u1.6od    i17aLk  SUI2Lk    M. ARIC1A & KID EAST           LAT. AMRICA A CAR
mac
AWNUED EIOLLMET RATOS
PuzxWi  TOTAL                    46.0        72.0        76.0              J9.a                    106.7
IUU                    U-0.       SI.O        *0-0              103.7                    108.5
-U                     52.0       56.0        65.0              75.2                     104.6
m   OTAL                16.0        34.0        54.0              42.9                     44.2
MALE                   23.0       46.0        62.0              50.9                     42.7
131M                    9.0       22.0        4.0               34.6                     44.9
vOC&xzoA. (Z ow igMn )             22.0        19.0       24.0               10.0                     13.3
PUPZL-TACIER RATIO
rIMA                             39.0        *o.0       34.0               29.7                     29.9
SECOISAIT                        16.0        25.0        18.0              18.1                     16.7
FassUG  CaRS/TUSas  Po              2.0         4.0        10.2 /c           17.8                     46.0
RADIO  UC     CIzvs/ _UUI  707     58.1       133.1      1L5.4              175.9                    328.3
TV UECEIEE/TNCUAND Pop              1.9        16.0       41.9               51.2                    112.4
neuAr C"DAT    EAL
XrNTuEST") CMMLMON
M  TEDSAND OKLAT                    ..        22.5       78.6               37.2                     61.1
CDOO  AIU1AL AUEIUAICCAPIT          2.6         2.0         1.2 i             2.4                      2.4
TOTAL LANK FOE (TNOS)            7453.0      9241.0    12543.0
PIKAL9 CFPER=T                    7.3         7.2        8.2               11.0                     23.6
ACEIXC.LI   (PRECEPT)            56.0        54.0        50.0 /c           42.4                     31.4
INDUT      (tPECN)               12.0        19.0       30.0 W             27.9                     24.3
PARtTCIPATON RATE (PRCEN)
TOL                              28.9        26.0        27.6              26.2                     33.5
MALM                             53.2        51.5        50.6              46.2                     51.3
FWoa                              4.2        .4.1        4.3                5.8                     15.9
EU:OIfC DEPUSUICT RATIO             1.6         1.6         1.5               1.8                      1.3
wm=r or izzvau Dcr
aucEzvim uI
ullTu  SS ow uoauuJOas           17.5 h.S   17.4 IL
EaKeST 202 ow IOUSEIODS          4.4 71  £2.3             ..
LOWEST 20S Ow NOPSENODS           6.6         7.0 7       ..
LOMT 411 ow 11USWODS             17.3        18.7 71      .
po   AC-
-SDA    ABOLT PW12  INCosE
LEVEL (IU  1  CAI)
GlEAN                             ..          ..        131.0 1           226.3                    288.3
RURAL                             ..          ..        94.0              134.0                    186.?
-STA ED   TM  POVRTY INDZ
L   CUSS      CAPT
UAN                               ..          ..        I0.0a             *31.5                    519.8
RURAL                             ..          ..        118.0             326.0                    359.7
CSTDATD  POP. SUM ABSCLUTE
POERTY ICME LZML C)
uR                                ..          ..        21.0 /f
RUAL                              .,          ..         2S.0o             29.0
NOr AVAUABL
NOT APICABLE
NOTES
7 Te gop a*verag  for acbh lSdlcator are popnietlm-weegbted arithetic seans. Coweag of counrries
aumog the lndicators depood an availability of data ad in mt uniform.
lb   Unlasa otbehzls. noted. "Data for 1960" refor to ar year betwea 1959 and 1961, 'Dat for 1970" between
1969 end 1971. and date for "Mt vecent zatiane between 1961 gad 1983.
Ic  1980; /d 1977; /I 1962; /f 1978; /L 1976; /h 1965;    Rural expenditures; LJ  1979.
JUIE6. 1985



ANNEX I
- 23-                                            Page3of 7
DRINTNOiN  OFSOCIAL IMDIC&TOh
Noise Alth data wadmrwor mssp Jayjupd thentatadiadve and relbk Itkml iaisle nad that they my ndc be ineualoy
c wa  i        . rb elick orstanartailbne,ki  ind   es g agbydre  oues o IacolktngthedaTedmat,onehlu  twda
d bts order. otf._iude kii. tremeS aia  cheati em nmor dme_mr        comairhe .
TM ree  groups an (1) tiue -o asy amse at the duo ist come" and (2) a con  romp vk eawwat Mhe awiaa locor *   ahn toemy
gopordoftherulmtcony(otrfor(Higaor OillExpanle"_opw        e"tl Inc   NorAfricand Mddle Bst"  lu'   hecamaeitraar
naclo-c ukral Sides).!.the .e , up data t oavnag    popuat  weight   hidcm  afore _brster a _dshownely wh  majorky
orthe coumtule In a,ap bus hdata far thetladcalm  the covuap orcounte    the hndim_m depe m the avaIblity ordaa and irot uailorhs
caiomus beenvleed in mitngaaantfIicator tonamaihat Ths a uagw   n mly mt In comp athe aisetofe lndwcatra dm_amang
td aco"y and rw  grasp.
AREA (tbousand q.km.)                                         Crd Bta Rate (per #ht=wxi -Number of live births in the year
TeeM-Total surface are comprising land area and inland wates;  per thousnd of mid-year population; 1960, 1970, and 1983 data
1960, 1970 and 1913 data.                                     CGd Deat Rtwe (per thesmd)-Number of death in the year
Agvfeuwr-Estimate of agricultural area used temporarily or    per thousand ormid-year population; !960. 1970. and 1983 daa
pmnently for aops. pastures, market and kitchen gardens or to    GCh  Rapredem Ruse-Average number of daughters a wonan
lie hinlow. 1960, 1970 and 1982 data.                         will bear in ber nomal reproductive period if she exi
pst age-specific fertility ratcs; usually fiveyar averag  ending
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)-NP per capita estmates at current        in 1960. 1970, and 1983.
market prce  calculaW  by same convesion netbod as World      f1              -          A., (thoussude)-Annual nun-
Dusk ArIas (1981-83 basis); 1983 data.                        ber of acceptora of birth-control devic  under auspices of ntwol
ENERCY CONSUMPTION PER CAPIA-Annual apparent                  fmiy pising program.
consumption of commercial primary energ (coal and lignite,    Fad ?IuSy-4 s  (p w  .fxwuie  Nin)-TIe pera-
petrleum   natural as and hydroa. nucer and geothermal elec-  tage of married women of child-bearing ag who an pcticiWng or
tricity) in kilograms or oil equivalent per capita; 1960. 1970 and  whose husbands a  praciing y form of ontrepo  Women
1982 datL                                                     o rchild-bearing a  are gnerally  men agd 15-49, althougb for
some countries contreptive uae i measured for otber age
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS                               groupS.
T-e  Peprlmhic, W-Yaw (the.aands)-As or July I: 1960, 1970.   FOOD AND NUTRMTION
anod 1983 data.
Vrhu  FopAnka(pnw oftora)-ittioor uban o tod   JIndx af Feed Predeeuahr Copies(IU-7l - lEO-Indexofrper
popk.. fP.iad. (prcnit n  s toso n-Ratio Or urbaneto tl         pita annua prdutio  of al food ommodite  Produton
oulation; different defntios of uarsz afdect da pr            excludes ania feed and seed for agricultur. Food commodities
ability of data among countdes 1960. 1970, and !983 dat       eciuude primary commodities (eg. sugacane insead or suar)
ftp.tiojeac&u                                                 which are edible and contain nutrients (eg. coffee and tea ae
Atpuladon in year 2000-The projction of population for 2000.  aiuded); they comprise cerl  root aops, pulse  oil seds.
made for each e     yconomy separately. S tng with information on vegetbe  fruits. nuts, supg ne and sugr bee4t  vestock, and
total popuation by age and sex, fertility rates. mortality rates, and  livestock produt Aggregate production oreach oountry is baed
international mtigration in the base year 1980. these parameters  on national average producer price weights; 1961-65, 1970. and
wre projected at five-year intervals on the basis of geeralized  1932 datL
assumption ustil the population became stadonary.             hr Capta Squpi .fC&a    s (prcsfu iea-Comput-
Stainy populatlan-Is one in which age- and sex-specific mor-  ed from calorie equivalent of net food supplies availabie in country
tality rates have not changcd over a long period, while ag-specific  per capita per day. Availabk supplies compnse dometic produc-
fertility razes have simultaneously remained at replacement level  tion. imports less exports. and changes in stoc. Net supplies
(net reproduction rate -1). In such a population. the birth rate is  exclude animal feed, seeds for use in agriculture, quantities used in
constant and equal to the death ratc, the age structuem is also  food processing, and loses in distributionL Requirements wer
constant, and the growth rate is zero. The statonary population  estmated by FAO bawd on physiolgical needs for normal activity
size was estimated on the basis of the projected charcteristics of  and health considering envirotnental tempertue, body weights.
the population in thc yea- 2000, and the rate of declinc of fertility  age and sex distribution of population, and alowing 10 percent for
rate to rq.paucment leveL                                     waste at housebold level; 1961. 1970 and 1982 data.
Population   omoenntn-ls the tendency for population growth to  Pr Cqpit SuSpply ofrotein (praw per dA-Ptotein content of
continue beyond the time that replacement-level fertility has been  per capita net supply of food per day. Net supply of food is defined
achieved; that is. even .fter the net reproduction rate has reached  as above. Requirements ror all countries established by USDA
unity. The momentum of a population in the year r is measured as  provide for minimum allowances of 60 grins of total protein per
a ratio of the ultimate stationary population to the population in  day and 20 grans of animal and pulse protein, of which 10 grams
thc year . given the assumption that fertility mains at replwe-  should be animal protein. These sundardsxelower than those of
ment lvel frorn year t onward. 1985 data.                     75 grams of total protein and 23 grams of animal protein as an
Popalatio  Denty                                              average for the wotid. proposed by FAO in the Third World Food
Per sq,m-Mid-year population per square kilometer (100 hec-   Supply. 1961. 1970 and 1982 data.
tans) of total ara; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.                 er Caia Peui Sspply Fea Amal and Pfi-Protein supply
Per sqkan. agricltrsa land-Computed as above for agricastural  of food derived from animals and pulse in grams per day; 1961465.
land only. 1960. 1970. and 1982 data                           1970 and 1977 data.
Pop.l.io  Age Smrtn   (percenr)-Children (0-14 )yars). work-    M(aes 1-0 ) Death Raoe (ptrhm    d)-Number of deaths of
lug age (15-64 years). and retred (65 years and over) as pctage  children aed 1-4 years per thousand children in the same age
of mid-year population; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.            group in a given year. For most devloping countrics data derived
Ptp.lton CGrek Rare (percem-)-tol-Annual growth rates of      from life tabes; 1960. 1970 and 1983 data
total mid-year population for 1950-60. 1960-70. and 1970-W3.  HEALTH
Populan GCork Rare (perceJr)-arhan-Annual growth rates        L4ef ExpecYancy at  th (pears)-Number of years a newbom
of urban population for 1950-60. 1960-70. and 1970-83 data.   infant would live if prevailing patterns of mortality for all people



24-                                        ANNEX  I
Page 4 of 7
at the time of of its birth were to say the same throughout its life;  Ap.taeadher caleo - po y, and aecdary-Total students en-
1960, 1970 and 1933 data                                     rolled in primary and secondary level divided by number of
ljb   * Martp Rame pw thmnasd)-Number of infants who die    teche  in the corresponding levels.
before rhing one year of age per thousand live births in I pe
year; 1960, 1970 and 1983 data.                               CONSUMIION
sAte  toS*  Wbw (peaS of pepdarn)-Uhd,  m, ad                 Pauew Cas 4w ahmsd - u-n                        car co_-
rml-Number of people (total, urban, and rurl) with  onabie    pris motor cars aing     than ight perona; exdudes ambul-
ances to safe water supply (inudes trtd surae wat   or        sowse, eses and military vehiles
untreated but uncontI  Water such   that f.m- proteted c           AeleleR s fpw tSsmiaadpeuAssion)-U l typep of receiver'
borehole spin and snitay wdb la pemcentages of their res-     for radio broadcasts to genal public per thousand of popuation;
tive population  In an urban  a a public fountain or standpost  excluda un-liceased receivers in countie  and in yeus when
located not more than 20 mete  frm w   bous my be consdered   registration of radio ses wu in effect data for reent y may
as being within raonab  aace  of tht hou  In rual um          not be comparble since most countie abolished licenng,
reasonable accs wowd imply tha the houswife or mmbes of te
houselbold do not have to  -ed a diproportte prt of the day   TVAKcUs  (pr hrA   d        _ ws)h -TV receive for broadcat
in fetching the fwnfly e water neala                          to generl public per thouwnd popution; excludes unlicensed TV
inc fetchig the family's water needs.                         receivsm in counties and in year when registration of TV st was
Awcn to Excit IllpacI (perce  of p..adn  toa,.                in  ram
ad rua-Number of people (totaL urban, and rural) srved by     in act
excrta dispoal as pewenta      their rspective popuations.    Amwmmp  Cr m  f(per th       Sp.puhIl)-how s the aver-
Excruia dispoal may include the colection and disposal with or  age crculation of daily gnerle interet newspaper," defined as a
without treatment of human eacrt and wastewater by water-     penodical publication devoted prmarly to eording gneral news
borne system  or the u- of pit privies and simila inslldations  it is conidered to be daily" if it appear at eut four times a week.
Popuefn per Ppuieb -_I  pulation divided by number of prac-   Chens jAmal Armeian pr C$n. per Yew-Based on the
tising physicia  qualified from a medical school at university level,    number of dckets sold during the year. induding admissions to
Ptp.l.ls per Nwsn Pwrsa-4opulation divided by number of       drive-in cinemas and mobile units
practicing mal and female graduate nurse  assisant nurses.
prctical nurses and nusing auxiliaies.                         ABOR FORCE
"opuludm per He$rd  &d-ra4 urban, ad rrnI-PFopulation         T Lw             rtmmij-Econoricauy active persons. in-
(total, urban. and rural) divided by their respective number of  duding armed forces and unemployed but excluding housewives.
hospital bed avaiable in pubic and privte gnmand spedWzd     students etc.. covering population of al ags Definitions in
hospitls and rhabilition center  HosPitaB a  eshiunents       various counties are not compambke 1960. 1970 and 1983 data.
perantently staffed by at least one physician. Esablishments prov-  Femak (percese)-Female labor force as percentage of total labor
iding principally custodial care are not included. Rural hospitals.    force.
howeve  indude ealth and medic centmnot pernanently staffed  Agdmbure (porcafl-Labor force in faming, forestry. hunting
by a physician (but by a medical assistant. nus. midwife, et)  and fishing as percentage of totl labor forc  1960, 1970 and 1930
which off r in-patient ccomodation and provide a limited range  data.
of medical facilitis                                          Indwr  (jervmsf)-Labor foroc in mining, construction. manu-
Ad' snd   pr NHopad 3M-Total number of admissions to or       facturing and cectricity. water and gas as percentage of total labor
dischars from hnspitas divided by the number or beds          forc; 1960. 1970 and 1930 data.
lh'kiprb Rae (percentk-lor, Ple, andft k-l'rticipation
HOUSING                                                       or activity rates are computed as total, male. and female labor forc
Avrge Mi  o fiMceA  (penn's per JD           -  au,  ,         s percentages of total, male and female population of all ages
andrnl-A household consis ofa group of individuals who shae   respectively; 1960. 1970, and 1983 data Tbese are based on ILO's
living quarters and their main meals. A boarder or lodger may or  particpation rAes ring age-se stucte ofthe populaio. and
may not be included in the household for statistical purposes.  long time trend. A few estimates are from national sourcs.
Avne Nombr of Pare per Rom--teal. urbw, and raral-            FAneudc Dependency  RaW-Ratio or population under 15. and
Average number of persons per room in all urban. and rural    65 and over. to the working age population (those aged 15-64).
occupied conventional dwellings, respectively. Dwellings exclude
non-permanent structures and unoccupied parts.               INCOME DISTRIBUTiON
Pecentge of DweJiDg wit Eccrick-tal-   . ub. and rual-       Prene   of Tatd Dissabk hco  (balk in cashad kidJ-
Conventional dwellings with eecticity in living quaters as percen-  Accruing to percentile groups of households ranked by total house-
tage of total, urban, and rual dwellings respectively.        hold income.
EDUCATION                                                     POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
Ad4ulsed &Arolmeut RAt                                        The following estimates are very approximate measures of poverty
P1tney sd.wl - total, male ad femal-Grss total. male and      levels, and should be.interpreted with considemble caution,
female entrolrant of al ages at the primary leve as perenttage of  Estired Absote Poverty Inceane Leve (LII pecp&a)-urba
respective pnmary school-age populations. While many countries  ad rural-Absolute poverty income level is that income leve
consider primary school age to be 6-11 years, others do not. The  below which a minimal nutritionally adequate diet'plus essential
differnces in country practices in the ages and duration of school  non-food requirements is not affordable.
are reflected in the ratios given. For some countries with universal  Esthaed Relate Povnty Incme Lev  (USf per ceopia)-rban
education, gross enrolment .nay exced 1OO percent snce some   ad roral-Rural rdative poverty income levd is one-third of
pupils are below or above the country's standard pnmary-school  average per capita personal income of the country. Urban level is
ige.                                                          derived from the rural level with adjustment for higher cost or
Skeonary isdol - olad. mal andfema!-Compu:ed as abovc         living in urban areas
secondary education requres at least four years of approved pri-    Estimei PApalaim  Bldow Absolde Poverty lme Level (per-
mary instruction provides generaL vocational. or teacher training  cent)i-rban ad rural- Percent of population (urban and rural
instuctions for pupils usually of 12 to 17 ycars of age. correspond-  who are "absolute poor.'
ce courses ar generally xcduded.
Vocational Enrolmeni (percent of secondary)-Vocational institu-         Comparative Analysis and Data Division
tions indude technical. industriaL or other programs which operate   Economic Analysis and Projections Departnent
independently or as departments of seondary mstitutions.                              June 198S



-  -25-                                          ANNEX I
Poulation: 45.4 million lAid 19231                                                                   .ap r                        5 of 7
GP per capita: US s766 &/ 119U dollars)
Aeut (million
U  at current                                 A * u     *       n               e
prsics)                     A      TeUAL                 . men   e                           aro
lo4"U        16N/al  1412a/2  12U   ins/as 19wU   12i/4  1/7   17/U   1ias     I/"  1                     I
Gross OInstIC Product        3310.3 2.a                *.7      2.9     4.7      5.1      1.4    -2.0       0.5     2.1      2.9     3.0
Agriculture                59.7            2.4    -1.5       1.1      2.1     2.4      1.a      1.3     1.2      2.0      2.2     2.5
Industry G/                439.1           7.7      2.C      7.2      1.2     5..      1.2    -9.6    -2.0       2.1      2.9     3.5
Petrolel                   3148.2         12.9      4.6      7.1    11.6    11.1    -1.6    14.6    11.7         3.2      3.6     3.e
Service                   13264.3         16.3      2.0      4.4     4.3      4.7      2.3    -1.9    -2.0       1.9      Z.5     3.1
ConUatlen                    21719.8          9.9    -e.1       4.6    13.5      0.7    -e.5    -4.4       6.3      1.a      2.4     2.1
Gross n nSt_nt                2211.5          4.3    10.0       4.4    -2.2      0.1   -12.3    -2.2    -2.5        4.5      S.1     5.e
ports of OSS                  27.1           14.0      2.1      0.4     C.0      a.u      0.1    11.2    lo.a       3.0      4.*     4.7
lorts Of eUPS                12627.7          9.1    -5.4    -1.1    19.4    -4.7   -14.1    -7.7          6.2      1.2      3.4     4.1
Gron  Nationl Saving          4726.3          4.5      0.1    25.0   -15.S    -1.3        -        -       -        -        -
a-
GOP Delator                                  41.9    71.9    78.3       U.2    106.0      -        -       -        -        -
lcxuaWge ROU e($/L) I/                        1.3S0    1.230    1.144    1.074.   0.929    -       -       -        -        -
Dna,a pPW   t Iblrfr  Priey It)              Avura  Inram          at misswatPie
fat eurnt pfrice.
I=n           Il  um   1i"Ma    ISmII    1E71                         fi_m  ml-    r     s FlM-FI
Gross omAstic Prodmct
- Agrilture                 23.1       19.2    19.4    15.5    13.7                        2.5           1.6             1.9
- Industry & Peroleum 3/   24.1        24.1    20.7    46.9    44.7                       12.4           5.5            2.9
- Servic                    42.7       46.2    44.1    e2.s    2.2                        11.2           5.1            -0.1
Consattio                   27.7       25.9     u.7    22.1    26.2                        4.2           2.4             0.5
Gross nshnte                22.4        29. 5   Z.0    23.2    22.7                        7.4           0.4             1.7
Export oF Gs                26.2       23.4    24.4    u5.7    24.3                        9.4           3.5             7.e
*oer or GS                  41.3       42.S    35.3    41.0    39.4                        5.e          -1.9             1.4
Gros Ettimal Saving         13.9       19.4    12.0    14.7    46.4                       44.2           -4.4            5.2
am I    P
Clrent Revinue               22.2    27.1    22.1       22.4      23.1
Current Expeitu              40.5    3G.4    37.3       2.9       27.9
Current Surplus I.) or
neficite (-3              -12.3    -9.3   -15.2       -4.3      -4.2
Imes t_EXPnitur              17.2    21.7    17.3       11.0      15.0
Forign Fihnn                  S.9     4.4      S.0       2.5      2.0
19h75-1T  Tm1-FTM   FY fi-FTI1
GM Gra    ate (53               9.4        3.9         2.1
GI per cpita grot
rate (Z)                      7.4        0.s        -0.4
ner_y conmtion rewt
rate (53                     12.1       10.0         o.e
10C11,                          2.9 ..1                2.9
Iwrsinal Savings ate            0.22       0.07        0.14
Zart Elasticity                 0.4       -0.4         0.4
at hued o Wwld Uaa Atlas iathooleey (thro  yea average *x _ae ratel.
hi GOP for 1944/55 At Current prices Is valued at marsit prces. SectOrl shares afd rates of grGwth conern GOP at faCtor cat.
&I Nnfacturine and inning. Electricity and Construction.
IV  Distribution ed Service Sectos.
*/ Whishted averge of all curren account Item including transactions. une the fre  wwhet rate.
EN1EG
Aril 192



-26 -
-26-ANNME I
Page 6 of 7
FCYPT - rxrrTCAL TRnAE
Population: 45.4 million (mid 1913)
GNP per capita: uSS700(19113 dollars)
Amount (million)                      annual Groth Iat- Eu at Cnstant iaai  Prie
USS at current
Prices         *AGTCTU                                                         p   Da   E rrT E
1984/as     1980/11  1981/52  1982/83  19B3/14  1984/85  1985/86  1986/87   9U7/88  198/9  1990/91 1991/92
rxTERll^L TRADE
Merchandise Ermorts        6249           i.i I    o.o    -5.2       17.5    10.5    -0.6       12.9     14.2       3.4      4.3     4.5
- Primary a.'               608         -10.0      3.4   -24.5       36.9    -4.6       2.7      2.4      3.1      2.7       2.6     3.0
- Manuractures "            686         -10.5    -35.0      7.0      20.6    -6.1       4.0      3.0      2.0      2.0       2.5     2.5
- Petrolm  C.'             4955           9.5     16.2    -4.0       14.6    1S.5    -1.6       17.0    17.1       4.0       4.6     4.8
Merchandise  earts          11305       10.3     -7.4      6.4      20.5      1.4   -15.8    -4.8        4.6    -0.4        3.6     4.4
- Food                      N/A          19.2     -7.0     -2.6      40.0      n.a.    n.a.    n.a.    n.a.        n.a.      n.a.   n.a.
- Petroleus                 424          -0.4     68.5      3.3      11.0   -10.9    29.7    -2.9         1.1      0.8       0.0     1.0
- Machinery and Equipmnt  NIA            10.2    -23.3     -3.4      -4.1      n.a.    n.a.    n.a.    n.a.        n.a.      n.a.   n.a.
-  Others                   N/A           6.3      4.5    -12.0      30.6      n.a.    n.a.    n.a.    n.a.        n.a.      n.a.    n.a.
Prtlsu
Export (GSF5) Price Index               104.1    102.1   101.4    101.5    360.0    88.5        75.2    83.6      92.5    100.4   108.5
imeort (GNFS) Price index                95.9    103.9    104.1    100.7    100.0   185.0    118.3    115.8    121.6    127.6  134.0
Terms of Trade Index                    10.6      99.2     97.4    100.1    100.0    84.3       68.2    70.5      76.1      78.7    81.0
Composition of Merchandise Trade (1)                         Average Ai al Increase  X
(at current prices)                                  at constant ll94imS prices
19=    80e9    HIMa  90191   22t94                   1975/FYa1      FYII1FYS6       FYafi/FY9
Earts                                                                            LA              Li              LA
Primary              28.1     9.6    12.8    11.4    10.8                     -5.9            0.9             2.7
Manufactures"        46.7    10.5    14.7   12.3    18.4                     -14.2            1.4             2.4
PetroleumaF          25.2   79.9   72.5    76.3    79.6                      21.5             7.8             9.3
1i1nrts                                                                           L              2.              Li4
Food                 23.6    26.1      n.m.   n.a.    n.a.                    a.0             n.a.            n.a.
Petroleum             6.9     3.2      4.2     2.s     6.7                  -18.6            17.4            -0.2
Machinery            23.7    36.6      n.a.   n.a.    n.a.                    1S.8            n.a.            n.a.
Others               45.8    34.1      n.a.   n.a.    n.a.                     1.4            n.a.            n.a.
Share of Trade with         Share of Trade with                   Share of Trade with
Industrial Countries t's    Develooina Countries (M           Canital Surolu  0ii Fxnorter (II
a  =                        Iamn   an In In                     aiM  an   n  a
oIREIre m  OF TrAoE
Exports                    17.0  14.0   52.0  73.2    22.0  10.0  35.0  16.0                1.0      4.8       3.1    2.8
Primary                19.0  18.8       -     -     22.0   11.0     -      -             1.0      2.0        -      -
Manufactures            12.0    3.0     -     -     23.0    9.0      -      -            3.0      5.0        -       -
Iports                    42.0   6s.0   75.0  78.8   25.8   14.0  15.S   13.3                -       4.0       0.7    0.6
n.a. Itot available.
8V   Based on World Bank Atlas methodology (three year average exchange rate).
h/   lot including oil and oil products.
s/   Includes foreign oil cipanies' exports.
EriEG
April1 9"6



-27-                                                        A I
pag 7 ot 7
{s11tn  Ss*tcurrent prices)                         ej~
g.m@/al  l§aJU  166/6 V U     63@/ia  1664/68  ,geiu  igu/   e   ,,iu{   uuu{ Sae  1wl@V.  I  @{
aat nrr OF SAYWNTS
Export of Goods and Non-Farctor
Servic n                                Mes 7     m72     7635      8469     6967      711 742                                        374    105  119U    1s46
- Of WdiCh ..rchhndis  f.o.b.             1617     5776     5216      5U63     6246       62a     42 6      524      6756      7726    a664
I orts of Goods no Non-Factor
Services                              -11412   -11665   -115411 -135    -1262    -11337   -16667   -12255  -13066    -14315   -15544
- of which merchandise c.1.f.           -10334   -16386   - f661         J 16    -.1305   -1666    -166e6    -11ess  -15o6  -121no   -13761
Net Factor Ince                           1166      151       74      1331       113    - 423        40    - 461    - J37   -11O       -1242
Not Private Transfers                       63       51        26       26        22      2*          5        6        41       44        47
Current Account llalonc                  -2316    -2501    -2624    -3110    -3116    -2646    -2344    -3732    -3414    -3313    -3201
Private Direct Investment                  U6       us        666     8J7       66       1622
MLT Loans and Grants (Net)                1444      140      IS46     1117      17614    1663
- offictal loans and grants               1226     1235      1257     1762      1626    l66
- private                                  224       45       28      -201       -65       -2
slance an Autonomeus
Transactiens                             -76    -1166      -412    -1047     -811   -116
ChOnee In Reservs I/                       -75      -130       62      -17         6      46
International Reserves                    1146     1461      1276     1128     1415       -
- of ditch gold                            103      m         s76      757      66        -
Resrw    as Months Iweorts                 1.2       1.5      1.2      1.4       1.5      -
Gross Disburswnts                         256      2062      322      4164     2115    3565
Official Grants 3                       276      365      406       660     1656      13276
Concessianal Loans                     1361     1034       641      *52      707       596
- DAC                                  1163      60D      765       667      154       440
- OPEC                                   6G       26         6        0        O         6
-IDA                                     73       u        126      142       14        53
- Others                                 56       1        20        23        H       163
Non-Concessional Loans                 1015     1653      118      24e2     1761      1536
- official export credits                82      185       146      162      S1i       7n
- X1RO                                  154      III       120      204     2i6        l65
- lMF standby                             6        0         0        0        0         6
- other multilateral                      4       'i       1i        17       21        IS
- private                              774      1532     1673      2037     1216      12J1
Debt outstanding an  disbursed           13389    14730    157U    16762    17121    15116
- official                            10627    1132    12462    13263    1411n    14464
- private                             2462      2797     3223      3396     366     326
Undisbursed Oebt                          5911     5012     4612      4327     2721      3643
Debt SJ"1irO
Total Service Parunt                      20J1     2371     26 6       414     273       4250
- interest                             76        I12    1TS2       1567     2119     2466
- pay nt as S experts  J              21.3      26.3     28.5    32.1       24.7     42.9
Average Intest Nte an Nen Loans           6.5      7.3        7.5       . e
Average Maturity of NMm Loans (years)  19.5       16.6       14.4     14.7
1/ Including special balance of paymwits financing and unallocated 1tm.
2V minns (-1 indicates accumulation of foreign assets.
2/ Including special balance of payeants grants.
!U  Excludes som  banking system liabilities and arrears.
S/  Exports of g.ods and se vices (including worker's remittances) but not foreign oil c_n1is exports.
EIIEG
April 1986



- 28 -
Page 1 of 2
THE STATUS OF lilt   nPEEAT!(   TM  CYPT
S. sTATfEMT OF l"lt  a*C       SA C£OiTC j/
(As of March 31. 1335)
Aaount In million US dollars
Loan/Credit     Approved       Borrower      Purposc                                    (lfss cancellations)
Numbr             Y                                                             _  ank       IDA     Undisburuad
42 Loans and Credits fully disbursed V/                                            814.2    479.6          -
Cr  719            77            ARE         Nile Delta Drainage II                   --      27.0         0.6
Ln 1439            77            ARE         Nile Delta Drainage U1                 27.0        --         1.7
Ln 1440-T 3/       77            ARE         Mile Delta Drainage II                 12.0        --         0.8
Cr  8S0            79            ARE         Population II                            --      25.0         8.4
Cr  909            79            ARE         Tourism                                  --      32.5        16.2
Cr  935            79            ARE         Shoubrah El Kheima Therml Power          --      37.0         1.6
Ln 1733            79            EEA         Shoubrah El Khaeim Thermal Power if  102.0         --        10.1
Cr  988            10            ARE         Agroindustries                           --      45.0         6.5
Ln 1842            sO            ARE        HMIB                                    2.9         --        13.4
Ln 1849            80            ARE         Pulp and Paper                         50.0        --         3.8
Ln 1886            80            EEA         Power II                                7.0        --         0.7
Ln 1886-1          84            EEA         Power III                              59.0        --        56.9
Cr 1052            80            EEA         Power III                                --    120.0          4.1
Cr 1069            81            ARE         Education III 5J                         --      30.0         9.3
Cr 1083            81            ARE         New Lan  Oevelopmmnt S)                  --      60.4        26.6
Cr 1111            81            ARE         Fish Farming 5)                          --      10.9         4.8
Ln 2002            81            HADISOLU    Hadisolb Rehabilitation                64.0        --        50.9
Cr 11S6            81            ARE         Deheira Water Supply U                   --      45.7        26.9
Cr 1162            81            ARE         Technical Assistance U/                  --       5.7         4.2
Ln 2041            82            ARE         Telecomnmincations III                 64.0        --        44.6
Ln 2074            82            DIB         Developmnt Industrial Bank V          120.0        --        12.4
Ln 2103            82            EGPC        Abu Qir Gas Development                90.0        --         2.3
Ln 2176            82            ARE         Greater Cairo Urban Development        59.0        --        45.6
Ln 2183            83            ARE         El Dikheila Port                      132.0        --        86.0
Ln 2243            83            ARE         Agroindustries II                      81.2        --        57.3
Ln 2264            83            ARE         Vocational Training                    38.0        --        37.2
Ln 2270            83            ARE         Irrigation Pumphin Station Rehab.      41.5        --        36.5
Ln 2230            83            ARE         El Oikheila Reinforcing Bar           165.3        --       119.9
Ln 2330            83            ARE         Road Maintenance                       24.0        --        23.7
Ln 2352            84            ARE         Water Supply and Sewerage Eng.          4.0        --         3.7
Ln 2S61 i/         85            ARE         Agricultural Development rI           139.0        --
Ln 2562 i/         85            ARE         Drainage V                             68.0        --
Ln 2569 i/         85            PSPA        Port Said Port                         37.0       --
Ln 2594 6f         85            ARE         Vocational Training III                19.3        --
Totals (excluding i/)                                                            1,983.1    918.8        716.7
Of which has been repaid                                                           2fi44       L1
Total now outstanding                                                            1,718.7    912.5
Amount sold                                         7.S
Of which has been repaid                             Li
Total now held by Bank and TDA                                                   1.71.7    912.5
I/  The status of the projects listed in Part A is oescribed in a seiarate report on all Dank/IDA financed projects
in execution. which is updated twice yearly and circulated to the Executive Directors on April 30 and October 31.
2/  Excludes 3 credits for enginqering which were subsequently refinanced, and a US$1 million PPF advance granted
for the Grer.Ler Cairo Urban Development Project.
VX  Third Window Loan.
if  Not included is EEC Special Action Credit 20 of US$35.0 million equivalent.
if  Credit denominated in SORs. Amount shown ts US$ equivalent at time of negotiations for the IDA amount, and US$
equivalent at March 31. 1986 for the undisbursed amount.
i Not yet effective.
NOTE: Since March 31, 1986. the loans for Small and Medium Scale Industry (Ln. 2458-EGT) and Export Industries
Development (Ln. 2459-EGT) totalling $295.0 million have been signed. These loans are not yet effective.
May 14. 1986



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 2
EGYPT
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of March 31, 1986)
Fiscal
Year    Oblixor                   Tvpe of Business                  Loan      Equity    Total
--USt Million)~
86    Aluminum Sulphate Co.    Chemicals & Petrochemicals           -        0.56       0.56
76, 82  Arab Ceramic Company      Ceramic Industry                   6.63      1.11       7.74
78    Nile Clothing Company    Ready-Made Garment Industry         0.43      0.16       0.59
78    Delta Sugar Company       Agricultural Production,          20.00      3.51      23.51
mainly sugar
79, 83  Ismailia Misr Poultry    Food and Food Processing           12.07      2.29      14.36
Company
85    Egypt Investment          Money and Capital Market           1.50      0.43       1.93
Finance Corp.
80. 81  Ismailia Fish             Food and Food Processing            3.96     1.05       5.01
Farming Company
80    Suez Cement Company       Building Materials                30.00        -       30.00
84    El-Dikheila               Iron and Steel                    95.20      7.20    102.40
81    Luxor Hotel               Tourism Project                    4.41      0.72       5.13
Total gross commitments                                            174.20    17.03    191.23
Less: Cancellations, terminations, repayments
and sales                                               90.90     0.16      91.06
Total commitments now held by IFC                                   83.30    16.87    100.17
Total Undisbursed                                                   98.72      6.41    105.13
(including participants portion)



- 30 -
ANEXE IlI
Page 1 of 2
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
CIANNEL MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Supplementary Proiect Data Sheet
Section I - Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the country to prepare        :  One and a half years (April
the project                                    1984 to September 1985)
(b) Agencies which prepared the project         :  Project Planning
Department of Ministry of
Irrigation (MOI) with
assistance from FAO/CP and
MOI agencies involved in
channel maintenance.
(c) First mission to consider the project and  :  March 1984; July 1984
first presentation to the Bank                 (Inception Report)
(d) Departure of appraisal mission              :  September 1985
(e) Date of negotiations                        :  May 1986
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness              :  December 1986
Section II - Special Implementation Action      :  None
Section III - Special Conditions
1.  Conditions of Loan Effectiveness:
(a) Meet regulations and prepare a program satisfactory to the Borrower
and the Bank, to ensure the safe transport, storage, handling and
application of herbicides (para. 58).
(b) Establishing Channel Maintenance Board and a Technical Committee
(para. 47); and



- 31 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(c) Assignment of key staff required to strengthen the Office of the
Undersecretary Maintenance, and of Weed Control and M & E Units in
the Weed Research Institute (para. 48).
2.   Other Conditions:
(a) M0I would present to the Bank no later than June 30 of each year of
project implementation the annual work program, budget and financial
plan for the project (para. 51).
(b) During the period of project implementation, the Borrower and the
Bank will from time to time exchange views and reach an understanding
on the specific targets and measures for recovery of the maintenance
costs of irrigation and drainage channels. Such measures will be
discussed in the context of an action plan formulated by the Borrower
by December 1987, in accordance with the Borrower's regulations in
force and which aim at achieving such cost recovery in the time frame
of the project (para. 37).
(c) The Government and the Bank will carry out a mid-term review of the
project no later than end 1989, and, based on such review, project
components may be modified where required and project fund
reallocated (para. 51).



3w~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ :;
0~~~~~~
ALEXANDPLA j)                                           (\                                        /
.'   /   ~~~~~~-   S       :\ ~~~~~Kdfr el Sheikh        /~.           ..        -    -- 
.. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~C,                                     Toniv, toC) 
|ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT                                   !                   0t8                  0\                 t       
CHANNEL MAINTENANCE                                             t'                                                       ROFJ      t   
PROJECT                                                                                                                                W110i" j,  Yo$2r oo
LOWER EGYPT                      j\                                                   (z                      1/!:  
kflgloled Areas:!                                                        '       ; 
I    1   Old Lands (Prolect)                                                \          t /.                      :'
..._ Afeas Coveted by Integraled Soil      .                              >       /I
[    2    ~and Water Improvement Project         -'f    \                       ....                         ....
(Canadian Prolect)                                              '       ' 
C:Old-Now Lands                                                       >.                                     2o \  m  A Ot/j 0    j
Main Dralns            ;b                                 A                      ..ME..TERS.a . 
o Towns and Mlloges t- /IseS
I    Urban Areos                                                                                                                     Ch -,mni ,,tWIt 1  -
rs         @    ~~~~Notlonal Capital                                                                   r4i                                                       . _
i               ~~~~~~International Boundaries                                                           CARi;
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I&                      evw"    rho ON..4"     ,,,_ ,, "S M.,    h".* a.  .0  ii i 4
§ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~ ~ ~ ~~~"t a Ms Md dei .h x  M& tfW%WFw w&& V04VA



' ~ ~~      ~~ 77  }1i,            0 _     \00N,
.7l
%''.   7, 127                                           r 
30.                                                                       070 7,                                              ,  '   '
.                                                  .  "~~~~~~~~ .. ,J$22           $7,            '  i'
ItF
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT0.,                                               A 
CHANNEL MAINTENANCE PROJECT
ARAB REPUBLIC OP EGOYPT
CHANNEL MAINTENANCE PROJECT
OFFICES, WORKSHOPS AND STORES OF
PUBLIC COMPANIES FOR CHANNEL MAINTENANCE
*                              060710
*~ ~~ .                                                                     . 771710
UIIA. ARM ~ ~   ~     SSII
T URKEY71
I.-Elf tj4-                                     '
* ARA  RELJLICOFEGYT1.7*.77701                                           ,s
CHANNEl MAINTENANCE  PRrO JECT7 007,00100*7 OOU7,j I
61   EPUBLIC   C OPNI E OHNE M AINTNANC i-                                              >3'~'  
EGYPTlA  UICIANCA *0*070 E=1IIIOI OU



I



