Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
FlLE 0Py1'
Report No. P-3728-KO
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$60 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF KOREA
FOR THE
JEONJU REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
February 23, 1984
|This document has a restricted distribution and way be used by recipients only
their official duties. Its eontents may not otherwise be disclosed without Wor



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit                   Won (W)
US$                  =          W 800
(as of January 1, 1984)
GOVERNMENT OF KOREA FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
MEASURES AND EQUIVALENTS
m = 1 meter              (39.37 inches)
sq m = 1 square meter       (10.8 square feet)
cu m = 1 cubic meter        (35.3 cubic feet)
km = 1 kilometer          (0.62 miles)
ha = 1 hectare            (10,000 sq m or 2.471 acres
3.024 pyongs)
py = 1 pyong              (3.307 sq m or 35.586 sq ft)
1 = 1 liter               (0.264 US gallons or 0.220
'Imperial gallons)
lcd = 1 liter per capita   (0.264 US gallons per capita
per day               per day)
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
ERR                Economic Rate of Return
GDP                Gross Domestic Product
GNP                Gross National Product
GRP       =        Gross Regional Product
GRDU               Gwangju Regional Development Unit,
Ministry of Construction
IRCO               Iri Regional Construction Office
JBPG               Jeon Bug Provincial Government
JWWD      =        Jeonju Water Works Bureau
KDB                Korea Development Bank
KLDC               Korea Land Development Corporation
KNHC      =        Korea National Housing Corporation
KNTC      =        Korea National Tourism Corporation
MOC       =        Ministry of Construction
NHF       =        National Housing Fund
NPPB      =        National Physical Planning Bureau
Ministry of Construction



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
KOREA
JEONJU REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:             Republic of Korea
Beneficiaries:        Municipalities of Jeonju, Iri and Namweon and County of
Okgu
Loan Amount:           $60 million, including capitalized front-end fee
Terms:                15 years, including 3 years grace, at the standard
variable interest rate.
Onlending
Terms:              Same as the Bank loan, plus a service charge of 0.05% per
annum.
Project
Description:        The proposed project will be the Bank's third regional
project in Korea. The project has been designed to sup-
port the Government's effort to reduce interregional dis-
parities by promoting economic development in major urban
areas and the poorer mountain areas and islands of the
Jeonju Region, currently the poorest in Korea. The proj-
ect consists of: (a) Urban Development - construction of
an industrial estate and housing estate and improvement
of drainage in Iri City and construction of an industrial
estate and expansion of the water distribution system in
Jeonju City; (b) Tourism Development - improved access to
scenic areas and development of a tourist site in Namweon
City to promote Mt. Jiri National Park, construction of a
tourist road in Mt. Naejang National Park, and linking of
the major islands in the Seonyu Island group through two
pedestrian foot bridges and jetties; (c) Transportation -
construction of the Iri Industrial Estate Access Road,
construction of a bridge at Woonam and pavement of a
national highway between Namweon and Gurye; and (d)
Technical Assistance - studies to review local government
planning and finance and to prepare future projects and
related training. The main project risks are: (i)
possible delays in construction due to budgetary
shortfalls and (ii) difficulties in marketing the
industrial and tourism estates due to lower demand than
anticipated. As an interim measure to resolve the tight
budgetary situation of the city governments two central
government agencies, the Korea Land Development
Corporation and the Korea National Tourism Corporation,
have been involved in the project.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
$ million
Local   Foreign   Total
Project Costs:        Urban Development               28.1      13.9      42.0
Tourism Development            20.6      15.4      36.0
Transportation                 14.7      12.0      26.7
Technical Assistance            1.0       1.2       2.2
Base Cost                      64.4      42.5    106.9
Physical Contingencies          4.4       4.1       8.5
Price Contingencies            14.5      13.2      27.7
Total Project Cost             83.3      59.8    143.1/a
Front-end fee on Bank loan       -        0.2       0.2
Total Financing Required       83.3      60.0    143.3
Financing Plan:       Bank loan                         -       60.0     60.0
Ministry of Construction /b  59.4          -       59.4
Other Central Government
A.gencies                    19.9        -       19.9
Project Cities                  4.0        -        4.0
Total                      783.3      60.0    143.3
Estimated
Disbursements:      Bank FY                   1985   1986   1987   1988   1989
$  million
Annual                    4.5    10.5   16.8   18.0   10.2
Cumulative                4.5    15.0   31.8   49.8   60.0
Rate of Return:        16%
Staff Appraisal
Report:             No. 4719-KO
Ma :                  No. 17265
/a   Includes taxes and duties of $8.5 million.
/b   Includes $9.8 million funded through NHF and $1.4 million funded through
KDB.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE REPUBLIC OF KOREA
FOR THE JEONJU REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan to
the Republic of Korea, for the equivalent of $60.0 million to help finance a
Jeonju Regional Development Project. The loan is for a term of 15 years
including 3 years of grace at the standard variable interest rate. A portion
of the loan, $11.7 million, would be onlent to the following city governments
on the same terms and conditions as the Bank loan plus 0.05% p.a. service
charge: Jeonju ($5.5 million), Iri ($3.2 million), and Namweon ($3.0 million).
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        The latest Economic Report entitled "Korea:  Adjusting to a New World
Environment" was distributed under cover of Sec M82-514 dated June 1, 1982.
The following summary is based on this Report together with updating
information obtained during a Bank mission in July 1983. The Country Data
Sheets are attached as Anne-x 1
Past Performance
3.        Twenty years ago, Korea wa6 one of the poorest developing countries,
heavily dependent on agriculture, with a weak balance of payments position
financed almost entirely through foreign grants. But the ability to sustain a
growth rate of 8% p.a. from 1960 onwards had raised Korea's per capita income
from $80 in 1960 to $1,700 in 1982 (both in current prices), with more than
80% of the population above the poverty line, and enabled her to join the
ranks of the semi-industrial nations. During this period, the share of the
manufacturing sector in GNP rose from 14% to 29% while the share of agricul-
ture fell from 39% to 17%. M4erchandise exports, principally manufactured
goods, accounted for almost 41% of GNP as against a mere 4% two decades
earlier and the balance of payments position had been considerably streng-
thened.
4.        Rapid industrial growth also brought about a marked shift in the
structure of employment. In the early sixties well over half the labor force
had been employed in agriculture.  By 1982, employment in this sector had
fallen to a third, while manufaecturing absorbed over 22% of the employed.
Heavy migration from the rurail areas to the cities combined with deliberate
Government policies to improve the agricultural terms of trade and a steady
increase in agricultural valuae added helped to ensure growth in per capita
rural incomes more or less in line with the rest of the economy through the
first half of the 70s. Ther e was some deterioration in the income levels of
the rural households betweeii 1978-81 but this appears to have now been
reversed.



Adjustment to Oil Crises and Domestic Shocks, 1974-82
5.        Foreign borrowing, an increase in public sector savings, and export
diversification resulting from an ambitious industrial policy enabled the
country to negotiate the first oil crisis without faltering, and thereafter,
to grow by 10% p.a. until 1978. However, the very success of the Korean
planners in stimulating the economy generated serious inflationary pres-
sures. Real wages rose at an average annual rate of 18% between 1975-78, well
in excess of the growth in productivity, and by 1978 the Consumer Price Index
(CPI) was increasing at over 18% p.a., compared to a rate of 10% in 1977. In
addition, the large volume of subsidized credit which was made available to
the heavy and chemical industries by the financial system under the Govern-
ment's direction, brought about an excessive expansion of capacity in
subsectors faced with weak demand while the traditional light industries were
frequently starved of funds. This trend was in line with the Government's
view of Korea's changing comparative advantage, but it created structural
imbalances in the manufacturing sector and in conjunction with exchange rate
rigidity and a rising price level, dampened export growth in the latter part
of the 1970s.
6.        The Government announced, in April 1979, a far reaching program of
stabilization-cum-restructuring to contain price pressures and revive exports,
but it was overtaken by a series of unexpected shocks. The oil price
adjustment by OPEC raised Korea's petroleum import bill from about $2.3 bil-
lion in 1978 to $6.2 billion in 1980 with the price-induced increase equal to
nearly 6% of GNP in 1980.  In October 1979, President Park Chung Hee, the
chief architect of Korea's "economic miracle" since the mid-sixties, was
assassinated. This was followed by a period of the severest political
uncertainty and social unrest in twenty years (with the situation returning to
normal only after a new Administration under President Chun Doo Hwan was
installed in September 1980).  On top of these developments, unfavorable
weather reduced agricultural output by about 22% in 1980, or over 4% of GNP,
and a 20% decline in investment led to a worsening of doflationary pressures
which could not be offset by the 10% growth of export volume.  As a result,
GNP fell by 6.2% in 1980, unemployment increased to 5.2%. from 3.2% in 1978 and
the higher costs of fuel, raw materials and foodstuffs 1ushed up consumer
prices by 29%.
7.        To stabilize the economy and promote external adjustment, the
Government attempted, with some success, to restrain wages.  It also adopted a
system of managed float, as a consequence of which the effective exchange rate
was cut by 30% in 1980.  Improved competitiveness and r4eak domestic demand
allowed export volume to increase by 10% in 1980 and a .further 17% in 1981.
I'his very sizeable expansion in trade brought about a Linarrowing of the current
account deficit from $5.3 billion in 1980 (9.4% of GNP) to $4.6 billion (7.4%
of GNP) in 1981. Meanwhile a 0.3% cut in real wages fo;lowing on the heels of
a 5.0% drop in the previous year, together with some letvelling off of import
prices, led to an easing of inflationary pressures.  These favorable devel-
opments continued through 1982, a year which saw inflatilon declining to 7.3%
and the payments deficit to 3.9% of GNP, largely becausie of movements in the
terms of trade favoring Korea, modest success on the wages front and rather
more conservative fiscal and monetary policies.



8.        While these changes in key macroeconomic indicators offered
heartening evidence of progress with adjustment, growth in 1982 (5.3%) was
appreciably below expectations, as consumer and investment demand increased
only moderately, and the 6% rise in exports came largely from a surge in sales
of ships. Hence, in the first half of 1983 the Government moved to stimulate
domestic economic activity by concentrating a larger proportion of the total
budgeted public expenditure in the earlier part of the year. This served to
stimulate construction activities in the public sector, but the expectations
generated by the Government's counter cyclical action together with the
prospects of a revival in international demand, also triggered a boom in the
private housing and real estate markets, and in the industries supplying
inputs for construction activities. The recovery in export demand for
electronics, machinery and transport subsectors from about the middle of 1983
helped to sustain the tempo of economic activity through the last two quarters
with the result that GNP grew by over 9%.
Medium-Term Prospects
9.        When the Fifth Five-Year Plan (1982-86) was prepared two years ago,
a growth rate of 7.6% p.a. was projected with export volume increasing by 11%
annually and the current account deficit declining gradually to $3.6 billion
by 1986. But with the balance of payments performance running well ahead of
the Fifth Plan targets and planners more sanguine regarding the economy's
growth prospects, the Government recently completed a revision of the Plan.
Many of the objectives enunciated in the earlier version of the Plan which
have been pursued with considerable success have been retained, such as:
(a) price stability, (b) a lowering of trade barriers, (c) financial liberali-
zation, (d) energy conservation and diversification by type and source,
(e) increased spending on social programs and (f) strengthening of the new
export industries. But the revised Plan underscores the need for Korea to
contain external borrowing thereby minimizing the expansion of its large
external debt. Technology absorption from abroad and the creation of domestic
research capability, seen as the key to future export dynamism, also receives
more attention. In addition, the quest for efficiency in the management and
allocation of resources, especially in the public sector, has been
sharpened. The austere public expenditure program calling for a balancedl
budget (general account) by 1984 and the equally stringent monetary policy
which has been in force over the past year, should facilitate a progressive
reduction in the size of the current account deficit, with domestic savings
being encouraged by generous real interest rates for depositors (4-5% in 1983)
and price stability (2% inflation in 1983). Technology transfer is being
accelerated by integrating and expanding the efforts to induce direct foreign
investment, increase funding for research and venture capital for high
technology firms, by improving the quality of researchers in scientific
institutes and encouraging the large corporations to raise expenditures on
R&D. Lastly, a reform of public enterprise management, now being reviewed,
should contribute significantly to the cause of efficiency.
10.       During the 1970s, Korea's growth rate was extremely high - averaging
9.6% p.a. Such a performance might not be easily repeated in the current
decade given the trends in the international system and the very size of
Korea's economy and trade. But an increase in the GNP averaging 7-8% annually
could well be achieved, if the appropriate policies are followed, through a
9-10% expansion in exports combined with judicious enlargement of domestic
demand.



-4-
External Resource Balance
11.       While total debt is high in absolute amounts and equal to 57% of GNP
in 1983, the total debt service ratio (including interest on short-term debt)
was still a moderate 21%. These ratios in fact exaggerate the debt burden
somewhat as they include loans used for the purpose of financing the rapidly
rising exports of capital goods (most prominently ships) without showing the
balancing effect on net foreign debts of rising foreign exchange claims on the
rest of the world. The high share of short-term maturities in total debt
(35%) is the most unfavorable aspect of the debt situation, but under the
Stand-By Agreement with the IMF, special attention is being given to its
reduction over the next 12 months. The gross borrowing program envisaged by
the Government (about $6 billion p.a. through 1986) though fairly large in
absolute amounts, is realistic in terms of availability, and prudent in terms
of Korea's debt service capacity provided that the export projections are
realized and the borrowing rates decline. With such a level of borrowing,
Korea's external debt as a ratio to GNP would decline to below 45% in 1986,
while the debt service ratio would fall to 17%. Although this is lower than
the debt service ratios projected for many other newly industrializing
countries, the magnitude of Korea's outstanding debt and the lowered tolerance
of bankers towards risk, suggest that it would be desirable for the current
account deficit to be kept below 2% of GNP for 1986, which appears feasible.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
12.       As of September 30, 1983, Korea had received 68 Bank loans (includ-
ing one Third Window Loan) and 8 IDA Credits, totalling $4,437 million in
loans and $106.8 million in credits (taking into account cancellations and the
refinancing of one IDA Credit in a subsequent Bank loan). As of that date,
$1,214.8 million remained undisbursed on effective loans, mostly from
commitments in the past two years. Annex II contains a list of outstanding
]3ank loans, IDA Credits, and IFC Investments as of September 1983. Progress
on project implementation is generally satisfactory, and implementation delays
have been addressed which had occurred in several projects - mainly irriga-
tion, highways and population - due primarily to shortfalls in Government
budgetary contributions resulting from cost overruns during a period of high
clomestic inflation. The issue has been reviewed with the Government which has
taken measures to increase local funding of Bank-financed projects. However,
as the Government's budgetary situation continues to be tight, the status and
plans for counterpart contributions will remain an integral part of country
implementation reviews held jointly with the Government. Nevertheless,
despite the recent delays, Korea's disbursement rate remains the highest among
major Bank borrowers in East Asia.
13.       The current pipeline of projects in the lending program for Korea
reflects an evolution in the Bank's strategy from lending for discrete
projects concerned with micro-institutional issues increasingly to making
sector loans which are aimed at addressing broad-based policy and institu-
tional issues.  This transformation in the Bank's lending approach, made
possible by the relatively sophisticated Korean institutions, is working
well. Sector loans have already been made for Education and Industrial
Finance and are under preparation for the Agriculture and Urban sectors. The



Bank has also made two Structural Adjustment Loans (SALs), which complement
this approach by concentrating on issues that have macro and multi-sectoral
impact.
14.       Bank lending for the industrial sector is aimed at helping improve
Korea's trade and industrial incentives policies, at improving the performance
of the financial system and at developing the technological capabilities of
Korean enterprises. So far trade and incentives issues have been addressed
through the SAL. Issues pertaining to the strengthening of the financial
system are being addressed under the Bank's lending for industrial finance.
For example, the Industrial Finance project approved by the Board in June 1983
supports the Government's ongoing program of financial sector reform. The
Bank's technology enhancement objectives are being pursued through two
projects approved in 1982, one for the Korea Technology Development Corpora-
tion (KTDC) which finances research, development and engineering and the other
for the machinery industries which is designed to provide financial and
technical assistance to raise the productivity of small and medium machinery
firms. Future lending planned for industry in Korea would include continued
support for the financial sector reform, for KTDC, and for the small and
medium-industry subsector which is expected to play an important role in the
growth of the skill-intensive industries which are crucial to the next stage
of development of Korean industry.
15.       Future Bank lending for agriculture is expected to be limited
reflecting the completion of major infrastructure works. A planned sector
loan would address a number of policy and institutional issues related to
Korean agriculture which are now being defined in a sector survey. This would
complement public finance issues related to farm subsidies and the restruc-
turing of agro-industries being handled under the second SAL. Loan funds are
tentatively planned to be directed to credit institutions to support long-term
lending to farmers and other private entrepreneurs in the sector.
16.       The Bank has played a major role in assisting the Government to
modernize and expand the transport system through lending for the railroad,
highway construction and improvement, and port expansion. The Highway Sector
Project as well as future operations would address sectoral and subsectoral
issues such as improving the integration of investment planning, energy
conservation and transport efficiency related to regulation and road user
charges. Those transport issues which involve macroeconomic policies
affecting other sectors of the economy, such as relative fuel prices, are
being handled within the context of the second SAL.
17.       The Bank Group has been involved in helping to meet the requiremaents
for skilled technical manpower, a precondition of up-market industrial diver-
sification. The Bank's first sector loan for education, approved in 1980, was
aimed at improving engineering and management education and technician
training. Under preparation is a proposed second sector loan which would
support measures designed to improve qualitative aspects of secondary and
higher level science and technology education.
18.       The Bank's recent lending in the urban sector involves support for
two regional development projects, two low-income housing projects and two
water supply projects. The Bank is assisting Korea to increase the avail--
ability of basic services such as housing, water supply, and transportation in



- 6 -
the cities and to improve the functioning and efficiency of urban areas.  New
projects in urban transport, local government finance and water supply are
lander preparation. Continuation of the policy improvement and institution-
building efforts initiated under ongoing projects is planned by moving
gradually to a sector approach, first in housing.
PART III - SECTORAL BACKGROUND
Regional Development and Government Policy in Korea
19.       Since the early 1960s, Korea experienced rapid economic development
and transformation from an agriculture-based economy to a modern industrial
economy, resulting in shifts in population and economic activity within the
country. During the 1960s, economic activity and population were concentrated
in Seoul which increased its share of national population from 10% to 18% and
G,ross Domestic Product (GDP) from 19% to 28% between 1960 and 1970.  As the
aation's capital and largest city, Seoul had the advantage of being the center
of Government, communication and finance, as well as providing a pool of
workers and a mass consumer market.  During the 1970s, while Seoul continued
to dominate the economy, the momentum of growth spread to areas nearby the
capital and the populous southeast provinces. Between 1970 and 1980, Seoul
averaged a growth in Gross Regional Product (GRP) of around 9% p.a. while the
Gyeongi Province around the city averaged 13% and Busan and the Gyeong Nam
Province in the southeast averaged 11%. Seoul and Busan Cities, together with
ihe Gyeongi and Gyeong Nam Provinces, accounted for 24% of Korea's area, 52%
of population and about 60% of GDP in 1980.
20.       Given high population densities, the Government has attempted to
spread development and population more evenly arourd the country. The Govern-
rnent's spatial policies constitute a mix of incentives and disincentives to
channel rural-urban migration to cities other than Seoul. The Government has
constructed highways, water supply systems, industrial complexes and other
infrastructure and offered tax incentives to induce industrialists to locate
in the southeast coastal belt and other areas outside of Seoul. Restrictions
such as land-use and density regulations, were also used to control growth of
the capital.  In addition, the Government initiated regional planning and
implemented regional projects to promote development in the poorest regions in
the country.
21.       National land-use and regional planning began during the early
1960s. A comprehensive National Land Construction Planning Law was enacted in
1963, and in 1967 a national construction plan encompassing expressways, river
basin schemes and ports was prepared. In 1971 the Ministry of Construction
(HOC) published a comprehensive National Land Development Plan for 1972-81
which incorporated the findings of a UNDP-financed regional planning study.
The Plan divided the country into eight regions, presented sectoral analyses
and identified development guidelines for each region. Following up on the
plan, MOC prepared regional development plans for the Gwangju, Jeonju and



Taebaek/i Regions, the three poorest regions in Korea. The Gwangju Regional
Study, completed in 1975, formed the basis for the Bank's first and second
regional projects: the Secondary Cities Regional Project (Loan 1070-KO,
approved in 1975), referred to as the first Gwangju Project, and the Second
Gwangju Regional Project (Loan 1758-KO, approved in 1979).
The Bank's Involvement in Regional Development
22.       The Bank's regional projects in Korea have assisted the Government
address inter-regional income inequalitites by promoting economic development
and improving living conditions in one of the poorest regions of Korea. The
Bank has worked closely both with MOC, which has the mandate for regional
planning and development, and with the local governments in preparing and
implementing these projects.
23.       The Bank's first two regional projects focused on the Gwangju Region
which was considered to be the poorest in the early 1970s. The first Gwangju
Project, which was a pilot scheme to test viability of the approach, addressed
the needs of the region's four major cities, Gwangju, Suncheon, Yeosu and
Mogpo, and included housing estates, a fishery harbor complex, a city market
and city roads. The project also included technical assistance to strengthen
project implementation and regional planning in MOC. The second Project was a
comprehensive attempt to address the needs of the Gwangju region. It incLuded
further housing estates, water supply, industrial estates and roads in
Gwangju, Mogpo and Yeosu. The needs of the residents in the region's island
areas were addressed through an aquaculture program and through improved
transportation linkages between the islands with the mainland (two bridges and
a ferry service).
24.       Project implementation was carried out by MOC which transferred the
completed facilities to the relevant local or central government agencies for
operation and maintenance. The first Gwangju Project was completed in 1980/2
while the second Gwangju Project is scheduled to be completed in 1984. Except
for delays caused by local financing problems, construction has generally been
satisfactory, with contracts completed on time. No problems have been
encountered in the transfer and maintenance of the completed facilities.
25.       Given that the First Gwangju Project has just finished and the
second is still under implementation and that they constitute only a part of a
/1   The eight regions corresponding roughly to the provinces; the Gwangju
Region is equivalent to the Jeon Nam Province and the Jeonju Region to
the Jeon Bug Province.
/2   The Project Completion Report, issued on August 27, 1981, concluded that
the project sucessfully achieved its institutional goal of assisting the
Government develop a capability to prepare and implement integrated
regional projects. The subsequent Second Gwangju and the proposed Jeonju
Projects have built upon and further strengthened this capability.



-8-
total public and private investment effort in the region, it is not possible
to measure the effect of the projects per se on overall regional develop-
Me!nt. Nevertheless, these projects did provide a nucleus for development
activities in the region. The region was able to maintain a real growth of 7%
per annum during the 1970s, the highest among the poorer provinces of the
northeast and southwest, and per capita income differentials improved from 68%
of per capita GNP in 1970 to 81X in 1980. The Jeonju Region has now replaced
Gwangju as the poorest region in Korea.
26.       The Gwangju Regional Projects have also assisted the Government
establish an institutional framework for planning and implementing regional
development projects. The preparation of the projects has encouraged central
and provincial authorities to co-operate in developing a more comprehensive,
integrated perspective on regional needs and in identifying priority invest-
ments. Initially, emphasis was placed on establishing regional planning and
pIrO ject implementation capability in the Government and a project management
unit, the Gwangju Regional Development Unit, (GRDU), was created in MOC under
the First Gwangju Project. Subsequently, GRDU's functions have been incor-
porated into MOC's regular operations; the planning and coordination functions
being taken over by the Regional Planning Division (RPD) in the National
Physical Planning Bureau (NPPB) and the project implementation function being
incorporated in Iri Regional Construction Office (IRCO). Staff of RPD, IRCO
and the provincial government were primarily responsible for the preparation
of the proposed Jeonju Regional project. Furthermore, RPD staff are currently
preparing regional development plans for Cheju Island and the island area in
Je!on Nam Province which are expected to be implemented through the local MOC
Regional Construction Offices.
27.       With the development of project planning and implementation capa-
bility within MOC as well as increased local government involvement, well
defined institutional arrangements for future regional projects have been
established. However, the implementation experience of the Second Gwangju
Project and preparation of the proposed project have highlighted the diffi-
culties in mobilizing domestic resources, particularly local government
funds. Local governments in Korea generally have limited resources that they
raise directly and rely on transfers from the central government to finance
recurrent as well as capital expenditures. While the cities and counties are
able to provide adequate services to meet the immediate needs of their
residents, they find it difficult to plan larger development projects spanning
several years since the amount of overall resources available is determined by
aninual central government budget allocations. The financial system in Korea
is currently not sufficiently developed to allow local governments to directly
mobilize medium or long-term financing. To accommodate these difficulties, an
interim solution of involving central government agencies has been adopted for
this project. In the long run, the capital needs of the cities would be best
met through a financial intermediary which would channel domestic savings and
foreign funds to local governments as loans. Preliminary studies have been
carried out and the Government is presently considering a draft law containing
the legal basis for a new institution which would, inter alia, provide finan-
cial intermediation for cities and possibly technical assistance where neces-
sary to plan, evaluate and implement local investment projects. The precise
mechanism to deal with these issues and an implementation timetable are
uncertain at this time because of the interministerial nature of the proposed
law. However, the Government has indicated that local government development



- 9-
will continue to be a priority area for Bank assistance and this project
provides for studies which would: (a) review local government planning and
finances, and (b) undertake the necessary preparation work for a possible
future Bank urban sector loan.
The Jeonju Region
28.       The Jeonju Region, corresponding to Jeon Bug Province, is located in
the midwestern part of Korea with an area of 8,076 sq km and a population of
2.3 million in 1980 (Map 17265). Jeonju is currently the poorest region in
Korea with a per capita GRP of W 670,904 in 1980 which was 69% of per capita
GNP. Between 1970 and 1980, the regional economy grew at an average of only
4% p.a. in real terms compared to the national average of 8%. Overall
regional population declined by an average of 0.6% p.a. during this period.
Slow development (relative to the rest of the nation) is due mainly to the
predominance of agriculture which still accounts for 39% of GRP in 1980
(versus 16% nationally) and lack of diversification in the regional economy.
29.       Although overall population growth in the region stagnated and began
to decline during the 1970s, the urban population in Jeonju increased at 3.4%
p.a. between 1970 and 1980. Jeonju City, the provincial capital, is the
largest city in the region with a population of 366,977 in 1980 averaging a
growth of 3.4% p.a. since 1970. Gunsan City, the second largest city with a
population of 165,977 in 1980 (averaging a growth of 3.9% p.a. since 1970), is
the region's only commercial port. Gunsan and Jeonju have been the tradit-
ional urban centers in the region, both cities having histories that go back
over a thousand years. Iri City, the third largest with a population of
145,358 (averaging a growth of 5.3% p.a. since 1970) is located midway between
Gunsan and Jeonju Cities with good access to the Honam Railway and Honam
Expressway, the main rail and road links between Seoul and the southwestern
part of the country. The three cities form a triangle which is the center of
industrialization in the region and are estimated to account for over 80% of
production and employment in the region's manufacturing sector.
30.       While the agriculture sector will continue to play an important role
in the regional economy, opportunities for rapid growth or labor absorption in
the sector are limited. Therefore, the strategy for development in the Jeonju
Region stresses the diversification of the regional economy through manufac-
turing and tourism development. The proposed project would finance a phase of
the investments in the region and complement other ongoing projects developed
along the lines of the basic strategy.
31.       The manufacturing sector in Jeonju consists primarily of light
industries: food, beverage and textiles accounting for 63% of manufacturing
value added in 1980. Wage rates are about 10% lower than the national aver-
age, making the region attractive to labor intensive industries. As part of
the plan to develop the Gunsan-Iri-Jeonju triangle as a major industrial
center on the west coast, the Government is undertaking a series of
investments including the expansion of the commercial port at Gunsan to
improve access to the region and construction of industrial estates in Gunsan,
Iri and Jeonju, to provide basic infrastructure to locating firms. Both the



- 10 -
port and adjacent coastal industrial estate at Gunsan/3 are completed and
expected to develop as a regional center for machinery and chemical indus-
tries. The expansion of the existing industrial estates to accommodate
Jurther development of light manufacturing industries in Jeonju and Iri are
proposed to be included in this project.
32.       One potential area of development which has not been fully exploited
to date is domestic tourism. The mountain areas in the eastern part of the
region include three national parks, Mt. Jiri, Mt. Naejang and Mt. Doegyou,
and numerous temples and cultural assets, such as historic Namweon City, the
site of a bloody seige during the 16th century invasion by Japanese forces and
also of the romantic Chunhyang legend, Korea's equivalent of Romeo and
Juliet. While Jeonju may be "off the beaten track" for foreign tourists, its
raountains and beaches have attracted domestic tourists not only from within
the region but also from Busan and other cities in the southeast. Between
1]971 and 1978, despite a lack of overnight facilities and with generally poor
access to scenic areas, the number of tourists in the Jeonju Region grew at an
average of 13.7% p.a. which was higher than the national average of 9.4%. The
completion of the Olympic Highway between Gwangju and Daegu in 1984 would make
both Mt. Jiri and Mt. Naejang national parks more accessible to people living
in the urban areas in the southeast. The project proposes to take this oppor-
tunity to promote further domestic tourism by providing improved facilities
and access to scenic areas.
33.       Manufacturing growth in Jeonju, Iri and Gunsan cities will be
accompanied by a growth in urban population, not only from increased manu-
facturing employment but also from growth in related service sectors. If the
population continues to grow at past rates during the 1980s, Jeonju City is
expected to reach 500,000 and Gunsan and Iri about 250,000 by 1990. The
government has taken measures to provide water, shelter, and essential urban
services to the increased population. In case of water supply, the Geum River
Basin Water Supply Project financed through the Asian Development Bank and
scheduled for completion in 1984, is projected to produce a total of 200,000
cu m of treated water a day for 24 cities and towns including Jeonju, Iri and
(Gunsan in both Jeon Bug and Chung Nam Provinces. Both Iri and Gunsan cities
are expanding their distribution systems to accommodate the increase in water
supply, while part of the expansion of the Jeonju City distribution would be
f-inanced out of this project. A continuation of the past trends towards
smaller households would result in an estimated 300,000 additional housing
units required in three major cities by 1990. Housing is being constructed by
the private sector as well as public agencies such as the Korea National
Hlousing Corporation (KNHC). The Bank's ongoing housing project (1980-KO)
includes a housing estate in Jeonju. Additional low-income housing in Iri
would be provided through this project.
/3   The industrial estate was completed in 1982 and 60% of the 825,500 py
saleable area has been sold to date.



- 11 -
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background
34.       The Jeonju Region was identified as the site for the Bank's third
regional project in 1978. The Jeon Bug Provincial Government prepared a list
of possible project components from priority investments submitted by the
local governments in line with the overall regional development strategy.
Feasibility studies were started in May 1981 and were completed in June
1982. The Government prepared a proposal for the Jeonju Regional Project
based on these study results. Detailed engineering of the individual compo-
nents began in January 1983 and was completed in December 1983. The Bank
preappraised the project in June 1982 at the completion of the feasibility
studies and appraised the project in March 1983. Negotiations were held in
Washington from January 9-12, 1984. The Korean delegation was led by Mr. Wei
Sung-Yong, Director-General of the Economic Cooperation Bureau, Ministry of
Finance, Seoul. Staff Appraisal Report No. 4719-KO, dated February 23, 1984 is
being distributed separately. Supplementary project data are provided in
Annex III.
Project Objectives and Description
35.       The objectives of the Jeonju Regional Project are:  (a) to support
the Government's effort to reduce interregional disparities by promoting
economic development and creating employment opportunities in the Jeonju
Region; (b) to address intra-regional disparities by promoting economic
development in the poorer mountain areas and islands; and (c) to improve
infrastructure and living conditions in the major urban areas of the region.
36.       The project components are divided into three main types: (a) urban-
industrial development in Iri and Jeonju cities; (b) tourism development in
the mountain areas and Seonyu Island; and (c) strengthening of interregional
and intraregional transportation. The project would consist of the following
components:
(a) Urban Development
(i)  industrial estates.  Development of serviced industrial land in
Jeonju (66 ha) and Iri (46 ha), divided into plots of about
100-3,000 sq m with basic services such as water, electricity,
telephones and other public facilities.
(ii) housing estate. A 20 ha housing estate in Iri providing 610
serviced residential lots affordable to low income households
at about the 19th percentile in the income distribution. The
project is based on the Bank's on-going land development and
housing projects, except that no housing construction is
included. Beneficiaries will arrange for construction of their
own houses with loans available from the National Housing Fund
(NHF).



- 12 -
(iii) water supply. Expansion of the water distribution system in
Jeonju through the construction of a service reservoir and
about 21 km of distribution pipes to increase connections and
improve service levels.
(iv) drainage improvement. Improvement of drainage in Iri through
construction of a retention basin, a network of interception
and drainage channels, and additional lift pumps to alleviate
flooding of low-lying residential and agricultural areas in and
around the city.
(b) Tourism Development
(i)  Mt. Jiri.  Tourism promotion in Mt. Jiri National Park through
the upgrading of two mountain roads (approximately 25 km and
19 km ) to improve access to scenic areas and development of a
43 ha site for lodging, parking and other recreational facili-
ties in Namweon.
(ii)  Mt. Naejang.  Construction of a road (approximately 16 km) in
Mt. Naejang National Park to link two major tourist attrac-
tions, Naejang and Baejyang Temples.
(iii)  Seonyu Island.  Construction of two pedestrian bridges (2 m x
300 m and 2m x 250 m) and jetties in the Seonyu Island group to
improve access between the main islands for both tourists and
residents.
(c) Transportation
(i)  Iri Industrial Estate Access Road.  Construction of an
industrial road (approximately 11 km) to allow traffic from the
industrial estate to bypass the city center.
(ii)  Woonam Bridge and pavement of Namweon -Gurye Road  Construction
of a bridge (10 m x 350 m, at Woonam on National Route 27) and
pavement of a section of National Route 19 between Namweon and
Gurye (approximately 32 km) to improve access of rural
residents to nearby cities for marketing of agricultural
products and purchase of goods as well as improving inter-
regional traffic flows.
(d) Technical Assistance
A study for the review of local government planning and finances and
preparation of future projects, and related overseas training.
Iraplementation Arrangements
37.       The project would be implemented over a five-year period (1984-88).
The implementation arrangements for the project are similar to those of the
previous Gwangju Projects, except that two central government agencies, Korea



- 13 -
Land Development Corporation (KLDC) and Korea National Tourism Corporation
(KNTC), have been introduced as an interim solution to overcome the locaL
government financing problems. Thus, the project would be jointly implemented
by MOC through it's IRCO, KLDC and KNTC in collaboration with the concerned
local governments. Land acquisition would be carried out by the cities, KLDC
or IRCO depending on the component. Construction would be carried out by
IRCO, KLDC and KNTC which would hand over the completed facilities to the
concerned local governments for operation and maintenance. The project
cities, Jeonju, Iri and Namweon, together with KLDC and KNTC would be respons-
ible for marketing and sales of the industrial and housing estates and the
tourism site. The tourism roads, Namweon-Gurye road and the Woonam Bridge
would be part of the national highway system and would be maintained by IRCO.
38.       Overall project coordination would be carried by out MOC's NPPB in
Seoul together with the Jeon Bug Provincial Government (JBPG). NPPB's
Regional Planning Division has acted as a coordinator between the various
central government ministries, national agencies and' local governments during
the preparation of the project and the implementation of the on-going Gwangju
Project. Quarterly progress reports would be prepared by the implementing
agencies and sent to JBPG and NPPB which would monitor overall progress.
Copies of the progress reports with a summary by NPPB would be sent to the
Bank. As with the ongoing projects, separate project accounts would be
maintained by IRCO and relevant implementing agencies and would be audited by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank.
Implementing Agencies
39.       MOC's Iri Regional Construction Office (IRCO) will be responsible
for tendering and construction supervision of the transportation, tourism
road, water supply and drainage components. IRCO, located in Iri City, is in
charge of constructing MOC projects, river and national highway maintenance in
Jeon Nam and Jeon Bug Provinces and is the implementing agency for the on--
going Second Gwangju Regional Project. The Regional Development Division has
been established to handle Bank-financed regional projects exclusively.  The
civil works in the Gwangju Projects have been well executed and the majority
of components would be completed during 1983. Staff from these components
would be reassigned to the proposed project when construction begins in 1984.
40.       The Korea Land Development Corporation (KLDC) would be responsible
for land acquisition, tendering and contract supervision of the industrial and
housing estate components. Established in 1979, KLDC is a government-owned
corporation with a mandate to acquire, develop and sell industrial and
residential land. Land development under the First and Second Urban Land
Development and Housing Projects (Loans 1980-KO and 2216-KO) is being conduc-
ted by KLDC. Progress under these Projects has been smooth with all work to
date being completed ahead of schedule and under budget.
41.       The Korean National Tourism Corporation (KNTC) would be responsible
for designing, tendering and supervising construction of the tourism site at
Namweon. KNTC will also assist the city government in promoting the tourism
site and selling lots to private investors for the development of commercial
establishments in the complex. KNTC has the qualified professional staff and



- 14 -
the capability to plan and implement investment programs for both interna-
tional and domestic tourism. KNTC implemented the Bank financed Kyongju
Tourism Project (Loan 953-KO).
42.       Jeonju, Iri and Namweon Cities and Okgu County would take over and
maintain the completed facilities, except for the national highways and
tourism roads. Jeonju, Iri and Namweon Cities would also be responsible
jointly with KLDC and KNTC for promotion and sales of the industrial and
housing estate and the tourism site.   Experience from the previous Gwangju
Projects indicate that transfer of the facilities and operation and
maintenance would cause no difficulties for the local governments concerned.
Cost Estimates
43.       The total project cost is estimated to be $143 million equivalent (W
115 billion) of which the foreign exchange component is $60 million equivalent
(W 48 billion) or 44% of the total project cost. These cost estimates are
based on detail engineering designs. Base costs are expressed in December
19183 prices and include construction, land acquisition and design and
suipervision costs. Costs for technical assistance are based on the average
man-month costs (including salaries, fees, and international travel) of
$12,000 for foreign consultants and $6,000 for local consultants. Technical
assistance is estimated to require about 270 man-months, approximately 210
local and 60 foreign. Price contingencies are based on the projected price
escalation of 7.5% in 1984, 7% in 1985 and 6% thereafter for both foreign and
local costs.
Project Financing
44.       The proposed Bank loan of $60 million (W 48 billion)/4 would finance
the foreign exchange component of the project. The loan would be made to the
Government of the Republic of Korea on standard Bank terms. Of the total Bank
loan, $11.7 million would be onlent to the following city governments: Jeonju
(',5.5 million), Iri ($3.2 million), and Namweon ($3.0 million) in accordance
with normal government practice through subsidiary loan agreements at the same
variable interest rate as the Bank loan plus a 0.05% p.a. Government service
charge (Section 3.02(a) of the draft Loan Agreement). The remaining $47.8
million would be passed on to MOC. The portion of the Bank loan which will be
onlent to the city governments would be passed on initially to the implement-
ing central government agencies (MOC, KLDC, KNTC) which would transfer the
assets and liabilities to the city governments upon the completion of the
project. Signing of the Subsidiary Loan Agreements between the Government and
the cities would be a condition of loan effectiveness (Section 5.01(a) of the
draft Loan Agreement).
45.       The local counterpart funds would be provided by the various project
agencies as follows:
/A   Including the capitalized front-end fee.



- 15 -
(a) Jeonju City would provide $1.8 million equivalent for land
acquisition in the industrial estate and water supply.
(b) Iri City would provide $0.6 million equivalent for land acquisition
in the industrial and housing estates.
(c) Namweon City would provide $1.6 million equivalent for land
acquisition in the tourism site.
(d) KLDC would provide $17.0 million equivalent for land acquisition and
construction of the industrial and housing estates.
(e) KNTC would provide $2.9 million equivalent for construction of the
tourism site as a loan to Namweon City over five years including two
years grace, at 8% per annum.
(f) MOC would provide (i) $1.4 million equivalent as a loan through the
Korea Development Bank (KDB) for the water supply component over 10
years with three years grace at 10% per annum; (ii) $9.8 million
equivalent through the NHF for graduated mortgages at the prevailing
rate, currently 20 years at 10% per annum, for lot purchase and
housing construction on the low income lots; and (iii) $48.2 miLlion
equivalent from the government budget for the construction of the
transportation, tourism roads, island development and drainage
components.
Signing of Agreements between KLDC, KNTC and the cities, including inter-alia,
the portion of local funds to be provided by each agency and terms and condi-
tions for provision of funds and revenue sharing, would be a condition of loan
effectiveness (Section 5.01(b) of the draft Loan Agreement).
Cost Recovery
46.       The development costs would be recovered through sales or user
charges for the local government projects, i.e., industrial estate, housing
estate, tourism site and water supply components. For the central government
projects, i.e., tourism road, transportation, island development and drainage
components, development costs would be recovered indirectly through general
revenues.
47.       Cost recovery for the city-sponsored components are summarized
below:
(a) Industrial Estates: Jeonju and Iri cities would recover the
development cost and interest during construction through sales at
market prices. Buyers would be provided with the option to purchase
the land on installment terms with a 40% downpayment and the balance
to be repaid on an equal monthly installment basis for 5 years at
the prevailing interest rate, currently 10% per annum. In order to
discourage speculation, buyers would be required to start construc-
tion of factories within one year and would not be allowed to resell
the plot without permission of the city government. Maintenance



- 16 -
cost of roads, drains and other on-site infrastructure would be
recovered through property taxes.
(b) Housing Estates: The cost of land acquisition, site preparation and
financial charges during construction would be recovered through
land sales. As with previous Bank housing projects, the site would
consist of a mix of middle-income and commercial lots (50% of
saleable area) and low-income lots (50% of saleable area). The
middle income and commercial lots would be sold through competitive
bidding or direct contracts at market prices. Surpluses generated
from these sales would be used to lower the sales prices of low
income lots. The cross-subsidies are estimated to be about 25% of
the development cost for the low income plots making them affordable
to low income households at about the 19 percentile of the urban
household income distribution.
(c)  Tourism Site:  Cost of land acquisition, site preparation,
infrastructure, related tourism facilities, management costs and
financial charges a would be recovered through the sale of open lots
to potential investors, lease of tourism facilities and annual
service charges to commercial establishments in the complex. The
developed land would be sold at market prices. Some tourist
facilities in the complex such as tennis courts would be leased to
potential users. Maintenance costs of the tourism complex would be
charged annually to the beneficiaries on the basis of the proportion
of each lot sold for commerical establishment.
(d)  Water Supply:  The project costs would be recovered from the
beneficiaries through water charges. The level of water charges
would be designed to meet the financial objectives of producing
agreed rates of return on net revalued fixed assets in operation (6%
for the initial years of operation 1987-90 and 8% thereafter). It
has also been agreed that the Jeonju Water Works Bureau (JWWD) would
not incur any additional debt unless its debt service coverage
exceeds 1.5 in any succeeding year (Sections 4.07 and 4.08 of the
draft Loan Agreement).
48.       In the case of the industrial, housing and tourism estate
components, the development costs would be recovered through sales within five
years after project completion, while the proceeds of the Bank loan would be
repaid over a longer period, 15 years, including a three year grace. Funds
generated from these project components in the initial years of operation
would be significant and would form a reserve fund, which the cities would use
to finance further development projects. The cities would prepare investment
plans outlining, inter alia, further investments from these funds, expected
returns and viability (Section 3.09 of the draft Loan Agreement). Revenues
from the project are expected to contribute to around 5% of the total develop-
:iient budgets for Jeonju for 1987-91, 11% for Iri and 32% for Namweon.
49.       It has been agreed that the city governments and the concerned
agencies (KLDC and KNTC) would formulate financial objectives and regulations
in a timely manner for the respective project components (industrial, housing,



- 17 -
tourism and water supply) governing land selling prices, schedule and terms of
land sales, marketing plans, and water tariffs for Bank review (Sections 3.09
and 4.07 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Procurement and Disbursement
50.       The civil works would be divided into about 14 contracts ranging
from $3 million to $17 million, with each component tendered as a single
package. All contracts would be awarded on the basis of international
competitive bidding to prequalified contractors in accordance with Bank guide-
lines. However, no foreign contractors have expressed interest in prequaLi-
fying for previous regional development and housing projects financed by the
Bank in Korea and none are anticipated for this project. If no foreign con-
tractor prequalifies, all subsequent contract documents will be issued in
Korean language and bidding times reduced in keeping with local practices.,
Other Bank guidelines for competitive bidding would be maintained.
Consultants would be selected according to Bank Guidelines.
51.       Disbursements under the proposed loan would be: (a) 50% for civil
works, and (b) 100% for technical assistance, including consultant services,
studies and overseas training. Construction loans would be made by the
Government through the NHF. No disbursements would be made against these
loans. A special account (revolving fund) of $2 million of the Bank funds
would be established as a condition of effectiveness to expedite disbursement
and assist local governments in making payments to contractors (Section
5.01(c) of the draft Loan Agreement). It is expected that the disbursements
would be completed by June 30, 1989.
Benefits and Risks
52.       The project would support the Government's efforts to promote
economic development and reduce out-migration from the poorest region in
Korea. Given the scarcity of land in Korea, orderly development of industrial
land is essential in promoting manufacturing growth as well as protecting the
environment for city residents. The proposed industrial estates in Jeonju and
Iri would meet potential demand for land up to 1989 as part of the govern-
ment's plan to develop the Gunsan-Iri-Jeonju triangle into a regional mamnfac-
turing center. When fully occupied, both estates are estimated to create an
additional 7,500 jobs. Other project components would address the resident's
needs for improved services and living conditions. The industrial estate
access road, housing estate and drainage components would reduce future
congestion in Iri City from increased traffic to the industrial estate, meet
some of the growing shelter needs, and help resolve the city's perennial
flooding problem. The Jeonju water supply component would address the city's
current water difficiencies and future needs.
53.       The Mt. Jiri, Mt. Naejang and Seonyu Island components exploit the
region's potential for tourism development and promote development in the
region's poorer mountain and island areas. Approximately 1,500 jobs would be
created on the Namweon tourist site. The Woonam Bridge and Namweon-Gurye Road
components would also benefit the mountain areas by improving access to nearby
cities for marketing and purchase of goods.



- 18 -
54.       The implementation of the project itself is expected to create about
7,500 man-years equivalent in construction jobs. The project is estimated to
have an economic rate of return (ERR) of 16% based on the weighted average of
the ERR of the individual components ranging from 13% to 26%. All taxes were
excluded from the analysis. Conversion factors were not used since the
existing exchange rate and wages were considered to adequately reflect market
conditions. Rental values were used to measure the benefits from the indus-
trial and housing estate components, while vehicle operating costs savings and
time savings were used in the transportation components. Assuming that
existing tariffs reflect the consumer's willingness to pay, the rate of return
on the water supply component was obtained on the incremental revenues
resulting from the project. Average annual damage cost from flooding between
1978-82 was used as a measure of benefits from the Iri drainage component.
'For the tourism components, profits (i.e. average tourist expenditure, net of
czosts) from the increase in tourist traffic was taken as the benefits since
the project would have an impact on overall tourism development in their
respective areas. Additional investments by private entrepreneurs outside the
project were also taken into account for calculation of the ERR.
35.       The project's urban components are expected to beneLit the urban
poor by providing shelter through the housing estates, improved urban services
through the water supply and drainage components and employment through the
industrial estates. The project would have an impact on reducing rural
poverty in the poorer mountain areas of the region. Average incomes of the
inhabitants in these areas are estimated to be 20% to 30% lower than the urban
areas and the fertile plain areas. The tourism components would allow local
residents to supplement their incomes through jobs, both full-time and part-
time, in hotels, shops and other service activities.
56.       The most significant risks are: (a.) possible delays in construction
dlue to budgetary shortfalls and (b) difficulties in marketing the industrial
and tourism estates due to lower demand than anticipated. The central
government agencies, KLDC and KNTC, were introduced into the project to assist
the cities which would have faced difficulties in raising the necessary local
counterpart funds. The economic recession and drastic drop in economic growth
following the 1979 oil price increases have made it difficult to project
future investment in manufacturing and tourism. The scale of the industrial
estates was reduced significantly from the original proposals, by 38% in
Jeonju and 76% in Iri, due to recession-induced uncertainty during the project
preparation period. If economic recovery leads to increased investment and
clemand for industrial land in these cities, the proceeds of the sales of the
project sites would be utilized to develop subsequent phases dropped from the
project. The potential for Mt. Jiri tourism development is considered very
good since the majority of domestic tourists are expected to be from the
cities in the southeast coastal belt which should continue to experience rapid
growth during the 1980s.
57.       Although not considered significant risks, the following could delay
implementation and jeopardize the viability of individual components.
(a) Lack of co-ordination between the implementing agencies and the
local governments could lead to difficulties in land acquisition,



- 19 -
sales and transfer of completed components to the local govern-
ments. To minimize misunderstanding and future disputes, signing of
agreements between KLDC, KNTC and the cities would be a condition of
effectiveness; and
(b)  the viability of the Woonam Bridge component is based upon increased
traffic from the completion of pavement of Route 27. The government
is planning to complete pavement of the remaining section between
the junction of Routes 27 and 705 and Galdam, including the Woonam
Bridge site, by 1986.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
58.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Korea and the Bank,
and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4
(iii) of the Articles of Agreement of the Bank are being distributed separate-
ly to the Executive Directors. Special conditions of the projects are listed
in Section II of Annex III. Additional conditions of effectiveness include:
(i) signing of Subsidiary Loan Agreements between the Borrower and each of the
project cities (Section 5.01(a) of the draft Loan Agreement); (ii) signing of
agreements between KLDC and Iri City, KLDC and Jeonju City, and KNTC and
Namweon City (Section 5.01(b) of the draft Loan Agreement); and
(iii) establishment of the Special Account (Section 5.01(c) of the draft Loan
Agreement).
59.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATIONS
60.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
February 23, 1984
Washington, D.C.



- 20 -
ANNEX I
T A B L E   3A                                           PAGF I
FOREA, RF.FrIlI nC OF     - SOCIAl. INDICATORS DATA S!I''T
KOREA, REP:iK.C OF                        RPERENCF GROUPS (WEIGHIED AVERACES) Ia
MOST                        (MOST RECENT ESTfLATh) /b
/b .--           RECENT  /b          MirDLE INCCME              MIDDLE  INCOiVE
i 9 601-b    197i -fESTI?MATrA -         ASIA & PACIFIC          LAT. AffFRICA & CARIB
.AJREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM)
TOTAL                                   98.5          98.5         98.5
AGRICULTURAL                            21.4         23.2          22.4
Cb'P PER CAI-ITA (US$)                     180.0        420.0       1700.0               1028.6                      2088.2
RhERRY CO!.SLSUMVrION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAl. FQUIVtALENT)       208.0        723.0        1563.0                792.R                     1407.6
PBPULATrON AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION,MlD-YFAR (TUCCSANDS)   2Q012.0         32241.0      3f880.0
LRsAN FOrULATION (x OF rOT!AL)          27.7          40.7         55.9                 32.9                        65.9
POPULATION P8OJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (HILL)                                   52.2
STATIONARY PO-"LATION (MILL)                                     73.8
YEAR S:ATIONARY POP. REACqED                                    2095
POPULATION DENSIIY
PEP sc. KM.                          254.0        327.4        387.9                260.7                        35.6
PES SQ. YM!. ACRI. LAND             1168.8       1387.3       1702.2               It96.5                        93.2
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (%)
0-14 YRS                             42.9         42.1          33.7                39.4                        40.1
15-6' YRS                             53.7         54.6          62.3                 57.2                       55.8
65 AND ABSOV                           3.3          3.3          4.0                  3.3                         4.1
POPULATTiON CROhTH RATE (x)
TOTAL                                  2.1          2.5           1.7                  2.3                        2.3
URBAN                                  4.7          6.4           4.6                  3.9                        3.7
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUS)            42.7         30.3          24.0                 31.3                       31.5
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUS)            13.4          9.1           6.9                  9.6                         8.1
GROSS REPRODUCTION  RATE                 2.7          2.1           1.4                  2.0                        2.0
FAMILY PIAINC
ACCERTORS, ANkUAL (THOUS)               ..        671.0        686.0/c
USERS (T OF ILARRIED WOMEN)             ..         32.0         .55.0                 46.6
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOI PROD. PER CAPITA
(1969-71.100)                           89.0         99.0         124.0                125.2                      113.0
PER CAPITA S.PPLY CF
CALORIES (1 OF REQUIREMENTS)          97.0        107.0        128.0                 114.2                      111.3
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)              57.0         63.0         82.0                  57.9                       67.9
OF WHICH ANaTh.L AND PULSE            7.0          8.0         14.0/d               14.1                        34.1
CHILU (AGES 1-4) DFATH  RATE             6.6          4.0           2.0                  7.6                         5.3
P. ALTH
LIFZ EXPECT. AT BIRTH (YEASS)            54.4        60.3          66.1                 60.2                        64.6
ENPARI tORT. RATE (PER ''iO'S)          78.1         50.1          33.1                68.1                        62.6
ACCESS TO SNFE WATFR (%POP)
TOTAL                                 12.1         58.0          71.0                 37.1                       64.8
ORBAN                                 18.6         84.0         85.0                  54.8                       77.8
RURAL                                  9.5         38.0          54.9                 26.4                       44.3
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL
(X OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                   ..         25.0          64.0/e               41.4                       54.6
URBAN                                   ..         59.0         Bo. 80.               47.5                       69.8
RURAL                                   ..            .     ..     56T.6e            33.4                        29.8
POPULIAIION PER PHYSICIAN             3540.0       2240.0       1690.0               7771.9                      1776.0
POP. FER NURS,NG PERSON               3250.flf.,h  1790.0/h      380.0               2462.6                      1012.2
POP. PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                               2510.0       1950.0        640.C/g             1047.2                       477.0
URB.AN                              1290.0/f    1100.0         750.0j              651.1                       667.5
RUFAL                                       *- .                   ..              2591.9                      1921.6
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED               ..         14.9            ..                 27.0                       27.2
ROlS ING
AVERAGIK SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                  5.6          5.0           4.5
URBAN                                  5.4           ..            ..                  ."                          ..
RURAL                                  5.6           ..
AVERAGE NO. o0  PFRSONS,'ROOM
TOTAL                                  2.5          2.3          2.0/e
URBAN;                                 2.8          2.7          2.7;                   ..
RURAL                                  2.4          2.2          2.
ACCESS TO El ECT. (x OF DIWELLINUUS)
TOTAi.                               27E.          49.9
URSAN                                 R 7. 3       92.4            ..                   .
RURAL                                 12.4         29.9         64.9/d                  .
.--- -- - -- - - - - ---- - -- - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - - - - -- -- - - - ---- ----- ---- - -- - - - -_-- - -- - - - - - - - - -- - - - - - -- - - - - - - - - - - -- - - -



-21 -
ANNEX I
T A B L E  3A                                          PACE 2
KORFA  PFP;BLIC OF       - SOCIAL INlDICATORS DATA SHEET
KORFA. REPUBLIC OF                      REFERFNCE GROtUPS (WEICHTFD AVERAGES) /a
MOST                        (MOST RECENT ESTLIATE) /b
RECENT   _        MIDDLE INCOME            MDDLE INCME
1960-       1970-  ESTIMATE-            ASIA & PACIFIC        LAT. AMERICA 6 CARIB
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:   TOTAL                    94.0        103.0        107.0               101.2                      105.0
MALE                     99.0        104.0       108.0                106.0                     106.3
FDIALE                   89.0        103.0       105.0                 97.5                     103.6
SECONDARY: TOTAL                    27.0         42.0         85.0                44.9                       40.0
MALE                     38.0         50.O         89.0                50.0                      38.6
FEFMALE                  14.0         32.0        80.0                 44.6                      41.2
VOCATIONAL (X OF SECONDARY)            14.2        14.3         18.6                 18.5                      34.0
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                             58.0         57.0         46.0                32.7                       30.7
SECONDARY                           34.0         37.0         39.0                23.4                       16.7
ADULT LITERACY RATE (%)               70.6         87.6         93.0/i               72.9                      79.5
CONSUPT ION
PASSENCER CARSITNOL'SAND POP           0.5          1.9          6.2                 9.7                       45.6
RADIO RECEIVERS/THOUSAND POP          31.2        124.4        392.7               113.7                      228.2
TV RECEIVERS/THOUSAND POP               0.3        13.0        164.4                S0.1                      108.3
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION
PER THOUSAND POPULATION              68.1        136.3        172.8                54.0                       64.1
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE/CAPITA         4.1          5.2         1.7                 3.4                        2.9
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUS)           8307.0      11285.0      15064.0
FEYALE (PERCENT)                    26.1         32.7         32.5                33.6                       24.8
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               66.0         50.0         34.0                50.9                       31.3
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                   9.0         17.0         29.0                19.2                       23.9
PARTICIPATION, RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               33.2         35.0         38.7                38.6                       31.3
MALE                                49.5         4 6.8        51.9                50.7                       49.8
FEMALE                              17.2         23.0         25.4                26.6                       14.8
ECONOM IC DEPENDENCY RATIO              1.4         1.3          1.0                 1.1                        1.4
IIiCOKE DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
RICHEST 5% OF HOUSEHOLDS              ..         17.1         16.1/g              22.2
HIGHEST 207 OF HOUSEHOLDS              ..        44.5         45.37?              48.0
LOWEST 20, OF HOUSEHOLDS               ..         7.1          5.77T                6.4
LOWIEST 40% OF HOUSEHOLDS              ..        17.7         16.97? 15.5
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIHATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                  ..          ..        320.0/i             194.5                      289.8
RURAL                                 ..           ..        270.071             155.0                      184.5
ESIIMATFD RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
U!RBAN                                ..           ..        370.0/i             178.0                      519.8
..URAL                                ..           ..        310.07T             164.8                      372.1
ESTIMATED POP. BELOW ARSOLI.TE
POVERTY INCOyE LEVEL (X)
URBAN                                  * -                    18.0/i              24.4
RURAL                                                        11.07?              41.1
NOT AVAILABLE
NOT APPLICABLE
U1 0 T E S
/a  The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithetEIc means.  Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not unifor.
/b  Unless otherwise noted,  Data for 1960" refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; -Data for 1970- between 1969 and
1971; and data for "Moat Recent Estimate" between 1979 and 1981.
/c  1975; /d 1977; /e 1975; /f 1962; IS 1976; /h Registered, not all practicing In the country; /i 1978.
may 1983



- 22  -                                                            ~~~~~~ANNEX  I
-DEFINITIONS OF SOCIAsL INIDICATORS
oosp  Arabe     ghetsoo  th   atno  eadrdedddtllo.an    snet   s    ydtdrtts-slttotfeotsth    aa.te  aaAae -ootoan,omtlt
Thrrefernor grose arm  (f the cae oo~etr  group   f she,  abj-t co..stry and (2) a  ostry A r..p ath  -tehat hlgh-raarr lose  ttao  the  otrgopo  the,
-bhj-o  tootery(rep   for "Righ l1oer'01 Oispl              ar"grI where "rIddle  Irow   Nsth Afrtat and,MIddle best" Itfotsr   Irat                          f etrsterso l-os rota
etrle ,trlatJIng sae    of one  ltlotoro            toha.  Thes .-         ae  ar  oly  -afo1 In t             Ipaln   the  -o-  of Ot  iIdloao    tto           n      h    sto    s
A~lt  (thoosond n.r.(P- -oltlo    pe   itaolao  - P-plo Ion aL.   oded,  by  .o.on o- f p..tl ltd1
TJts .- Total t_faoe are   o-nnyr Isg  land art  and toloodears   1960,                                      phyrlttans   oattlmdIron_   nediral ethoo  at seleriy Irol.,
l19l and 1980 data,                                                                                     potoatO  rtNarstog Person -lPopsla-ln   dilidad bysom,ber. of proolito
AgtioalI.ral - Eltinat   of agrsol_orl  re  Iad            taorrlyo  Permanent ly                           sal  and female   rdatioms,assatsro -,I prat loa Iosoe  ad
for tropa,  pastorem , earhet asd oltoowo gardesa  or to lIe fallna;  lObe,              osralog asnlllofrlem-i Ig ..
lO -%ad   p98  dan.t-    -sotnotpe .opta.dd      otkista,ar  rrl-    Eplalo                                                                                                             otl
"70  Id O                                                                    P'llIlill~~~~~~~~~~~~~oran    and  "or ," dtadd by th  otepo-1  ob    fhsttlbd
sate a-  tot l-o,,drd.  hor1 hospItals, h-swo-, iosehealth aod
tNtRGt C0NSSOtPTION PER CaPITA-attt A          peaeot  -na-pit  oftmor-lmdl-I  _ener  no_ rroen  psafed.by o phynio-a  (1ost by a m,dico
an  g.re.    a  eenrllylIhk,gr o   onoteq-Ia.eo   pr  ot- pI.Pta;                                           p-ood   a Otelne,d  -ata   of aedi-o1 faotlittls    Por  -tnitloal   .Po.p.e
9ObO   100g0, ttd  1980 data.                                                                               srbao  hntpttao       _Wnlad   WIlds trios- afgo thoapirala, aod totalI
hoospitaf,iosL-    i, _ ors ioPttIsap_dse_dsi-ta-daafo-ilyotr.
POPULATION MlD VffAL. STATISCiCS                                                                               Sp- olall rd hospItlsl  or  i-otoded osl y sederstl,
Total fopalatln, rid-feat (hosoands) -At of Jsly I; 19h0, 1970, and 1981                           Adnts,io-tpe  Hospital be~d-Toonehrfadit soordsh gs
data.                                                                                                      Iota  hot pIfato dIttded by tht, s-b-t of teds.
Irtan Poplalon!   (pe-etob          oa-         fnt   fohnt  tltpp  aln
differet deloiont 1    of ar Ia          . afra   eaf -alo  o-pa-btiity of dana                       itositO
am  --toosie; 1962, 170,Isod 1981 data                                                               A-torgrSooftsohl  I eoo    e    o hoi(-tos     yht   o       ca
forslation  It fea  10001 - forr.o   popolotlo-  Proje  lta-  s   bsd .. 1960                             and their eat      1el      A  ho-do,r s  Iodgwo na        ay ton  ho  -inoded Lin
roa Inptsstrgad  sstst               It stLtsyod  f-tlltOs                                     oth,,oohoild  tottotnt .ol          .s.pso
leteiatmalnglfeeoestatyarblirfh  itcreastoga,lthooor'pe                                          fposo    orosoisba      ,drrl                        sied  tto      _lotL
tapito: boone  iwne~l ,Padfml  life  e            _eo_ny   tailileogiI     75                           daeiotI         rpotty          nlIn0n  etoidt  o-rtoennstro
a-oonto   dttliln  isfe       lt   atod   -o-t otn   1t-e  and Pant f-il                               oto   o  itoly           ( ptrson  of dorilinanl   - tt1, sohat  nod  -rorl
planingI  p-1f.r.a....  rash toory  In thr  aoine  0w f  h.ennrt.n..t.o  deitg   aIrSaicoioey                                                               isio   qotra  on .    ...
oo,iitnlonm   f mortlIty  ad fen1tr'y treds  forPjs)onlo   Porpse.                                fto, syht  sod osro   d-nillog   or- p-oosy
otro   th  bithrteI  esal to the death  ..t..  .td n..o  the age                                    ytlUCpfTI
atroosorereaalosotnarann .Thin  Is ath,_od only afte   frttIlify rtsAdjos-d EttoL-nto   Ration
detlioeforbeeeploenett  lenalof sltorfreprodsotlorat,sdtr"                             -tmrsho-oo,atadrorSssoo,na-tsntonal
pooats -st  a     -ieatlotd on nhr taste  of  htb pjr te.d ohatatte-                                ytcr,.yn_shsi-oge  p--itlt;   oto  It st  ..ws t.idon   agedhI
Imlao  sh    oolro,      I   O  year 2000,. ad the  rate of d_ottn   of                               year  tot1 adjostd fsr dsfto-e-  1eodnhs of  ol-y edoot to; lot
yea  a..t Isy .. rattt inreo hI -The, year abet sntlo-tay                                                    ...s Uori    pslhs ar    ob    t  ho  toI o f"Ishoto
poprnlatloosiotail  betrothed                                                                            ttodtyoolP-tssi_nlaofnlotIsssshs                                       soodI
Pons.Lat ion    . ieUtY                                                                                        nd otattni-    tlosa     leas  foo    --tt  of ...p.o.rd yrtmotytttsti
P,e.km.  -tMid-yea,  Pnoato            ottsy-r  il-onr- ~11110 ho-tarno   of                            pnontd-n go ta             - ssoho l  o-  -n"on   -ni-isy  lo_s..o...       o
total area   1960  1970, end 1980 dora                                                                    ,pplt, stoolly of 12 to  17 year  of ago; s--ycp-nde-   -rs-o  art
Pee eq.  m. sAtlobtta  land - C-npoted assotfr  glstr                        at.lad                          g.teto lIt osldod.,
only; 1960, 1970 atd 19611 dota.                                                                      Oosfolnoolwtltretrtooot-fosin     tslos
toplto    g    _t --sr   (Prt... I  -_Childre   (f-IS  te-raf.n)     ogaofb                          inolode  ebsalp-otra,o  st                         r-go   ahit,1 spoot    dlotp_d-
ho yearn, -nd reirrd(h.. pears-doterf-  per,--tgr-oeI -yer_ntyo s  de0rnton   fsn-od-yit ttot
reeslotle; 1960.  1970,Iad 1981 data.                                                                  cst- -aho -sio .             aryydttotot -Total td-o   esrol d LIt
tpal tGroantoare(wrt--) -t                     -1ai -asoaloah   rt  ftotoloid-                       ytiaayandneodatyr            olsiold-tlbynoab-s oftroth-nroisthot
yoa   po  Ianlt ,o 1950-60, 190-70, ned 1970-61.                                                            -tspod log lotl1-
ppanoefor   lO_t-ho   g960-PH   andI90-fl.                                                         a  otetg       _0tto Iodoit p,,pslisoio  aged 15   -,ar  and Isn.
Cr-d,, tlrhrft  Rareletlt.o..nd) -   -anoliho   blrtin  per tho-od of ed-
ye-, popolo,tlo; 1960, 1970, and 1961 data.                                                           CtSOOnylOSN
Crade heah tRe  (n,,r thoo-nd   -   onsal d-arha  per olt--d of oid-,-o                                    poaoaoCaslrttosod   oslotloo   - I.......r .ar  -om.pn 000
popolanti.; 1960, lOft, and  198; data                                                                     tantoigInn    h-oogtytsn100lodno_                         tloss,.-ar     sod
heb  ora   _eproot  Iepro    f  o   otintt    r n   age-spl fit                                         Hdito Resolver  (nc- Ihoossoo  ypsplotion) - All typet of  O             I tt-to  tad is
f-rtililyro ; staly  floeyea                ogsedio It lO,, 19 0 90, ond                                  hoo.odo..nt-togeo...t  pototit  , ytohoo.Iod of ..,.Iottio;  nid_sso
1981.L  _ieseooeoosooosloadtoL nor -attogisrntnIooo   rrdio
of bitht-oon-o   d-otai and- ass ploe   of natlooa   f-sil  planolno                                       oonroiesaotohd  i             `elg
fatlflnnsg'Jer   (eren  o  eroedasen  -Peoerae   f  orlo                     gorolpoil  pr  ho-od               py ToVo         ' don-ont-tb-d I'lrlsisoy
F-omensfttoild-bUearfgo            I I1-f y-oyd oh.,.s.t.Irt-       Ito        -lsc" t..... Io P"""t                            _ -,d _ino,rso.ttyt-ro'-o''od-   tote  ass  iTo st
_17'a htndo"to-ootSote  tossy...                       f,f. 'o, opr-1vt   ,Its   lyst- ohs-o -oyl---s    Tonn  ohs    'so ,'-
a0  5        .Ncy'lSioItT'hi  st.',yt    Srool    vyto                                                                                                                  UOilt  ooI' d
lsetfooysdst,pTCpla(09-l1.K-:osI    td-io                                                                 ,nlst-dts'yrIolss
.oo. snrIstado.Igf LI              is  ore n..hItdao   sonod not         -te        fr.gIscosl   sif' ith .,p ar,,  nts1-il L    lit-o os  -s01s-s    oso 
soft orad  teaor  ors-do- -1. b--aat  podstt. Ion.s   ......ontr  In                                      mobilesit
hoedo  ottoa  ao,ro-       o  pr,dot   p-ise -nolgh ; 1961-65, 1900, and 1901
roooaplromsnpiyoltatorleo1perootIf  bt,leetlCotoe    Io                                         oalaohroFe-lthoosads- ts-oIo-llyaotlol yI'ltl                           slotgyn
"Ityesnarno   e  food11V             sppl.;lee noaltal    non           pro  iaPt                           Isotodsoelyot c   n  01                     __ottos ood  0,_I.  ooro
Inprt, ad ohanges in neth.  te    -pibeooeonnlfe,nes                                                      opa-ble; 1960, 1970 and 1981 data
qot    ..1mamdt  food P,oo-eng, -n  losse  In dletolbstIon.                                         F-nl, (t-peseo) - F-noi, labor tosL          nyrsnoeoftn    ahetr
reqtrmetaereelte bty fthads                         Ihsoola    neds fo   oelOa   sboe    tto)                                           -  Labrfot  i   so ity,- , fc-tst  , hootIng  -s
otiotty  adhelhtnldrg                                   ..o..eeta   teyetro, body s,Ilgeht,                  Iihn   npottg    ftt)Its                      no,16,  1971~ oto  1 HOI lot.
orhseod tnt    199ht   O    and 19800 dots.                                                            and  ,let- lt        - 000  Otd faS   tprcsoro   sto-t boto-   oo; 19611.
Ptr  ,"ltan pcy f rrtl  (rs   Pr"dy)- ProteIn  -lr-o  of pn-o-Pit                                            1970 and 190,1data.
net toppl  of food  per day .... Ntnppl,,y o  food In de,fined as  bhose.                      Par        ...at.nRoeIps           -talna.odrn ePrlopaso r
ailnoaoem  o  60 gate  0  totalproten  perday ad 20 Irc   of. eon    ndpeoton f -no-ol,dmaT so  ':"at  popsinoofstagen                                                isorry
poise  protein, of ahlo,h itgts    aod  eaimal prorin    mea                                               Rh, 1970  and 1001~ dn.         dten   tba-do   10'si patotlpn in cr-
adard   are  oe  tIan shone of 75 0rmns  tota   proteIn  and 03 dros                                    refj.Irolg age-lot. ....s-- of hI             ooa Io,-d  ong time ttod .
derlod! from an.sad poIIo   in grace  per day; 1961-hI5, l1Ot ad 1977
Child br   1-4) Death Rare (..r rhoonad) -   etoa  de-bn  Pr rtho--d In                                   Persotn,, of Poicat   T-vo  (hots  moss   os,azd Plod) - tnnni-d by olohes  5
ggro    -4 ...amEnolarnltbng     grnop; forr_ntdeoloyingprort   riohestl   peotost    p-.ros  2111ptst    -   p..  -   4r0t lyr-t-os
soremdata    rin-d! Iron  lift tables.; 1906   t97O] ood 1981 data.                                  hoo-hos.,
ALTt:oin0E5R0f  TAlEST GItUPS
It~ raE   tntal       lro(er- IA   -rg,, -snb-  of proo-  of lIf, o   -siniogteesloogIotnnsa                                                oypronooonco   potootry  col                           d n
an blet; 196g. 1000 and  100 Idora                                                                     sheol  hoItopd            s,,    ssidotblooio
Infat CrtaityRte  Iernnatadl-stnol  dathsof  nfootonoroa                                    tnIeoedoboioryoorltIooo t'9r7lt)_noaIia(_rhaond_roi
year of age per thootad lon  birtha; 1060, If   n 1             981 data.                                                                 _ booepnryIon    ne Is that lottm  loon0  bls,l   oh lo   a snl-
attest nf hatfata  Iproo            f ponanol      otl  obn,ad'or,--orttoal  aeot  dio-  plss n-nnttL.  o- food reoi                                                                        ,,rs IsIno
tNmber of pele (tot1, srbae,an  roai  ar   reaoobeceansfrafrdable.l
teenorey   Iloan         treid mafo       atr  or .onroatd   Edt                                   Ot.leted te,onlor Poonri p           .onr.en   (0$iropls      r n and rsral-
-rban armeapabilo  fo-ntei  Or etandpte  1otatd not tore  than   00 cetrerlr  ott    d.o...e.  for- hIgher ton  of 1,is eg  ooras-                                              na-
fro  a bo.-e map   te onnidered aa being within  reanonnbtraoc_ao  of that                              1,tarttd   .Pop,tlanI   flti_ Ohtost_  _onety  nso_   -eoa   (porten
tooce.  In  roa1e ranr --bleaooemnanIdsid Iply tha,t the hoosoolfer                                  and racol - P-r-t  of pplai                - sb-  ond r l  ohsor
tebr    f theho -e-dosthaet   pn  %                  lstosrlondpot, of                               pot
the, day  L.In    hlott.  she  alip%htoer_    ode
oo_m  to Emleeta DU mPo...       . (prse     of po  palae) - ttl.sban, and
rural - Nsmberalpepiebl. nt1oi,sban,atMtn-at ceroehyeIoIela
di.pmn  am1 pI cetge         f "-the     tempe t."ine" pn tsl cln_    Ea-ret  dnapo...i
nay -ttild   the to-entlo- and di.ool  nith  or ailthot tro-ne-  , Of                                                                            Osnssd  Itoos   hr    Ioso
hnosmnonrea andanstewarerby am-eb-hon    yateam  os the acIf pin                                                                    fonEnlo  Oayio an    rowtso    oat
oItts  n  an_     a   lota lntL loe,Oy 1963



ANNEX I
Population:  39,331 (mid-1982, thousands)                                                                                        Page 4 of 5
GNP Per Capita:  US$1,679 (1982)                                      - 23 -
KOREA - ECONOMIC INDICATORS
Amount
(million US$ at                        Annual growth rates (%) at constant prices
current prices)                                Actual                                   Projected
Indicator                                     1982 /a               1978       1979       1980       1981       1982                 1988
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
Gross domestic product                      68,418               11.3        7.1       -3.5         7.1        5.3                  7.5
Agriculture                               11,185               -4.0        6.7      -22.0       22.0         3.8                  4.0
Industry                                  26,747               20.8        8.4       -0.1        5.3        6.1                   8.5
Services                                  30,486               11.0        6.0       -2.4        3.6        4.8                   8.0
Consumption                                 51,487               11.0        7.4       -1.0         3.7        3.6                  6.7
Gross investment                            17,514               35.9        17.5     -24.4         5.0        0.1                  7.5
Exports of GNFS                             26,575               17.5       -3.6        9.9        17.2        4.6                  9.5
Imports of GNFS                             27,215               29.1        8.6       -7.7         8.5      -0.1                   8.6
Gross national savings                      14,531               14.1        3.7      -17.7         3.0       18.2                  9.4
PRICES
GDP deflator (1975 = 100)                                       164.6      197.4      246.7      286.2      309.1                 464.1
Exchange rate (US51 =)                                          484.0      484.0      607.6      681.0      731.1
Export price index (1975 = 100)                                 135.4      161.8      170.3       174.5      167.1                238.7
Import price index (1975 = 100)                                 105.8      129.2      163.9      171.7      158.4                 233.3
Terms of trade index (1975 - 100)                               128.0      125.2      103.9       101.6      105.5                102.3
Share of GDP at market prices (%)                        Average annual increase (%)
(at current prices)                                   (at constant prices)
1960    1970    1975    1980    1985    1990          1960-70   1970-75   1975-80   1980-85   1985-90
Gross domestic product             100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0              8.6        9.8        8.2        7.0        7.5
Agriculture                       36.7    26.9    24.5    16.5    15.9    12.4              4.3        4.9       -1.2        7.3        4.0
Industry                          20.1    29.5    33.8    41.3    44.4    49.2             17.4       15.3       13.5        8.5        8.4
Services                          43.2    43.6    41.7    42.3    39.7    38.3              8.1        7.7        7.6        6.7        7.7
Consumption                       85.3    83.0    80.1    76.4    65.7    58.1              6.7        7.8        7.1        5.7        7.0
Gross investment                  11.0    26.9    29.0    30.2    33.2    33.8             23.6       11.2       14.6        6.0        7.5
Exports of GNFS                    3.4    14.3    27.6    35.7    43.7    49.6             29.3       25.4       16.1        9.8        9.5
Imports of GNFS                   12.8    24.1    36.3    42.7    42.6    43.9            20.2        15.8       17.0        6.8        8.9
Gross national savings             8.0    19.5    20.6    21.7         -       -           17.2       14.6        9.0       12.7        9.2
As % of GDP                       Labor Force in 1980              Millions    (%)
1960       1970       1975       1980
PUBLIC FINANCE                                                                                Agriculture                      4.7       32.2
Current revenues                           18.5       17.8       17.9       19.9            Industry                         3.9       27.1
Current expenditures                       14.3       13.1       15.4       15.6            Services                         5.1       35.5
Current surplus                             4.2        4.7        2.5        4.3            Unemployed                       0.7        5.2
Capital expenditure                         3.4        6.4        6.4        5.9
Foreign financing                           ...        1.0        1.3         1.0               Total Labor Force           14.5      100.0
1960-70          1970-75            1975-80            1980-85            1985-90
OTHER INDICATORS
Annual GNP growth rate (%)                                    8.7               9.0               7.9                7.0                7.6
Annual GNP per capita growth rate (%)                         5.9               6.9                5.2               5.5                6.1
Annual energy consumption growth rate (%)                    14.2               9.6               8.7                5.7                6.0
ICOR                                                          1.9               2.7               5.4                4.2                4.2
Marginal savings rate                                         0.3               0.3               0.3                0.3                0.3
Import elasticity                                             2.2               1.6               2.0                1.2                1.2
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
Februarv 1984



A.INEX I
- 24 -                                          Page 5 of 5
Population: 31,331 (mid-1982, thousands)
GNP Per Capita.  US$1,679 (1982)
KOIEA - BALANCE OF PAYMENTS, EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
(million US$ at current prices)
tndicator                                                               Actual                                 Projected
1970    1975    1978    1979    1980    1981    1982                1988
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
Exports of goods and services                1,379   5,909  17,124  19,523  22,587  27,552  28,500             70,972
Of which: merchandise f.o.b.                882   5,028  12,678  14,694  17,220  20,938  20,961              52,145
Imports of goods and services               2,180   7,992  18,651  24,115  28,360  32,476  31,500              74,003
of which: muerchandise f.o.b.             1,804   6,671  14,436  19,266  21,604  24,337  23,361              58,616
Net transfers                                  178     225      467      439      449     506      473             500
Current account balance                      -623  -1,858  -1,060  -4,153  -5,325  -4,418  -2,546              -2,531
(% of GNP)                                  (-7.2)  (-9.2)  (-2.2)  (-7.1)  (-9.3)  (-7.4)  (-3.9)               (-1.6)
Direct investment                               66       53      61       17       -5       59     100             250
MILT loans (net)                               242   1,252   2,216   2,945   2,096   4,267   2,051               2,294
ufficial                                     147     486      663     852      689   1,337       880            635
Private                                       95     765   1,552   2,093   1,408   2,929   1,171               1,659
other capital (incl. errors & omissions)   372         929    -510   2,090   3,770        367      484           1,643
Change in reserves                             -57    -376    -707    -898    -536    -275         -98         -1,657
International reserves (gross)                 606   2,012   5,405   6,303   6,839   7,114   7,212              14,387
Reserves as months imports                     3.3     3.0      3.5      3.1      2.9     2.6      2.7             2.3
EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
Gross disbursements.
Official grants                               -        -        -        -        -       -       50
Concessional loans                           123     123      184      193      138     159      148
DAC                                       122      108      167      173     121      158      148
OPEC                                        -        -       13       20      17        1        -
IDA                                         1       14        3       -        -        -        -
Other                                       -        1        -        -       -        -        -
Non-concessional loans                      317   1,511   3,729   4,448   3,655   4,779   3,937
Official export credits                    18      151      219      341     606      844      532
IBRD                                        7      187      321     426      254      306      438
Other multilateral                          5       87       89       91      90      104      116
Private                                   287   1,083   3,101   3,591   2,705   3,525   2,851
Medium- and Long-Term Debt
Debt outstanding and disbursed            1,797   5,540  11,937  14,553  16,274  19,964  22,006
Official                                  613   2,657   5,016   5,667   6,498   7,702   8,572
Private                                 1,185   2,883   6,921   8,886   9,776  12,263  13,433
undisbursed                                 902   1,679   6,294   5,337   7,072   5,996   5,324
Debt Service on MLT Loans
Total service payments                      268      667   1,825   2,578   2,762   3,597   4,199
Interest                                  70      283      657     890   1,310   1,777   2,164
Payments as % exports                       19.4    11.3    10.7    13.2    12.2    13.0    14.5
Short-Term Debt
Debt outstanding and disbursed               ...   2,409   3,575   6,279  10,047  13,658  14,100
Interest payments                            ...     . ..    236       377     907   1,810   1,528
Interest as % exports                        ...     . ..     1.4      1.9     4.0      6.7      5.3
Average Interest Rate on New Loans (%)
Official                                     4.5     7.9      7.4      7.6      7.5     8.4      8.0
Private                                     7.1      9.3      9.7    11.4    14.0    13.6    13.7
Average Maturity of New Loans (years)
Official                                    28.0    19.3    19.6    16.8    19.6    15.3    15.5
Private                                     10.9     5.7    10.9    10.7    11.2    13.1         8.1
As % of debt outstanding
at end of most recent
year (1982)
Maturity structure of debt outstanding
Maturities due within  5 years                             61
Maturities due within 10 years                            103
,nterest structure of debt outstanding
Interest due within first year                              9
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
Februarv 19R4



- 25 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 2 pages
KOREA
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THE REPUBLIC OF KOREA /a
A. Statement of Bank Loans-and IDA Credits (as of September 30, 1983) /b
Loan or                                                                                       Amount ($ million)
Credit        Calendar                                                                       (less cancellations)
Number          Year       Borrower                 Purpose                           Bank    TW    IDA   Undisbursed
Thirty-eight loans and eight credits fully disbursed                                 2,028.98  40.00 106.81
1319          1976    ADC                     Irrigation                                29.0                       2.59
1364          1977    ADC                      Irrigation                               95.0                      16.84
1401          1977    Republic of Korea       Ports II                                  67.0                       8.87
1474          1977    Republic of Korea       Vocational Training                       23.0                       0.32
1503          1978    ADC                     Agriculture/Irrigation                    36.0                      16.74
1530          1978    Republic of Korea       Rural Infrastructure II                   95.0                       7.04
1640          1978    Republic of Korea       Highways IV                              143.0                       2.68
1666          1979    Republic of Korea        Chungju Multipurpose                    125.0                      36.19
1676          1979    Republic of Korea       Electronics Technology                    29.0                       9.02
1758          1979    Republic of Korea        Second Gwangju Regional                  65.0                      35.90
1774          1979    Republic of Korea       Population 1                              30.0                      25.86
1788          1979    Korea Electric Co.    Power                                      115.0                      19.64
1800          1980    Republic of Korea       Education V                              100.0                      29.75
1829          1980    CNB I                   Dev. Finance Co.                          30.0                       0.53
1836          1980    Republic of Korea       Railway VII                               94.0                       6.78
1851          1980    AFDC                    Agriculture II                            50.0                      12.98
1932          1981    KLTCB VIII              Div. Finance Co.                          90.0                      20.02
1933          1981    KDB IV                  Div. Finance Co.                         100.0                       4.53
1974          1981    Republic of Korea       Third Agriculture Credit                  50.0                      12.34
1980          1981    Republic of Korea       Nat. Urban Land & Housing                 90.0                      72.82
2004          1981    SMIB IV                 Dev. Finance Co.                          60.0                      34.64
2072          1982    Republic of Korea       Water Supply                              90.0                      67.05
2111          1982    Republic of Korea       Agricultural Marketing                    50.0                      38.27
2112          1982    KTDC                     Technology Development                   50.0                      37.25
2144          1982    CNB                     DFC                                       30.0                      28.35
2215          1982    Republic of Korea       Machinery Industry                        70.0                      69.08
2216          1982    Republic of Korea       Nat. Urban Land and Housing              100.0                      97.40
2228          1982    Republic of Korea       Provincial and County Roads              125.0                     124.64
2267          1983    Republic of Korea       Coal and Cement Distribution             122.0                     121.70
2309          1983    Republic of Korea        Industrial Finance                      255.0                     255.00
Total                                                                  4,436.98  40.00 106.81  1,214.82
of which has been repaid                                               516.45   1.42   5.09
Total now outstanding                                                  3,920.53  38.58 101.72
Amount sold                     8.83
of which has been repaid    8.83                                          -      -       -
Total now held by Bank and IDA
(prior to exchange adjustment)                                      3,920.53  38.58 101.72
Total undisbursed                                                      1,214.82    -       -    1,214.82
/a   The status of the projects listed in Part A is described in a separate report on all Bank/IDA-financed
projects in execution, which is updated twice yearly and circulated to the Executive Directors on
April 30 and October 31.
/b Loan do. 2350 (Second Water Supply Project - Nagdong) for $78.5 Million and Loan No. 2354 (Second Structural
Adjustment Loan) for $300 million are not reflected in totals below. Including these two loans, the total
outstanding and undisbursed amounts in $ million are $4,299.03 and $1,593.32 respectively.



- 26 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 2 pages
B. Statement of IFC Investments (as of September 30, 1983)
Fiscal                                                           Amount ($ million)
Year       Obligor                Types of Business             Loan  Equity  Total
1968    KDFC                       Development Financing           -     0.7    0.7
1969    Honam Silk Co.             Textiles                       1.4    0.3    1.7
1970    Atlas Paper                Pulp and paper                 4.5    0.5    5.0/a
1971    Korea Investment
Finance Corp.           Capital Market Development   -        0.7    0.7
1974    KDFC                       Development Financing           -     0.4    0.4
1974    Korea Investment
Finance Corp.            Capital Market Development   -       0.3    0.3
1975    Gold Star & Co., Ltd.    Electronic Products             16.0    1.3   17.3
1975    Korea Securities
Finance Corp.           Capital Market Development  5.0    0.6    5.6
1975    Tong Yang Nylon
Company, Ltd.           Synthetic Fibers               6.9    2.1    9.0
1975    Hae Un Dae Develop-
ment Company, Ltd.      Tourism                        2.8    0.7    3.5
1976    Korea Investment
Finance Corp.           Capital Market Development   -        0.4    0.4
1976    Chonju Paper Mfg. Co.    Paper                            5.0    0.5    5.5
1976    Korea Zinc. Co., Ltd.    Zinc                            15.0    4.0   19.0
1976    KDFC                       Development Financing         17.8     -    17.8
1976    Gold Star & Co., Ltd.    Electronic Products             10.0    0.4   10.4
1977    Gold Star & Co., Ltd.    Electronic Products               -     0.2    0.2
1977    KDFC                       Development Financing           -     0.3    0.3
1977    Korea Securities
Finance Corp.           Capital Market                  -     0.5    0.5
1977    Korea Development
Leasing Corp.            Capital Market               15.0    0.4   15.4
1978    KDFC                       Development Financing           -     1.1    1.1
1979    Gold Star & Co., Ltd.    Electronic Products               -     1.7    1.7
1979    KIFC                       Capital Market                  -     0.6    0.6
1979    Korea Development
Leasing Corp.                                           -      0.2    0.2
1979    Gold Star & Co., Ltd.    Electronic Products               -     1.5    1.5
1980    Gold Star & Co., Ltd.    Electronic Products               -     1.8    1.8
1980    Korea Investment
Finance Corp.           Capital Market                  -     0.6    0.6
1980/   Korea Securities
82/84    Finance Corp.                                            -     2.3    2.3
1980    KDFC                       Development Financing           -     2.2    2.2
1981   Taihan Bulk Terminal        Grain Port Terminal            7.0    2.5    9.5
Co., Ltd.
1982   KIFC                        Capital Market                  -     0.6    0.6
1982   K-TAC (Korea Technology
Advancement Corp.)        Research & Development         -      0.6    0.6
1983    KDIC                       Money & Capital Mkt.            -     0.9    0.9
Total gross commitment                                 106.4   30.9  137.3
less cancellations, terminations,
repayment and sales                                   87.1    4.6   91.7
Total commitments now held by IFC                       19.3   26.3   45.6
TOTAL undisbursed                                         -        -       -
/a Cancelled at the request of the Company.



- 27 -
ANNEX III
KOREA
JEONJU REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Supplementary Data Sheet
Section I - Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the country to prepare
the project                              :  Approximately three years
(b)  Project preparation agency                 : Ministry of Construction
(c)  Date of first presentation to the Bank :  1979
(d)  Date of departure of appraisal mission :  March 1983
(e)  Date of completion of negotiations         : January 12, 1984
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness              : June 22, 1984
Section II - Special Bank Implementation Action
None.
Section III - Special Conditions
(a)   Conditions of effectiveness are:
(i)  the signing of Subsidiary Loan Agreements between the
Borrower and each of the project cities (para. 44);
(ii)  the signing of agreements between KLDC and Iri City, KLDC and
Jeonju City and KNTC and Namweon City (para. 45);
(iii)  the establishment of a Special Account (para. 51).
(b)   The Korean Government would:
(i) pave Route 27 by 1986 (para. 57 (b)).
(ii) ensure that NHF provide mortgage loans to low-income plot
purchasers in Iri housing estate (para. 45).






12^ 13  12c-30   }              126M45                          12700                                      1 (                         1 DaRDo,        1          127"45
REPUBLIC OF KOREA                                                      CHUNG    CHEONG    JNAM    6DO ,                                                           ( J
JEONJU REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                                                                                                                                                     CHUNG CHEONG
PROJECT COMPONENTS                                                                                                                                                                                            BUG DO
*    lniduuthirtl Estates   -42 K                                                                                   Nossson 1         /                       /1 Ogcheon                                         B       DO
A    Houssing Estates (Ga3                                                                                                                                                                                  Yeongdong
Droinoge lmpcnpvements (in)      J                                                                            I
Roocd ConstrcCtiOn as ImpFovenments
Bfidge Constrssctor (WoOncom)
*    Tourist Site ond Access Rood (Nomweon1)
1    Island Deyelopment (Seonyu)
-      W-- Uter Supply Moans (Jeoniu)                                                                               (
- Expsesswoy (Toll)                                                                    AIGr ODMSFEN
-36200         -~-  Enpresswoy Under Conslruction                       Jan                             L5I5AINACE   O   M7S\VF/[NI     
-      Prsmary,Roods                                  > 36-
Roilwoys 
t4Notional Pars                                                                                                                                                                                                            GYnN
Gun (County) BoundOries                    cRY)\
-   -  Pro-incil  o aresod,=s
vtoNyu StAti+0RVR1                       /     n2                                 VA S   Y)
Ye! / ow ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o
0, 5  t_,,,0 55  20                                                                                                                                                                        GYEONG  SANG
s 6 a a g , '~~~~~~ '" gChBR G                                                      ;ng                                                                                    NAM           DO      i  2 
KILOMO EEERS                        <    n /                   0     /         ~          )<<Y                                                                                                                           /
yo  eom           o   w                                                                %             /                                     N\                       G-em<J 
-35112'15                                                                                                                                                                                                   35'300 'Mgo16'5  -olv n/  TSbcen\ )  29'TSoog4r
Thu m.55iu Son,, p,nsoeRbr~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~p
An 5, 4400i50  0505        0n0n
Man 055,,, WOk 201,0 -oOn
kDenoSonoI&iOtn c0,snso,, ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~        ~        ~        ~        ~       ~        ~       ~       ~       ~      Gv
stony 5e~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~to5 05 0,5'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



