Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 4719-KO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT'
KOREA
JEONJU REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
February 23, 1984
Urban and Water Supply Division
East Asia and Pacifice Projects Department
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENCY
Current Unit              Won (W)
US$1             =        W 800
(as of January 1, 1984)
GOVERNMENT OF KOREA FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
MEASURES AND EQUIVALENTS
m = 1 meter                  (39.37 inches)
sq m = 1 square meter           (10.8 square feet)
cu m = I cubic meter            (35.3 cubic feet)
km = 1 kilometer              (0.62 miles)
ha = 1 hectare                 (10,000 sq m or 2.471 acres
3,024 pyongs)
py = 1 pyong                  (3.307 sq m or 35.586 sq ft)
1 = 1 liter                  (0.264 US gallons or 0.220
Imperial gallons)
lcd = 1 liter per capita       (0.264 US gallons per capita
per day                     per day)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB        Asian Development Bank
ERR    =   Economic Rate of Return
GDP        Gross Domestic Product
GRP    =   Gross Regional Product
GRDU   =   Gwangju Regional Development Unit,
Ministry of Construction
IRCO   =   Iri Regional Construction Office
JBPG   =   Jeon Bug Provincial Government
JWWB   =   Jeonju City Water Works Bureau
KDB    =   Korea Development Bank
KLDC   =   Korea Land Development Corporation
KNTC   =   Korea National Tourism Corporation
MOC    =   Ministry of Construction
NHF    =   National Housing Fund
NPPB   =   National Physical Planning Bureau,
Ministry of Construction



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
KOREA
JEONJU REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.  SECTORAL BACKGROUND
A. Regional Development and Government Policy
in  Korea   .  .   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .1
B.  Bank Involvement in Regional Development . . . . . . . .       2
C.  The Jeonju Region ............... . .  . .                     4
II.  PROJECT COMPONENTS, COST AND FINANCING
A. The Project  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        6
B.  Project Features . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       7
C.  Cost Estimates . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      11
D.  Financial Arrangements ...  ... .  .   . . . . . . .  .   .   13
III.  PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A.  Institutional Arrangements and Project Agencies  . . . .    16
B.  Project Coordination .       .... ........   . .  .  .   .    19
C.  Implementation Schedule  . . .................. . .  .. .     19
D.  Procurement and Disbursements  . . . . . . . . . . . . .      19
E.  Accounts and Audits  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    20
F.  Project Progress Reporting . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    20
IV. FINANCIAL ASPECTS
A.  Background .           . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  .    21
B.  Cost Recovery and Financial Forecasts. . . . . . . . . .    21
This report is based on the findings of an Appraisal Mission consisting of
Messrs. Y. Uchimura, D. Ahmad, T. lizuka (AEPUW) and J. S. Kim and C.K. Lew
(consultants) who visited Korea between March 6 and April 5, 1983. Ms. V.
Linehan and E. Creed assisted in production of the report.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Contents (cont'd)
Page No.
V. PROJECT JUSTIFICATION RISKS
A.  Economic Analysis  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    26
B.  Poverty Impact . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    27
c.  Project Risks  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    28
VI.  AGREEMENTS REACHED . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    29
ANNEXES
1. Technical Assistance
2. Detail Cost Estimates by Component
3. Detail Financing Plan by Component
4. Disbursement Schedule
5. City Finance Summary
6. Financial Analysis Summary of Assumptions
7. Housing Affordability Analysis
8. Economic Analysis - Basic Approach and Key Assumption
9. Documents Available in the Project Files
CHART AND MAPS
Chart 1  - Implementation Schedule
Map 17265 - Jeonju Project Components
Map 17266 - Iri Project Components



- iii -
KOREA
JEONJU REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Loan and PEroetLSumr
Borrower:             Republic of Korea
Beneficiaries:        Municipalities of Jeonju, Iri and Namweon and County of
Okgu
Loan Amount:          $60 million, including capitalized front-end fee
Terms:                15 years, including 3 years grace, at the standard
variable interest rate.
Onlending
Terms:              Same as the Bank loan, plus a service charge of 0.05% per
annum.
Project
Description:        The proposed project will be the Bank's third regional
project in Korea. The project has been designed to sup-
port the Government's effort to reduce interregional dis-
parities by promoting economic development in major urban
areas and the poorer mountain areas and islands of the
Jeonju Region, currently the poorest in Korea. The proj-
ect consists of: (a) Urban Development - construction of
an industrial estate and housing estate and improvement
of drainage in Iri City and construction of an industrial
estate and expansion of the water distribution system in
Jeonju City; (b) Tourism Delpn  - improved access to
scenic areas and development of a tourist site in Namweon
City to promote Mt. Jiri National Park, construction of a
tour1st road in Mt. Naejang National Park, and linking of
the major islands in the Seonyu Island group through two
pedestrian foot bridges and jetties; (c) Transportation -
construction of the Iri Industrial Estate Access Road,
construction of a bridge at Woonam and pavement of a
national highway between Namweon and Gurye; and (d)
Technical Assistance - to review local government
planning and finance and to prepare future sector-type
projects and related training. The main project risks
are: (i) possible delays in construction due to budget-
ary shortfalls and (ii) difficulties in marketing the
industrial and tourism estates due to lower demand than
anticipated. As an interim measure to resolve the tight
budgetary situation of the city governments two central
government agencies, the Korea Land Development
Corporation and the Korea National Tourism Corporation,
have been involved in the project.



- iv -
$ million
Local   Foreign   Total
Project Costs:        Urban Development               28.1      13.9      42.0
Tourism Development            20.6      15.4      36.0
Transportation                 14.7      12.0      26.7
Technical Assistance            1.0       1.2       2.2
Base Cost                      64.4      42.5    106.9
Physical Contingencies          4.4       4.1       8.5
Price Contingencies            14.5      13.2      27.7
Total Project Cost             83.3      59.8    143.1 /a
Front-end fee on Bank loan       -        0.2       0.2
Total Financing Required       83.3      60.0    143.3
Financing Plan:       Bank loan                         -       60.0     60.0
Ministry of Construction /b  59.4          -       59.4
Other Central Government
Agencies                     19.9        -       19.9
Project Cities                  4.0        -        4.0
Total                       83.3      60.0    143.3
Estimated
Disbursements:      Bank FY                   1985   1986   1987   1988   1989
---------- $  million ----------
Annual                    4.5    10.5   16.8   18.0   10.2
Cumulative                4.5    15.0   31.8   49.8   60.0
Rate of Return:       16%
/a   Includes taxes and duties of $8.5 million.
7T   Includes $9.8 million funded through NHF and $1.4 million funded through
KDB.



1. SECTORAL BACKGROUND
A. Regional Development and Government Policy in Korea
1.01      Since the early 1960s, Korea experienced rapid economic development
and transformation from an agriculture-based economy to a modern industrial
economy, resulting in shifts in population and economic activity within the
country. During the 1960s, economic activity and population were concentrated
in Seoul which increased its share of national population from 10% to 18% and
Gross Domestic Product (GDP) from 19% to 28% between 1960 and 1970. As the
nation's capital and largest city, Seoul had the advantage of being the
center of Government, communication and finance, as well as providing a
pool of workers and a mass consumer market. During the 1970s, while Seoul
continued to dominate the economy, the momentum of growth spread to areas
nearby the capital and the populous southeast provinces. Between 1970 and
1980, Seoul averaged a growth in Gross Regional Product (GRP) of around 9%
p.a. while the Gyeongi Province around the city averaged 13% and Busan and
the Gyeong Nam Province in the southeast averaged 11%. Seoul and Busan
Cities, together with the Gyeongi and Gyeong Nam Provinces, accounted for
24% of Korea's area, 52% of population and about 60% of GDP in 1980.
1.02      Given high population densities, the Government has attempted to
spread development and population more evenly around the country. The
Government's spatial policies constitute a mix of incentives and disincen-
tives to channel rural-urban migration to cities other than Seoul. The
Government has constructed highways, water supply systems, industrial com-
plexes and other infrastructure and offered tax incentives to induce indus-
trialists to locate in the southeast coastal belt and other areas outside
of Seoul. Restrictions such as land-use and density regulations, were also
used to control growth of the capital. In addition, the Government
initiated regional planning and implementated regional projects to promote
development in the poorest regions of the country.
1.03      National land-use and regional planning began during the early
1960s. A National Land Construction Planning Law was enacted in 1963, and
in 1967 a national construction plan encompassing expressways, river basin
schemes and ports was prepared. In 1971 the Ministry of Construction (MOC)
published a comprehensive National Land Development Plan for 1972-81 which
incorporated the findings of a UNDP-flnanced regional planning study.  The
Plan divided the country into eight regions, presented sectoral analyses and
identified development guidelines for each region. Following up on the
plan, MOC prepared regional development plans for the Gwangju, Jeonju and
Taebaek /I Regions, the three poorest regions in Korea. The Gwangju
Regional Study, completed in 1975 formed the basis for the Bank's first and
second regional projects: the Secondary Cities Regional Project
/1 The eight regions correspond roughly to the provinces; the Gwangju
Region is equivalent to the Jeon Nam Province and the Jeonju Region to
the Jeon Bug Province.



(Loan 1070-KO, approved in 1975), referred to as the First Gwangju
Project, and the Sezond Gwangju Regional project (Loan 1758-KO, approved in
1979).
B. Bank Involvement in Regional Development
1.04      The Bank's regional projects in Korea have assisted the Government
address inter-regional income inequities by promoting economic development
and improving living conditions in one of the poorest regions of Korea.
The Bank has worked closely both with MOC, which has the mandate for regional
planning and development, and with the local governments in preparing and
implementing these projects.
1.05      The Bank's first two regional projects focussed on Gwangju Region
which was considered to be the poorest in the early 1970s. The first
Gwangju Project, which was a pilot scheme to test the viability of the
approach, addressed the needs of the region's four major cities, Gwangju,
Suncheon, Yeosu and Mogpo, and included housing estates, a fishery harbor
complex, a city market and city roads. The project also included technical
assistance to strengthen project implementation and regional planning in
MOC. The second project was a comprehensive attempt to address the needs of
the Gwangju Region. It included further housing estates, water supply,
industrial estates and roads in Gwangju, Mogpo and Yeosu.  The needs of the
residents in the region's island areas were addressed through an aquaculture
program and through improved transportation linkages between the islands
with the mainland (2 bridges and a ferry service).
1.06      Project implementation was carried out by MOC which transferred
the completed faciL4ties to the relevant local or central government agency
for operation and maintenances  The first Gwangju Project was completed in
1980 /1 while the second Gwangju Project is scheduled to be completed in
1984. Except for delays caused by local financing problems, construction
has been satisfactory, with contracts completed on time. No problems have
been encountered in the transfer and maintenance of the completed facilities.
1.07      Given that the first Gwangju Regional Project has just been
completed and the second is still under implementation and that they
constitute only a part of a total public and private investment effort in
the region, it is not possible to measure the effect of the projects per se
on overall regional development. Nevertheless, these projects did provide a
nucleus for development activities in the region. The region was able to
maintain a real growth of 7% p.a. during the 1970's, the highest among the
poorer provinces of the northeast and southwest, and per capita income
differentials were improved from 68% of per capita GNP in 1970 to 81% in
1980.  The Jeonju Region has now replaced Gwangju as the poorest region in
Korea.
/1  The Project Completion Report, issued on August 27, 1981, concluded that
the project successfully achieved its institutional goal of assisting the
Government develop a capability to prepare and implement integrated
regional projects. Tne subsequent second Gwangju and the proposed
Jeonju Projects have built upon and further strengthened this capability.



- 3 -
1.08      The Gwangju regional projects have also assisted the Government
establish an institutional framework for planning and implementing regional
development projects. The preparation of the projects has encouraged
central and provincial authorities to cooperate in developing a more compre-
hensive, integrated perspective on regional needs and in identifying
priority investments. Initially, emphasis was placed on establishing
regional planning and project implementation capability in the Government
and a project management unit, the Gwangju Regional Development Unit (GRDU),
was created in MOC under the First Gwangju Project. Subsequently, GRDU's
functions have been incorporated into MOC's regular operations; the planning
and coordination functions being taken over by the Regional Planning Division
(RPD) in the National Physical Planning Bureau (NPPB) and the project imple-
mentation function being incorporated in Iri Regional Construction Office
(IRCO). Staff of RPD, IRCO and the provincial government were primarily
responsible for the preparation of the proposed Jeonju Regional project.
Furthermore, RPD staff are currently preparing regional development plans
for Cheju Island and the island area in Jeon Nam Province which are expected
to be implemented through the local MOC Regional Construction Offices.
1.09      With the development of project planning and implementation capabi-
lity within MOC as well as increased local government involvement, well
defined institutional arrangements for future regional projects have been
established. However, the implementation experience of the Second Gwangju
Project and preparation of the proposed Project have highlighted the diffi-
culties in mobilizing domestic resources, particularly local government
funds. Local governments in Korea generally have limited resources that
they raise directly and rely on transfers from the central government to
finance recurrent as well as capital expenditures. While the cities and
counties are able to provide adequate services to meet the immediate needs
of their residents, they find it difficult to plan larger development pro-
jects spanning several years since the amount of overall resources available
is determined by annual central government budget allocations. The
financial system in Korea is currently not sufficiently developed to allow
local governments to mobilize medium- or long-term financing. To accomodate
these difficulties, an interim solution involving central government
agencies (para. 3.01) has been adopted for this project. In the long run,
the capital needs of the cities would be best met through a financial
intermediary which would channel domestic savings and foreign funds to local
governments as loans. Preliminary studies have been carried out and the
Government is presently considering a draft law which, if enacted, would
create the legal basis for a financial intermediary to assist financing
infrastructure at the local government level. The precise mechanism to deal
with these issues and an implementation timetable are uncertain at this time.
However, the Government has indicated that this will continue to be a prior-
ity area for Bank assistance and this project provides for Bank-Government
collaboration both on fundamental issues in local government finance and
specific project preparation.



-4-
C. The Jeonju Region
1.10       The Jeonju Region, corresponding to Jeon Bug Province, is located
in the midwestern part of Korea with an area of 8,076 sq km and a population
of 2.3 million in 1980 (Map 17265). Jeonju is currently the poorest region
in Korea with a per capita GRP of W 670,904 in 1980 which was 69% of per
capita GNP. Between 1970 and 1980, the regional economy grew at an average
of only 4% p.a. in real terms compared to the national average of 8%.
Overall regional population declined at an average of 0.6% p.a. during this
period. Slow development (relative to the rest of the nation) is due mainly
to the predominance of agriculture which still accounts for 39% of GR1P in
1980 (versus 16% nationally) and lack of diversification in the regional
economy.
1.11       Although overall population growth in the region stagnated and
began to decline during the 1970s, the urban population in Jeonju increased
at 3.4% p.a. between 1970 and 1980.  Jeonju City, the provincial capital, is
the largest city in the region with a population of 366,977 in 1980
(averaging a growth of 3.4% p.a. since 1970).  Gunsan City, the second
largest city with a population of 165,977 in 1980 (averaging a growth of
3.9% p.a. since 1970) is the region's only commercial port. Gunsan and
Jeonju have been the traditional urban centers in the region, both cities
having histories that go back over a thousand years. Iri City, the third
largest with a population of 145,358 (averaging a growth of 5.3% p.a. since
1970), is located midway between Gunsan and Jeonju cities with good access
to the Honam Railway and Honam Expressway, the main rail and road links
between Seoul and the southwestern part of the country. The three cities
form a triangle which is the center of industrialization in the region and
are estimated to account for over 80% of production and employment in the
region's manufacturing sector.
1.12       While the agriculture sector will continue to play an important
role in the regional economy, opportunities for rapid growth or labor
absorption in the sector are limited. Therefore, the strategy for develop-
ment in the Jeonju Region stresses the diversification of the regional economy
through manufacturing and tourism development. The proposed project would
finance a phase of the investments in the region and complement other ongoing
projects developed along the lines of the basic strategy.
1.13       The manufacturing sector in Jeonju consists primarily of light
industries: food, beverage and textiles accounting for 63% of manufacturing
value added in 1980. Wage rates are about 10% lower than the national
average, making the region attractive to labor intensive industries. As
part of the plan to develop the Gunsan-Iri-Jeonju triangle as a major
industrial center on the west coast, the Government is undertaking a series
of investments including the expansion of the commercial port at Gunsan to
improve access to the region and construction of industrial estates in



- 5 -
Gunsan, Iri and Jeonju, to provide basic infrastructure to locating firms.
Both the port and adjacent coastal industrial estate at Gunsan /1 are
completed and expected to develop as a regional center for machinery and
chemical industries. The expansion of the existing industrial estates to
accommodate further development of light manufacturing industries in Jeonju
and Iri are proposed to be included in this project.
1.14       One potential area of development which has not been fully
exploited to date is domestic tourism. The mountain areas in the eastern
part of the region include three national parks, Mt. Jiri, Mt. Naejang and
Mt. Deogyou, and numerous temples and cultural assets, such as historic
Namweon City, the site of a bloody seige during the 16th century invasion by
Japanese forces and also of the romantic Chunhyang legend, Korea's
equivalent of Romeo and Juliet. While Jeonju may be "off the beaten track"
for foreign tourists, its mountains and beaches have attracted dormestic
tourists not only from within the region but also from Busan and other
cities in the southeast. Between 1971 and 1978, despite a lack of overnight
facilities and with generally poor access to scenic areas, the number of
tourists in the Jeonju Region grew at an average of 13.7% p.a. which was
higher than the national average of 9.4%. The completion of the Olympic
Highway between Gwangju and Daegu in 1984 would make both Mt. Jiri and Mt.
Naejang national parks more accessible to people living in the urban areas
in the southeast. The project proposes to take this opportunity to promote
further domestic tourism by providing improved facilities and access to
scenic areas.
1.15       Manufacturing growth in Jeonju, Iri and Gunsan cities will be
accompanied by a growth in urban population, not only from increased
manufacturing employment but also from growth in related service sectors.
If the population continues to grow at past rates during the 1980s, Jeonju
City is expected to reach 500,000 and Gunsan and Iri about 250,000 by 1990.
The government has taken measures to provide water, shelter, and essential
urban services to the increased population. In case of water supply, the
Geum River Basin Water Supply Project financed through the Asian Development
Bank and scheduled for completion in 1984, is projected to produce a total
of 200,000 cu m of treated water a day for 24 cities and towns including
Jeonju, Iri and Gunsan in both Jeon Bug and Chung Nam Provinces. Both Iri
and Gunsan cities are expanding their distribution systems to accommodate
the increase in water supply, while part of the expansion of the Jeonju City
distribution would be financed out of this project. A continuation of the
past trends towards smaller households would result in an estimated 300,000
additional housing units required in three major cities by 1990. Housing is
being constructed by the private sector as well as public agencies such as
the Korea National Housing Corporation (KNHC). The Bank's ongoing housing
project (Loan 1980-KO) includes a housing estate in Jeonju. Additional
low-income housing in Iri would be provided through this project.
/1 The industrial estate was completed in 1982 and 60% of the 825,500 py
saleable area has been sold to date.



- 6 -
II. PROJECT COMPONENTS, COST AND FINANCING
A. The Project
2.01       Selection of the Jeonju Region as the site for the Bank's
third regional project was based on the fact the region had the lowest per
capita incomes in the country (para. 1.10) and had been chosen by the
Government as a priority area for development (para. 1.03). A "bottom-up
approach" was taken in selecting project components, with the cities and
counties in Jeon Bug Province being requested to identify priority
investments in their districts. Based on overall regional priorities the
Jeon Bug Provincial Government prepared a list of 35 possible project
components from nearly 270 investment proposals submitted by the local
governments. The Government and the Bank reviewed these components and
selected a list of subprojects consistent with the regional development
strategy and sector plans of the individual ministries. Feasibility studies
for these subprojects began in May 1981 and were completed in June 1982.
The Government prepared a project proposal for the Jeonju Regional Project
based on the result of these studies. Detai+ed engineering on the
individual components begun in January 1983 and was completed in
December 1983. The Bank preappraised the project in June 1982 at the
completion of the feasibility studies and appraised the project in March
1983.
2.02       The objectives of the Jeonju Regional Project are:
(a) to support the Government's effort to reduce interregional
disparities by promoting economic development and creating
employment opportunities in the Jeonju Region;
(b) to address intra-regional disparities by promoting economic
development in the poorer mountain areas and islands within the
region; and
(c) to improve infrastructure and living conditions in the major
urban areas of the region.
2.03       The project components are divided into three main types, namely:
(a) urban-industrial development in Iri and Jeonju Cities; (b) tourism
development in the mountain areas and Seonyu Island; and (c) development
of interregional and intraregional transportation. Selection of the
components was based on feasibility studies although the availability of



- 7 -
local counterpart funds required further modification in project scope./l
The project would consist of the following components:
(a) Urban Development ($54.1 million): development of serviced
industrial land in Jeonju (66 ha) and Iri (46 ha); development of
a residential estate (20 ha) primarily for low-income households
in Iri; expansion of the water distribution system in Jeonju; and
improvement to the drainage system in Iri.
(b) Tourism Development ($50.4 million): upgrading of two roads (8 m
x 24.9 km; 8 m x 18.6 km) and site development (43 ha) for
lodging, parking and other recreational facilities to promote
tourism in Mt. Jiri National Park; construction of a road (8 m x
15.6 km) in Mt. Naejang National Park; and construction of two
pedestrian bridges (2m x 300 m and 2 m x 250 m) and jetties in the
Seonyu Island group.
(c)  Transportation ($35.9 million): contruction of an industrial road
(10 m x 10.9 km) in Iri to allow commercial traffic from the
industrial estate to bypass the city center; and the construction
of a bridge (10 m x 350 m) at Woonam on National Route 27; and
pavement of a section of National Route 19 between Namweon and
Gurye (10 m x 31.8 km) to improve access to Jeon Nam Province.
(d) Technical Assistance ($2.7 million): a study for the review of
local government planning and finances and preparation of future
projects, and related overseas training.
B. Project Features
Urban Development Components
2.04      Industrial Estates.  Given Korea's high population densities and
scarcity of land, the supply of serviced industrial land is a critical
factor in determining manufacturing growth. To rationalize the utilization
of land, strict zoning regulations are enacted in cities and their
surrounding areas. These regulations restrict factories to locations in
/1 The feasibility studies also included proposals for: (a) fishery ports;
(b) agricultural storage facilities; (c) a market; (d) a regional
water supply system; (e) sewerage treatment plants; and (f) an
additional housing estate. Those components were subsequently dropped
from the project when they were found to be economically and/or
financially not feasible. The feasibility study reports are available
in the project files.



-8-
areas zoned for industrial use. City governments have been constructing
industrial estates to provide basic infrastructure for new and expanding
industries. The existing local industrial estates in Jeonju (408,927 py)
and Iri (345,875 py) are fully occupied and additional estates are required
to meet the needs of expanding and newly established industries.
2.05      The project would include industrial estates of gross areas of
200,000 py in Jeonju and 140,000 py in Iri (Map 17265 and 17266). The
saleable area is estimated to be 80% of the gross area, (160,000 py in Jeonju
and 112,000 py in Iri) and would be divided into plots of 400 py to 10,000
py. The proposed sites are near the existing industrial estates and were
selected as being optimum in terms of access, minimum displacement of
current residents, topographical features and ease of construction. All
plots would be provided with basic services such as water, sewers,
electricity, telephones and other public facilities.
2.06      Housing Estate.  A 60,000 py housing estate is proposed in Iri
adjacent to the proposed Iri Industrial Estate (Map 17266). Following the
model developed in previous Bank-financed projects, the housing estate will
have a mix of low-income and middle-income residential sites and commercial
lots. Approximately 70% of the gross area would be saleable, the remaining
30% being required for streets, playground and other common areas. One half
of the saleable area has been earmarked for households below the 40th
percentile of urban household income distribution. These low income lots
would be divided into 610 plots of 30-35 py. The remaining half would be
sold in the form of 50-70 py plots at market price for middle-income and
commercial users; any profits generated through sale would be used to
cross-subsidize the low-income lots. The site development will be complete
with water, sewers, power, telephones, streets and other public facilities.
2.07      Previous Bank projects have included construction of housing on
low-income plots. As an experiment, no housing will be built through this
project to give prospective buyers of the low-income plots greater latitude
in selecting the type of house they prefer. Financing for lot purchase and
house construction of the low income plots would be provided through the
Government's National Housing Fund (NHF) at the prevailing terms and
-onditions (para. 2.19). In accordance with a recent government policy to
promote rentals for low-income households, about 20% of the low-income lots
would be earmarked for construction of rental units by the city or KNHC.
2.08      Water Supply.  Due to lack of water sources and an inadequate
distribution system in Jeonju City, the fringe areas of the city suffer from
intermittent supply and low pressures. The old and deteriorated pipes
result in unaccounted-for water losses of the order of 35% to 45%. The
proposed Jeonju Water Supply component includEs a service reservoir (7,000
cu m ) and distribution pipes (21 km) and would upgrade the existing



- 9 -
distribution system to increase the number of connections and service
levels, particularly for those living in the higher elevation areas. The
additional water required will be supplied by the Geum River Project
presently under construction and scheduled for completion in 1984. Demand
for water is estimated to increase from the present 74,000 cu m per day to
109,000 cu m per day in 1987 and 181,000 cu m per day in 1991, based on the
assumption that population in Jeonju City would grow at 3% p.a. between
1982-91 and that service levels would increase from 220 lcd in 1982 to to
270 lcd in 1987 and 390 lcd in 1991. The problem of water losses in Jeonju
will be addressed as part of a national leakage control program being
financed by the Bank through the Second Water Supply Project (Nagdong
Barrage).
2.09      Drainage Improvement and Flood Control.  Mangyeong River flowing
south of Iri City, is affected by both tidal fluctuation and flooding during
rainy seasons. The existing flood control facilities (channels, flood
gates, pumps,etc.) are grossly inadequate to control the flood water,
resulting in frequent inundation of the low lying agricultural and
residential areas in and around Iri. The proposed Iri Drainage and Flood
Control component (Map 17266) would address this problem by constructing a
retention basin, a network of interceptors and drainage channels, and
additional lift pumps to hold the surging water in the basin temporarily
while pumping part of it, until the water level in the Mangyeong recedes
enough to be discharged by gravity.
Tourism Development /1
2.10      Because of its natural scenic beauty as well as the cultural histo-
rical attractions, Mt. Jiri has been designated a National Park and is one of
/1  The design of the tourism component reflects the experience gained from
the Bank financed Kyongju Tourism Project (Loan 953-KO, completed in
1980). The project completion report was issued June 12, 1981. The main
emphasis of the proposed tourism component is placed on domestic tourism
and design standards for the proposed tourist site are modest compared to
sites developed primarily for international tourism. Furthermore, the
major part of the investment would be for basic infrastructure, such as
tourism roads, which would enhance the tourism potential of the area as
a whole and less emphasis being placed on tourism site development per
se. If the scale of the proposed site proves to be inadequate, further
phases should be developed by the city from sales revenues or could be
carried out solely by the private sector.



- 10 -
the most popular local tourist destinations in the country (Map 17265).
Domestic tourist traffic to the area increased by an average of 11.5% p.a.
between 1976-81, registering an estimated 527,000 visitor arrivals in 1981.
The Olympic Highway linking Gwangju and Daegu will pass along side Mt.
Jiri, improving access from Daegu and other large cities in the industrial
southeast. Further development of tourism in the area has been hampered by
lack of tourist amenities such as accommodations and recreational
facilities. The proposed Namweon Tourist Site Development would address
these deficiencies by providing all necessary infrastructure (water, sewers,
power, streets, parking, landscaping, etc.) and supporting tourist
facilities to accommodate about 1,000 rooms for lodging. The project site
is located on the south side of Namweon City which is expected to become a
gateway to Mt. Jiri being strategically linked to the Olympic Highway.
2.11      The proposed mountain tourist roads (Map 17265), Yugmojeong-
Deogdong (18.6 km) and Banseon-Cheonunsa (24.9 km) would provide tourist
access to scenic parts of Mt. Jiri as well as linking points of interest in
the National Park. These roads will be constructed along existing mountain
trails, would be approximately 8 m wide with two paved lanes, and when
completed would connect with the existing road network. Mt. Jiri National
Park has been divided into development and preservation zones to minimize
destruction of the natural environment. The proposed roads are in the
existing development zones and their construction is not expected to cause
any adverse environmental effects.
2.12      Mt. Naejang National Park (Map 17265) is another popular tourist
destination in Jeon Bug Province, and includes two historic temples, the
Naejang Temple and Baegyang Temple. Visitor traffic to the area increased
by an average 5% p.a. for the 1975-81, registering an estimated 586,000
visitor arrivals in 1981. While most of the tourists wish to visit both
temples, visitor traffic to the area has been limited by the difficulty of
getting from one temple to the other. Presently one has to travel a
distance of 32 km to go from one temple to the other. The proposed
Naejangsa-Baegyangsa Road would improve the link between the two temples
and cut the distance in half.
2.13      Along with the mountains, the beaches in Jeon Bug Province are
also a local tourist attraction. The Seonyu Island group (consisting of
Seonyu Island and two neighboring islands) is located 20 km off the main-
land and are visited by around 30,000 people every year who take advantage
of the clear water and beautiful beach (Map 17265). The proposed Seonyu
Island Development component includes two pipe truss type foot bridges
linking Seonyu Island with its two neighboring islands and extension of
three existing landing jetties for both tourists and local residents.
Tourists usually camp or stay in rooms in local houses which the residents
rent out. By increasing accessibility from the outer islands, people in
these islands would also benefit from tourism while increasing the number of



- 11 -
available lodgings. Furthermore, the component will also benefit the
residents by improving access to public facilities which are located on the
main island.
Transportation
2.14      A section of National Road No. 27 at Woonam was submerged when the
Ogjeong Reservoir was completed. At present, a ferry service is providing
the link between the broken sections of Route 27. The proposed Woonam
Bridge (Map 17265) would replace the existing ferry by constructing a 10-m
wide, 350-m long bridge and about 3 km of approach roads. The Government is
in the process of paving the entire Route 27 section by section and would
complete the paving program by the time the proposed Woonam Bridge is put in
service. An assurance was obtained at negotiations that the pavement will be
completed on schedule. A 31.8 km section of National Road 19 between Namweon
and Gurye (in Jeon Nam Province) (Map 17265) is to be paved through this
project in light of the projected traffic requirements. The proposed Woonam
Bridge (together with the paving of Route 27) and the upgrading of the
Namweon-Gurye road will improve access for residents in the rural areas to the
nearby cities for marketing their agricultural products and purchasing goods.
Moreover, the improved roads will provide shorter routes for interregional
traffic flows.
2.15      The Iri Industrial Estate Access Road (10 m wide by 10.9 km long)
will generally follow a route around Iri through rice fields and low knolls,
bypassing the city center and will provide relatively unimpeded access to
the existing and proposed industrial estates from Gunsan and Jeonju.
Technical Assistance
2.16      Technical assistance would be provided under the project for a study
to review planning and finances at the local government level and to prepare
future projects, and overseas training. Terms of reference for these studies
will be prepared by the Government for the Bank's review by October 1984.
Details of the technical assistance and breakdown of costs are presented in
Annex 1.
C. Cost Estimates
2.17      The total project cost is estimated to be W 115 billion ($143 mil-
lion) of which the foreign exchange component is W 48 billion ($60 million)
or 42% of the total project cost. Summary project cost estimates are
presented in Table 2.1; detailed cost estimates by project component are
available in Annex 2. The estimates are based on detail engineering and



- 12 -
Table 2.1:  SIJMMARY PROJECT COSTS /a
For-                   For-          Foreign    As x
Local  eign  Total   Local  eign  Total  as % of  of total
--- (W billion) --   -- (US$ million) -   total    cost
Urban development                  22.5  11.1   33.7    28.1  13.9   42.0          33       29
Industrial estate                11.7   3.0  14.7   14.6   3.7 18.3              20       13
Housing estate                    4.4   2.9    7.3        5.5   3.6    9.1       40        6
Water supply and drainage         6.4   5.2   11.7        8.0   6.6   14.6       47       10
Tourism                            16.5  12.3   28.8    20.6  15.4   36.0          43       25
Tourism road                     12.4  10.0   22.4    15.5  12.5   28.0          45       20
Site development                  3.2   1.5    4.7       4.0   1.9    5.9        32        4
Seonyu island                     0.9   0.8    1.7        1.1   1.0    2.1       49        1
Transportation                     11.7   9.6   21.3    14.7  12.0   26.6          45       19
Technical assistance                0.8   1.0    1.8        1.0   1.2    2.2       55        2
Total Base Cost                51.5  34.0   85.5    64.4  42.5  106.q          40      75
(end-1983 prices)
Contingencies
Physical                          3.6   3.3    6.8       4.4   4.1    8.5        48        6
Price                            11.6  10.6   22.2    14.5  13.2   27.7          45       19
Total Project Cost /b          66.6  47.9  114.5    83.3  59.8  143.1          42      100
Front end fee on
Bank loan                         -   0.1    0.1         -   0.2    0.2
Total Financing Required           66.6  48.0  114.6    83.3  60.0  143.3
/a  Figures may not add up due to rounding; detail project cost are presented
in Annex 2.
/b  Includes taxes estimated to be W 6.8 billion.  Total project cost net of
taxes would be W 107.7 billion or $135 million.



- 13 -
conform to codes, standards, and practices in Korea. Base costs are
expressed in December 1983 prices and include construction, land acquisition
and design and supervision costs. Costs for technical assistance are based
on average man-month costs (including salaries, fees, international travel
and subsistence) of $12,000 for foreign consultants and $6,000 for local
consultants. The study is estimated to require about 270 manmonths.
Physical contingencies were estimated to be 10% of base cost. Price
contingencies are based on projected foreign and domestic price escalation
of 7.5% in 1984, 7.0% in 1985 and 6.0% thereafter.
D. Financial Arrangements
Project Financing
2.18      The proposed Bank loan of $60 million (W 48 billion) would finance
the foreign exchange component of the project. The loan would be made to
the Government of the Republic of Korea on standard Bank terms. Of the
total loan, $11.7 million would be onlent to the following city governments:
Jeonju ($5.5 million) and Iri ($3.2 million) for the industrial estate,
housing estate and water supply components, and Namweon ($3.0 million) for
the tourism site component. The remaining $48.3 million would be passed on
to the Ministry of Construction for implementing the remaining components.
As in the previous regional projects, the portion of the Bank loan which
will be onlent to the city governments would be passed on initially to the
agencies responsible for implementing specific components on behalf of the
city governments: Korea Land Development Corporation (KLDC) for the
industrial and housing estates, Korea National Tourism Corporation (KNTC)
for the tourism estate, and MOC for the water supply component. Upon
completion of project implementation, the assets and liabilities would be
transferred to the respective city governments.
2.19      Local counterpart funds would be provided by the various project
agencies. For the industrial estate and housing estate components, the city
governments of Jeonju and Iri would provide their own funds to cover part of
the land acquisition costs while the city government of Namweon would finance
the total land acquisition cost for the tourism site component. The remain-
ing local funds would be provided by KLDC for the industrial estate and
housing estate components, and by KNTC for the tourism site component. The
industrial and housing estates and tourism site included in the project
would constitute only a small part of KLDC and KNTC's operation (para. 3.04
and 3.05) and provision of funds is not expected to be a problem. The
National Housing Fund (NHF) would provide mortgages for lot purchases and
housing construction for low income families on a priority basis. Mortgages
would be on prevailing NHF terms which are currently 20-year graduated



- 14 -
mortgages with an interest rate of 10% p.a. and a downpayment of 40%. The
funds provided by KNTC would be made available as a loan to Namweon City over
five years including two years grace at 8% per annum which the city would
repay from the proceeds of land sales./l For the industrial and housing
estates, KLDC would also handle marketing of the land and recover the cost
from sales of industrial and residential plots. KLDC will pass on to Jeonju
and Iri Cities a portion of the proceeds equal to the cities' contribution
(including the Bank loan) to development costs. Agreements between KNTC,
KLDC and the respective cities will be signed prior to loan effectiveness
and assurances were obtained that the mortgages will be provided through NHF.
2.20      For the water supply component in Jeonju, about 50% of the local
funds would be provided from the city water bureau's own resources and the
rest would be financed from a national government loan through the Korea
Development Bank (KDB). The terms of the KDB loan are currently repayment
over ten years with three years grace at 10% annual interest. The repayment
of KDB loan for the water supply component will be made by the Jeonju Water
Works Bureau (JWWB) at the prevailing interest rate under a conventional
financing agreement between the JWWB and the Government.
2.21      Local funds for the remaining components would be provided by MOC
through central government budgetary allocations. The consolidated
financing plan for the project, excluding interest during construction and
working capital, is presented in Table 2.2. Details are provided in Annex 3.
During negotiations, assurances were obtained that the Government and the
concerned agencies would meet any cost overruns and would make their best
effort to provide the counterpart funds required for timely implementation
of the project.
/1 The terms of the loan are based on the Government's Tourism Promotion
Fund.



- 15 -
Table 2.2: PROJECT FINANCING PLAN /a
(In billion won)
Estimated
project                  Sources of funds
costs    Bank   MOC    KDB  NHF   KLDC  KNTC   City
Urban Development            42.6    12.0   6.1   1.1   7.8   13.6         -    1.9
Industrial estate          16.1     3.7   -        -      -   11.8       -    0.6
Housing estate             10.7     0.9   -        -   7.8    1.8        -    0.2
Water supply and drai    15.8       7.4   6.1   1.1       -      -       -    1.1
Tourism                      39.2    18.1  17.5      -      -      -    2.3    1.3
Tourism road               31.4    14.9  16.5      -      -      -       -      -
Site development            5.8     2.2      -     -      -      -    2.3    1.3
Seonyu Island               2.0     1.0   1.0      -      -      -
Transportation               27.9    12.9  15.0      -      -      - 
Technical Assistance          2.2     2.2      -     -      -      -
Supervision                   2.6     2.6      -     -      -      - _  _
Front End Fee                 0.1     0.1      -            -              -      -
Total                 114.6    45.0  38.6   1.1   7.8   13.6    2.3    3.2
/a  Figures may not add up due to rounding; detailed financing plan is
attached as Annex 3.
Terms of Loans
2.22      The Government of Korea would repay the Bank loan over a 15-year
period, including an initial three-year grace period, at the standard
variable interest rate. The Bank loan would be onlent to the project cities
in accordance with normal government practice, through subsidiary loan
agreements on the same terms as the Bank loan plus a 0.05% p.a. service
charge for 15 years. The project cities will bear the foreign exchange risk
for the part of the Bank loan onlent to them. These transactions will be
covered under subsidiary loan agreements, the signing of which will be
conditions of loan effectiveness. These arrangements were confirmed at
negotiations.



- 16 -
III. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
3.01      The Jeonju Regional Project would be implemented under arrangements
developed under the previous Gwangju Projects with the following
modifications:
(a) KLDC and KNTC have been introduced as implementing agencies as
an interim solution to the local finance problem;/1 and
(b) a provision has been included to simplify procurement if
no foreign contractor prequalifies in any of the components.
A. Institutional Arrangements and Project Agencies
3.02      The project would be implemented by the central government agencies,
the Iri Regional Construction Office (IRCO), KLDC and KNTC, in collaboration
with the local governments. Implementation can be divided into four major
stages: land acquisition, construction (tendering and construction super-
vision), sales, and operation and maintenance. The roles of the various
agencies are presented in Table 3.1. Land acquisition would be carried out
by the cities, KLDC or IRCO depending on the component. Construction would
be carried out IRCO, KLDC and KNTC which would hand over the completed
facilities to the concerned local governments for operation and maintenance.
The project cities, Jeonju, Tri and Namweon, together with KLDC and KNTC
would promote the industrial and housing estates and the tourism site. The
tourism roads, Namweon-Gurye road and the Woonam Bridge will be part of the
national highway system and will be maintained by IRCO.
/1 Other possible alternatives such as implementation of these estates
through the land readjustment mechanism or provision of commercial
loans to concerned cities with MOHA guarantees were explored but
found to be not feasible.



- 17 -
Table 3.1: IMPLEMENTATION PLAN
Land                       Sales    Operation &
acquisition Construction promotion maintenance
Urban Development
Industrial estate         KLDC         KLDC        KLDC/City       City
Housing estate            KLDC          KLDC       KLDC/City       City
Water supply and
drainage                 City          IRCO                       City
Tourism
Tourism road              IRCO          IRCO                       IRCO
Site development          City         KNTC        City/KNTC       City
Seonyu Island             IRCO          IRCO         -          Okgu County
Transportation              IRCO          IRCO                       IRCO
3.03      MOC's Iri Regional Construction Office (IRCO) would be responsible
for tendering and construction supervision of the transportation, tourism
road, water supply and drainage components. IRCO, located in Iri City, is in
charge of constructing all MOC projects and river and national highway
maintenance in Jeon Nam and Jeon Bug Provinces./1 It is the implementing
agency for the on-going Gwangju Regional Project.  The Regional Development
Division, consisting of five sections with 24 engineers and 3 administrative
officers, has been established to handle exclusively the Bank-financed
regional projects. The civil works in the Gwangju Project have been well
executed and the majority of components were completed during 1983. Staff
from the Gwangju Project would be reassigned to the Jeonju project when
implementation begins in 1984.
/1 A separate regional office, Gwangju Regional Construction Office (GRCO),
existed in Gwangju City which was the implementing agency for the
Gwangju Regional Projects. In November 1981, the functions of GRCO
and IRCO were combined into a single regional office in Iri.



- 18 -
3.04      The Korea Land Development Corporation (KLDC) would be responsible
for land acquisition, tendering, contract supervision of the industrial
and housing estate components. KLDC is a government owned corporation with
a mandate to acquire, develop and sell industrial and residential land.
Established in 1979, KLDC has expanded rapidly to an institution with a
capital base of W 144 billion, total assets of W 362 billion and staff of
over 700 at end 1981./i Land development under the First and Second Urban
Land Development and Housing Projects (Loans 1980-KO and 2216-KO) are being
conducted by KLDC.  Progress under the First Urban Land Development and
Housing Project has been very smooth with all work to date being completed
ahead of schedule and under budget.  Approximately 15.5 million py is
planned to be developed by KLDC during 1982-86, so the addition of 3 sites
through this project (total of 0.41 million py) is not expected to cause
undue strain on KLDC's staff resources or existing program.
3.05      The Korean National Tourism Corporation (KNTC) would be responsible
for designing, tendering and supervising construction of the tourism site
at Namweon. KNTC would also assist the city government in promoting the
tourism site and selling lots to private investors for the development of
commercial establishments in the complex. KNTC was transformed in April
1975 from the Korea Tourist Service (KTS) which was created on June 26, 1962
as a central government agency with the functions of: (a) administering and
supervising overall activities in the tourism sector; (b) promoting interna-
tional tourism in Korea; (c) planning and coordinating tourism projects in
conjunction with private business interests and chanelling government
assistance. While KNTC has actively been involved in these activities and
has expanded its operations significantly, including participation in the
Bank financed Kyongju Tourism Project, KNTC has established the capability
of planning and implementing promotional and investment programs with
qualified professional staff for the development of both international and
domestic tourism throughout the country. For the last three years, KNTC
budgeted about W 40 billion annually for the development expenditures, of
which about W 30 billion was expended for capital investments in new
projects, including the development of a new tourism resort on the Cheju
Island and an international tourism center in Seoul. KNTC will continue to
play an important role in enhancing the further development of tourism as
the Republic of Korea will host a number of international events such as the
1986 Asian Games and the 1988 Olympics.
/1 A detailed description of KLDC is available in the Korea Second National
Urban Land Development and Housing Project Staff Appraisal Report
(Report No. 4044-KO), November 15, 1982.



- 19 -
3.06      Jeonju, Iri and Namweon Cities and Okgu County would operate and
maintain the completed facilities, except for the national highways and
tourism roads. Jeonju, Iri and Namweon Cities would also be responsible,
jointly with KLDC and KNTC, for promotion and sales of the industrial and
housing estates and the tourism site. Municipal infrastructure in Korea is
generally well maintained and the cities and county have been involved
during project preparation and agree with the proposed designs. Experience
from the previous Gwangju Projects indicates that transfer of the facilities
and operation and maintenance would cause no difficulties for the local
governments concerned.
B. Project Coordination
3.07      As in the previous Gwangju Regional Projects, coordination will be
carried out by MOC's National Physical Planning Bureau (NPPB) in Seoul
together with the Jeon Bug Provincial Government (JBPG). NPPB's Regional
Planning Division has acted as a coordinator between the various
central government ministries, national agencies and local governments
during the preparation of the project and the implementation of the on-going
Gwangju Project. JBPG's Urban Planning Division has played a crucial role
in coordinating the local governments during the preparation of the project.
NPPB will be responsible for co-ordination of the central government level
while JBPG will be responsible for co-ordination at the local level. A
similar arrangement has functioned satisfactorily in the previous Gwangju
Regional Projects. The introduction of KLDC and KNTC into the project is
not expected to complicate implementation since all components will be
implemented individually and both agencies have experience executing Bank
projects. All implementing agencies would submit quarterly progress reports
to NPPB and JBPG as part of the reporting system (see para. 3.12).
C. Implementation Schedule
3.08      The project would be implemented over a five-year period
(1984-88). The implementation schedule is presented in Chart 1. Detailed
engineering has been completed and construction is scheduled to begin during
1984-86 depending upon the component. The necessary funds for land acquis-
ition and construction of the 1984 program have been made available and
construction is expected to start in the third quarter of 1984 as planned.
D. Procurement and Disbursement
3.09      The civil works would be divided into about 14 contracts ranging
from $3 million to $17 million. Each component would be tendered as a single
contract. All contracts would be awarded on the basis of international
competitive bidding to prequalified contractors in accordance with Bank
guidelines. However, no foreign contractors have expressed interest in
prequalifying for previous regional development and housing projects



- 20 -
financed by the Bank in Korea and none are anticipated for this project. If
no foreign contractor prequalifies, all subsequent contract documents will
be issued in Korean and bidding times reduced in keeping with local
competitive practices. Other Bank guidelines for competitive bidding would
be maintained. Consultants would be selected according to the Bank's
guidelines.
3.10      Disbursements under the proposed loan would be:  (a) 50% for civil
works, and (b) 100% for technical assistance including consultant services,
studies and overseas training. Construction loans would be made by the
Government through the National Housing Fund. No disbursements from the
Bank would be made against these loans. Disbursements for all items would be
made against standard Bank documentation. All procurement and loan with-
drawal documentation will be undertaken by each implementing agency. A
special account (revolving fund) of US$2 million of Bank funds would be
established as a condition of effectiveness to expedite disbursement and
assist local governments in making payments to contractors. The country
profile has been followed in projecting quarterly disbursements which are
presented in Annex 4. The loan is expected to be fully disbursed by
June 30, 1989
E. Accounts and Audits
3.11      Separate project accounts would be maintained by IRCO and relevant
implementing agencies, giving a breakdown for land acquisition, civil works,
equipment and services provided. The project expenditures would be accoun-
ted for separately by these agencies for each project component with respect
to the source and application of funds. MOC's NPPB will coordinate main-
taining separate accounts for each project component during project imple-
mentation and arrange for an annual audit by independent auditors acceptable
to the Bank. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that IRCO and the
implementing agencies will: (a) maintain separate accounting records for
all project revenues and expenditures; (b) establish an appropriate account-
ing and internal reporting system between NPPB, JBPG and the respective
agencies to ensure that adequate and timely working capital is provided to
finance the project; (c) have the project accounts audited by independent
auditors acceptable to the Bank and these audit reports submitted to the
Bank no later than six months after the end of each fiscal year.
F. Project Progress Reporting
3.12      IRCO staff, with some as3istance from local consultants, will
carry out construction supervision for IRCO-implemented components. KLDC
and KNTC staff will be responsible for supervision of their respective
components. Quarterly progress reports stating, inter alia, status of
construction, financing, critical steps to be taken for the next six months,
would be prepared by the implementing agencies and sent to NPPB and JBPG.
NPPB would monitor overall progress and would coordinate the activities of
the central government agencies while JBPG would coordinate the cities and
counties to resolve implementation issues. Copies of the progress reports
with a summary by NPPB will be sent to the Bank. These reporting arrange-
ments were confirmed during negotiations.



- 21 -
IV. FINANCIAL ASPECTS
A. Background
4.01      In Korea, central government transfers fund about 40% of
municipal government budgets each year. The system has been adequate in
providing residents with immediate municipal services, such as garbage and
nightsoil collection and maintenance of roads and other municipal infra-
structure, but has made it difficult for the cities to plan and undertake
larger development projects spanning several years since the cities' could
not be certain if sufficient funds would be available for the later years.
In this regard, the project would assist Jeonju, Iri and Namweon Cities
develop major medium-term investment projects to promote manufacturing and
tourism and improve urban amenities in line with the Government's
development strategy. Financial data for the project cities are presented
in Annex 5. The project would account for about 12% of the total
development budgets for 1984-86 in Jeonju, 19% in Iri and 46% in Namweon.
4.02      In the case of the industrial estate, housing estate and tourism
site components, the development costs would be recovered through sales
within five years after project completion, while the proceeds of the Bank
loan would be repaid over a longer period, 15 years, including three years
grace. Funds generated from these project components in the initial years
of operation would be significant and would form a reserve fund, which the
cities would use to finance further development projects. Revenues from the
project are expected to contribute to around 5% of development funds for
Jeonju for 1987-91, 11% for Iri and 32% for Namweon.
4.03      The methods of cost recovery and financial implications of the
components are discussed in Section B below. The key assumptions and
financial flows are presented in Annex 6.
B. Cost Recovery and Financial Forecasts
Industrial Estates
4.04      Land, site development costs and interest during construction
would be recovered through plot sales at market prices. Prices of the land
in the existing industrial estates are around W 75,000 per py in Jeonju and
W 55,000 per py in Iri. For the financial projections, these market prices
were taken to be constant in real terms and adjusted for inflation to derive
the current price forecasts. However, actual market prices would most



- 22 -
likely be higher given the favorable location of the proposed sites and past
trends in land prices./l In order to discourage speculation, buyers will be
required to start construction of factories within one year and will not be
allowed to resell the plot without permission of the city government.
Buyers will also be provided with the option to purchase the land on
installment terms with a 40% downpayment and the balance to be repaid in
equal monthly installments for five years at the prevailing interest rate,
currently 10% p.a. In the financial projections, it is assumed that 50% of
the land would be sold on installment basis.
4.05      The proceeds of the sales would be allocated between KLDC and the
cities in proportion to their contribution to development costs (para.
2.19). The cities would also generate additional revenues through increased
property taxes. Property tax would be collected from 1991 as locating
industries would be exempt for the first five years under the Local
Industrial Estate Development Law. The development cost of the estates
would be recovered over four years and the funds re-invested in further
development projects. The cities would be responsible for maintenance of
infrastructure and public facilities on the estate. The financial
projections indicate that sufficient revenues would be generated to cover
the maintenance costs and service the Bank debt.
4.06      At negotiations, agreement was reached that KLDC together with the
city concerned will prepare, prior to project completion and start of sales,
a marketing plan, outlining, inter alia, proposed sales price, regulations
governing sales, and a time schedule for review by the Bank. The city will
also prepare an investment plan, outlining, inter alia, further investment
of funds from sales revenues, expected returns and viability.
Housing Estates
4.07      The cost of land acquisition, site preparation and financial
charges during construction will be recovered through land sales. All lots
will be sold as open plots. The middle income and commercial lots would be
sold through competitive bidding or direct contracts at market prices. The
/1 Land prices in both Jeonju and Iri have increased rapidly during the
1970s averaging 7.3% p.a. in real terms in Jeonju and 9.3% p.a. in real
terms in Iri between 1975 and 1980.



- 23 -
site is well located near the proposed industrial estate and has good access
to the city center. Within the near future, the surrounding areas are also
expected to be developed into residential sites. The market price is
estimated to be around W 70,000 per py. As with the industrial estates, these
prices were kept constant in real terms and adjusted solely for inflation in
the financial projections. Surpluses generated from these sales would be used
to lower the sales price of the low income lots to an estimated W 49,000 per
py, or 75% of the development costs (Annex 7).
4.08      The National Housing Fund (NHF) would provide mortgages for lot
purchases and housing construction for low income families on prevailing
NHF terms which are currently 20-year graduated mortgages with interest rate
of 10% p.a. and a downpayment of 40%. The housing loans to the
beneficiaries would follow the cooperative loan model developed under the
second National Land Development and Housing Project (Loan 2216-KO). Iri
City will borrow from the NHF and pass on the funds to qualified buyers.
The city will enter into a loan agreement with the borrower and hold first
mortgage on the land. Payments would be made by the borrowers to the city
which would repay the NHF.
4.09      At negotiations, agreement was reached that YDLC, together with
the city concerned, will prepare prior to project completion and start of
sales, a marketing plan, outlining, inter alia, proposed sales price including
cross subsidization of low-income plots, regulations governing sales and a
time schedule for review by the Bank. The city will also prepare an
investment plan, outlining, inter alia, further investment of funds from sales
revenues, expected return and viability. Finally, the arrangements for
mortgage financing by NHF for the low-income lots were confirmed.
4.10      Sales of land are projected to be completed between 1987 and 1989.
As with the industrial estate, sales revenues would be allocated between KLDC
and Iri City in proportion to their contribution to project costs. Internal
cash funds generated from the project would to be utilized for similar
investments in the city. The property tax revenues generated from the project
are estimated to be adequate to cover operating costs. Since sales are
projected to be recovered in three years after construction completion, it is
estimated that the debt service requirements of the Bank loan would require
the city to draw upon funds accumulated in prior years. The rate of return on
re-investment included in the projections represents minimal returns the city
could expect under current market conditions. The city is expected to
consider various options, including pre-payment of the loans to the central
government, in formulating its investment plan (para. 4.0q).
4.11      The smallest of the low-income units are estimated to be
affordable at around the 19th percentile of income distribution, assuming:
(a) current NHF terms, a 20-year graduated mortgage at 10% annual interest



- 24 -
with 40% downpayment; (b) low-income households expending 30% of the monthly
income on housing: and (c) a construction cost of W 7.2 million for a 12-py
corehouse. The affordability analysis is summarized in Annex 7.
Tourism Site
4.12      The actual costs of land acquisition, site preparation, infra-
structure, related tourism facilities, management costs and financial changes
would be recovered by the city government with the assistance of KNTC through
the sale of open lots to potential investors, lease of tourism facilities and
annual service charges to commercial establishments in the complex. The
developed land would be sold at market prices estimated at W 110,000 per py in
1983 prices which is reasonable compared with the market price for similar
land in the country. The terms of land sales to potential investors are
assumed to be with an initial down payment of 10% on the selling prices at the
time the contract is made. A second payment of 40% would be made within six
months after the initial contract is made and the remaining 50% would be made
in the following six months period. Some tourist facilities in the complex
such as tennis courts will be leased to potential users. Maintenance costs of
the tourism complex will be charged annually to the entrepreneurs on the basis
of the size of each lot sold for commercial establishments. At negotiations,
agreement was reached that the city government with the assistance of KNTC
will formulate, prior to project completion and start of sales, financial
objectives and regulations governing land sale prices, time schedule and terms
of land sales and marketing plans for review by the Bank. The city will also
prepare an investment plan, outlining, inter alia, further investment of funds
from sales revenues, expected return and viability.
4.13      The financial forecasts for the period 1983-98 indicate that the
city would generate sufficient revenues to cover maintenance costs and provide
adequate debt service coverage. While the project is expected to generate a
relatively large amount of internal cash funds through land sales in the years
1984-88, the sources of income would be limited to service charges and
property taxes following the completion of the land sales. Nevertheless, the
project would produce satisfactory debt service coverages, varying from 5.5 in
1987 to 1.5 in 1989 and further to 2.8 in 1991.
Water Supply
4.14      The financial records of the Jeonju Water Works Bureau (JWWB)
have been kept in a special account, separate from the city accounts.
JWWB's accounting procedures have been based on a commercial accounting
system, and audit reports for its operations have been prepared by an
independent auditing firm for each of the fiscal years. JWWB's financial
statements are presented in Annex 6 (D). JWWB's financial performance has
been satisfactory with an acceptable financial rate of return generated from



- 25 -
its operations, ranging from 6-9% on its net revalued fixed assets in
operation between 1980-82. The average water rates in Jeonju increased by
26% in 1981 and further by 38% 1982 which was sufficient to cover operating
as well as capital costs and, also, considered to be affordable from the
users' standpoint. While JWWB has been investing in some capital works on
the improvement of the existing systems, most of the funds required from
these investment programs have been financed from its own resources
together with some Government loans. As a result, JWWB has been maintaining
a sound financial position with adequate net working capital, showing
current ratios between 2 and 4 and debt service ratios between 3 and 4 during
years 1980-82.
4.15      The project costs would be recovered from the beneficiaries through
water charges. The level of water charges would be designed to meet the
financial objectives of providing JWWB with reasonable rates of return on
net fixed assets in operation and ensuring financial viability through the
maintenance of a satisfactory debt service coverage,l The establishment and
maintenance of water rates by J;T._B would produce an overall rate of return
on net fixed assets in operation, suitably adjusted for changes in price
levels, of 6% during the first four years of operation 1987-91 and 8%
thereafter. To safeguard JWWB's financial position, it viould not undertake
other expansion during the construction of the Bank project and would not
incur additional long-term debt, if its net revenue is less than 1.5 times
the maximum future debt service requirements. Assurances were obtained at
negotiations that JWWB will: (a' establish water tariffs which will produce
sufficient income to meet its financial objectives; (b) maintain its
commercial accounting system on an accrual basis; and (c) review annually
its financial position and adjust tariffs to achieve the rate of return
requirements.
4.16      Financial forecasts indicate that JWiWB would achieve overall
financial rates of return on met ffixed assets in operation of 5.8-8.7% for
1987-91 based on: (a) an average water rate of W 149 per cu m in 1983,
adjusted for inflation in later years, and (b) reductions in losses and
unaccounted-for water from 40% in 1982 to 38% in 1987 and further to 35% by
1990. The estimated average water rates are based on the average rates
obtained from the city water supply account reflecting the actual operating
results for the years 1980-82 and are reasonable compared with other cities
in Korea in 1983 (e.g. W 180 per cu m in Busan and Gwangju, W 152 per cu m
in Daegu, and W 220 per cu m in Masar.). Given the basic rate for treated
water of W 92 per cu m and the minimum consumption level of 10 cu m per
household per month, the monthly expenditure for water would be W 920 or
less than 1% of monthly disposable income of hcuseholds at the 10th per-
centile of income distribution. The proposed water rates are considered
affordable by the low-income households.



- 26 -
4.17      While debt services would be high in the following years
after project completion due to the repayment of the proceeds of the Bank
and Government loans, which is scheduled to start from i487, debt service
coverage would be satisfactory with the lowest ratio of 2.0 in 1987 which
would be increasing to 4.1 in 1991.
Tourism Roads, Island Development, Transportation and Drainage
4.18      The costs of the tourism roads, Seonyu Island development, the
industrial estate access road and Iri drainage components, financed by the
central government, would be recovered through general revenues.
V. PROJECT JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
A. Economic Analysis
5.01      The industrial estates in Jeonju and Iri form part of the govern-
ment's plan to develop the Gunsan-Iri-Jeonju triangle into a regional
manufacturing center. Given the scarcity of land in Korea, orderly develop-
ment of industrial land is essential in promoting manufacturing growth as
well as protecting the environment for city residents. The estates are
projected to meet potential demand for industrial land up to 1989. When
fully occupied, both estates are estimated to create an additional 7,500
jobs. The growth of the estates is expected to lead to more jobs in
transportation and other related service industries.
5.02      The tourism components would develop Mt. Jiri, Mt. Naejang and the
Seonyu Islands as tourist destinations. The Olympic Highway will make Mt.
Jiri and Mt. Naejang National Parks more accessible to residents of Daegu
and other cities in the southeast. The three tourism roads, Yukmojeong-
Deokdong, Banseon-Cheonunsa and Naejangsa-Baegyangsa, would improve access
to scenic areas and points of interest within the two parks while the
Namweon tourist site would provide overnight and recreational facilities.
Approximately 1,500 jobs in hotels, shops and other services are estimated
to be created on the site. The construction of the foot bridges would make
the outer islands in the Seonyu Island group more accessible to tourists
providing more accommodation for visitors and allowing residents of these
islands to benefit directly from tourist visits. Tourism development would
diversify the regional economy and create employment and supplemental income
opportunities for the agricultural households in the underdeveloped mountain
areas and the islands, thereby promoting intra-regional equality.
5.03      The Woonam Bridge and pavement of the Namweon-Gurye road would
improve access for residents in the rural mountain areas to nearby cities
for marketing of their products and purchasing of goods. The Iri Industrial
Estate Access Road would relieve projected congestion in Iri City from
traffic generated by the proposed industrial estate.



- 27 -
5.04      The project would assist Jeonju and Iri Cities nmeet the additional
municipal infrastructure needed to improve the living conditions of their
residents.  The Iri Housing Estate would allow the city to provide 610
low-income housing plots while the Iri Drainage component would provide
relief from annual flood damage, ranging from W 0.5 billion to W 1.8 billion
a year. The Jeonju Water Supply component would allow Jeonju City to
upgrade and expand its distribution system in line with additional water
provided through the Geum River Water Supply Project.
5.05      The project would also assist the local governments ease financial
constraints by providing long-term loans to plan and implement larger
projects such as the industrial estates and tourism site, and generate cash
reserves for further investment in similar developments. Finally, the
implementation of the project itself is expected to create about 7,500
man-years equivalent in construction jobs.
5.06      The project is estimated to have an Economic Rate of Return (ERR)
of 16% based on the weighted average of the ERR of the individual compo-
nents. Rental values were used to measure the benefit from the industrial
and housing estate components, while vehicle operating costs savings and
time savings were used in the transportation components. Assuming that
existing tariffs reflect the consumer's willingness to pay, the rate of
return on the water supply component was obtained on the incremental
revenues resulting from the project. Average property damage from flooding
between 1978-82 was used as a measure of benefits from the Iri Drainage
component. For the tourism components, profits (i.e., average tourist
expenditure net of costs) from the increase in tourist traffic was taken as
the benefits since the project would have an impact on overall tourism
development in their respective areas. Additional investments by private
entrepreneurs outside the project were also included in the costs when
obtaining the ERR for the tourism component. The basic approach, units of
measurement, and ERR for each component are presented in Annex 8. All taxes
were excluded from the analysis. Conversion factors were not used since the
existing exchange rate and wages were considered to adequately reflect
market conditions. Sensitivity analyses were carried out assuming (a) one
year delay in implementation and 10% increase in cost; and (b) 10% decrease
in benefits, Under these assumptions, the overall ERR dropped to 14% in
both cases.
B. Poverty Impact
5.07      The central objective of this project is to redress relative
income differentials in Korea by concentrating investments in the poorest
region of the country which has average incomes of only 69% of national
levels. For this reason a project which accelerates economic growth in this
region should have a positive impact on national income distribution.
Approximately 18% of urban households in Korea are estimated to have incomes
below the absolute poverty threshold. This percentage would most likely be
higher in a region like Jeonju with lower average incomes. In addition



- 28 -
to the interregional income distribution implications of such a project,
each component is expected to have an impact on the poor in the following
manner.
(a) Housing Estates. The low-income units would directly
benefit purchaser families between the 19th and 50th percentile
of the urban income distribution. It would also indirectly
benefit a large number of poor households who are likely to be the
majority of room renters in the housing estate. From the
experience of other urban projects in Korea it is projected that
one-half of the units will rent out a room which would be
affordable to households at the 10th percentile of the income
distribution.
(b) Jeonju Water Supply and Iri Drainage. Since the poor tend to
be more concentrated in areas of inadequate water supply service
where rents and property values are lower, the project can
reasonably be expected to benefit the poor in greater numbers
than their share of the population.
(c) Industrial Estates. Industries locating in the project cities are
generally labor intensive manufacturing firms who would employ the
poor at least in proportion to their numbers in the population.
Some 7,500 permanent jobs are expected to be created.
(d) Tourism development and Transportation. These components are
expected to have an impact on intra-regional income disparities by
promoting development in the mountain areas of Jeon Bug Province.
Average income in these areas is estimated to be 20% to 30% lower
than in the urban and fertile plain areas. The tourism components
would allow local residents to supplement their incomes through
jobs, both full-time and part-time, in hotels, shops and other
service activities.
C. Project Risks
5.08      The most significant risks are:  (a) possible delays in construc-
tion due to budgetary shortfalls and (b) difficulties in marketing the
industrial and tourism estates due to lower than anticipated demand. The
central government agencies, KLDC and KNTC, were introduced into the project
to assist the cities which would have faced difficulties in raising the
necessary local counterpart funds. The economic recession and drastic
drop in economic growth following the 1979 oil price increases have made
it difficult to project future investment in manufacturing and tourism.
The scale of the industrial estates was reduced significantly from the
original proposals, i!y 38% in Jeonju and 76% in Iri, due to recession
induced uncertainty during the project preparation period. If the economic
recovery leads to increased investment and demand for industrial land in
these cities, beyond that proposed for construction under the project, the
proceeds of the sales of the project sities would be utilized to develop



- 29 -
subsequent sites. The potential for Mt. Jiri tourism development is
considered very good as a majority of domestic tourists are expected to be
from the cities in the southeast coastal belt which should continue to
experience rapid growth during the 1980's.
5.09      Although not considered significant risks, the following could
delay implementation and jeopardize the viability of individual components.
(a) Lack of co-ordination between the implementing agencies and the
local governments could lead to difficulties in land acquisi-
tion, sales and transfer of completed components to the local
governments. To minimize misunderstanding and future disputes,
agreements between KLDC, KNTC and the cities will be signed prior
to loan effectiveness (para. 2.19); and
(b) The viability of the Woonam Bridge component is based upon
increase in traffic from the completion of pavement of Route 27.
The government is planning to complete pavement of the remaining
section between the junction of Routes 27 and 705 and Galdam,
including the Woonam Bridge site, by 1986. Assurances were
obtained during negotiations that the pavement will be completed
on schedule (para 2.14).
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED
6.01      During negotiations assurances were obtained and/or agreements
confirmed on the following points:
(a) pavement for the remaining section of National Route 27 in time
for the opening of the Woonam Bridge (para. 2.14);
(b) terms of reference for the studies on the preparation of future
projects (para. 2.16);
(c) maintenance by IRCO and the implementing agencies of separate
accounting records for all project revenues and expenditures;
establishment of an appropriate accounting and internal reporting
system between NPPB, JBPG and the respective agencies to ensure
provision of adequate working capital to finance the project; and
auditing of these reports by an independent auditor acceptable to
the Bank and the submission of these reports to the Bank not later
than six months after the end of each fiscal year (para. 3.11 and
3.12);



- 30 -
(d) agreement with the city governments and the concerned agencies
(KLDC and KNTC) for the formulation of financial objectives and
regulations for the respective project components (Industrial,
Housing and Tourism) governing land selling prices, time schedule
and terms of land sales, and marketing plans for Bank review
and preparation by the city of an investment plan for the sales
proceeds (paras. 4.06, 4.09 and 4.12);
(e) arrangements for mortgage financing by IMF for the low income
plots of the Housing Estate in Iri (para. 4.09);
(f) establishment and maintenance of water rates by Jeonju Water
Bureau which would produce an overall rate of return on net
fixed assets in operation, suitably adjusted for changes in
price levels, of 6% during the first four years of operation and
8% thereafter (para. 4.15).
(g) limitation of the Jeonju Water Bureau's other construction
activity during the construction of the Bank project and the
incurrence of long-term debt (para. 4.15):
6.02      The following would be conditions of loan effectiveness:
(a) agreement between KLDC, KNTC and the cities, including inter
alia, the portion of local counterpart funds to be provided
by each agency and terms and conditions for provision of funds
and revenue sharing, and the provision of mortgages through the
NHF (para. 2.19);
(b) signing of the subsidiary loan agreements between the
Government and the project city governemnts (Jeonju, Iri and
Namweon), specifying terms and conditions for onlending parts of
the proceeds of the Bank loan (para. 2.22);
(c) opening of a special account (revolving fund) (para. 3.10).



- 31 -                         ANNEX 1
Page 1
KOREA
JEONJU REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Technical Assistance
1. Objectives
The growth of urban population and income levels in Korea will
increase pressure on the cities to provide residents with more and better
urban services. Furthermore, the Government is proposing to reduce the
concentration of population in Seoul and Busan through the development of
regional cities. A greater part of these regional cities rely on central
government transfer for investments and under the current arrangements are
not expected to be able to adequately meet the increased demand without a
significant increase in central government transfers. Given the constraints
on central government budgets, a system to allow local governments access to
medium and long term financing will need to be developed. In this light,
the Bank is proposing to support the Government's effort in city development
through an urban sector loan.
The objective of the technical assistance program will be to
assist the Government:
(a) review local g-vvernment planning and finances and identify
appropriate areas to be funded through long-term loans; and
(b) carry out necessary preparation work for a proposed Bank lUrban
Sector Loan.
2. Proposed Program
The technical assistance program will consist of a study to,
inter alia:
(a) review local government finance, taxation and cost recovery
mechanism to identify appropriate areas for long-term loan
financing;
(b) review local government planning;
(c) develop methods to determine priority among the various invest-
ment opportunities in cities;



- 32 -
ANNEX 1
Page 2
(d) identify investment programs for the 15 Growth Inducement Cities
designated under the Second National Physical Land Development
Plan (and also in the Fifth Five Year Economic and Social
Development Plan); and
(e) feasibility studies of proposed investments.
These investment programs will form the basis for the proposed Urban Sector
Loan./1 The assistance program will also include overseas training in,
inter alia, local government financing mechanisms, planning and other
related areas.
3. Schedule and Cost Estimates
Terms of reference for the policy study will be completed and
discussed with the Bank by October 1984. The study will be carried out
during 1985. The estimated cost of the package is estimated to be $2.2 mil-
lion: $2.0 million for the study and $200,000 for overseas training. Rates
for consultant services (including overheads) were estimated to be
W 4,800,000 ($6,000) per manmonths for local consultants and W 9,600,000
($12,000) per manmonth for foreign consultants. The study is estimated to
require a total of about 270 manmonths (approximately 210 local and
60 foreign.
/1 The Government is reviewing the possibility of establishing an Urban
Development Fund to finance long-term city investments. Currently, the
Urban Sector Loan is planned for the Bank's FY88. If the legislature
and operational mechanisms of the Fund can be established in time, the
Fund would become the intermediary for the proposed Sector Loan.



- 33 -
ANNEX 2
K.OREA
JEONJU REGIONAL PROJECT
Detail Project Costs by Component
In  million won              In US million              X         7
Local   Foreign    Total    Local   Foreign  Total    Foreign  Total cost
Industrial Estate                   11,683    2,987   14,670        14.6      3.7    18.3         20         13
Jeonju                             8,290    1,703    9,993       10.4       2.1    12.5         17         9
Iri                                3,393    1,284    4,677        4.2       1.6      5.8       27          4
Housing Estate                       4,369    2,915    7,284        5.5       3.6      9.1        40         6
Land development                   1,765       605    2,370       2.2       0.7      3.0
Rousing construction               2,604    2,310    4,914        3.3       2.9      6.1
Tourism                             16,458   12,310   28,768       20.6      15.4    36.0         43        25
Namweon Site                       3,185    1,469    4,654        4.0       1.9      5.9        32         4
Namweon Site Access Road             708       633    1,341       0.9       0.8      1.7       47           1
Yukmojeong/Deokdong Road           3,752    3,178    6,930        4.7       4.0      8.7       46          6
Banseon/Cheonusa Road              4,769    3,694    8,463        5.9       4.6    10.5        44          7
Naejangsa/Baegyangsa Road          3,180    2,503    5,683        4.0       3.1      7.1       44          5
Seonyu Island                        864       833    1,697       1.1       1.0      2.1       49          1
Transportation                      11,728    9,580   21,308        14.7     12.0    26.7         45         19
Namweon/Gurye Road                 5,686    4,521   10,207        7.1       5.7    12.8        44          9
Woonam Bridge                      2,882    2,864    5,746        3.6       3.6      7.2        50         5
Iri Industrial Estate
Access Road                      3,160    2,195    5,355        4.0       2.7     6.7        41          5
Water Supply & Drainage              6,439    5,248   11,687        8.0       6.6    14.6        45         10
Jeonju Water Supply                1,787    1,518    3,305        2.2       1.9      4.1       46          3
Iri Drainage                       4,652    3,730    8,382        5.8       4.7    10.5        45          7
Technical Assistance                   792       968    1,760        1.0      1.2      2.2        55         2
Total Base Cost                 51,469   34,008   85,477       64.4      42.5   106.9        40         75
(in December 1983 prices)
Physical Contingency                 3,565    3,266    6,831        4.4       4.1      8.5       48          6
Prtce Contingency                   11,562   10,602   22,164        14.5     13.2    27.7        48         19
Total Project Cost              66,596   47,876  114,472       83.3      59.8   143.1        42        100
Front End Fee on Bank Loan                -      120       120         -      0.2      0.2
Total Financing Required        66,596   47,996  114,592       83.0      60.0   143.3



- 34 -
ANNEX 3
KOREA
JEONJU REGIONAL PROJECT
Detail Financing Plan by Component
IBRD       MoC       NHF       KDB      KLDC      KNIC      City        Total
Industrial Estate                    3,716         0         0         0   11,776           0       600      16,092
Jeonju                            2,083          0         0         O    8,348          0       300      10,731
Iri                               1,633          0         0         0    3,428          0       300       5,361
Housing Estate                         867         0    7,810    0                          0       200      10,650
Land development                     867         0         0         0    1,773          0       200        2,840
Housing construction                   0         0    7,810          0         0         0          0      7,810
Tourism                             18,116   17,524          0         0         0    2,324    1,262         39,226
Namweon Site                      2,207          0         0         0         0    2,324    1,262         5,793
Namweon Site Access Road             909       954         0         0         0         0          0       1,863
Yukmojeong/Deokdong Road          4,799    5,102           0         0         0         0          0      9,901
Banseon/Cheonunsa Road            5,578    6,337           0         0         0         0         0      11,915
Naejangsa/Baegyangsa Road         3,654    4,110           0         0         0         0          0      7,764
Seonyu Island                       969    1,021           0         0         0         0         0       1,990
Transportation                      12,947   14,974          0         0          0         0         0      27,921
Namweon/Gurye Road                6,521    7,487           0         0         0         0          0     14,008
Woonam Bridge                     3,575    3,788           0         0         0         0          0      7,363
Iri Industrial Estate
Access Road                     2,851    3,699           0         0         0         0         0       6,550
Water Supply & Drainage              7,400    6,097          0    1,128           0         0    1,128       15,753
Jeonju Water Supply               2,059          0         0    1,128          0         0    1,128        4,315
Iri Drainage                      5,341    6,097           0         0         0         0         0      11,438
Technical Assistance                 2,182         0         0         0         0          0         0       2,182
Supervision                         2,648          0         0         0         0         0         0       2,648
Bank Front End Fee                     120         0         0         0         0          0         0         120
Total Project Cost          47,996   38,595    7,810    1,128   13,549    2,324    3,190    114,592



- 35 -
ANNEX 4
KOREA
JEONJU REGIONAL PROJECT
Disbursement Schedule
(in US$ million)
Semester                       Cumulative   Cumulative       Country profile
ending        Disbursement   disbursement        (%)                (%)
12/31/84 /a       3.0              3.0           5.0              1.0
06/30/85          1.5              4.5           7.5               3.0
12/31/85          4.5              9.0          15.0             10.0
06/30/86          6.0             15.0          25.0              19.5
12/31/86          7.2             22.2          37.0             31.5
06/30/87          9.6             31.8          53.0             41.5
12/31/87         10.2             42.0          70.0             53.0
06/30/88          7.8             49.8          83.0             67.5
12/31/88          8.4             58.2          97.0             79.0
06/30/89          1.8             60.0         100.0            100.0
/a Includes $2 million initial disbursement to the Special Account.



- 36 -
ANNEX 5
Page 1
KOREA
JEONJU REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
City Finance Summary
Project Cities
1.        Local governments in Korea, generally have limited resources of
their own, i.e. local tax revenues and non-tax revenues,,and rely on trans-
fers from the central government to finance recurrent as well as capital
expenditures. While the metropolitan cities, like Seoul and Busan, generate
a large share of local revenues from local taxes (i.e. 30-40% of the total
revenues), revenues from local taxes in the non-metropolitan cities are
less significant, representing only 15-20% of the total. Non-tax revenues
in the local cities, mainly fees and charges levied on beneficiaries of
particular public services, constitute about 45% of the municipal budgets.
Transfers from the central government, including local shared taxes and
grants, each represent about 20% of the municipal budgets. Under the shared
tax system, the Ministry of Home Affairs (MORA) is responsible for allocating
funds to local governments based on the local budget proposed for specific
expenditures which are warranted per person, per hectare, per meter of road
expansion or paving, and so forth. The total need by local governments,
however, generally exceeds the funds available for distribution. The
government grants, unlike the shared taxes, are usually tied to particular
projects and, as a result, limit the freedom of action by local authorities.
2.        The general trends in municipal local finances in Korea are also
reflected in Jeonju, Iri and Namweon cities, their weak financial positions
limiting their development and investment activities. Capital investment in
various public works constitutes a relatively large component of the total
expenditures in Jeonju and Iri Cities. However, the growth in capital
investment is much slower than the increase in recurrent expenditures in
both cities. While recurrent expenditures increased by more than threefold
in Jeonju and Iri between the years 1978-81, capital expenditure showed a
marginal increase in Jeonju and decreased substantially in Iri during the
same period implying that the Jeonju and Iri Cities would require sub-
stantial more for investment to cope with not only their development needs
resulting from increased urbanization but also possible from past under
investment.
3.        Jeonju City.  In spite of a rapid increase in recurrent
expenditures in Jeonju, the city government has been covering these
expenditures from its recurrent revenues, mainly local and shared tax
revenues and fees and charges from public operations. The city government



- 37 -
ANNEX 5
Page 2
has generated a surplus from the recurrent account and allocated it to the
capital account for development expenditures. The surplus constitutes a
significant portion (about 12%) of the development funds on annual average
in the years 1978-81, the other sources of development funds being revenues
through property sales, transfers, and borrowings. Because of limited
resources of their own and transfers from central government for the
development programs, the city government obtained a substantial amount of
funds for capital investment through borrowings, (about 70% of the
development funds on annual average in the years 1978-81). Of the total
borrowings in 1978-81, about one third were national government loans from
the National Housing Fund for housing programs and from the Korea
Development Bank for water systems.
4.        Iri City. The financial strength of the Iri City Government is
relatively weak, compared with the Jeonju City Government. Substantial
portions of the development funds for general public works have been from
central government transfers, particularly in 1979 when an explosion
demolished the commercial area in front of the station and the Iri City
received emergency funds for reconstruction from the central government.
During the years 1978-81, transfers from government (excluding shared taxes)
constituted about 42% of the development funds on annual average, followed
by borrowings (32%), capital revenues (19%) and recurrent surplus (7%).
5.        Namweon City.  The Namweon City was given city status in mid-1981.
At present, appropriate financial records reflecting the actual financial
performance of the new city are not available for the years 1981-82. In
reviewing the 1982 budget of Namweon City, the size of the municipal budget
is very small (i.e. one-fifth of the Jeonju municipal budget and less than
one-half of the Iri municipal budget). Given the limited financial
resources Namweon City currently has, it is very difficult for the city to
participate in any significant capital investment for new projects. For the
Namweon tourism site component, the Provincial Government would allocate the
necessary funds to the city government for land acquisition.
Financial Implications of the Bank Project on Local Governments
6.        The Bank loan would expand the investment programs in the project
cities and would enable the cities to carry out larger capital investments
beyond regular improvement in the cities' infrastructure. The proportion of
the project expenditures to total development budget for each project city
varies significantly depending on the financial base of each city
government. The proposed Industrial Estate and Water Supply components
would account for 12% of the total development expenditures for Jeonju,



- 38 -
ANNEX 5
Page 3
and 19% for Iri between 1984-86./i As to the Namweon City where the
financial base is much smaller, the proportion of the project expenditures
for the Tourism Site component is much larger than the other project
cities, constituting about 54% of the development expenditures budgeted for
1984-85.
7.        The cities would recover investment costs in the Industrial and
Housing Estates and Tourism Site components in a relatively short period of
time (within three-four years after project completion) while repaying the
proceeds of the Bank loan over a relatively long period (15 years, including
three year grace). In this connection, funds generated from these project
components in the initial years of operation would be significantly large
and would form a reserve fund, which the cities would use to finance further
development projects. The financial forecasts for each project city
indicate that the project would generate income contributing to about 5% the
development funds for the Jeonju City, 5-19% for the Iri City and 20-49% for
the Namweon City between 1987-91.
/1 In the case of the industrial and housing estate, development costs were
pro-rated to include only the city's contribution to total costs. When
KLDC's contribution is taken into account, the impact of the industrial
and housing estate in Jeonju and Iri Cities development program would be
larger.



- 39 -
ANNEX 5(A
TABLE I
KOREA
JEONJU REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
JEONJU CITY FINANCIAL PROJECTION
(IN MILLION WON)
CONSOLIDATED A/C WITH BANK PROJECT:
ACTUAL                       BUDGET                                       PROJECTION
OPERATING YEARS:                  1978      1979      1980      1981     1982                1983      1984     1985      1986      1987      1988      1989     1990      1991
RECURRENT A/C
REVENUES                      3727      9061    11016    11792    14100                 15228    16370    17516    18567    19681    20862    22114    23440    24847
EXPENSES                      3116      6008     8298    11296    12800                13824    14871    15932    16934    17999    19132    20337    21618    22982
INTERNAL CASH                611     3053      2718       496      1300               1404      1500      1584      1633     1682      1730      1777      1822     1865
GDV'T GRANTS                   499       784     2274       905      2500               2700      2903      3106      3292      3490     3699      3921      4156      4405
SURPLUS R A/C               1110     3837      4992      1401      3800               4104      4402      4689      4925     5172      5429      5698      5978      6270
CAPITAL A/C
REVENUES                      2263      1113      1574     2666      1800                1944     2090      2236      2370      2512     2663      2823      2992      3172
INCOME FROM PROJECT                                                                                          122       842      1680     1816      1484      1352      1616
BORROWINGS                    6002      9109    22686    28464    11000                11880    12803    13770    14747    15795    16919    18125    19418    20805
IBRD LOAN                                                                                         1089      1799      1903
NATIONAL 6OV'T LOAN                                                                                357       469       580
GOV'T GRANTS                   782       458     4288      3209      1500               1620      1742      1863      1975     2094      2219      2353      2494      2643
REVENUES C A/C              9047    10680    28548    34339    14300                 15444    18081    20259    22417    22081    23618    24784    26256    28236
SURPLUS FROM R A/C            1110     3837      4992      1401      3800               4104      4402      4689      4925     5172      5429      5698      5978      6270
AVAILABLE FUNDS            10157    14517    33540    35740    18100                 19548    22483    24948    27343    27253    29047    30482    32234    34506
EXPENDITURES
DEV'T COSTS                 6835    12669    24293    11519    15500                 16740    18018    19328    20594    21944    23384    24920    26559    28308
IBRD PROJECT                                                                                    2534      2944     3246
DEBT SERVICE AS SCHD         840     1067      1701      1644      2600               2808      3019      3230     3424      3629      3847      4078      4322     4582
ON IBRD LOAN                                                                                   44       106      200      1333      1238      1163     1093      1026
TOTAL EXPENDITURE        7675    13736    25994    13163    18100                  19548    23615    25608    27464    26906    28469    30161    31975    33916
BALANCE                         2482       781     7546    22577          0                   0    -1132      -660      -121       347      578       321       259       590
FINANCIAL RATIOS.
A. AS I OF FUNDS AVAILABLE UNDER CAPITAL A/C
INCOME FROM PROJECT                                                                            0        0         0         3         6        6         5         4         5
PROJECT COST                                                                                   0        11       12        12         0         0        0         0         0
B. DEBT SERVICE                   3.42      3.90     2.52      1.92      1.19                1.19     1.17      1.18      1.34      1.18     1.22      1.16      1.14      1.19
NOTES:   A) FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE CITIES CONSOLIDATED GENERAL AND SPECIAL ACCOUNTS,
B) PROJECTIONS ARE BASED ON 1982 BUDGETS AND CITIES' ESTIMATES FOR FUTURE REVENUES AND EXPENDITURES, INCLUDING CAPITAL DEVELOPMENT REVENUES AND COSTS.
THE IMPACTS OF BANK PROJECT ARE BASED ON THE MISSION ESTIMATES.
C) DEBT SERVICE RATIOS ARE % OF DEBT SERVICE (INCLUDING BOTH LOCAL AND BANK LOANS) TO INTERNAL CASH GENERATION FRON RECURRENT AND CAPITAL EXPENDITURES, AND INCOM
FROM PROJECT.
SOURCE: CITY GOVERNMENT



- 40 --
AtNNE  5(t)
TAkLE I
KOREA
JEONJJ REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
IRI CITY FINANCIAL PROJECTION
(IN MILLION WON)
CONSOLIDATED A/C WITH BANK PROJE1iS
ACTUAL                    BUDGET                                                 PROJECTIONS
OPERATING YEARS:                  1978      1979      1980      1981     1982                1983      1984     1985      1986      1987      1988      1989     1990      1991
RECURRENT A/C
REVENUES                      2271      3759     5361      9223      8703                9399    10104    10811    11460    12148    12877    13649    14468    15336
EXPENSES                      2597      3260     4322      9432      5759               6220      6686      7154      7583      903B     8521      9032      9574    10148
INTERNAL CASH              -326       499      1039      -209     2944                3180      3418      3657      3877     4109      4356      4617      4894     5198
GOVT GRANTS                      0         0         0        0         0                   0        0         0         0         0        0         0         0         
SURPLUS R A/C               -326      499      1039      -209      2944               3180      341B      3657      3877     4109      4356      4617      4894     5188
CAPITAL A/C
REVENUES                      1056       644      346       639       475                 513      551       590       625       663      703       745       790       B37
INCOME FROM PROJECT                                                                                                    511      1610     1658      1073       437       453
BORROWINGS AS SCHEDULED       1146       827     1543       912       250                 500      538       575       610       646      685       726       770       816
IBRD LOAN                                                               0                   0      383      1089      1646
GOV'T GRANTS                   880      3083      879       951      1053                1137     1223      1308      1387      1470     1558      1651      1751      1856
REVENUES C A/C              3082     4554      2768      2502      1778               2150      2695      3562      4779     4389      4604      4196      3747      3961
SURPLUS FROh R A/C            -326       499     1039      -209      2944               3180      3418      3657      3877      4109     4356      4617      4894      5188
AVAILABLE FUNDS             2756     5053      3807      2293      4722               5330      6112      7220      8655     8498      8960      8813      8641     9149
EXPENDITURES
DE%VT COSTS                 2634     3058      2739      1534      4109               4657      5006      5356      5678     6018      6380      6762      7168      7598
IBRD PROJECT                                                          0                  0       883      1118      1677
DEBT SERVICE AS SCHD         174      117       373       714       613                673       723       774       821      870       922       977      1036     1098
ON IBRD LOANS                                                  0                   0        51       119      258       590       561      530       502       474
TOTAL EXPENDITURE        2808      3175      3112      2248     4722                5330      6663      7368     8433      7478      7863      8270     8706      9170
BALANCE                          -52      1878      695        45         0                   0     -551      -148       222      1020     1097       543       -65       -21
FINANCIAL RATIOS:
A. AS Z OF FUNDS AVAILABLE UNDER CAPITAL A/C
INCOME FROM PROJECT                                                                            0         0        0         6        19        19       12         5         5
PROJECT COST                                                                                   0        14       15        19         0         0        0         0         0
B. DEBT SERVICE                   4.20      9.77      3.71     0.60      5.58                5.49     5.13      4.76      4.65      4.37     4.53      4.27      3.98      4.12
NOTES:   A) FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE CITIES CONSOLIDATED GENERAL AND SPECIAL ACCOUNTS.
Bl PROJECTIONS ARE BASED ON 1982 BUDGETS AND CITIES' ESTIMATES FOR FUTURE REVENUES AND EXPENDITURESt INCLUDIING CAPITAL DEVELOPMENT REVENUES AND COSTS.
THE IMPACTS OF BANK PROJECT ARE BASED ON THE MISSION ESTIMATES.
C) DEBT SERVICE RATIOS ARE X OF DEBT SERVICE (INCLUDING BOTH LOCAL AND BANK LOANS) TO INTERNAL CASH GENERATION FROM RECURRENT AND CAPITAL EXPENDITURES. AND INCOME
FROM PROJECT.
SOURCE: CITY GOVERNMENT



- 41  -
ANNEA 5 tC)
TABLE I
KOREA
JEONJU REGIONAL DEVELDOPENT PROJECT
NAMNEON CITY FINANCE PROJECTION
(MILLION WON)
CONSOLIDATED A/C WITH BANK PROJECT:
BUDGET                              PROJECTION
OPERATING YEARS:                                                                             1982      1983      1984     1985      1986      1987      1988      1989     1990      1991
RECURRENI A/C
REVENUES                                                                                   2129      2341     2517      2693      2854      3026      3207     3400      3603      3820
EXPENSES                                                                                   2103      2271     2441      2612      2769      2935      3111     3298      3496      3705
INTERNAL CASH                                                                               26        70       75        81        85        90       96       102       108       114
GOV'T GRANT                                                                                 912      1003     1078      1154      1223      1296      1374     1457      1544      1637
SURPLUS R A/C                                                                              938      1073     1153      1234      1308      1387     1470      1558      1652      1751
CAPITAL A/C
REVENUES                                                                                     61        68        73       78        83       B         93        99      105       111
INCOHE FROM PROJECT                                                                                   -97      555      2342      2025      1889      1568      478       566       674
BORROWINGS                                                                                   50        54       58        62        66        70        74       78        83        88
IBRD LOANS                                                                                             80      861       921
OTHER LOCAL FUNDS                                                                                             2391      1106
GOV'T GRANTS                                                                                211       300      323       345       366       388       411      436       462       489
REVENUES C A/C                                                                            322      405      4261      4854      2540      2434     2146      1091      1216      1363
SURPLUS FROM R A/C                                                                          938      1073     1153      1234      1308      1387     1470      1558      1652      1751
AVAILABLE FUNDS                                                                          1260      1478     5414      6089      3848      3821     3616      2649      2867      3113
EXPENDITURES:
DEVI COSTS                                                                                 1226      1332     1432      1532      1624      1722      1825     1934      2050      2173
IBRD PROJECT                                                                                           80     3252      2082
DEBT SERVICE AS SCHD                                                                         75        83       89        95       101       107       114      121       128       135
ON IBRD LOAN                                                                                                  52       154       204       342      325       308       291       274
ON LOCAL LOAN                                                                                                 71       167       969       969      969
TOTAL EXPENDITURES                                                                       1301     1495      4896      4031      2898     3140      3233      2363      2469      2583
BALANCE:                                                                                      -41       -17       518     2058       950       681       384      286       398       531
FINANCIAL RATIOS:
A. AS I FUNDS AVAILABLE UNDER CAPITAL A/C.
INCOME FROM PROJECT                                                                            0        -7       10        38        53        49        43       18        20        22
PROJECT COST                                                                                   0         5        60       34         0         0         0         0        0         0
B. DEBT SERVICE                                                                              1.16      0.49      3.31     6.00      1.72      1.46      1.25     1.58      1.86      2.20
NOTES:   A) FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE CITIES CONSOLIDATED GENERAL AND SPECIAL ACCOUNTS.
B) PROJECTIONS ARE BASED ON 1982 BUDGETS AND CITIES' ESTIMATES FOR FUTURE REVENUES AND EXPENDIIURES, INCLUDING CAPITAL DEVELOPMENT REVENUES AND COSTS.
THE IMPACTS OF BANK PROJECT ARE BASED ON THE MISSION ESTIMATES.
C) DEBT SERVICE RATIOS ARE I OF DEBT SERVICE (INCLUDING BOTH LOCAL AND BAND LOANS) TO INTERNAL CASH GENERATION FROM RECURRENT AND CAPITAL EAPENDITURES, AND INCOME
FROM PROJECT.
SOURCE: CITY GOVERNMENT
BECAUSE NAMWEON BECAME A CITY IN MID-1981, FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR 1981 AND PREVIOU  YEARS ARE NOT AVAILABLE,



- 42 -
ANNEX 6A
Page 1
KOREA
JEONJU REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Assumptions for Financial Projections
A. Industrial Estates
Cash Flows
1.        Based on experience from other industrial estates sales and
potential demand for land, a four year sales period (including pre-sales
in 1986) was assumed. Annual sales are projected to be: 1986, 20%; 1987,
40%; 1988, 30% and 1989, 10%.
2.        Sales prices were based on the market price for the existing
industrial estates and estimated to be W 75,000 per py in Jeonju and
W 55,000 per py in Iri as of end-1983. There prices were adjusted for
inflation at the follow rates: 1984, 7.5%; 1985, 7%; 1986 and subsequent
years, 6%.
3.        The buyer would be provided with the option of purchasing the
land on installment terms with a 40% downpayment to be repaid over 5 year
at the prevailing interest rate, currently 10% p.a. Reaction from
entrepreneurs were mixed, some welcoming the option while other preferred
to make financial arrangements on their own for both the land and
factory. Therefore it was assumed that 50% of the land would be sold on
installments and 50% on a cash basis.
City Financial Impact
4.        The proceeds of the sales would be divided between KLDC and the
cities in proportion to their contribution to project costs.
5.        Local tax revenues to the city would be from property taxes which
are 0.6% of the assessed value of land and buildings. The ratio of factory
construction to land was estimated at 1:3, based on manufacturing census
data for existing establishments in Jeonra Bug Province. Under the Local
Industrial Estate Development Law, locating industries would be exempted
from paying property taxes for the first five years. Therefore, the first
payment would be in 1991. Assessed values were taken to be 60% of
development costs and adjusted annually for inflation.
6.        Other city revenues represent return on re-investment of reserve
fund accumulated from sales. As a surrogate for these returns, it was



- 43 -
ANNEX 6A
Page 2
assumed that these funds would generate an annual return of 8% p.a., the
current interest rate on one-year time deposits.
7.        The  city will maintain the streets, recover, lighting and other
public facilities or part of the municipal infrastructure. Maintenance
costs were estimated to be 1% of construction costs.



- 44 -
ANNEX 6(A)
TABLE I
KsORE A
JEONJU REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
.JEONJU INDUSTRIAL ESTATE
PROJECT CASH FLOSS AND CITY FINANIAL IMPACT
UIN MILLIOIN WON AT CURRENT PRICES)
1983      1984      1985      198e     11987      1988      1989       1990      1991      1992l     1993      1994       1995      1996      199/      1998
PROJECT CASH FLOWS
A. SOURCES OF FUNDS
SALEP RCEVENUES
ASH PURCHASES              0         0         0      1456      3104      2472       872          0         0         0         0          0         0         0         0         0
DtOWNEASMENTS               0         0         0       582      1242       989       349          0         0         0         0         0          0         0         0         0
INSTALLMENTS               3          0         0       175       547       844       948       948        774       401       105         0         0          0         0         0
INTEREST                   0         0          0        79      229        308       27E       175        89         31         5         0         0         0          0         0
0         0         0     2292       5122      4612      2440      1124        863       432       110         0         0          0         0         0
OTHER INTENNAL SOURCES
CITY FUNDYS                 0       300         0         0         0         0         0          0         0         0         0         0          0         0         0         0
KLDC CONTRBUTION            0     4160       3215       973         0         0         0          0         0         0         0         0          0         0         0         0
O     4460      3215        973         0         0         0          0         0         0         0         0         0          0         0 
BORROWINGS
IBRO                      90       620       670       918          0         0         0          0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0          0
TOTAL                  90      5080      3885      4183      5122      4612'    2440        1124       863       432        110         0         0         0         0         0
B. APPLICATION
PROJECT COSTS
LAN, ACEQ A
CUNSTRUCTION              0      5045      3847      1836          0         0         0         0          0         0         0         0         0         0         0          0
DESIGN ISUP,               90        35        38        55         0         0         0          0         0         0         0         0         0          0         0         0
90     5080      3885       1891         0         0         0          0         0         0         0         0         0          0         0         0
DEBF SERVICE
INTEREST                   0        54       114        195       232       212       192       172       151        131       II1        91        71        50        30        10
PRINCIPAL                   0         1)        0         0       184       184       184        184       184       184       184       184       184       184        184       184
0 ---4-              114---     195---    416---    396---    376---    356---    335---    315---     295---    275---    255---    234---    214-      194----
TOTAL            9~~~~0 514        3919      2086       416       396        376       356       335       315       295       275        255       234       214       194
C. INCREASE (DEC.-
REASE) IN CASH          0       -54      -114      2096      4705      4216       2064       768       528       117      -185       -275      -255      -234      -214      -194
CUMMULATIVE              0       -54      -168      1928      6634    10850    12914    13682    14210    14326    14141    13866    13612    13377    13163    12969
CITY FINANCIAL IMPACT
D. CITY REVENUES
SALES REVENUES               0         0         0      2292      5122      4612      2,440     1124       863        432       110         0         0          0         0         0
(LESS) KLOC INCOME          0         0         0      1712      3840      3485      1871        876       660       327        82         0          0         0         0         0
0         0         0      580       1281      1127       568       248       203        105        27         0         0         0         0         0
NOON-OPERATING INCOME)
LOCAL TAXES (A)             0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0       133       240        322       355       376       399       423       448
OTHERS                      0         0         0         0        17        84       146       168       169        178       190       204       221       242       2169      300
TOTAL                   0         0         0       580      1298      1211        714       417       504       531       540       559        597       641       691       748
(LESS) MAINTENANCE          0          0         0         0        45        49        53        56        59        63         67        71        75        79        84        89
I        0          0      580      1253       1162       661       361       445       468       473        488       522       562       607       659
E. DEBT SERVICE              0        54       114       195       416       396       376       356        335       315       295       275       255       234       214        194
F. INCREASE (DEC-
REASE) IN CASH           0       -54      -114       384        837       766       285         5       110       153        178       213       268       327       393       465
CUMUILATIVE              0       -54      -168       216      1054       1820      210       2110      2220      2372      2550      2764       3031      3359      3751      4216
S. DEBT SERVICE
COVERAGE              0.00      0.00      0.00      2,97       3.12      3.06      1,90      1.1/      1.50      1.68      1.83       2.03      2,35      2.73      3.23      3.85
NOTES: A. LOCAL TAXES = PROPERTY TAX (0.6% OF ASSESSED VALUE OF LAND I BUILDINGS)



4 45-
ANNEX 6(A)
TABLE2
KIREA
JEDNJU REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
IRI INDUSTRIAL ESTATE
PROJECT CASH FLOWS AND CI'IO FINANCIAL IMPACT
`IN MILLION WON AT CUJRRENT PRICES)
1983      1984       1985      1984       1987       1988      1989       1990      1991       1992       1993      1994       1995      1996       1997       1998
PROJECT CASH FLOWS
A. SOURCES OF FUNDS
SALES VEVENUES
LASHPUROHASES                U         0          0       750       1590      12460       448          0          0         0          0         0          0          0         0          0
DOWNPAYMENTS                 0          0         0       300        636       504        179          0          0         0          0          0         0          0         0          0
INSTALLMENTS                 1         0          0        90        281       432        486        486       396        205         54         0          0          0         0          0
INTEREST                     0         0          0         41       117        157       138         90        46         16          3         0          0          0         0          0
O         0          0      1181      2625       2353       1251       576        441        221        56          0          0         0          0          0
OTHER INTERNAL SOURCES
CITY FUNDS                   0       300          0          0         0          0          0         0          0         0          0          0         0          0         0          0
KLDC CONTRBUTION             0       907       1439      1081          0          0          0         0          0         0          0          0         0          0         0          U
0      1207      1439       1081          0         0          0          0         0          0          0         0          0         0          0         0
BORROWINGS
I80D                        80          0       673      1058          0          0         0          0          0         0          0          0         0          0         0          0
TOTAL                   80      1207       2113       3320      2625       2353      1251        576        441       221         56          0          0         0          0         U
B. APPLICA(ION
PROJECT COSTS
LAND ACI. I
CONSTRUCTION                0      1207      2074       2077          D          1         0          0          0         0          0         0          0          0         0          0
DESIGN &SUP.                80         0         38        62          0          0         0          0          0         0          0         0          0          0         U          0
80      1207     21113       2139          0          0         0          0         0          0          0         0          0         0          0          0
DEBT SERVICE
INTEREST                     0        17         47       136        182        166       150        135       119        103        87         71         55        40         24          8
PRINCIPAL                    0         0          0          0       144        144       144        144        144       144        144       144        144       144        144        144
U        17        47        136       326        310        295      2179        263       247        231        216       200        184        168       152
TOTAL                   80      1224       2160      2275        326        310       295        279        263       247        231       216        200        184       148        152
C. INCREASE (DEC-
REASE) IN CASH           0        -17       -47       1045      2299       2043        957       297        178       -27       -175      -216       -200       -184      -168       -152
CUMMULATIVE                U       -17       -65        981      3279       5322       6279      6576       6754      6728       6553       6337      6137       5954      5786       5633
CITY FINANCIAL IMPACT
Di. CITY REVENUES
SALES REVENUES                0          0         0      1181       2625       2353      1251        576       441        221         56          0         0          0         0          0
(LESS) KLDC INCOME            0         0          U       722       1615      1469        803        380       282        138         35         0          0         0          0          0
(RONOPERTINGINCOE)    O          0         0        459      1010        885       448        196        159        83         22          0         0          0         0          0
LOCAL TAXES (A)              U         0          0          0         0          0         0          0        68        127        165       182        193      2,04        216       229
OTHERS                       0         0          0          0        21         74       122,       140       140        143        147       150        154       160        168        179
TOTAL                    0          0         0        459      1031        958        570       335        367       353        334       332        347        364       385        408
(LESS) MAINTENANCE            0         U)         0          0        44         48        51         54        58         61         65        69         73        77         82        87
0         0          0       459       987        911        519       281        310       292        269        263       274        287       303        322
C. DEBT SERVICE               0         17        47        136       326        310       295        279       263        247        231      2116        200        184       168        152
F. INCREASE (DEC-
REASE) IN CASH             0       -17        -47       324        661       600        224          2        47         45        38         48         74       103        135       170
CUMULATIVE                 0       -17       -65        259       920       1520       1744      1746       1793      1838       1876       1923      1997       2101      2235       2405
G. DEBT SERVICE
COVERAGE               0.00       0.00      0.00       3.38      3.16       3,09       1.93      1.20       1.40      1.43       1.44       1.54      1.74       1.98      2.29       2.68
NOTES' A. LOCAL TAXES =PROPERTY TAX (0.6% OF ASSESSED VALUE OF LAND I BUILDINGS)



- 46 -
ANNEX 6B
Page 1
KOREA
JEONJU REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Assumptions for Financial Projections
B. Housing Estate Land Development
Cash Flows
1.        Sales under the Second Gwangju Project indiate that sales of the
low-income units could be within one-year while the sales of the middle
income and commercial lots may take two years. For the projections, it was
conservatively estimated that: (a) the low income lots would be sold over
two-year period, 60% in 1987 and 40% in 1988, and (b) the commercial and
middle income lots would be sold over a three year period 20% in 1987, 40%
in 1988 and 40% in 1989.
2.        Sales prices for the middle income and commercial lots were based
on market price for similar land and estimated to be W 70,000 per py in
December 1983 prices. These prices were adjusted for inflation.
3.        The sales of the low-income lots has been estimated at W 57,000
per py or about 75% of development cost (including price contingencies) based
on cross-subsidies from sales of middle-income and commercial lots.
City Financial Impact
4.        The proceeds of the sales would be divided between KLDC and
Iri City in proportion to their contribution to project costs.
5.        Local taxes revenues to Iri City would be from property taxes
which are 0.3% assessed values. Assessed values were taken to be 60% of
land and housing construction costs.
6.        Other city revenues represent return on re-investment of
reserve funds accumulated from sales. As a surrogate for these returns,
it was assumed that these funds would generate an annual return of 8% p.a.,
the current interest rate on one-year time deposits.
7.        The city will maintain the streets, sewer, lighting and other
public facilities or part of the municipal infrastructure. Maintenance
costs were estimated to be 1% of construction costs.



ANONEX t~B'
TAUE I
JEuNJU REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PRDJECT
IRI HOUSING ESTATE LAND DEVELOPMENT
PROJECT CASH FLOW AND CITY FINANCIAL INPACT
~Ik IiILLION WUN AT LURRENT PRICES)
1083      1984      1985      1986      1987      1988      1989      1990      1991       1992      1993      1994      1995      1996      1997      1998
PROJECT CASH FLOW
A. SOURCES OF FUNDS
REVENUES
MIDDLE INCOME 
COnNERCIAL LOTS             0         0         0         &       378       806       857         0          0         0         0         0         0         0         0          0
LOW INCOME LOTS             0         0         0         0       li8       479         0          0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0          0
0         0         &         0      1096      1285       857         0         0          0         0         0         0         0         0          0
OTHER INTERNAL SOURCES
CITY FUNDIS                0        150         0         0         0         0         0         0         0          0         0         0         0         0         0         0
KLDC CONTRBUTION           0       280        551       873         0         0         0         0         0          0         0         0         0         0         0          0
0      430        551       873         0         0         0         0          V         0         0         0         0         0         0         U
BORROWINGS
IBRD                      22        24       321       832          0         0         0         0         0          0         0         0         0         0         0         0
TOTAL                  22       454       872      1705      1096      1285        857         0         0         0         0          0         0         0         0         0
P. APPLICATION
PROJECT COSTS
LAND ACQUISTION             0      430       230          0         0         0         0)        0         0          0         0         0         0         0         0         0
CONSTRUCTION                0         0       616      1680         0         0         0         0         0          0         0         0         0         0         0         0
DESIGN ISUP.              22        24         25        26         0         0         0         0         0          0         0         0         0         0         0         0
22       454       072      1705         0         0         0         0          0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0
DEBT SERVICE
INTEREST                   0        13         28       87        124       113       102        91        81        70         59        48        38        27        16         5
PRINCIPAL                   0         0         0         0        98        98        98        98        98        98         98        98        98        98        98        98
0            13---    28---      87---   222---     211---    200---    189---    179---    168---    157---     14----    136---    125---    114---    103---
TOTAL            22~         ~ 467  289      179        222       211       200        189       179       168       157       146       136       125        114       103
C. INCREASE (DEC-
REASE) IN CASH          0       -13       -28       -87       874      1074        657      -189      -179      -168      -157      -146      -136      -125      -114       -103
CUMNULATIVE              0       -13       -41      -127       747       1821      2478      2288      2110      1942      1785      1638      1502       1377      1263      1160
CITY FINANCIAL IMPACT
D. CITY REVENUIES
SALES REVENUES               0         0         0         0      1096      1285       857         0          0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0
(LESS) KLD  IKCONE          0          0         0         0       587       689       459         0         0          0         0         0         0         0         0         0
0         0         0         0       509       597       398         0         0          0         0         0         0         0         0         0
(HON-OPERATING INCOME)
PROPERTY TAX                0         0         0         0        22        52        76        80        85        90         96       100       107       114       121       128
OTHERS                      0         0         0         0         0        13        46        70        64        59         55        51        49        47        46        47
SUBTOTAL           0         0         0         0       531       661       520       150       149       149        150       152       156       161       167       175
(LESS) MAINTENANCE          0          0         0         0        26        27        29        31        33        35         37        39        41        44        46        49
0         0         0         0       505       634       491       119       116       114        114       114       115       117       120       125
E. DEBT SERVICE              0        13        28        87       222       211       200       189       179        168       157       146       136       125       114       103
F, INCREASE (DEC-
REASE) IN CASH           0       -13       -28       -87        284       423       290       -71       -62       -54       -44       -33        -21        -8         6        22
CUNNUATIVE               0       -13       -41      -127        156       579       870       799       737       683       640       607       586        578       584       606
0. DEBT SERVICE
COVERAGE              0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      2.28       3.00      2.45      0.63      0.65      0.68      0.72      0.78      0.84       0.94      1.06      1.21



- 48 -
ANNEX 6C
Page 1
KOREA
JEONJU REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Assumptions for Financial Analysis
C. Namweon Tourism Site
1.01      An average selling price of lots for hotels and other commercial
establishments in the tourism complex is estimated at Won 110,000 per py
(or US$44.50 per sq m) in 1983 prices which appears reasonable as compared
with the market prices for a similar type of the investment in the
country. The terms of land sales to potential investors are assumed to be
with an initial downpayment of 10% on the selling prices at the time the
contract is made. The second downpayment of 40% would be made within the
six months after the initial contract is made and the remaining 50% would
be made in the following six month period.
1.02      Income from annual service charges to the beneficiaries for
maintenance of the complex are based on the projected gross operating
profits of accommodations and other commercial establishments at a
relatively conservative rate (i.e. 3% of the gross operating profits).
1.03      Income from the property taxes is estimated at 5% of the assessed
property values which are assumed to be equivalent to the selling prices of
lots for commercial establishments in the complex.
1.04      The terms of the local loan from KNTC to the city (W 2.5 billion,
would be five years, including two years grace, at 8% per annum.



49                                                                  ANNEX  6C)
Table 1
KOREA' JEONJU RE8IONAL DEVELOPIENT PROJECT
FINNCIAL PROJECTIONS FOR NAMEON TOURISM SITE
CALENDER YEAR:                   1983      1984     1985      1996     1987     1988      1989     1990      1991     1992      1993     1994      1995     1996      1997     1998
________ ---                  ------    -------  -- - -    ------   -------  -------   -------  -------   - - --     ------    -------   -------   -------   --- --   --- --   -------__ _ __ _ __ _ __ _ _
PERATING YEAR:                      1         2        3         4        5        6         7        8         9       10        11       12        13       14        15       16
SALES PROGRAM FOR LAND
(HECTOR)
TYPES:   UNIT:    SIZE(HA)
HOTEL            2      3.50               1*75     1.75     -         -        -         -        -         -        -         -        -        -         -         -        -
INN             10      4.00                        1.00     1.00      1.00     1.00      -        -         -        -         -        -        -         -         -        -
Y. HOSTEL        2      2-50                        1.25     1.25      -        -         -        -         -        -         -        -        -         -        -         -
VILLA           30      2.00                                 0.70      0.70     0.60      -        -         -        -         -        -         -        -        -         -
S. 1.         44    12.00      0.00     1.75      4.00     2.95      1.70     1.60      0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00
OTHERS                  6.94                        2.00     2.00      2.00     0.94      -        -         -        -         -        -         -        -        -         -
TOTAL:               18.94     0.00     1.75      6.00     4.95      3.70     2.54      0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00
PROFORMA INCOME STATEMENT
(U MILLION)
REVENUES;
LAND SALES                        0      585      2004     1653      1236      848         0        0         0        0         0        0        0         0.       0         0
SB. CHARGES                                                  25        49       77       110      194       194      194       194      194      194       194      194       194
PROP'TY TAX                               29       129      212       274      316       316      316      316       316      316       316      316       316      316       316
TOTAL                           0      614      2133     1890      1559     1241       426      510      510       510      510       510      510       510      510       510
COSTS:
LAND                              0      450      1542     1272       951      653         0        0         0        0         0        0        0         0        0         0
OVERHEAD                         97       97        97       97        97       97        97       97        97       97       97        97       97        97       97        97
TOTAL                          97      547      1639     1370      1048      750        97       97        97       97       97        97       97        97       97        97
INCOME BEFORE INTEREST
IN CONSTANT PRICES              -97       67       494      521       510      491      329       413      413       413      413       413      413       413      413      413
IN CURRENT PRICES               -97       72       568      635       658      673      477       635      673       714      755       801      850       900      953     1011
(LESS:) INTEREST                  0       52       154      204       187      170      153       136      1I1       102       85        68       51        34       17     -
NET INCOME:                       -97        20      414      431       471      503       324      499       554      612       670      733      799       866      936      1011
PROFORMA CASH FLOW STATEMENT
(W MILLION)
SOURCES OF FUNDS:
GROSS INTERNAL CASH             -97       72       568      635       658      673       477      635       673      714       755      801      850       900      953      1011
EQUITY CONTRIBUTION                     1000        -        -         -        -         -        -         -        -        -         -        -         -        -         -
OTHER LOCAL FUNDS                        1391     1106       -         -        -         -        -         -        -         -        -        -         -        -         -
DANK LOAN                        80      861       921       -         -        -         -        -         -        -        -         -        -         -        -         -
DECREASE IN ASSETS                       483      1773     1552      1227      894        -        -         -        -        -         -        -         -        -         -
TOTAL FUNDS                   -17     3807      4368     2187      1885     1567       477      635      673       714      755       801      850       900      953     1011
APPLICATION OF FUNDS:
PROJECT INJESTMENTS              80     3252      2028       -         -        -         -        -         -        -        -         -        -         -        -         -
DEBT SERVICE
ON BANW  LOAN                           52       154      204       342      325       308      291      274       257      240       223      206       189      172       155
ON LOCAL LOAN                           71       167      969       969      969        -        -        -         -        -         -        -         -        -        -
TOTAL DISBURSEMENT            80     3375      2349     1173      1311     1294      308       291      274       257      240       223      206       189      172      155
INCREASE (OR DECREASE)
WORKING CAPITAL              -97      432      2019     1014       574      273       169      344      399       457      515       578      644       711      781      856
TOTAL APPLICATION:            -17     3807      4368     2187      1885     1567      477       635      673       714      755       801      850      900       953     1011
DEBT SERVICE RATIO:                   4.51      7.29     1.86      1.44     1.21      1.55     2.18     2.45      2.78     3.15      3.59     4.13     4.76      5.54     6.52



- 50 -
ANNEX 6D
Page 1
KOREA
JEONJU REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Assumptions for Financial Projections
D. Jeonju Water Supply
Cash Flow
1.        It has been assumed that IRCO would be directly responsible for
construction of the water supply system and that all capital expenditures
would be made by IRCO.
2.        The financing plans for this component have been assumed that 25%
of the project costs would be financed from the Water Bureau's internal
resources, another 25% of the costs from Government loan funds and the
remaining funds from the proceeds of the Bank loan.
3.        It has been assumed that the proceeds of the Bank loan would be
relent to the Water Bureau at 10.97% for 15 years, including a three year
grace period. Further, front-end fees (0.25% of the proceeds of the Bank
loan) and other financial charges for the Bank loan have been included in
the capital costs.
4.        It has been assumed that Government loans would be at an
interest rate of 10.0% p.a. for 15 years, including 3 year grace.
Income Statements
5.        The projection of water sales in the City of Jeonju is based
on the population forecasts assuming a grown rate of 2.5% p.a. for the
period 1983-86 and 3.5% p.a. from 1987 onward. The percentage of population
served has been assumed to increase gradually from 85% in 1982 to 90% in
1987 following completion of the project implementation.
6.        The number of connections has been assumed to increase by 10% p.a.
for the projected period, indicating that the average population served per
connection of 9.8 persons in 1982 would decrease to 6.7 persons per
connection by 1987 which is the national average at present.
7.        With respect to the domestic water production, it has been assumed
that the maximum use of the existing capacity would reach in 1984 and the
additional water supply would be provided by the Geum River Regional Water
Supply Scheme from 1985 onward. Per capita water supply is assumed to



- 51 -
ANNEX 6D
Page 2
increase from 220 l.c.d. in 1982 to 270 l.c.d. in 1987, and further to
390 l.c.d. in 1991.
8.        For industrial raw water, the maximum use of the exisiting
capacity with 29,400 cu m/day is assumed to reach in 1984 and the level
of this water consumption is assumed to remain over the project period,
1984-91.
9.        The operating projections have been made in current prices with
the estimated inflation rates of 5% for 1983, 7.5% for 1984, 7.0% for 1985
and 6.0% p.a. for the following years.
10.       The average water rates for the years 1980-82 have been obtained
from the city water supply account reflecting the actual operating results.
The projected rates have been adjusted for inflation.
11.       The other operating revenues for 1980-82 are from the city water
supply account and have been projected based on the number of connections
and the inflation rates.
12.       The operating costs have been estimated under the assumptions that
wages, materials and administration costs would increase in line with the
size of the existing and additional capacity from the proposed projects.
The costs of chemicals and power have been assumed to increase in proportion
to the level of water productions from the existing and new facilities. All
of the operating costs have been adjusted for inflation.
13.       The bulk supply of treated water from the Geum River Regional
Water Supply Scheme has been estimated to cost at 60.54 Won/m3 in 1982
prices and this cost has been adjusted for inflation.
14.       Depreciation has been estimated on a straight-line basis assuming
the following rates for major categories of assets; 1.5% for civil works, 4%
for equipment and 2.5% for pipelines.
Balance Sheet
15.       The balance sheet for 1980-82 reflects the actual operating
performance based on the existing accounts for the water operations.
16.       It has been assumed that the Jeonju Water Works Bureau would
maintain adequate cash balances throughout the project period and build up
investment fund for future capital expenditures. This fund would reach a
level of about Won 4 billion in 1987, roughly equivalent to 63% of the total
investment under the project during the period 1984-86.
17.       Account receivables are assumed at 10% of the projected gross
revenues and inventories at 10% of the materials and administration costs.



- 52 -
ANNEX 6D
Page 3
Account payables are assumed at 10% of the projected operating
costs. The current maturities for repayment of the existing government
loans as well as the new loans, both local and foreign, are included in
the other current liabilities.
19.       The fixed assets are expressed on a revaluated basis as of
December 1980 and adjusted annually for inflation throughout the project
period 1983-91. On this basis, revaluation surplus have been calculated.



KOREA
JEONJU REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Jeonju Water Supply
Actual                                                       Projections
1980      1981       1982       1983      1984       1985      1986       1987       1988       1989       1990      1991
Population ('000)                    367        376       396        406       416        426        437       452        468        485        501        519
Population served ( 000)           310.5     320.5      337.8        349       362        375        389       407        421        437        451        467
X of population served              84.6       85.3      85.4         86         87        88         89         90         90        90         90         90
Number of connections             31,322    34,381    37,464    41,210    45,331    49,865    54,857    60,336    66,370    73,007    80,307    88,338
Treated water produced
( 000 cu m)                      22,265    24,243    26,913    28,957    30,149    33,725    36,325    39,806    47,435    53,409    59,280    65915
Existing                        22,265    24,243    26,913    28,957    30,149    30,149    30,149    30,149    30, 149    30,149    30,149    30,149
New facilities                       -         -          -          -         -      3,576      6,176     9,657    17,286    23,260    29,131    35,766
Unaccounted for water (x)           38.2       38.0      40.0         42        41         40         39         38         37        36         35         35
Treated water sold
( 000 cu m)                  13,759.8  15,030.7  16,147.8  16,795.1  17,787.9  20,235.0  22,158.3  24,679.7  29,884.1  34,181.8  38,532.0  42,844.6
Average rate (Won/ton)              79.5     100.4      138.1      149.1     160.2      171.5      181.9     192.8      204.5      216.9      229.9      243.8
Industrial raw water               7,077      6,974     8,372    10,049    10,731    10,731    10,731    10,731    10,731    10,731    10,731    10,731
Water rate (Won/ton)                28.1       36.8      40.5       44.5      49.0       53.9       59.3       65.2      71.7       78.9       86.8       95.5
c r
mx
X- >~



KOREA
JEONJU REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Jeonju Water SUpply - Income Statement
(W million)
Actual                                                 Project ions
1980     1981      1982     1983      1984      1985      1986     1987      1988    1989        1990       1991
Revenue
Water Revenue
Treated water               1,094.6  1,509.6  2,229.9  2,504.2  2,849.8  3,471.1  4,029.9  4,759.3  6,111.0  7,412.6   8,858.0  10,443.6
Industrial water              199.0    257.0    339.0    447.2    525.8    578.4    636.2    699.9    769.9    846.8            931.5   1,024.7
Subtotal                  1,293.6  1,766.6  2,568.9  2,951.4  3,375.6  4,049.5  4,666.1  5,459.2  6,880.9  8,259.4   9,789.5  11,468.3
Other revenue                  240.4    296.3    307.3    362.6    426.1    498.5    578.3    670.8    778.1    902.6   1,047.0   1,214.6
Total Revenue             1,534.0  2,062.9  2,876.2  3,314.0  3,801.7  4,548.0  5,244.4  6,130.0  7,659.0  9,162.0  10,836.5  12,682.9
Operating Costs
Wages                          253.7    411.7    424.9    501.4    589.1    689.3    799.6    927.5  1,075.9  1,248.0   1,447.7   1,679.3
Chemicals                       13.0      18.1     41.0      47.6      53.3     57.0      60.4      64.0      67.9     72.0        76.3      80.8
Power                          260.7    424.5    585.5    680.4    761.3    814.6    863.5    915.3    970.2  1,028.4   1,090.1   1,155.5
Materials & others             291.1    432.4    590.4    696.7    818.6    957.7  1,111.0  1,288.7  1,494.9  1,734.1   2,011.6   2,333.4
Water costS                                -             -              -      293.9    551.5    914.5  1,735.5  2,474.9   3,283.1   4,274.0
Total Costs                 818.5  1,286.7  1,641.8  1 ,926.1  2,222.3  2,812.5  3,386.0  4,110.0  5,344.4  6,557.4   7,908.8   9,523.0
Income Before
Capital COStS              715.5    776.2  1,234.4  1,387.9  1,579.4  1,735.5  1,858.4  2,020.0  2,314.6  2,604.6   2,927.7   3,159.9
Depreciation                    168.6    183.8    200.0    226.7    243.7    260.7    276.4    739.7    784.1    831.1             881.0     933.9
Income Before Interest    546.9    592.4  1,034.4  1,161.2  1,335.7  1,474.8  1,582.0  1,280.3  1,530.5   ,773.5   2046.7   2,226.0
Interest                        147.0    203.4    197.1    197.3    182.1    166.9    151.8    548.3    473.4    414.9            365.4      316.0
Income After Interest       399.9    389.0    837.3    963.9  1,153.6  1,307.9  1,430.2    732.0  1,057.1  1,358.6   1,681.3   1,910.0
Nonoperating income              18.5      64.2     20.4      22.4      24.7     27.2      29.9      32.9     36.1       39.8      43.7       48.1
Net Income                  418.4    453.2    857.7    986-3  1,178.3  1,335.1  1,460.1    764.9  1,093.2  1,398.4   1 72 50   1,9 581                      13
Accumulated                   1,627.5  2,080.7  2,938.4  3,924.7  5,103.0  6,438.1  7,898.2  8,663.1  9,756.3 11,154.7 12,879.7   14,837.8                       V 
Rate of return on net                                                                                                                                            tJ a,
fixed assets (%)                 6.1       6.1      8.8       9.2      9.9      10.3      10.5       5.8      6.7       7.4        8.3        8.7



KOREA
JEOMU REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Jeonju Water Supply - Statement of Sources and Applications of Funds
(Won million)
Actual                                           Projections
1981     1982      1983      1994      1985     1986      1087      1988      1989      1990      1991
Sources of Funds
Cash on hand                                   212.5    314.9    130.3    187.5    366.5  1,144.8  1,071.0  3,1Q0.5  2,444.0  2,046.9  2,019.1
Operating income                               776.2  1,234.4  1,387.9  1,570.4  1,735.5  1,858.4  1,022.0  2,314.6  2,604.6  2,927.7  3,159.9
Nonoperating income                             64.2      20.4      22.4     24.7      27.2      29.9      32.9      36.1      3q.8     43.7      4R.1
Gross Internal Generation                   840.4  1,254.8  1,410.3  1,604.1  1,762.7  1,888.3  2,052.9  2,350.7  2,644.4  2,971.4  3,208.0
Equity                                          89.6       -         -        -         -         -         -         -         -        -         -
IBRD loans                                       -         -         -      669.7    902.8    953.3         -         -         -        -         -
Government loans                               852.3       -         -      356.9    468.7    579.9         -         -         -        -         -
Increase in current liabilities                  9.7    131.9    105.3       29.6      59.1      57.3    395.0    123.4    121.3    135.2    161.4
Total Sources                             2,004    1,701.45         9      2847    3,  5598   , 623.6  4,418 9  5 664 6  5L209 7  5,153.5  5,388.5i
Applications of Funds
Investment in project                            -         -         -    1,383.5  1,840.1  1,993.1         -    2,000.0  2,000.0  2,000.0  2,000.0
Financial changes                                -         -         -        78.4    168.4    271.7        -         -         -         -        -
Other works                                  1,485.2    994.4  1,033.8    625.2         -         -       100.0    100.0    1O0.n    100.0    100.0
Total Investment                          1,485.2    994.4  1,033.8  2,087.1  2,008.5  2,264.8    100.0  2J190.   2,100.0  2,100.0  2,100.0
Amortization
IBRD loans                                     -         -         -        -                   -       210.5    210.5    210.5    210.5    210.5
Government loans                               -         -         -        -         -         -       112.1    112.1    112.1    112.1    112.1
Other loans                                    -       151.1    151.1    151.1    151.1    151.1    151.1    151.1    151.1    151.1    151.1
Total Amortization                            -       151.1    151.1    151.1    151.1    151.1    473.7    473.7    473.7    473.7    473.7
Operational interest                           203.4    197.1    197.3    182.1    166.9    151.8    548.3    473.4    414.9    365.4    316.0
Total Debt Service                          203.4    348.2    348.4    333.2    318.0    302.9  1,002.0    947.1    888.6    839.1    789.7
Increase in current assets                       1.0    228.6       76.2     61.0      88.5      84.9    106.4    173.5    174.2    195.3    216.7
Total Applications                        1,689.6  1,51.2    1,458.4  2,481.3  2J415    2,652.6  1,228.4  3,220 6  3             162    134. 4  3106.4
Cash at Year-End                            314.9    130.3    187.5    366.5   1,144.8  1,971.0  3,190.5  2,444.0  2,046.9  2,019.1  2,282.1 
Debt service coverage                               4.1      3.6       4.0       4.8       5.5      6.2       2.0       2.5       3.0       3.5       4.1            i



KOREA
JEONJI REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Jeonju Water Supply - Balance Sheet
(W million)
Actual                                                              Project ions
1980        1981       1982        1983        1984        1985        1986        1987        1988        1989        1990         1991
As sets
Current Assets
Cash                        212.5       314.9       130.3       187.5      366.5    1,144.8    1,971.0    3,190.5    2,444.0    2,046.9    2,019.1    2,282.1
Accounts receivable          12.8        19.4       289.6       331.4       380.2       454.8       524.4       613.0       765.9       916.2    1,083.7    1,268.3
Inventories                  82.5        76.9        35.3        69.7        81.9        95.8      111.1       128.9        149.5       173.4       201.2       233.3
Total Current Assets       307.8       411.2       455.2       588.6       828.6    1,695.4    2,606.5    3,932.4    3,359.4    3,136.5    3,304.0    3,783.7
Fixed Assets
Fixed assets in oper-
ation                  10,494.2   11,507.8   13,723.0   14,820.8   15,932.4   11,047.6   18,070.5   25,907.7   27,462.2   29,109.9   30,856.5   32,707.9
(Less) depreciation    (1,544.6)  (1,728.4)  (1,928.4)  (2,155.1)  (2,398.8)  (2,659.5)  (2,935.9)  (3,675.6)  (4,459.7)  (5,290.8)  (6,171.8)  (7,105.7)
Net Fixed Assets         8,949.6    9,779.4   11,794.6   12,665.7   13 533.6   14,388.1   1534.6   22,232.1   23,002.5   23,819.   24,684.7   25,602.2
Work in progress               17.3       481.4        64.0         -       1,383.5    3,223.6    5,216.7           -       2,000.0    4,000.0    6,000.0    8,000.0    u
Other assets                    2.9        10.4        10.4        10.4       714.0       882.4    1,154.1        100.0       200.0       300.0       400.0       500.0
Total Assets             9,277.6   10,682.4   12,324.2   13,264.7   16,459.7   20,189.5   24,111.9   26,264.5   28,561.9   31,55.6    4,388.7   37,885.9
Liabilities and Equity
Current liabilities             7.3        17.2        87.3       192.6       222.2       281.3       338.6      411.0        534.4       655.7       790.9       952.3
Current maturities             89.6        89.4       151.1       151.1       151.1       151.1       151.1       473.7       473.7       473.7       473.7       473.7
Total Current Liabi-
lities                    96.9       106.6      238.4       343.7       373.3       432.4       489.7       884.7    1,008.1    1,129.4    1,264.6    1,426.0
Long-Term Debts (Net)
Existing                  1,429.4    2,281.7    2,130.6    1,979.5    1,828.4    1 677.3    1,526.2    1,375.1            1,224.0    1,072.9        921.8       770.7
1BRD                          -           -           -           -         669.7    1, 572.5    2,525.8    2,315.3    2,104.8    1,894.3    1,683.8    1,473.3
Govermnent loans                          -           -           -         356.9       825.6    1,405.5    1,293.4    1,181.3    1,069.2           957.1       845.0
Total LonrTerm Debts  1,429.4    2,281.7    2,130.6    1,979.5    2,855.0    4,075.4    5,457.5    4,983.8    4,510.1    4,036.4    3 562.7    3,089.0
Total Liabilities        1,526.3    2,388.3    2,369.0    2,323.2    3,228.3    4,507.8    5,94 7.2               5,868.5     5,518.2     5,165.8    4,827.3    4,515.0
Equity                        983.3    1,072.9    1,072.9    1,072.9    1,072.9    1,072.9    1,072.9    1,072.9    1,072.9    1,072.9    1,072.9    1,072.9
Contribution                  190.9       190.9       190.9       190.9       190.9       190.9       190.9       190.9       190.9       190.9       190.9       190.9
Revalued surplus            4,949.6    4,949.6    5,753.0    5,753.0    6,864.6    7,979.8    9,002.7   10,469.i   12,023.6   13,671.3   15,417.9   17,269.3
Operational surplus         1,627.5    2,080.7    2,938.4    3,924.7    5,103.0    6,438.1    7,898.2    8,663.1    9,756.3   11,154.7   12,879.7   14,837.8
Total Equity             7,751.3    89          9,955.2   10,941.5   13,231.4   15,681 .7   18,164.7   20,396.0   23,043.7   26,089.8   29,,561.4   3337i7.9
Total Liabilities
and Equity            9,277.6   10.682.4   12,324.2   13,264.7   16,459.7   20,189.5   24,111.9   26,264.5   28,561.9   31,255.6   34,388.7   37,885.9
Debt/equiity ratio              16:84       22:78       18:82       15:85       18:82       21-79       23:77       20:80       16:84       13:87       11:89        8:92  0)
F   t'i
4, a



- 57 -
ANNEX 7
Page 1
KOREA
JEONJU REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
IRI HOUSING ESTATE
AFFORDABILITY ANALYSIS SUMMARY
1. Basic Assumptions:
(a) Low income households spend 30% of their monthly income on
housing.
(b) 20 years graduated mortgages available at 10%, with 40% downpayment
through the NHF.
2. Chargeable Cost (in Dec 83 prices)
(million won)
Land Acquisition                        600
Land Development                       1740
Design & Supervision                     87
Physical Contingency                    174
Interest during Constrution             127
2,728
Marketable Area (py)                  42,000
Development Cost per Py (won)         64,952
Cross-subsidized Cost
per Py (won)                        48,714
3.  Housing Cost (won)                       30 py lot           35 py lot
Land                               1,461,420          1,704,990
Housing (12 py)                    7,200,000          7,200,000
8,661,420          8,904,990
4.   Monthly payments (won)
Down payment (@ 40%)               3,464,568          3,561,996
Mortgage                           5,196,852          5,342,994
Monthly Payment                       43,307             44,525
5.   Income Distribution (in Dec 83 prices; source EPB)
Income    Monthly
Decile    Income
10        24,907
20        45,108
30        55,562
40        64,663
50        73,870
6.   Affordability:  30 py lot with 12 py house @ 19th percentile
35 py lot with 12 py house @ 19th percentile



- 58 -
ANNEX 8
Page 1
KOREA
JEONJU REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Economic Analysis - Basic Approach and Key Assumptions
1.        The economic rate of return (ERR) of the individual components
were obtained separately, except for the Mt. Jiri component where the tourist
roads and tourism site were considered jointly (see Section C Tourism
below). All taxes were excluded from the analysis. Conversion factors were
not used since existing exchange rate and wages were considered to ade-
quately reflect market conditions. All benefits and costs were adjusted to
December 1983 (base cost) prices. The approach taken in obtaining an ERR
and key assumptions is summarized below:
A. Industrial Estates
2.        Rental values were taken to measure the economic value from the
developed industrial land.
3.        The annual rental value of the land in the Jeonju industrial
estate was estimated to be W 7,500 per py in December 1983 prices (or 10% of
market price of the land) and W 5,500 in Iri. Given the location of both
estates near the existing industrial estates, good vehicle access and easy
commuting from the city center, real increases in the value of the land can
be expected given the scarcity of land in Korea and current urbanization
trends. Therefore, rental values were projected to increase at 2.5% p.a. in
real terms in Jeonju and 3% in Iri, one third the real growth rates in land
prices recorded in Jeonju and Iri between 1975-80.
4.        Other assumptions in terms of phasing, maintenance, etc., are
presented in Annex 6(A).
B. Housing Estate
5.        Rental values were taken to measure the economic value from the
middle-income and residential lots and low-income housing.
6.        The rental value of the middle-income and commercial lots was
estimated to be W 7,000 per py in December 1983 prices (or 10% of the
market value). As with the industrial estate, the real value of the land
was projected to increase by 3% p.a. The estimated rental value of the 12 py
core house was estimated to be W 106,244 per month in December 1983 prices,



- 59 -
ANNEX 8
Page 2
based on data from the Economic Analysis Working Papers of the Second
National Land Development and Housing Project appraisal.
7.        Other assumptions on phasing, maintenance, etc., are presented in
Annex 6(B).
C. Tourism
8.        The development of basic infrastructure, such as the tourist
roads, was considered to impact overall tourism development in their
respective areas through increased tourist arrivals. Therefore, economic
rates of return were obtained on the overall tourism development including
estimates of investment by private entrepreneurs, such as hotel
construction, rather than obtaining the ERR of the roads, bridges and site
individually.
9.        Key assumptions for Mt. Jiri tourism development were:
(a) Growth in visitor traffic to Mt. Jiri averages 11.5% p.a. between
1976-81. However, lack of accommodation and other recreational
facilities would constrain further development. Without any
improvements, tourist growth is expected to fall to around 3% p.a.
after 1986 while with the project a growth rate of 15% is
estimated to be achievable. The incremental number of visitors
from the project is estimated to be around 110,000 in 1986
increasing to 850,000 by 1991.
(b) The number of incremental visitor arrivals for the project is
assumed to visit not only the Namweon tourism site, but also
visit the other tourist points in the areas through the tourist
roads under the Bank-financed project. The number of these
visitors is assumed to be 50% of the total visitors for lodging
visitors and the remaining 50% for day visitors in Mt. Jiri.
(c) The average length of stay of lodging visitors is assumed to be
1.3 nights per visitor in Mt. Jiri and 1.0 night per visitor in
Mt. Naejang.
(d) The projected average daily tourist expenditures are based on the
data derived from the field survey of tourist expenditures carried
out by the local authorities in 1980. These tourist expenditures
in 1980 prices are adjusted for 1983 prices and the breakdown of
average daily tourist expenditures per person in 1983 prices is
summarized below:



- 60 -
ANNEX 8
Page 3
Mt. Jiri
Expenditure      Lodging visitors  Day visitors
items         ----------- (Won/%)  ________
Accommodations      7,500  (30)          -   (-)
Meals               8,000  (32)       5,000  (50)
Shopping            3,000  (12)      2,000  (20)
Admission fees      2,000   (8)      2,000  (20)
Other               4,500  (18)      1,000  (10)
Total         25,000 (100)    10,000 (100)
(e) Benefits for the project are based on the above assumptions on the
visitor flows and the average daily expenditures made by visitors
in 1983 prices. The benefits are calculated on the assumptions of
gross operating profits generated by accommodation facilities (33%
of the gross revenues from lodging visitors) and, also, by other
tourist commercial establishments (45% of the gross revenues from
day visitors).
(f) Additional requirements for the accommodation facilities are
calculated on the following assumptions: (i) projected number of
lodging visitors, (ii) average length of stay of 1.3 nights for
Mt. Jiri, (iii) average double occupancy of 1.8 persons per room,
and (iv) average room occupancies of 60-75% in the years 1986-91
for Mt. Jiri. Additional requirements are estimated from around
181 rooms in 1986 to 1,122 rooms in 1991.
(g)  The costs  of superstructures for the construction of
accommodation facilities (e.g. hotels, inns, lodges and bungalows)
and other commercial establishments (e.g. shops, restaurants and
recreation facilities) are included for the economic analysis.
These costs are based on the estimated cost of W 5.63 million per
room (or US$7,500 per room) in 1983 prices for the accommodations
and one third of the total accommodation costs are assumed for the
costs of other commercial establishments in the project area.
10.       Key assumptions for Mt. Naejang tourism development were:
(a) Growth in visitor traffic to Mt. Naejang averaged 5.0% between
1976-81. The development of Mt. Jiri as well as the road
between Naejang and Baegyang Temples would lead to a significant
increase in tourist visitors. With the project, the growth in



- 61 -
ANNEX 8
Page 4
tourist visits is expected to be similar to Mr. Jiri since a
significant number of visitors to Mt. Jiri would most likely take
the opportunity to visit Mt. Naejang. Therefore, tourist traffic
growth was estimated to be 15% p.a. with the project, but would
have dropped to 3% without further improvements.
(b) The number of these visitors is assumed to be 33% of the total
for lodging visitors and remaining 67% for day visitors in Mt.
Naejang.
(c) The average length of stay of lodging visitors is assumed to be
1.0 night per visitor in Mt. Naejang.
(d) The projected average daily tourist expenditures are based on the
data derived from the field survey of tourist expenditures
carried out by the local authorities in 1980. These tourist
expenditures in 1980 prices are adjusted for 1983 prices and the
breakdown of average daily tourist expenditure per person in 1983
prices is summarized below:
Mt. Naejang
Expenditure      Lodging visitors  Day visitors
items        ----------- (Won/%) ----------
Accommodations      7,500  (38)          -   (-)
Meals               8,000  (40)      5,000  (63)
Shopping            2,000  (10)      1,000  (13)
Admission fees      1,000   (5)      1,000  (13)
Other               1,500   (7)      1,000  (11)
Total        20,000 (100)       8,000 (100)
(e) Benefits for the project are based on the above assumptions on the
visitor flows and the average daily expenditues made by visitors
in 1983 prices. The benefits are calculated on the assumptions of
operating profits generated by accommodation facilities (33% of
the gross revenues from lodging visitors) and, also, by other
tourist commercial establishments (45% of the gross revenues from
day visitors) for the project components in Mt. Naejang.
(f) Additional requirements for the accommodation facilities are
calculated on the following assumptions: (i) projected number of



- 62 -
ANNEX 8
Page 5
lodging visitors, (ii) average length of stay of 1.0 night for Mt.
Naejang, (iii) average double occupancy of 1.8 persons per room,
and (iv) average room occupancies of 60-70% in the years 1987-91
for Mt. Naejang.
(g) The costs of superstructures for the construction of accommodation
facilities and other commercial establishments are included for
the economic analysis. These costs are calculated on the same
assumptions used for the superstructure in Mt. Jiri.
11.       Key assumptions for Seonyu Island development:
(a) Tourist visits to Seonyu Island increased from around 6,800 in 1971
to 30,380 in 1981, an average growth of 16% p.a. The peak was
reached in 1976-78 when approximately 36,000 visited the island
every year. The main tourist attraction is the beach on Seonyu
Island, the island location making the water crystal clear
compared to beaches on the mainland where the water is less
clear. Tourism is highly seasonal and is limited to July and
August. While a breakdown of day visitors to overnight visitors
is not available, a significant number of people spend more than
one day either staying in rooms at houses which the island residents
rent out or camping. The construction of the bridges would make
Jungja and Munyeo Islands immediately accessible from the main
island, Seonyu, providing increased accommodation (as people of
these islands would provide rooms for rent) as well as adding more
variety for the tourists.
(b) The physical size of the islands and the beach would set a limit
on the number of visitors. The limit was estimated to be around
45,000 people, or about 25% above the peak reached during 1976-80.
Assuming that the number of visitors without the project would
be around 30,485 each year, the average for 1976-81, the
incremental number of visitors was estimated to be about 15,000 p.a.
(c) Average expenditures (for both lodgers and day visitors) were
estimated to be W 12,000 per day. Expenditures of people staying
in the residents' houses would be higher while expenditures of day
visitors and campers would be lower. Profits were estimated to be
at 66%. Since overhead costs for residents renting rooms would
be minimal.
(d) Apart from the tourist revenues, savings of ferry operation costs
and school operating costs (from consolidation) were estimated
to be W 3 million and W 57 million in December 1983 prices. The
project would also lead to greater convenience and time savings
from reduced reliance on ferries. These time savings were
estimated to be W 50.0 million in December 1983 prices.



- 63 -
ANNEX 8
Page 6
D. Transportation
12.       Vehicle operating cost savings and passenger time savings were
used to measure the economic benefits from the traffic improvements.
13.       Key assumptions in the Woonam Bridge component were:
(a) The submerging of the section of National Route 27 at Woonam
resulted in a disruption of traffic. In order to project the
future traffic flow at Woonam with a paved Route 27 and a bridge,
the potential traffic for 1980 assuming a paved road and bridge
was estimated using parameters on trips generated per thousand
population and 1980 population census figures. The Taebaek
Regional Study estimated that 40-70 vehicles per day (vpd) were
generated per 1,000 population in small rural communities in that
region (see p. 12 of the feasibility study). These figures were
used for the Jeonju Region since both the regions are at similar
stages of development (per capita GRP around $1,280 in 1980). The
potential traffic at Woonam bridge with a paved road would be 1,700
vpd in 1980. The traffic volumes were estimated to grow at 5%
p.a. in line with the rate for local interest roads serving
remote areas in the Bank's Provincial County Road Project.
(b) The distribution of traffic modes is 30% automobiles, 30% buses
and 40% trucks.
(c) Savings in operating costs due to the shift from gravel road to
paved highway is estimated to be W 77 per km for automobiles, W
315 per km for buses and W 466 per km for trucks, based on the
Bank's Provincial and County Roads Project, adjusted to December
1983 prices.
(d) The time saved by replacing the ferry is estimated to be 7.1
minutes (10-2.9) for automobiles and buses and 6.5 minutes
(10-3.5) for trucks, based on average time, for the ferry crossing,
of 10 minutes (5 minutes for approach and waiting and 5 minutes
for loading and crossing) and estimated to be 2.9 minutes for
automobiles and buses and 3.5 minutes for trucks to cross the
Woonam Bridge (average speed 60 km per hour for automobiles and
50 km per hour for trucks).
(e) Average occupancy is estimated to be 3 persons for automobiles, 30
for buses and 1 for trucks and passenger time value earnings are
estimated to be W 8.7 per minute for automobiles, W 5.2 per minute
for buses and W 8 per minute for trucks, based on the Bank's
Provincial and County Roads Project and adjusted to December 1983
prices.



- 64 -
ANNEX 8
Page 7
14.       Key assumptions in the Namweon-Gurye Road component were:
(a) Traffic along this section of National Route 19 has declined
relative to Route 17 because of traffic diversion after the
latter's paving in 1977. The traffic on the combined Routes 17
and 19 is projected to increase at 8% p.a. (in line with the
Bank's Provincial and County Roads Project) from 1,289 vpd to
2,576 vpd by 1991. The analysis assumed that the share of Route
19 would revert to 1971-76 levels 30% and increase to 40% after
1991.
(b) Vehicle speeds were:
Unpaved   Paved
Autos         40       60
Buses         40       60
Trucks        30       60
(c) Operating cost savings, number of passengers, time savings and
other assumptions are the same as in the Woonam Bridge.
15.       Key assumptions for Iri Industrial Estate Access Road:
(a) Based on traffic counts and roadside surveys, the consultants
estimated that potential bypass traffic which would utilize the
road if available would be around 1,450 vpd in 1981. Traffic was
projected to grow at 15% p.a. reflecting significant increases in
bypass traffic generated by the Gunsan industrial estate and the
proposed Iri industrial estate.
(b) Based on the survey, composition of vehicles was assumed to be 80%
trucks and 20% automobiles.
(c) Vehicle speeds were estimated to be 30 km per hour for trucks and
40 km per hour for automobiles in the city and 55 km per hour for
trucks and 60 km per hour for automobiles on the proposed access
road.
(d)  Vehicle operating costs were estimated to be W 260 per km for
trucks and W 150 per km for automobiles in the city and W 235
per km and W 140 per km on the access road.



- 65 -
ANNEX 8
Page 8
(e) The city route would be 11.15 km relative to 10.7 km for the
access road.
(f) Trucks and automobiles were assumed to carry one passenger each and
value of time was estimated at W 8.7 per minute for automobiles
and W 8 per minute for trucks.
D. Water Supply
16.       The incremental water revenues are based on the assumptions of
water supply and water sold from new facilities under the Bank-financed
project. For calculation of the incremental water sold, the average water
rate of W 149/ton in 1983 prices is used.
17.       The other incremental revenues are based on the additional number
of households (or water connections) at the average revenue of W 8,800/
connection in 1983 prices.
18.       The gross benefits are estimated at 25% of the projected
incremental revenues on annual average for the period of 25 years.
E. Drainage
19.       Economic benefits were estimated to be savings from damages (to
both residential areas and crops). Average damage between 1978 and 1982 was
approximately W 1,321 million in December 1983 prices.



- 66 -
Annex 8
Table I
KOREA
JEONJU RESIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Economic Rates of Return
Sensitivity Analysis
Base              E.R.R.               I year delay &          10 X decrease
Cost               (base)           10 Z cost increase           in benefits
1. Industrial Estate                   16                   14                              13                   13
Jeonju                             10                   13                             12                   12
Iri                                6                   15                              14                   14
2. Housing Estate                       9                   13                              II                   12
Iri                                9                   13                              11                   12
. Tourisml Developaent                37                   15                             14                   13
Mt. Jiri                          28                    14                             13                   12
Mt. Naejang                         8                   19                             IB                   17
Seonyu Island                       1                   14                             13                   11
4. Transportation                      23                   22                              18                   19
Woonam Bridge                       6                  20                              16                   18
Surye!Namweon Rd.                  12                  26                              23                   24
Iri Ind. Est. Access Rd            5                   14                               9                    9
5. Water Supply & Drainage             15                   15                              12                   13
Jeonju Water Supply                5                   18                              16                   17
Irn  Drainage                      9                   13                               9                   10
Total Base Cost                 100                   16                              14                   14
(in December 83 priCes            =



- 67 -
ANNEX 9
Page 1
K OREA
JEONJU REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Documents Available in Project Files
1. Mission Working Papers
(a) Technical and Engineering Notes
(b) Financial Analysis Working Papers
(c) Economic Analysis Working Papers
2.   Consultant Feasibility Studies
(a) Final Project Evaluation Report
(b) Macro-economic Analysis
(c) Jeonju and Iri Industrial Estates
(d) Jeonju and Iri Housing Estate (Demand Analysis)
(e) Jeonju Water Supply
(f) Drainage and Flood Control
(g) Mt. Jiri Regional Development
(h) Seonyu Island
(i) Woonam Bridge
(j) Iri Industrial Estate Access Road



- 68 -
Chart I
KOREA
JEONJU REGIONAL DEVELOPfENT PROJECT
lpleentation Schedule
Year                                      1983                1984               1985                1996                1987                1998
Jeonju Industrial Estate
Land Acquisition                                             W eee SO Nh           eeh
Constrution
Iri Industrial Estate
Land Acquisition
Constrution                                                           t{I**,,*44ItttffI,****I**,It
Iri Housinq Estate
Land Acquisition                                                                SSIINNNIhN
Construction
Naiweon Tourist Site a-/
Land Acquisition                                         *eeeNMffff,
Constructidon
Yukaojeonq/Dukdong Road
Land Acquisition                                                                eeeeeeUNH@8
Conitruction
Banseon/Cheonunsa Road
Land Acquisition
Construction
Naejangsa/Baejangsa Road
Land Acquisition                                                                NISNOBHOOIN
Construction
Seonyu Island Developeent
Land Acquisition                                            eeeeeM
Construct ion
Woonas Bridge
Land Acquisition                                            eeeeeee.ee
Construction                                                          *ttttftttttt*tItt        **       *tutfttSft         t** *t*I f tt
Nansweon/urye Road
Land Acquisition                                            *ONSINWNNh#@HSNNPOeR
Construction
lri Industrial Estate Access Road
Land Acquisition                                            *@ffONIOPSNSIISNOOOB
Construction
Jeonju Water Supply
Land AcquisitiGn onooffeeeeee
Construct ion                                                                             ttttttt}ttt* tt* ttttttt
- ri Drainaqe
Land Acquisition
Construct ion
Note: a. Includes site access road.



126-i5                        i26-3a-   |                     12645-                        12700                           j        o D....on .O Doseoo                                  27-45'
36,15                REPUBLIC OF KOREA                                                    CHUNG  ,-CHEONG                           NAM             D                             (
JEONJU REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                                                                                                                                              CHUNG  CHEONG
PROJECT COMPONENTS                                                                                                                                                                             CH Nonsan  BUG DO
12 Indvstrial Estotes                                            ~                                                                                            gho
Houssing Estotes   i)Yeongdong
-R----   Droinoge Improvements (Ii)           17/                                                                                                                               I5 gyeA                    nqdog
Road Construction or improvements
Bridge Construction (Woonam)
Tourist Site and Access Rood (Nomweon) \
1>1   Island Development (Seonyu)
-   Water Supply Moins (Jeonju)
Expresswoy (Tll)                                                                I INDAOAD E         :A;lAlRRN i ,
-36-c0'        -       ~~ Expressway Under Consttuction                Jo' GYEONG
Primory Reods                                :
Railways
~I1Notionrol Parks                                                                                                                                                                                                  GEN
-Guo (County) Boundaries
Y~    AD  7  - /      /  0   f  0  G't,-.'\.r'
[-    <i5*5t X0                                                                                                                                                                                                                 _ _; _ _ _ _ _ _ _rS 
0  5                                                                'O  5  20'                                 X               GYEONG    5A                GS
PIniMEunos)                                                                                                                                                                                                        BUG
Pu s u.*5yo
rmonwfluoo'Aoor.'flm.  I                              uon                                                                                                                                                          35 5(
,,ro Waowuo                                                                                                                                                          /                                                            A ' ;  '9S47Xt    --
NAM i'DO                                 K~~~~~NA  D
35t                                       r 'g                                                                  jI 3Gcn                                                                              ?T
pdTS.ICbfleaws,4#,r   5'~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~53'
E,u_ryoeryonu. cm,.uron;E                                                                                                                                                                                             P
t-t  tttd  q n ,-  g /  t   z                                 82                 f\1x    G urye                                      <G.NU                     Z
_ _ 025                         5               12630       To Moo             Q64               \         o Gt onh,,ngo Sooohoo                                 '27s30                        To Hootoo0                                     'Jr






T0 G-oqgyeo-n/
REPUBLIC OF KOREA
JEONJU REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
IRI CITY PROJECT COMPONENTS
i   Indcustrial Estates
\ v\l/\,'  Housing Estate
Access Roads
-   Drainage Channel
Sewerage Mains
Pumn(ping Station
Sluice Gate
Industrial Areas
"   Commercial Area
m    Residential Area
4 Km.                                                                                              0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ National Highways
____Roads
4 4 Railways and Stations
,1---S Y  -  Rioers and Drainage Channels
0               12
vocATrIONAL
KILOMETERS
I Py.  3.3m2'
--d b,~
_-, 0/ To  Boon \/  p n d;y
A   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~roWo-d an- ' Fia- aooi,,ut
DEM  POPLan sREP00Wnn n
OF  jhKhOREA hooonh
WonOer Supply                                     dad and Be Buanaar3assn8an
7,Km ~~~~~~~eev,                                                               O aoa o00 Ot nB
001hkW,hSeokanu B
RI~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~nenkniiak OpnOn
TO                                            7.                                                    1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~26<~  126  0,oh



