Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
,;A/  3    LI 3 - / A/ /t
Report No.8603-IND
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
INDONESIA
SECOND FORESTRY INSTITUTIONS AND CONSERVATION PROJECT
JUNE 5, 1990
Country Departmant V
Asia Regional Office
Uh docunt  has a reacted db       and may be sd by         ly in t{be    _    of }
| theIoffic  dudies Its conteIt may ad OtIWISe be disclosed  WoMbo   w ao _



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of March 1990)
Currency Unit - Rupiah
$1.00 = Rupiah (Rp) 1,795
Rp 1 million - $557
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 kilometer                   .      0.62 miles (mi)
1 square kilometer (km2)      -      100 ha - 0.39 sq. miles
1 hectare (ha)                -      2.47 acres (ac)
1 kilogram (kg)               -      2.2 pounds (lb)
1 metric ton (ton)            =      1.10235 short tons (2.000 lbs)
0.9843 long tons (2,240 lbs)
1 cubic meter (cu m)          -      35.3 cubic feet
INDONESIAN FIVE-YEAR PLANS
Repelita V                    -      Fifth Five-Year Plan, 1989-94
ABBREVIATIONS
BAPPEDA     -  Provincial Level Planning Agency
BPKP        -  Directorate of State Accountancy
DBH         -  Diameter at Breast Height
Departemen  -  Department, synonymous with Ministry in Indonesia
FICP I      -  Bank assisted Forestry Institutions and Conservation I Project
GOI         -  Government of Indonesia
GOJ         -  Government of Japan
HPH         -  Concession Agreement
ITTO        -  International Tropical Timber Organization
IUCN        -  International Union for Conservation of Nature
MAI         - Mean Annual Increment
MOF         - Ministry of Forests
PH          -  Directorate General of Forest Utilization
PHPA        -  Directorate General for Nature Conservation
PPIU        -  Project Planning and Implementation Unit
PP          -  Presidential Directive for Implementing Statute
TFAP        -  Tropical Forestry Action Plan
RRL         -  Directorate General for Soil Conservation and Rehabilitation
TGHK        -  Consensus Forest Land Use Plan
UUPK        -  Basic Forest Law (UU No. 5/1967)
UU          -  Statute (Undang-Undang)



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INDONESIA
SECOND FORESTRY INSTITUTIONS AND CONSERVATION PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
1.  INTRODUCTION ....  .  .    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .    1
II.  THE FORESTRY SECTOR  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   1
Role in the Economy  .1...  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  I
Forest Resources . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    I
Forestry Planning and Management . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    2
Processing. Markets and Exports  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    6
Fiscal Policy.                                                  7
Forestry Products Trade Policy . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    8
Sectoral Problems and Constraints  . . . . . . . . . . . . .    9
Government's Sectoral Objectives and Strategies  . . . . . .    11
III.   DANK INVOLVEMENT IN THE SECTOR AND LESSONS LEARNT  . . . . .    12
Bank Involvement in the Sector   . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    12
Lessons Learn from Previous Forestry . . . . . . . . . . . .    13
Rationale for Future Bank Involvement and Proposed Strategy    13
IV.   THE PROJECT  .....  .  ..  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .    14
Project Objectives and Strategy  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    14
Project Description  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    14
Concession Management and Inspection . . . . . . . . . . . .    15
Reforestation (Forest Plantations) . . . . . . . . . . . . .    16
Forestry Research .17
Conservation .17
Policy Advisory Service .18
Role of Women  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    18
V.  PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    19
Project Costs .19
Financing .19
Procurement .21
Disbursements .22
Accounting and Audits .23
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission comprising of
Messrs. T.P.N. Sinha, Orhan Baykal, Colin Rees, and Wawan Mulyawan which
visited Indonesia in March/April 1990. Mr. Akihiko Nishio also assisted in
the preparation of the report.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Page No.
VI.  ORGANIZATION, MANAGEMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION  . . . . . . . .    23
Coordination . . . . . . .              . . . . . . . . .    23
Forest Concession Management . . . . . . . . . . .  . . .   23
Reforestation    .  .  . .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . .  .  .  .  .  23
Forestry Research  . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . . . . . .    24
Conservation  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  24
Policy Advisory Service  ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .     . . .   .    24
Project Implementation Plans and Status  . . . . . . . . . .    24
Monitoring and Evaluation  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    24
VII.  PROJECT IMPACT . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    25
Benefits/Cost Effectiveness of Institutional
Strengthening Components ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .    25
Project  Risks    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  27
VIII.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION  . . . . . . . . . . .    27
TABLES IN THE TEXT
Table 5.1 Project Costs Suwmary  .. . . . . . .     . . . .  .    19
Table 5.2 Financing Plan . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  .  .  .  .   .    20
Table 5.3 Procurement Arrangements ... .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .. .. .    20
ANNEXES
Annex 1   Progress of FICP I (Loan 2930-IND)
Annex 2   Forestry Policy Matrix
Annex 3   Concession Management - Terms of Reference
Annex 4   National Master Plan for Plantations Component
- Terms of Reference
Annex 5   Research Component - Terms of Reference
Annex 6   National Parks Investment Consultants - Terms of Reference
Annex 7   Project Costs and Disbursement
Annex 8   Organization Chart
Annex 9   Implementation Schedule
Annex 10   List of Related Documents and Data Available in the Project File
MAP:  IBRD 22351



- iii -
INDONESIA
SECOND FORESTRY INSTITUTIONS & CONSERVATION PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower              t Republic of Indonesia
Beneficiary           s Not applicable
Loan Amount           : $20.0 million equivalent
Terms                 : Repayable in 20 years, including 5 years of grace, at
the Bank's standard variable rate.
Project Description  s The main objectives of the proposed project are to
reduce tha pace of deforestation and to sustain and
maximize the long-term benefits from Indonesian forest
resources by addressing critical needs in the areas of
concession management, resource mobilization from the
forestry sector, nature conservation, reforestation of
degraded lands, and technology development to support
sectoral programs. The proposed project consists of
(a) strengthening of inspection, monitoring and
supervision of concessionaires logging activities on
about 50 million ha of production forests to improve
revenue collection and ensure compliance with
environmental regulations of the Government;
(b) development of a master plan, formulate
incentives, evaluation criteria and supervision
systems for reforestation activities on about 10
million ha degraded lands to increase the efficiency
of GOI's program for reforestation; (c) development of
a national forestry research station for Eastern
Indonesia in Irian Jaya and prepare a forestry
research master plan; (d) with active participation of
local people, development of plans and models for
conservation and multi-sectoral sustainable use of
mangrove resources, and for the improved management of
ten national parks; and (e) provision of a high-level
and experienced adviscz and short-term experts for the
Minister of Forestry to assist with strategic planning
and policy review and implementation.
Benefits and risks   s Economic and environmental benefits are expected from:
(a) improved forestry management leading to a
sustained longer-term production from the forestry
sector; (b) improved resource mobilization from the
sector for national and sectoral development; (c) more
efficient investment planning and selection which
would reduce investment costs while increasing
benefits; and (d) more effective conservation of
Indonesia's valuable tropical rain forest resource.



- iv -
The main project risk would be the innovative nature
of the concession management component where
inspection agencies from the private sector would be
engaged to assist the Government in improving revenue
collection and compliance with environmental
guidelines. While a similar approach has been used
for customs in Indonesia, this would be the first
approach in the forestry sector. The risk will be
minimized by keeping project size small and starting
with only three provinces initially. The benefits/
costs of the new system would be carefully monitored
and evaluated and the system will be expanded only
after positive results are convincingly demonstrated.
There might be some delays in completing the
conservation plans thtt reflect adequately the views
and needs of local people. The Government will enlist
the assistance of the NGO community to facilitate the
dialogue on these plans.
Estimated Costs: /a
Local     Poreign     Total
-----*$ million) -------
Research                                  5.6        4.0         9.6
Concession Management                     6.5        4.2        10.7
Reforestation                             1.4        1.9         3.3
Conservation                              1.1        1.4         2.5
Policy Advisory Service                   0.2        0.8         1.0
Total Base Costs                       14.8       12.3        27.1
Physical Contingencies                    1.2        0.8         2.0
Price Contingencies
2.4        1.6        4.0
Total Costs                            18.4       14.7        33.1
/a   Inclusive of duties, taxes and reserved procurement amounting to
$4.4 million equivalent.



Financing Plan.
Local     Foreipn    Total
--    ($ million) -------
Government                               10.8        1.0        11.8
Japanese Grant Facility                   0.3        0.2         0.5
ITTO                                      0.0        0.8         0.8
IBRD                                      7.3       12.7        20.0
Total                                 18.4       14.7        33.1
Disbursements
1991       1992      1993       1994      1995
-(---------------    million)  ---------------
Annual         2.5         3.5       5.0       5.0        4.0
Cumulative     2.5         6.0      11.0      16.0       20.0
Hap:  IBRD 22351



INDONESIA
SECOND FORESTRY INSTITUTIONS AND CONSERVATION PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.1       This report appraises the proposed Second Forestry Institutions and
Conservation Project in Indonesia. The project was identified in October
1989, and prepared by the Government between November 1989 and February 1990
with some assistance from the Bank. Project preparation vas completed in
February 1990 and the Project was appraised in Harch 1990. This report
summarises the findings and conclusions of the appraisal mission.
II. THE FORESTRY SECTOR
Role in the Economy
2.1       Indonesia is well endowed with forest resources which cover more
than half of its land area, and constitute the world's second largest area of
tropical forests after the Amazon. Forestry activities account for less than
3 percent of GDP in current prices and employ some 0.5 million persons, but
the sector is much more important in export trade where it contributes
$3 billion per annum (over 25 percent) to the non-oil exports and is currently
the most important source of such exports. Contribution of royalties and
fees from the forestry sector are estimated at about Rp 630 billion
($350 million) in 1989. Forest products provide most of rural energy needs
through firewood and charcoal, and housing construction material.  Indonesian
forests are also important ecologically, constituting one of the world's most
biologically diverse areas with more than 500 species of mammals, 1,500
species of birds, and 10,000 species of trees. These forests play a
significant role in protecting Indonesia's watersheds, preventing soil erosion
and ensuring a sustained flow of irrigation and drinking water for downstream
population.
Forest Resources
2.2       Size.  Indonesia's forest area is variously estimated at between 100
and 114 million ha. Precise resource data are not available and this has been
a most significant constraint on planning and the management of the sector.
Improved resource assessment was initiated under the Bank-assisted Forestry
Institutions and Conservation I Project (FICP I, Loan 2930-IND of April 20,
1988) and preliminary indications are that the forest area is at the lower end
of the 100 to 114 million ha range.
2.3       Natural Forests.  Indonesian forests have been classified into six
major forest types, of which the tropical rain forest is the most significant,
covering three quarters of the forest area. This consists mainly of timber
species of the Diptocarpaceae family, in particular Shorea (Meranti),
Dipterocarpus (Keruing), Hopea (Merawan) and Dryobalanops (Kapur). These
forests, particularly in the Western Indonesian archipelago, are rich in



- 2 -
commercial species which average 50 to 90 cu m per ha, at diameter (DBH) above
50 cm, out of a total volume of about 260 to 300 cu m per ha for all species.
The average annual growth in the volume of commercial species in natural
forests is currently estimated at 1.1 cu m per ha. Indonesia's natural
forests are subdivided into four usage/conservation categories (para. 2.7), of
which the production forests account for about 44 percent. These forests have
the potential, if properly managed, to produce 25 to 50 million cu m per annum
on a sustainable basis, and to support $3 to 4 billion per annum in exports.
However, this considerable resource and export potential is threatened because
of several sectoral problems (para. 2.20).
2.4       Plantations.  Indonesia has a long history of forest plantations
which were started in the 19th century. Currently the total area of
plantations is estimated at around 1.8 million ha, about half of which is
mainly teak. The balance are fast growing species suitable for pulpwood, and
with some work on tree improvement they could perhaps produce rough lumber and
plywood veneer logs for plywood cores. Under the current five year plan,
Repelita V, GOI has an ambitious plan to increase forest plantation area by
1.5 million ha. Progress in meeting this target has been poor so far. The
Government's policy is to encourage establishment of forest plantations only
on the already deforested and degraded lands which total more than 20 M ha.
However, not all such lands are suitable for plantations because of poor
soils, infrastructure and land tenure problems and careful selection of sites
is essential. To encourage reforestation of these lands, GOI wishes to give
incentives through fiscal policy measures, land lease arrangements, and
improved resource information and analysis. A presidential regulation,
PP7/1990 of March 16, 1990 will give a right to plantation production, HPHTI,
for 35 years renewable up to 70 years and encourages increased private sector
participation. Within this improved policy framework, the proposed project
will assist in improving resource information, analysis, and supervision.
2.5       Location.  Over 95 percent of Indonesian forests are in the sparsely
populated Outer Islands, with the islands of Kalimantan, Irian Jaya and
Sumatra accounting for most (over 80 percent) of the forest area. Production
forests in Kalimantan and Sumatra are the richest in commercial hardwood
species, and they account for over 75 percent of Indonesia's production
potential for logs of commercial species.
Forestry Planning and Management
2.6       Institutions.  The Basic Forestry Law (UUPK) of 1967 gave the
authority over Indonesian forests to the Ministry of Agriculture and Forests.
In 1983, the Ministry was split and a separate Ministry of Forests (MOF) was
formed with the authority to plan and manage Indonesia's forestry sector. The
Ministry has Directorates-General responsible for forest utilization, forest
rehabilitation and soil conservation, and nature conservation. It also has
support agencies for research and inventory, and a Secretariat-General
responsible for planning, budgeting and manpower development. MOF employs
about 17,000 persons, most (60 percent) of whom are in the Directorate-General
for Reforestation and Land Rehabilitation. The responsibilities and staff of
MOF have increased rapidly, and there is an urgent need to strengthen MOF's
capacity by establishing appropriate policies and procedures for forest
management, by increasing its information, planning and monitoring capacity,
and by staff training and in-service experience. Under FICP I, a human



- 3 -
resource development plan is being prepared and will be ready by the end of
1991.
2.7       Forestry Planning Policy.  HOF has prepared a Consensus Forest Land
Use Plan (TGHK) for each province, classifying forest lands into the following
four categories:
(a) Protection forest, which accounts for 30 million ha (21 percent of
forest lands), has been set aside for the protection of critical
watersheds, and to prevent soil erosion logging is not permitted in
these forests;
(b) Conservation forest, which accounts for 19 million ha (13 percent),
has been set aside to protect biological diversity of flora and
fauna, and in these areas also logging or hunting is not permitted;
(c) Production forest, which accounts for 64 million ha (44 percent),
has been allocated for forestry production and the major portion
(over 53 million ha) of this is under forestry concession
arrangements (para. 2.10), managed typically by the private sector
under MOF regulations and supervision; and
(d) Conversion forest accounting for 31 million ha (22 percent) has been
allocated for agricultural production, and accordingly in these
areas clear felling of trees and conversion to agricultural usage is
permitted.
2.8       Forestry Land Use Plans.  Though the forestry land use policy is
sound in that it recognizes the multiple role of forest lands, including
conservation and protection needs for which one-quarter of Indonesia's land
area (a third of the forest area) has been set aside, the implementation of
this policy and resulting TGHK forestry land use plans need to be improved.
The TGHK plan was prepared by consensus between Provincial Agriculture,
Forestry, Lands (Agraria), Public Works, Planning (BAPPEDA) and Transmigration
agencies, but was based on out-dated maps and poor forestry and lano resource
information. FICP I is updating forest resource information for areas under
forest. For the degraded and deforested areas, base maps, soil, land systems
and land use data has been collected under the Bank-assisted Transmigration V
Project (Loan 2578-IND) and the ADB-assisted Land Resource Evaluation and
Planning Project. This information now needs to be used for better planning
of reforestation activities.
2.9       Production Forest Management - Production.  The utilization of
production forests increased rapidly between 1968 and 1979, and log production
increased from a level of 5.2 million cu m to 25.3 million cu m, at the rate
of 15 percent per annum. Since then, log production has fluctuated in the 13
to 37 million cu m range in response to export demand and trade policy
(para. 2.16). The forests also produce a range of secondary forest products
including rattan, fuel, wood/charcoal, silk, turpentine and resins. Of these
rattan is commercially the most significant with a production of about 40,000
tons in 1985.
2.10      Production Forest Management - Concession Agreement.  While all
forest lands are owned by the State, the extraction, processing and sale of



-4-
logs from the forests is done mainly by the private sector under forest
concession arrangements. The concessions are granted by MOF for a minimum
area of 35,000 ha and a maximum period of 20 years. Forestry concessions
cover 83 percent of production forest area (53 million ha) with an
average area of about 100,000 Oa per concession. The concession agreement and
Government regulation obliges the concessionaire tos
(a) Conduct a forest resource survey and a feasibility study for the
extraction of logs and processing activities (if any);
(b) Implement measures for forest protection;
(c) Respect rights of indigenous tribal population for collection of
forest products for their own consumption;
(d) Prepare annual operational plans, along with five year and 20 year
management plans that are acceptable to GOI;
(e) Prepare environmental impact assessment (EIA) for areas to be logged
and to take mitigation measures where adverse impact is anticipated;
(f) Follow MOF guidelines for log extraction, which in line with MOF
Decree of 1981, allows extraction of trees with minimum diameter
(DBH) of 50 cm, leaving behind at least 25 trees per ha of
commercial species with DBH more than 20 cm to act as seed trees for
natural regeneration;
(g) Restock forest through enrichment planting of commercial species
after logging;
(h) Mark boundaries and develop suitable forest roads; and
(i) Post a performance bond to guarantee compliance.
2.11      Production Forest Management - Performance.  In practice the
implementation of forest management policy and the compliance with the above
concession agreement regulations have been poor. MOP has recently been more
aggressive in taking actions to fine concessionaires and cancel concession
agreements when wrong doing by concessionaires is discovered. Also for
environmental reasons, MOF has announced a policy to restrict logging in
natural forests to a level not exceeding 32 million cu m per annum. To ensure
compliance with improved and environmentally oriented policies of MOF, and
also to sustain Indonesia's export oriented wood industries, the monitoring
and control of logging activities in production forests has to be
strengthened. The proposed project would assist with this.
2.12      Conservation Forest Management.  Though Indonesia has classified a
third of its forest area, some 49 m ha, as protection and conservation forest,
these areas are coming under population pressure. The construction of new
roads is bringing larger areas of the previously inaccessible forest within
reach of settlers. Consequently, settlers are increasingly encroaching on
conservation areas. Even where adequate legal instruments exist for the
control of encroachment, they are either not enforced or only partially
applied since they conflict with local or traditional customs. These problems



could result in irreparable losses to both Indonesia and the world community
at large. New approaches are required and PHPA needs to strengthen its
relationship and services to the population in areas around the nature
conservation areas, for instance, by creating buffer zones for the benefit of
the local population. This will create incentives for them to prevent
encroachment. PHPA should also cooperate with local and international
scientists to monitor and study rare and endangered species in these areas,
e.g. Komodi lizard in NTT, Bali starling in Bali Barat, and Orang Utan,
Sumatran tiger, and rhinoceros in Sumatra, so that it is better able to
respond to any emerging problems threatening their survival. For creating
greater awareness, appreciation and support for nature conservation in
Indonesia, PHPA should strengthen its services and facilities for local
tourists at those national parks that are close to population centers in Java
and Bali. Management plans for these activities have now been developed for
the highest priority areas with help from FAO/IUCN, but architectural and
detailed design work for support facilities have not been integrated with the
management plan. In many cases, excessive construction activities are
planned. Management plans and facility designs for national parks need to be
reviewed with a view to scaling down plans for facilities construction, in
line with carrying capacity of the national parks and the availability of
operation and maintenance funds. The proposed project will assist in the
review and revision of existing plans before new facilities are constructed.
2.13      Protection Forest (Watershed) Management.  Owing to population
pressure, deforestation and increased cultivation of annual crops on steep
slopes, Indonesia is increasingly facing problems of soil erosion, lose of
productivity of agricultural land, siltation of river basins and dams,
flooding, and consequent environmental and economic degradation. The problem
is most severe in Java, but is also accelerating in the Outer Islands. GOI,
with UNDP assistance, has identified 81 watersheds of which 39 are considered
priority areas, and of these 22 are considered to be in a highly critical
condition. The conservation of watersheds poses a difficult problem. It is
difficult to resettle population from the critical slopes. However, agro-
forestry activities that are financially viable and ecologically appropriate,
are limited and have to be developed through location-specific adaptive
research. While appropriate recommendations have been developed for several
areas in Java, further research in the Outer Islands will be required.
Support for agricultural activities in several of these watersheds has been
provided by USAID and the Bank, in particular under the Upland Agricultural
Development Project (Loan 2474-IND) and FICP I. Experience with these
activities have shown the importance of inter-agency co-ordination,
strengthening technical support and involving farmers in decision making.
Further support for watershed conservation activities is planned under the
proposed National Watershed Conservation and Management Project (FY93) for
which GOI intends to seek Bank assistance after completion of project
preparation.



- 6-
Processina, Markets and Exports
2.14      Mechanical Wood Processing.  Indonesia's wood processing industry is
dominated by sawmilling and panel products industries, which together produce
about 17 million cu m per annum of processed wood products, with sawmills
producing about 10 million cu m per annum. The main problem in the sawmilling
industry is the low economic viability of some mills (30 to 40 percent of the
total) that are running at below 50 percent capacity utilization due to a
variety of reasons including management, location, and the type of machinery
in the mills. It is expected that competition will force less efficient mills
to close, while efficient mills will continue to add capacity. A recent
increase in sawnwood export taxes (para. 2.20) will put pressure on the
profitability of the less efficient mills and assist in the restructuring of
sawmill industry. Indonesia's plywood industry with a production level of 6.5
million cu m per annum is efficient and is now operating at full capacity
utilization on a two-shift basis. Partly due to the rapid increase in
production and exports and a market recession, the export price for hardwood
plywood was depressed and this was affecting industry profitability. Since
Indonesia now accounts for about 70 percent of the hardwood plywood export
market, and the price elasticities of demand and supply are typically between
0.3 and 0.7 (absolute values), Indonesian manufacturers are finding it
advantageous to limit export volumes to support prices and profitability. GOI
is also restricting the addition of new plywood manufacturing capacity to
conserve resources. Consequently, prices and industry profits have improved.
The plywood industry faces a shortage of qualified technicians, and has
selectively employed expatriates to overcome the shortage. This has helped
generslly in maintaining good quality and capacity utilization. A Wood
Industry Study financed under the Bank-supported BAPINDO V Project (Loan 2277-
IND) is helping 001 identify key constraints in the industry. The main
recommendations are that:
(a) forest concessions and primary industries should function as
integrated units until an efficient wood distribution system is
developed;
(b) efficiency and capacity utilization of the existing industries
should be improved before new capacity is added;
(c) secondary industry should not be integrated with forest concessions
and should be in locations nearer market; and
(d) information and log distribution should be improved.
The Government has endorsed these recommendations, and is now considering
actions to implement them.
2.15      Pulp and Paper Industry.  Indonesia currently has 38 pulp and paper
mills with an installed production capacity of about 1.4 million tons for
paper and 0.75 million tons for pulp. Between 1985-89, the growth in capacity
was dramatic for both paper (14 percent per annum) and pulp (25 percent per
annum). The capactty utilization of paper mills has improved from 59 percent
in 1985 to about 82 percent in 1989, and consequently production has increased
by 23 percent per annum. This has made Indonesia a net exporter of paper
products. Capacity utilization of both pulp and paper mills is low due to



-7-
technical and management problems. Effluent control in older mills has also
been neglected and it is expected that some of the older inefficient mills
will have to close. A recently approved Bank loan for Industrial
Restructuring Project (Loan 3040-IND of June 1989) will address these
problems. In planning future investments in forest plantations for supplying
the pulp and paper industry, MOF must be careful to support only those
plantations that are within marketable distance of efficient and
environmentally sound pulp and paper mills, to avoid the risk of investing in
plantations for which the main market outlet disappears after the trees have
matured. Any feasibility study for plantation investments must analyze market
prospects, including prospects for pulp and paper mills that would purchase
logs from the proposed plantation. The proposed project would assist in
developing plans for reforestation consistent with these market and
environmental considerations.
2.16      Export Markets.  Indonesia has emerged as the world's biggest
exporter of processed tropical hardwoods, and in 1988 its exports reached a
level of about $3 billion. The growth in exports has been rapid (30 percent
per annum), and has been fueled mainly by the ban on log exports and the
expansion of plywood exports, which now forms over two-thirds of Indonesia's
wood product exports. The main markets for Indonesian plywoods are Japan
(25 percent), China/Hong Kong (21 percent), and United States (12 percent).
For the future, it is expected that growth of wood product exports will be at
3 to 4 percent per annum in overall volume, though some segments such as
furniture, which are small currently, may show growth rates in excess of
10 percent per annum. The future export marketing strategy of Indonesia
should emphasize increasing export value through increases in wood
utilization, local value added, and quality improvements. This will ensure
that increases in export values are maintained without over-cutting
Indonesia's valuable tropical rain forests.
2.17      Local Market.  Prior to 1980 the processed wood products went mainly
to local markets, which accounted for over 75 percent of total production.
Since then local consumption has increased at about 5 percent per annum, in
line with the general growth in local incomes, but the share of local
consumption has dropped below 50 percent owing to the much more rapid growth
in exports. The structure of local demand is the opposite of export demand,
and is mainly for sawnwood, which accounts for about 80 percent of the total
demand for processed wood products. This is typical of the pattern in lower
to middle income countries. In the next decade local consumption of sawnwood
is expected to increase by 2 to 4 percent per annum, and of plywood by 3 to
6 percent per annum.
Fiscal Policy
2.18      The level of tax and royalty collections from the forestry sector
was quite low until 1987 when total revenue excluding value added tax (VAT)
amounted to Rp 283 billion or about $5 per cu m of log. Even including
estimated VAT collection of about $2 per cu m, the level of tax and royalty
collection of about $7 per cu m was low compared with profits (rent) of the
industry of $30 to 40 per cu m of log. During discussions in 1987/88
regarding FICP I, the Bank recommended doubling of the level of taxes and
royalty. GOI has acted promptly on the recommendation. In 1989, MOF
announced an increase in reforestation fee from a level of $4 per cu m to a



- 8 -
level of $10 per cu m by 1990. Export taxes on sawnwood have also been raised
substantially, but this has been done not for raising more revenue, but as an
instrument of industrial and trade policy (para. 2.20). While tax rates have
been raised, the collection of revenue needs to be strengthened with two
objectives. The first is to increase resource mobilization for national
development through a higher rent recovery; and the second is to apply
forestry fees, royalties and taxes to improve efficiency of wood utilization.
Revenue collection suffers because currently MOF has only a few poorly
trained, equipped and motivated field staff who are unable to effectively
monitor concessions extending over Indonesia's vast production forest area.
Furthermore, royalties are measured based on mill output, which gives little
incentive to improve wood utilization, and also allows under reporting of log
consumption. Because of the under reporting, revenue collection has suffered
and the annual loss in revenue is estimated at about $200 million. There is
now an urgent need to improve monitoring of log extraction activities in the
concessions through improved inspection service.
Forestry Products Trade Policy
2.19      Indonesia's trade policy for forestry products has been dominated by
successive bans on the export of primary products such as hardwood logs and
rattan. Starting in 1980, GOI began restricting log exports to encourage
local processing and employment creation, and by 1985 log exports were totally
banned. This decision has been controversial. On the one hand, log export
ban has been criticized for reductions in log production from a level of about
25 million cu m ia 1980 to a level of 13 million cu m, two years later, and a
corresponding reduction in export revenues. Others have pointed out that the
drop was temporary, and that with the development of a relatively efficient
and export oriented plywood industry, log production and forestry sector
exports have recovered to former levels. Similarly, some have welcomed the
temporary reduction in logging due to log export ban as an environmentally
sound policy because of a concern about forestry resource depletion (para.
2.21). Under the Bank-assisted FICP I, the impact of the log export ban on
the efficiency of sawmilling and plywood industry has been analyzed. The
tentative conclusions are:
(a) The log export ban helped to support a rapid establishment of a
modern and relatively efficient plywood industry which has
contributed to the increase in factor productivity of capital and
labor at rates higher than in USA and Canada, and is therefore a
successful example of infant industry policy;
(b) Factor productivity of wood has not increased because the fiscal
policy environment until 1989 was not supportive (please see
para. 2.18);
(c) Price of raw material should be increased through higher rent
collection on raw material to provide incentive for better material
utilization.
GOI should improve revenue collection to capture a larger portion of the rent
and also to improve efficiency of the industry.



- 9 -
2.20      More recently, at the end of 1989, GOl increased the level of export
taxes on rough sawnwood to a level of over 100 percent. The tax has been
designed to discourage export of rough sawnwood, and to encourage export of
more value-added secondary processing activities. This will force the
restructuring of the inefficient sawmilling industry (para. 2.14) by reducing
its profitability. To the extent that more value-added secondary industry is
developed, it will be in-line with the recommendations of the wood industry
study. However, there is a danger that exports will be reduced in the short-
run, and the protection of the secondary processing industry could lead to
inefficient industrialization. ¢OI should review the impact of high export
taxes after a couple of years of experience with a view to reducing the level
of tax and effective protection if needed to improve efficiency.
Sectoral Problems and Constraints
2.21      Forest Resource Depletion.  While Indonesian forests are large,
there is a growing concern that the forestry resources are being depleted at a
rapid pace of about one million ha (1 percent) per annum. At the current rate
of depletion the economic value of forests will be exhausted in about 40
years. In addition to the loss of timber, the loss of forest area also poses
serious environmental problem because of irreversible lose of the rich genetic
diversity of Indonesian forests, the erosion of soil, and the siltation of
dams and waterways. Some of the contributing factors are discussed below.
2.22      Logging Damage.  Studies have shown that about 10 to 50 percent of
the remaining stand after logging is damaged due to careless logging
practices, and the loss of productive forest area is estimated at about 0.2
million ha per annum. Survey of logging practices under the Bank assisted
FICP I has confirmed that the damage to the forest and soil cover due to
logging is quite serious and extensive. The main problems are the careless
road construction and log extraction from forest to the road or river
(skidding). The FICP I study recommends that technical skills of
concessionaires should be upgraded and environmentally sound logging and log
transport standards enforced. The proposed project would assist in
implementing these recommendations.
2.23      Shifting Cultivation.  While traditional forms of shifting
cultivation, with rotations of over 20 years, are environmentally sound and
sustainable, the shorter rotation shifting cultivation is not. Because of
population increase in the Outer Islands of Indonesia, where most of the
forests are located, shorter rotation shifting cultivation is increasingly
leading to degradation of forest lands into low fertility grass lands (alang-
alang). The forest area lost due to shifting cultivation is estimated between
0.3 and 0.5 million ha per annum. Issues regarding shifting cultivation are
being studied under FICP I, and the recommendations of the study would be
implemented under future Bank supported agriculture and forestry projects.
2.24      Conversion to Agricultural Use.  GOI has had an ambitious
transmigration program under which half a million families migrated to the
Outer Islands during the previous plan period (1980-84), and settled on 2.5
million ha of forest land. Similarly, other agricultural development
programs, such as the tree crops NES programs, have also led to the clearing
of up to 100,000 ha of forest land per annum for agricultural usage.
Recently, GOI has slowed down these programs but it is still expected that



- 10 -
conversion to agricultural use will take up between 0.2 and 0.5 million ha of
forest land per annum. While conversion to agricultural use is to some degree
inevitable in the face of increasing population and demand for food and
agricultural commodities, such conversion needs to be well planned to ensure
that it does minimal damage to the environment. For instance, critical
wetlands which act as breeding grounds for large numbers of species of fish
and migratory birds need to be protected. Agricultural development strategy
should put less emphasis on increasing production through increases in area,
and more on increasing production by making better use of existing
agricultural areas through their intensified development and increased yield
per unit area. This, for instance, is being done under the Bank supported
Fisheries Support Services Project (Loan 2773-IND) which will increase shrimp
production by increasing yields from existing ponds rather than increase the
area of shrimp ponds by converting critical wetlands. Under the fisheries
project some support is also being provided to the Ministry of Population and
Environment for developing agricultural development strategies that will be
less destructive of the environment. Similarly, under GOI's Transmigration
Program, there is greater need to emphasize increasing productivity of
existing areas (second stage development) and to put relatively less emphasis
on creating new settlements. The Bank is supporting such an approach through
assistance for the preparation of the proposed Transmigration Second Stage
Development Project, which will concentrate on further development and more
intensive land use in existing transmigration areas rather than the conversion
of new and virgin forest areas.
2.25      Forest Fires.  Because of increasing population near forests,
inappropriate forms of shifting cultivation, logging residues, and also
natural causes, forest fires are increasing. Generally these fires do not
spread far because of humid conditions in tropical rain forests. But, in some
years, unusually dry conditions do cause extensive damage, as was the case in
1983184 when about 3.5 million ha of forests in East Kalimantan were
destroyed. In some areas, the forest fires are deliberately started by
encroachers to convert forest land to grass lands for cattle grazing.
Estimates of forest area lost range between 0.1 and 0.2 million ha per annum.
The encroachers are quite often brought into the forests by ill-planned roads.
GOI has now issued a decree which requires environmental impact assessment of
proposed development projects including roads.
2.26      Forestry Research.  Prior to 1983, forestry research was under the
Ministry of Agriculture and Forests, and suffered because of the higher
priority given to rice research. Consequently, annual funding for forestry
research has been less than $2 million (0.2 percent of exports), one of the
lowest levels in the Asia-Pacific Region. The research is currently
centralized at Bogor in Java, and does not focus on basic technical issues
concerning forestry management problems of the Outer Islands where most
Indonesian forests are located. Therefore the current level of understanding
of the development and regeneration of tropical rain forests in Indonesia is
poor, and this hampers the ability of the forestry research service to offer
effective advice on techniques to support sustainable management of
Indonesia's forests. Furthermore, with increasing population pressures in the
Outer Islands and the inevitable reduction in production forest area. This
may eventually require the establishment of higher-yielding forest plantations
in the Outer Islands. To support this, forestry research must expand adaptive
trials for the screening of exotic species. This would include fertilizer



- 11 -
trials, end use tests, and the measurement of yield, establishment cost, and
pest/disease vulnerability. Another priority area for research is the
regeneration and growth of natural forest under alternative logging and
management regimes. This would include measurements of regeneration on sites
with varying intensity of logging, levels of mechanization in logging and
skidding, and post-logging silvicultural practices. This will allow research
to advise the forestry service and concession holders on cost-effective
policies and techniques for the management of Indonesian forests, keeping in
mind financial, economic, ecological and anthropological concerns. Research
in these priority areas is constrained by a shortage of adequately trained
manpower, research funds and facilities in most of the Outer Islands. New
Regional research stations have been constructed in two (Sumatra and
Kalimantan) of the three major forest areas of the outer islands, but the
third major area, Irian Jaya, is poorly serviced. The proposed project would
assist in alleviating these constraints and meeting forestry research needs.
Government's Sectoral Ob3ectives and Strategies
2.27      In line with its broader economic development objectives, GOI's
objectives in the forestry sector are to conserve and sustain natural
resources for longer-term benefit of the nation through higher income and
employment for the people. Specifically, in its Repelita V, GOI is
emphasizing:
(a) Improvement of the management of natural forests and plantations to
sustain their productivity for the futurel
(b) Increase in non-oil export revenues through increased exports of
value-added forestry products;
(c) Conservation of watersheds to ensure uninterrupted flow of water for
irrigation and urban consumption:
(d) Protection and conservation of wildlife, genetic resources in
natural forests, and scenic and recreation areas; and
(e) Reforestation of about 10 million ha of the 20 million ha of
deforested and degraded lands, of which about 1.5 million ha will be
undertaken within the Repelita V period and the balance of about
8.5 million ha partly during the Repelita V period and partly
thereafter.
Within the framework of the objectives and the national five-year development
plans (Repelita), MOF has formulated a number of programs and performance
targets in priority areas. The most important of these program involve
improved concession management, nature conservation, reforestation and
plantation establishment, research, and administration development. GOI is
now seeking support for this program from external donors including the Bank,
ADB, and several bilateral donors. While the Bank and other donors are
exchanging information to ensure complementarity of their assistance, more
needs to be done by MOF to coordinate donor assistance. For this purpose, MOP
is organizing several round table meetings of donors under the framework of
the Tropical Forestry Action Plan (TFAP). Bank is supporting this effort of
MOF by the preparation of background documents for TFAP meetings (para. 3.1).



- 12 -
III. BANK INVOLVEMENT IN THE SECTOR AND LESSONS LEARNT
Bank Involvement in the Sector
3.1       A Bank forestry sector identification mission in 1985 discussed
sectoral priorities with GOI, which resulted in the Bank's first forestry
project, the Forestry Institutions and Conservation Project (FICP),
emphasizing institutional strengthening, sectoral policy improvement,
information collection for better forestry sector planning and conservation
efforts. The Project is in the second year of its implementation and progress
is good. The main achievements of the first project have been in policy and
institutional reforms, particularly fiscal and concession policy (Annex 1).
These reforms include:
(a) Research. A forestry research council was established in October
1988 and a dialogue has been started with private sector,
universities, and other Ministries to define research priorities
more sharply in line with user requirements.
(b) Fiscal Policy. GOI has announced 150 percent increase in the level
of taxes/royalties from $4 per cu m of round log in early 1989 to
$10 per cu m by June 30, 1990;
(c) Inventory. A forest inventory users group including all the
Directorates-General in MO0 and private sector, has been set up to
improve the relevance of information collection and its
dissemination;
(d) Nature Conservation. A Directorate of Extension has been set up to
encourage broader participation in conserving and managing forest
resources.
Ce) Industrial Policy. In the wood industry sector, GOI has also
adopted a policy of increasing production value through improved
efficiency and value-added activities rather than through the
processing of more logs.
(f) Coordination. Inter-Departmental coordination committees have been
set up to improve coordination of policy and operations regarding
watershed conservation, environmental protection, and control of
shifting cultivation.
(g) Concession Policy. MOF has announced several measures to improve
concession management, including strengthening of inspection,
integration of concessions and processing, and restriction on annual
log extraction to a level of 32 million cu m. The forestry sector
policy studies have demonstrated serious problems in logging and
recommended better enforcement of environmental guidelines, and
strengthening of technical capacity of concessionaires. Support for
this is proposed under the proposed project.
(h) TFAP. GOI has organized a Tropical Forestry Action Program (TFAP)
discussion in May 1990 based on strategies and action plans now
being developed under Bank assisted FICP I; and



- 13 -
(i) Reforestation. GOl has announced improved land lease arrangements
for forest plantations, according to which leases will be granted
for 35 years and can be extended to 70 years.
3.2       Along with the FICP I, the Bank also initiated an environment sector
study focussing on land, water and forest management issues in 1987 and
following discussions in 1988 a grey cover sector report was issued in 1989
(Report No. 7822-IND of June 5, 1989). The project and sector report
recommendations were consistent.
Lessons Learnt from Previous Forestry Projects
3.3       While no evaluation report for a forestry project in Indonesia is
available as yet, several such reports have been completed for Bank-assisted
forestry projects in other countries, such as the OED report No. 7952 of
June 30, 1989 for an Ivory Coast Forestry Project (Loan 1735-IVC), and the OED
Report No. 7953 of July 29, 1989 for a Mali Forestry Project (Credit 0883-
MLI).  These evaluation reports have common themes which are also applicable
to forestry sector operations in Indonesia. For example, experience with
these forestry operations point to the need for a more thorough market
evaluation before investments are made in forest plantations. In some cases,
as for the Mali 'roject, they also suggest a more thorough Leview of land
tenure status and resolution of any conflicts before investments are made.
The need to ensure active participation of the local people is also one of the
common themes. These lessons, which are also applicable to Indonesia's
situation, have been taken into account in formulating Bank's assistance
strategy for the forestry sector in Indonesia.
3.4       While the initial request from MOF was for Bank support for a
$400 million project, about half of which was for forestry plantations, the
Bank and the Government have now agreed on a more cautious and phased
approach, in line with the lessons learned from other Bank supported forestry
projects (para. 3.3). Accordingly, the proposed project includes a thorough
evaluation of site specific land tenure and marketing problems for
reforestation (forest plantation) investments.
Rationale for Future Bank Involvement and Proposed Strategy
3.5       A strong forestry sector is important to the Indonesian economy
because of its role in export earnings, Government non-tax revenues, rural
energy consumption, and environmental protection. The Bank supported FICP I
has progressed well, and the studies done under the project have pointed to
the urgent need to improve concession management and revenue collection from
the forestry sector. The results from the first project have also pointed to
the need for improved planning of reforestation and conservation activities,
and for an accelerated program in forestry research to improve the technical
basis for concession, reforestation and conservation management programs. The
proposed project will help implement the recommendations emerging from the
first project. The Bank is well placed to assist in the continuing policy.
fiscal and institutional reforms in the sector, and the Bank's association
with the proposed project will provide a suitable vehicle for such assistance.
Bank's assistance strategy within a policy matrix framework is described in
greater detail in Annex 2.



- 14 -
3.6       The Bank is also planning a Land Resource Planning and Management
Sector Report (FY 91) which will review forestry land use planning and
allocation policies and procedures within the framework of a multi-sectoral
national land/spatial planning. Support for watershed protection, which also
involves agriculture, is planned tb ough a free-standing watershedluplands
project (FY 93).
IV. THE PROJECT
Project Obiectives and Strategy
4.1       The primary objectives of the proposed project are to reduce the
pace of deforestation and to sustain and maximize long-term benefits from the
forest resources in Indonesia. Strategies to achieve these objectives
include:
(a) Better management of production forest (concessions) to reduce
logging damage and to sustain the productive and regenerative
capacity of these forests for the longer-term;
(b) Increase in resource mobilization for national development and
reforestation through improved collection of forestry royalties and
fees;
(c) Improve the efficiency of future reforestation activities through
improved site selection and planning;
sd) Improve the technical basis for reforestation and concession
management through applied and adaptive research; and
(e) Improve the management of nature conservation areas through better
planning.
Project Description
4.2       The proposed project will include the following components:
(a) Concession Management and Inspection. Logging damage to forests and
environment in forest concession areas would be reduced through:
(i) improvement of the management of forestry operations by
concessionaires of about 50 million ha of production forests,
including the training of managers and staff in better planning of
logging, skidding, and road construction; and the development of an
improved wood accounting system; and (ii) introduction of an
improved concession inspection and audit system, such system to
establish the amount of logs extracted as a basis for royalty and
fee assessment and collection, and to ensure that environmental
guidelines and appropriate silvicultural practices are followed;
(b) Reforestation. Indonesia plans to invest about $2 billion for the
reforestation of degraded lands. To ensure efficient and timely
investment, a national master plan for reforestation of about



- 15 -
10 million ha, including a review and evaluation of land tenure
status of sites, and incentive, financing and control mechanisms,
will be prepared;
(c) Forestry Research. Planning and management of research would be
improved through: (i) strengthening of the Borrower's Agency for
Forestry Research and Development by improving planning,
programming, monitoring, evaluation, financial and economic analysis
skills; and (ii) the first phase of a multi-phased plan for
establishment of a regional forestry research and training center at
Manokwari, Irian Jaya, including construction of buildings for
laboratory, staff housing and office and training facilities,
provision of related equipment and furniture, training of research
station staff and establishment of a forestry research program on
about 11 sites for research on forest ecology, silviculture, tree
improvement, fire protection and nature conservation, including
livelihood needs of the local people, through the active
participation of the people therein.
(d) Conservation. The National Conservation Plan for terrestrial and
marine conservation will be reviewed and revised. Improved
management and investment plans for ten national parks and buffer
zones around the parks will be developed, with active participation
of the local people. An integrated plan for the sustainable
multiple-use of mangrove forests and a conservation management plan
for a mangrove reserve will be prepared; and
(e) Policy Advisory Service. The Minister of Forests' policy
formulation and his supervisory duties will be assisted by the
provision of a highly qualified and experienced resident forestry
advisor, and short-term technical assistance.
Concession Management and Inspection
4.3       The proposed concession management component will have two parts:
(a) extension support for improved management of forestry operations by
concessionaires; and (b) inspection and audit of concessions to ensure that
forestry operations are being done in an environmentally sound and sustainable
manner and that logs are measured and accounted for accurately to provide a
sound basis for collecting Government revenues. The improved concession
management and inspection systems will initially be implemented in the three
provinces of Riau, East Kalimantan and Maluku and then extended country-wide.
4.4       Concession Management.  Technical and operational guidelines for
improved planning of logging, skidding, and road construction will be
developed. This will be used for training and extension of improved skills to
concessionaire's managers and staff. A simple but fairly accurate wood
accounting system would also be developed to improve internal control of wood
flow by concessionaires. To this effect, the project will provide 58 months
of internationally recruited expert services, and 68 month of locally engaged
expert services. The detailed TORs are in Annex 3.
4.5       Concession Inspection and Audit.  The proposed project will develop
and introduce improved concession inspection and audit system to ensure that



- 16 -
environmentally sound and sustainable logging and log extraction techniques
are followed by concessionaires, and also to ensure that they report on log
extraction volume accurately. In view of the current shortage of well trained
field staff within MOF, an external inspection service will be engaged as an
interim measure to carry out inspection and audit while MOF field staff is
trained. The inspection service will use a mixture of remote sensing, aerial
photography and on-ground field checks in forests, transport nodes and in
mills to establish the amount of logs extracted as a basis for royalty and fee
assessment and collection, and also to ensure that environmental guidelines
and silvicultural practices are followed. As inspection services play a
crucial role in the success of this project and given constraints on GOI's
ability to make significant increases in the MOF's budget, some Bank financing
of the recurrent expenditures is desirable, to ensure that the necessary funds
are available during the critical start-up phase. Accordingly, the proposed
project provides financing for 85 percent of the recurrent cost up to June 30,
1992 and 45 percent thereafter.
Reforestation (Forest Plantations)
4.6       To ensure that GOI's plan for reforestation of degraeed and
deforested land is carried out efficiently, a national master plan for
reforestation of about 10 million ha will be prepared after assessing the
suitability of alternative sites from environmental (both ecological and
social), market and economic perspectives. Land tenure status of sites will
be evaluated to assess availability of sites. The incentive, financing and
control mechanisms will also be reviewed and improved upon to ensure that the
planned $2 billion in investments is carried out in an efficient and
environmentally sound manner. The plans will be prepared at two levels,
national and provincial. For this purpose, existing land capability and land
use information for degraded and deforested lands will be assembled in a
computer (PC) based Geographical Information System (GIS), and the information
updated based on recent remote sensing information (LANDSAT V and SPOT)
acquired under FICP I. Computers are commonly used in Indonesia in general
and HOF in particular. Therefore, the proposed technology is appropriate to
local conditions. Decision rules and criteria will be developed and
introduced for efficient site selection using GI$ data. A system of regular
updating of the data will also be established to keep the information current
and relevant. Separate plans will be developed for conservation oriented
reforestation and the production oriented plantations. At negotiations,
assurance was obtained that the reforestation plan and proposals for improved
incentives, financing and control mechanisms will be completed for 1.5 million
ha by October 31, 1991, and for the remaining 8.5 million ha by October 31,
1993. These proposals and plans will be discussed with the Bank and
subsequently implemented after taking into account comments from the Bank.
The detailed TORs are in Annex 4.



- 17 -
Forestry Research
4.7       The forestry research component of the proposed project will be
implemented as a part of a continuing long-term institutional development
program and would support GOI's efforts to further strengthen the Agency for
Forestry Research and Development (APUD)'s research management through
specific actions to improve planning, programming, monitoring, evaluation,
financial and economic analysis skills. Planning and management of research
will be improved by developing a research master plan focused on high priority
needs. Management reforms will be implemented by making the forestry research
council and its policy unit operational. At negotiations, assurances were
obtained that the research council will meet at least twice a year, and that
minutes of council meeting will be provided to the Bank within one month of
the meeting. Research information communication will be strengthened through
seminars, workshops and collaborative research trials with concessionaires.
4.8       In support of a change in GGI's policy to re-orient forestry
research towards the Outer Islands and Eastern Indonesia, where most
(95 percent) of Indonesia's forests are located, the proposed project will
support the first phase of a multi-phased plan for the establishment of a
regional forestry research and training center in Irian Jaya, at Manokwari.
For this, 6,800 sq mt of buildings for laboratory, staff housing and office
and training facilities will be constructed. Equipment and furniture will be
provided. Staff for the research and training center (about 20) will be given
further training. Eleven research plots, for research on forest ecology,
silviculture, tree improvement, fire protection and nature conservation,
including livelihood needs of the local people through active participation of
the people therein, will be established. Short-term technical assistance (71
months will be provided) for establishing research program, and for on-the-job
training of research staff.
Conservation
4.9       Currently, there is a keen interest amongst donor community to
assist 001 with the implementation of conservation oriented projects, but
often GO0 is unable to make use of the assistance because of a lack of well
prepared projects. The proposed conservation component will be designed to
fill this gap, by (a) reviewing and revising National Conservation Plan for
terrestrial and marine conservation; (b) developing a better and perhaps lower
cost management and investment plan for ten high priority national parks and
buffer zones around the park with active participation of the local people;
and (c) improving conservation of wetlands through the development of an
integrated plan for mangrove conservation and by strengthening PHPA capacity
to implement mangrove forest conservation. The national park and wetland
conservation components are described in greater detail below.
4.10      National Parks Investment.  The ten selected parks are well
distributed throughout Indonesia and are representative of different bio-
geographic zones, both terrestrial and marine. They include two each in Java
(Gunung Gede, Pulau Seribu); Sumatra (Vay Kambas and Bukit Barisan);
Kalimantan (Tanjung Puting and Kutai); Irian Jaya (Teluk Cendrawasih, and
Wassur) and one each in Sulawesi and Maluku (Lore Lindu and Manusela). Other
high priority national parks such as Kerinci Seblat and Bunakan have not been
included since they are expected to be covered in other projects. For the



- 18 -
proposed ten parks, while investment plans exist, in most cases they tend to
be too ambitious and expensive. At negotiations, assurance were obtained that
these investment plans will be scaled down to more manageable size consistent
with environmental carrying capacity and operations and maintenance funding
realities. Buffer zone proposals will also be developed, where needed, to
ensure that needs of local people, including the collection of firewood by
women, are met without having to encroach on the nature reserve. NGOs were
consulted during the design of this component, and it is expected that they
will also be involved during the review of management plans.
4.11      WetlandlMangrove Conservation.  Indonesia's wetlands have enormous
importance both from economic and bio-diversity conservation points-of-view.
In particular, mangrove swamp forests are important for protecting coastal
areas from erosion and also for rearing marine and brackish water fishes which
support Indonesia's important export oriented (1989 exports of about
$800 million) fisheries industry. The mangrove swamps are threatened because
of over-exploitation by mangrove chipping, charcoal, and aquaculture
industries. The proposed project will develop an integrated plan for
sustainable multiple-use of mangrove forest in conjunction with local
communities and NGOs, to be available for Bank review by September 30, 1991
(Annex 9). Conservation management plan for a mangrove reserve will also be
developed and its first phase implemented. Guidelines will be developed by
consultants for use by MO0 staff.
Policy Advisory Service
4.12      The proposed project will strengthen policy formulation and
implementation by providing a highly qualified and experienced resident
forestry advisor to the Minister for a period of three years. The advisor
will assist with policy review and ensure that the Minister is presented with
views not only from within the Ministry, but also from other sectors such as
finance, industry, agriculture, planning, NGOs, as well as newly emerging
global concerns regarding protection of tropical forests and environment which
could affect future development of the forestry sector. The advisor will be
resident in Indonesia for three years. Short-term specialist assistance of
about 24 months will be available for analysis of specific policy issues.
Role of Women
4.13      Women forestry specialists are also employed by MOF in all areas of
forestry, but very few of them are at managerial level. At negcotiations
assurances were obtained that MOF will (a) review the participation of women
forestry specialists as a part of the ongoing Human Resource Development
Study; and (b) give satisfactory representation to women in the selection of
candidates for foreign training in forestry research under the proposed
project.



- 19 -
V.  PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
Proiect Costs
5.1       The proposed project is estimated to cost Rp 59 billion
($33.1 million) of which Rp 5.7 billion is in duties and taxes, and
Rp 26.4 billion ($14.7 million) in foreign exchange (Table 5.1). Base costs
are calculated on March 1990 prices based on recent quotations. Physical
contingency estimates range between 5 and 10 percent for an overall average of
about 7 percent. Price contingencies are based on estimated annual local
inflation of 7 percent (1990), and 6 percent thereafter; and estimated annual
foreign inflation of 5.4 percent (1990), and 4.3 percent thereafter.
Table 5.1s PROJECT COSTS SUMMARY
RD Billion              $ Million          Z       S
Local  Foreign  Total  Local  Foreign  Total  For.   Base
Rxch. Cost
Research                 10.0      7.3   17.3      5.6    4.0      9.6     42    36
Concession Management   11.6       7.5   19.1      6.5    4.2    10.7      39    39
Forest Plantations        2.4      3.4    5.8      1.4    1.9      3.3     58    12
Conservation              2.0      2.5    4.5      1.1    1.4      2.5     56     9
Policy Advisory Service  0.4       1.5    1.9      0.2    0.8      1.0     79     4
Total Base Costs       26.4     22.2   48.6    14.8   12.3    27.1       46   100
Physical Contingencies   2.2       1.5    3.7      1.2    0.8     2.0      40     8
Price Contingencies       4.3      2.8    7.1      2.4    1.6      4.0     39    15
Total Costs la         32.9     26.5   59.4    18.4   14.7    33.1       44   122
/a   Includes taxes, duties and reserved procurement amounting to $4.3 million
equivalent.
Financing
5.2       The proposed IBRD loan of $20 million will finance 70 percent of
total project costs net of duties and taxes ($3.2 million) and reserved
procurement ($1.2 million). The loan will finance 86 percent of foreign
exchange and 40 percent of local costs, and will be at the Bank's standard
variable interest rate for a term of 20 years including 5 year grace (Table
5.2). GO0 has agreed to contribute $0.5 million as an untied grant for the
project. A condition of effectiveness of the loan will be the effectiveness
of the Japan Grant Agreement. ITTO has approved a grant of $3.8 million out
of which about $0.8 million will be used for overseas training under the
project.



- 20 -
Table 5.2: FINANCING PLAN
($ million)
IBRD       GOJ         GOI        ITTO
Amount  2 Amount  1 Amount   2 Amount 2    Total
Civil Works                     3.0   55                 2.4   45                5.4
Equipment and Furniture         1.5   71                 0.6   29                2.1
Planting costs                  0.7   60                 0.5   40                1.2
Inspection                      5.0   52                 4.7   48                9.7
Vehicle                                                  1.4  100                1.4
Incremental Operating Costs                              1.3  100                1.3
Technical Assistance            6.8   83    0.5   6    0.9   11                  8.2
Training                        3.0   79                             0.8  2    33.1
Total                        20.0   60    0.5   2   11.81a 36    0.8  2    33.1
Table 5.3: PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS /a
($ million)
Procurement Method
ICB     LCB     Other      NA     Total
Civil Works                                    5.4                         5.4
(3.0)                      (3.0)
Equipment and Furniture                0.8     0.8       0.5               2.1
(0.7)   (0.5)    (0.3)              (1.5)
Planting costs                                           1.2               1.2
(0.7)             (0.7)
Inspection                                               9.7               9.7
(5.0)             (5.0)
Vehicles lb                                              1.4               1.4
(0.0)             (0.0)
Incremental Operating Costs                                      1.3       1.3
(0.0)    (0.0)
Technical Assistance                                     8.2               8.2
(6.8)             (6.8)
Training                                                         3.8       3.8
(3.0)    (3.0)
Total                                0.8     6.2      21.0     5.1      33.1
(0.5)   (3.5)   (12.8)   (3.0)   (20.0)
/a   Costs are inclusive of contingencies, duties and taxes.  Figures in parentheses
indicate expected disbursement from the proposed Bank Loan.
/b   Reserved Procurement.



- 21 -
Procurement
5.3       Procurement arrangements are summarized in Table 5.3 and discussed
below.
5.4       Civil Works ($5.4 million).  These consist of small office
buildings, housing and associated infrastructure, scattered over several
sites. These works will be procured following LCB procedures in which foreign
contractors are eligible to participate. LCB procedures are justified because
these works are small and scattered, contract sizes are expected to be of less
than $2.0 million each.
5.5       Equipment and Furniture ($2.1 million).  About $0.8 million worth of
equipment will be procured following ICB procedures in accordance with Bank
Guidelines. In bid comparison the domestic manufacturers will be allowed a
15 percent preference or the level of import duties, whichever is lower.
$0.3 million worth of office furniture is small in size, Indonesia is a low
cost producer and exporter of furniture. with many suppliers ensuring
competition. Therefore, LCB procedures in which foreign suppliers will be
eligible to participate will be the most cost-effective procedure and will be
followed. Small contracts for equipment, each of less than $200,000 in value,
will also be procured following LCB procedures. Procurement of small off-the-
shelf items, each of less than $20,000 in value, will be procured after
inviting quotation from at least three suppliers. These will not exceed $0.5
million in total value.
5.6       Forestry Research Plots ($1.2 million). This will consist of tree
planting and nursery activities of Government forestry research agency at
scattered sites using hired labor at GOI's standard wage rate (i.e. the
relevant local market wage rates) and procedures which are considered
satisfactory to the Bank.
5.7       Inspection Services ($9.7 million).  The inspection services will be
procured after inviting proposals from prequalified firms following Bank
Guidelines for hiring of consultants.
5.8       Vehicles ($1.4 million).  Following GOI regulations, vehicle import
is not permitted, and the project will procure locally assembled vehicles.
Because of reserved procurement, these vehicles will not be financed by the
Bank. In addition, at negotiations, assurances were obtained that vehicles
will be provided in accordance with the schedule in Annex 7.
5.9       Other ($13.3 million).  Consulting services ($8.2 million) will be
procured following Bank Guidelines for hiring of consultants.
Training ($3.8 million) will be at institutes acceptable to the Bank. The
remaining costs ($1.3 million) will be for incremental operating costs.
5.10      Contract Review.  After an initial review of standard civil works
bidding documents by the Bank for LCB contracts, only bidding documents for
contracts estimated to exceed $500,000 will be reviewed prior to issuance.
This will result in prior Bank review of four documents covering about
80 percent of the value of contracts. Similarly for equipment, all bidding
packages estimated to cost over $200,000 will be reviewed prior to issuance.
This will result in Bank review of two documents covering over 60 percent of



- 22 -
the value of contracts. All consultant contracts will be subject to prior
review by the Bank. The remaining contracts will be reviewed on a random
basis after award of contracts.
Disbursements
5.11      Disbursements under the proposed IBRD loan are expected to be
completed by June 30, 1995, about five years after Board Presentation. This
Is somewhat shorter than the typical disbursement period for agricultural
projects in Indonesia, and forestry projects Bank-wide. The shorter period is
expected, because of the better than expected disbursement performance under
FICP I and the smaller size of the proposed project which will simplify
project implementation (Annex 7).
5.12      Disbursements from the proposed IBRD loan will be made fort
(a) 55 percent of expenditures on civil works;
(b) 100 percent of foreign expenditure; 100 percent of local
expenditures (ex-factory cost); and 65 percent of other goods
locally procured;
(c) 60 percent of planting costs under the forestry research program;
(d) 85 percent of expenditures on inspection services up to June 30,
1992, and 45 percent of expenditures, thereafter;
(e) 100 percent of expenditures on technical assistance; and
(f) 100 percent of expenditures on training.
5.13      Disbursements for training ($3.0 million), and research plots
($0.7 million) will be based on Statements of Expenditures (SOB). In
addition, disbursements ($0.5 million) for the purchase of items of less than
$60,000 (para. 5.5) will also be on the basis of SOEs. These SOEs will be
prepared by MOF and detailed documentation will be kept at headquarters in
Jakarta. At negotiations, assurances were obtained that these SOEs will be
audited and that the supporting documentation will be made available to the
Bank for review during supervision. Disbursements for other components
($15.8 million) or 79 percent of loan amount will be based on fully documented
withdrawal applications.
5.14      To facilitate disbursement administration, loan withdrawal
applications will be aggregated as far as possible, and will not be for less
than $50,000 equivalent. In addition, a Special Account (SA) will be set up
in the Bank of Indonesia (BI) with a maximum of $1.0 million, equivalent to
about four months' disbursement.



- 23 -
Accounting and Audits
5.15      Separate project accounts, clearly indicating the various sources of
receipts and expenditures by functional categories for their respective
project components, will be maintained by MOF in Jakarta. The accountlng and
internal audit procedures of MOP is satisfactory. MOF has an internal audit
office which continuously audits its accounts. Strict budget control is
maintained based on standard unit costs, and expenditure beyond budgeted
amounts is difficult. As required by GOI regulations, MOF accounts are
audited annually by the Directorate of State Accountancy (BPKP). At
negotiations, assurances were obtained that unaudited project accounts and
SOEs will be submitted for audit and to the Bank within five months of fiscal
year-end, and the audit report made available to the Bank within nine months
of the fiscal year. The report would include a separate auditors' opinion on
SOE, verifying that the related expenditures were made for the agreed purposes
of the project.
VI. ORGANIZATION, MANAGEMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION
6.1       General.  The proposed project will be implemented by the Ministry
of Forests (MOF).
Coordination
6.2       MOF will have the overall responsibility for project coordination,
and for this purpose a Project Coordination Committee (PCC) has been set up,
with the Minister as Chairman and the Directors General and Agency heads as
members. A project liaison office has been formed under the Director of
Planning. This office will help implementing agencies in: (a) solving any
problems concerning project accounting, budgeting and procurement procedures;
and (b) channelling disbursement requests and progress reports to the Bank.
Furthermore, the policy coordination relating to the forestry sector will be
improved by expanding the Joint Ministerial Forum for Forestry Development,
consisting of the Ministries of Forests, Public Works, Agriculture,
Transmigration and Industry, by including, inter alia, the Ministries of
Population and Environment and Manpower.
Forest Concession Management
6.3       The Directorate General for Forest Utilization (PH) will be
responsible for the implementation of forest concession management component.
Under the Secretary PH, Project Planning and Implementation Unit (PPIU) will
be responsible for procurement of goods and services. The external inspection
service will report to the Director General through the Director of Forest
Production. At negotiations an assurance was obtained that a contract
satisfactory to the Bank for the inspection services will be signed before
December 31, 1990.
Reforestation
6.4       The Directorate General for Reforestation and Rehabilitation (RRL)
will be responsible for the implementation of the Forest Plantations



- 24 -
component. Within RRL, the industrial plantation plan will produced by the
Directorate of Industrial Plantations, and a plan for the reforestation of
degraded forest lands will be the responsibility of the Directorate of
Regreening and Reforestation. The Secretary RRL will ensure coordination and
will also head a PPIU for RRL. At Provincial level, Kanwil 1/ as the
representative of MOF, will be responsible for technical coordination. The
Secretary RRL as head of PPIU will organize regular review meetings.
Forestry Research
6.5       The Agency for Forestry Research and Development (AFRD) will be
responsible for the implementation of the Forestry Research Component. Within
APRD, the Director of the Center for Forestry Research and Development will be
responsible for the development of facilities in Irian Jaya, and related
training and technical assistance. The Secretary of AFRD will be responsible
for coordinating the preparation of a master plan for forestry research. At
negotiations, an assurance was obtained that consultants for the preparation
of forestry research master plan will be engaged prior to December 31, 1990.
Conservation
6.6       The Directorate General of Forest Protection and Nature Conservation
(PtPA) will be responsible for the Conservation component. The Director for
National Park will be responsible for the National Parks component, and the
Director for Nature Conservation for the Mangrove Forest Conservation
component. The Secretary PHPA will head the PPIU for conservation and will be
responsible for overall coordination. PPIU will also be responsible for
engaging consulting services. At negotiations an assurance was obtained that
consultants for conservation will be hired before December 31, 1990.
Policy Advisory Service
6.7       At negotiations, an assurance was obtained that a highly qualified
and experienced resident forestry advisor will be appointed to the Minister's
Office by December 31, 1990 for three years to assist the Minister in policy
formulation and supervision. This advisor will report to the Minister on a
regular basis.
ProJect Implementation Plans and Status
6.8       The proposed project will be implemented over a four year period
starting July 1, 1990. Detailed terms-of-reference for key consultancies have
been prepared and agreed with GOI. The detailed design for civil works will
be prepared during the first year of the project for construction in the
second year. The implementation schedule for key project actions (Annex 9)
has been discussed with GOI and was confirmed at negotiations.
Monitoring and Evaluation
6.9       Project monitoring will be done by Project Planning and
Implementation Units (PPIU), and these have been already created for all
1| MOF's province level office.



- 25 -
project components. A project liaison office has been set up for overall
project monitoring and liaison with outside agencies. The PPIU and the
liaison office will issue quarterly progress reports showing physical
achievements of the project on indicators such as hiring of consultants,
number of persons trained, status of master plan preparation, forest revenue
collected, establishment of research plots, and infrastructure constructed.
These reports will also include explanations for major variations in plans,
expenditures and disbursements, as well as detailed plans for the next quarter
and any revisions in longer term plans.
6.10      Project evaluation will be done in several stages.  A mid-term
evaluation of the project will be started by September 30, 1992, and completed
by March 31, 1993. The evaluation report will review the implementation
experience of the proposed project, including but not limited to, cost-
effectiveness, timeliness, sustainability, and expected benefits and relevance
of the proposed project. It will take into account the experience gained,
including recommendations and detailed plans for carrying out the remaining
parts of the proposed project. A project completion report (PCR) will be
started by June 30, 1994, and completed not later than six months after loan
closing. In addition to recording physical and financial achievements of the
project and explaining major deviations from plans, these evaluation reports
will also assess quality of project outputs and the benefits that would accrue
from the project. At negotiations, appropriate assurances were obtained on
these reporting requirements and mid-term evaluation schedule. These reports
will be prepared by the project liaison office with assistance from PPIU, and
consultants.
VII. PROJECT IMPACT
Benefits/Cost Effectiveness of Institutional Strengthening Components
7.1       The benefits from institutional strengthening components are
typically large relative to costs, but such benefits are often difficult to
quantify. Therefore, during the project preparation/appraisal stage special
care has been taken to ensure cost effectiveness of proposed investments for
institutional strengthening. For instance, the initial proposal for forestry
research and training was for an investment of over $30 million. During the
preparationlappraisal stage, the cost was reduced by over 65 percent by
postponing lower priority activities. Similarly investments in construction
of facilities in national parks were postponed until a revised and more cost-
effective plan is prepared.
7.2       While the benefits from institutional strengthening components are
difficult to quantify, some attempt has been made to relate the size of these
components to the size of sectoral assets and investments, which will benefit
from these components. In all cases, efficiency increases of one percent or
less are sufficient to justify the costs of these components, and it is highly
likely that actual efficiency increases due to project components will far
exceed these levels.
7.3       Forestry Research.  The proposed investment in forestry research
will bring additional benefits by developing techniques for improved
productivity of both natural and plantation forests consistent with



- 26 -
environmental and social welfare considerations. Under current silvicultural
and logging practices, the Indonesian natural forests are estimated to produce
an average annual increment of about one cu m per ha, which is far below the
potential of such forests. Considering that Indonesia's production forests
are worth over $6 billion, even a one percent productivity increase due to
improved research efforts would bring benefits valued at over $60 million in
present value terms. This is far in excess of incremental forestry research
costs of about $10 million.
7.4       Concessions Manaement.  The FICP I studies have shown that more
than half of the 32 million ml log production is not reported for royalty
calculations. With improved inspection, log measurement and control the
potential revenue gain for the whole country will be over $200 million per
annum, and for Riau, East Kalimantan and Maluku, the additional revenue would
be more than $20 million per annum, which is far in excess of the cost of
inspection. Additional benefits will come from the sustainable management of
the production forest, and reduced rate of deforestation. The improved tax
collection system will create incentives for better utilization of wood.
These will produce incremental benefits which are estimated at over
$40 million per annum. This again is far in excess of the cost of concession
management.
7.5       Reforestation.  Improved planning of reforestation will improve the
efficiency of an investment program of about $2 billion. Even if the
efficiency increase were a modest 1 percent the resulting benefit of about
$20 million will be far in excess of the cost of improved planning
($3 million).
7.6       Conservation.  The proposed conservation component will have wide
ranging benefits. Improved investment planning is expected to reduce the cost
of Nationa' Park development by scaling down the ambitious park infrastructure
development plans, while enhancing conservation and benefits to local people
through more effective buffer zone development. The improved plans will also
help att.act grant funds for National park development. Additional benefits
are expected from the conservation of mangrove swamp forest. This includes
(a) protecting coastal areas from erosion; (b) rearing of marine and brackish-
water fish fingerlings which supports the important export-oriented fisheries
industry; and (c) providing fire-wood on a sustainable basis to local
communities.
7.7       The policy and implementation advisory component will assist MOF's
effort to broaden forestry sector policy planning and implementation effort by
involving a broader range of views and by attracting more external resource
for the implementation of important forestry sector programs for conservation
and sustainable use of forestry resources.



- 27 -
Pro3ect Risks
7.8       The main project risk would be the innovative nature of the
concession management component where an inspection agencies from the private
sector would be engaged to assist the Government in improving revenue
collection and compliance with environmental guidelines. While a similar
approach has been used for customs in Indonesia, this would be the first
approach in the forestry sector, and may encounter resistance and/or become
difficult to be established effectively. The risk will be minimized by
keeping project size small and starting with only three provinces initially.
The benefits/costs of the new system would be carefully monitored and
evaluated and the system will be expanded only after positive results are
convincingly demonstrated. There might be some delays in completing the
conservation plans that reflect adequately the views and needs of local
people. The Government of Indonesia will enlist the assistance of NGOs
community to facilitate the dialogue on these plans.
VIII. AGREEHENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
8.1       At negotiations, the following assurances were obtained and
incorporated in the Loan Agreements
(a) The reforestation plan and proposals for improved incentives,
financing and control mechanisms will be completed for 1.5 million
ha by October 31, 1991, and for the remaining 8.5 million ha by
October 31, 1993. The plans and proposals will be discussed with
the Bank and subsequently implemented after taking into account
comments from the Bank (para. 4.6)t
Cb) The forestry research council will meet at least twice a year to
review plan and progress, and the minutes of council meetings will
be provided to the Bank within one month of the meeting (para. 4.7);
(c) Plans for the parks will be consistent with environmental carrying
capacity and operational and maintenance funding realities, and the
plans for the buffer zones will improve the livelihood needs of
local people (para. 4.10).
(d) MOF will review (i) participation of women forestry specialists as a
part of the ongoing Human Resource Development Study; and (ii) give
satisfactory representation to women in the selection of candidates
for foreign training in forestry research (para. 4.13);
(e) Vehicles for the purposes of the project will be provided by MOF in
accordance with a schedule acceptable to the Bank, (para. 5.8);
(f) Contracts for inspection services, forestry research, policy
advisory service, and conservation will be signed before December
31, 1990 (paras. 6.3, 6.5, 6.6 and 6.7); and
(g) A mid-term evaluation of the project will be started by September
30, 1992 and completed by March 31, 1993 (para. 6.10).



- 28 -
8.2       A condition of effectiveness of the Loan will be the effectiveness
of the Japan Grant Agreement (para. 5.2).
8.3       With the above agreements, the proposed project is suitable for a
Bank loan of $20 million, at the Bank's standard variable interest rate, to
the Republic of Indonesia for 20 years, including a grace period of five
years.



- 29 -                           ANNEX 1
Page 1 of 2
INDONESIA
SECOND FORESTRY INSTITUTIONS AND CONSERVATION PROJECT
ProRress of PICP I (Loan 2930-IND)
The Forestry Institutions and Conservation Project (FICP) became
effective in July 1988, on schedule. Since then, the main achievements have
been in the areas of policy and institutional reform, in line with Bank pre-
appraisal and appraisal mission recommendations and conditionalities. These
actions includes
(a) Research. A forestry research council was established in October
1988 and a dialogue has been started with private sector,
universities, and other Ministries to define research priorities
more sharply in line with user requirements. As a result, an
agreement between OF and the industry association has been signed
regarding cooperation on forestry research. The Government has
adopted a plan which will progressively increase the participation
of private sector in funding of forestry research. Under this
improved policy framework increased support for research is now
needed;
(b) Fiscal Policy. GOt has announced 1502 increase in the level of
taxesiroyalties from US$4 per m3 of round log in early 1989 to US$10
per m by June 30, 1990;
(c) Inventory. A forest inventory users group including all the
Directorate-Generals in MO0 and private sector, has been set up to
improve the relevance of information collection and its
dissemination. In addition, the first phase of national inventory
was started this year and is expected to be completed by 1990;
(d) Nature Conservation. A Directorate of Extension has been set up to
encourage participation in conserving and managing forest resources
in cooperation with the Forestry Department, and consultants have
been engaged to develop proposals for addressing the needs of people
around park boundaries through buffer zone development. This
provides the basis for expanded Bank support for nature conservation
as suggested by the Environment Sector Report;
(e) Industrial Policy. In line with the pre-appraisal mission
recommendation, disincentives for the construction of pulp mills
have been removed, encouraging the broadening of industrial base.
In the wood industry sector, GOI has also adopted a policy of
increasing production value through improved efficiency and value
added activities rather than through the processing of more logs.
Following improvement in the policy framework, the Bank has provided



ANNEX 1
-30 -                             Page 2 of 2
a loan for the Industrial Restructuring Project (Loan 3040-IND of
June 1, 1989) vith support for pulp and paper industry;
(f)  Coordination.  Inter-Departmental coordination comuittees have been
set up to improve coordination of policy and operations regarding
watershed conservation, environmental protection, and control of
shifting cultivation. A joint inter-departmental conference was
held for the first time in 1989 to improve coordination;
(g) Concession Policy. The Minister has announced several measures to
improve concession management, including strengthening of
inspection, integration of concessions and processing, and
restriction on annual log extraction to a level of 32 million m3.
The forestry sector policy studies have demonstrated serious
problems in logging and recommended better enforcement of
environmental guidelines, and strengthening of technical capacity of
concessionaires. Support for its implementation would be provided
under the proposed FICT II; and
(h) TFAP. GOI has announced its intention to organize a Tropical
Forestry Action Program (TFAP) discussion in 1990 based on
strategies and action plans now being developed under Bank assisted
FICP.



Annex 2
Pegs I of 7
DOOEU
SECM  FORESIRY aIN   UTIINA amCNSEc^VATNN PSECT
,MFi   rUiCY NiRIX
Mor Policy Ar's             Oblestlvegflsse                     ON Actloee                        Beak Assistance
A. Forest Led Use         Forost lands servo tultiple       00C  has zoned torest lands      1. Bonk assisted Forestry
planning               objectives Including              in four categories nature          Institutions and Conservation
conservstion of genetic          conservation (13), watershed        Project (FICP) to helping
diversity, watershed pro-        protection (21K), production        to updatelinfonmtion through
tection for sustained water      (443) and conversion (22K), but    satellite imagry and ground-
supply  production of            based on out-datod informs-         truthing.
timebr and non-ttiber            tion. Consequently 19 M ha
forest products for use by       of lands classified as           2. Durlng proposed sector review
the industry *nd houshold.,      permanent forost area xre           of Land U   Pllnniana  nd
and as a source of ne            without forest covor whileo         men a onth   eonk would
agricultural lnnd to *cco-       15-19 M he of are   onod for        iissti  I;n clarifying
modate population increse,       agriculture Is under closed         Institutional roles In
canopy forest.                      land use planning.
1 An issue to whether foretry  00C  noods to:                     B. Proposed Second Forestry Insti-
lanismi planning In necoe-                                        tutions and Conservation
sery or It should be loft to  1. Udto forest informtion;          (FICP rn would assist In the
market forces. Because                                            preparation of a Hational
of oxternaities Involved      2. Prop4r new forest land           Master Plan for Forest
In eem of the functions         uiiijTins; and                    Plantations.
such as nature conserva-
tion and watershod pro-       3. ClnrTty Institutional
tection, 001 cannot rely         reponsibilittes for land
simply on pricing and            uso.  (G0  has formed a
merkst mochanisms  for           spatial/land uso planning
land allocation, and             coinission beaded by
zoning of foret lands Is         BAPPENAS Chaibran to
esential for environ-            roview this end other
mental reasons.                  land use planning isues).
2. A related Issu Is
whether MOF77rovinclal
Government, or newly
created WM s*hould take
the load In load use
pilnning. This Isou
wilI be examined during
a forthcoming sector
review.



Annex 2
Page 2 of 7
Kaw Policy  rea            AbIcieslssmee                            Actions                     Bak Assistance
S. Production Forest     The man objectivs are            00C  reconizes that there       1. Under FICP AMR with the
Concession Manage-    to provd wood products for       is a serious problem and           help or T;nsultants has
mast                  the  xport oriented forest       has accordingly *groed tot         roviewed Incentive/control
products industry (1968                                           _frameork.
export of usSf biio0n) and      1. Reviow concession systm
for local use on a *swstain-        ineontiv- and control          The main conclusions *ro:
ablo basis.  In the past,          framework.
production from concesions                                         a. The returns on Investment
has not beon on a sustainable    2. Strenstenf oreemont                In sustainable mngsm_nt
basis loading to a rapid rate      of concession agreements.          are mtarinal with substan-
of deforestation (one million                                         tial risk due to long rots-
ha per annum). This has                                               tIon eyclo In natural forest
raisd the Issue whether the                                           (80 to 80 years), and
concession ;i;im and Its                                              private investoro  ould not
Incentives framework Is                                               have the Incentive to Mnago
adequate, and how the systm                                           forest on a sustainablo
Is to be impleented.                                                  basis, even If the forests
wero givn on long loese or
sold.,
b. G0I should maintain natural
forest evnthough returns
are mrginal (around 101)
beoeues of the additional
non-quantifiable ewelron-
mental benefits; and
c. the concession system needs
to be enforced better, with
strongor limitation on areas
10oggd each yer.
2. Propos d fPl  Il wil hlp
imple mnt rleomndations
coming out trom )ncentivo/
polley studies under Forestry I
Project, lnitiolly In a few
Proinces and this will be
fine-tuned and expanded
under ftCP III Project.



Annex 2
Page 8 of 7
KAw Policy Ares             Objecttveflters             -01 Actioe                               O&ak Asstotancu
C. Fiscal Policy          the notion as the owner of       Following reconndations         1. Under FICP the fiscal policy
forest resource should it a    of Forestry I Project pro-           is beIng annlyzed and tn
tfar share of the rent fro       appra is l osslon, C0I             particular tho level of rent.
harvesting of forest. In         increased roforestation levy       Following confirmation of the
the pest 00G  collection of      by 76X In 1869, and has            level of rent further fiscal
rent wms poor, and amounted      announced a similar ineres     e  masures are possible.
to lose then USS1O/cu.- of       for 1990. The colloctlon
log compered with a rent of     of the tax noeds to be
USU3O to 40 cu.s  The texos/   Improved to reduce leakage        2. Under proposed FICP II
royalty woero baed on end       and to give Incentive for           A III tax collection system
product which did not give       better wood utilization.           would be strengthneod to
sufficient incentive to tho                                         reduco lakage, and a now
industry for bettor rw                                              system of moasuremnt of
material utilization,                                               area harvestod and logs
produced will be Introduced
snd tested.



Annex 2
Page 4 of 7
MoW POOtev ArIa             Oblott$_esu                        GO  Actign 1oank Assistsnc.
S. Trad PolIcy            Main 400 objectivoe are: sO? has banned export of               1. Undr FICP  Ohe tr   poliy
1. Increase Exports off iciently. los and seml-f isted             ain prticular the imac
rattan to consrve reourco         otog expert bn tn  ing
2. Consrve Roeeoure.            *nd encoure  local value            nalye. The tentativ  con-
added. At the ed of 1is9          clasion  are:
8. BSlene distrtions cauOs      001 also introduoe  a high
by tariff and non-tariff     export tax on onftine               . Log export ben resulted
briers on proceesed goode  swn wood with the sleiiar               In a rapid establishment
good  In importing coun-     objective. Whtile restrictions        of a modern  nd relatively
tries. For Instance,         on ratten and  n  wood                efficient plywood Industry
the main hardwood importing   export. are recent, log export       which has continue  to
country4 Japn  levies a       ban was fully effective In           incroee factor producti-
1CX teritf on import of      1986, and Its Impact ham now          vity of capitol and labor at
hardwood plywood, but no     bon evaluated (Bank assis-            rates hghor than in U.S.A.
tariff on log Imports.       tance pors. 1). GOt needs to          and Canad, and is therefore
The main istoo Is that        reduce protection by: (a)            a successful oxmplo of
whilo the objectives of      increasing raw  aterial price         intant Industry policy;
consorving reeources an      through higher rent eol Ie-
incresed value added are    tion; and (b) consider              b. Factor productivity of wood
god, there io a dangr         replacing non-tariff export          has not increed becaus
that Intfnt Industry pro-    barelor by tariff barretr,            fisal policy environment
tection could le1d to an                                           until 1989 was not
inefficiant industry,                                              supportive (pleas  se C);
and
c. Price of raw mterial should
be incroasd through higher
rent collection on raw
otterial to provide incen-
tive for batter mterial
utilization.
2. Unrder proposed FICP II A
Ill tax/royalty collection
woiuld be Improved.
S. A review of the iqact of trade
barriors on sawnwood and smi-
finihed rattan should be
carried out by the Bank after
a few years experience, pos-
sibly in 1991/92.



Annex 2
Pa" 5 of 7
_ s PolicS  Ares            Oblecti ve_lesoI                       Actton                       Bea  Assistace
E. Forestry Research     The main objective sro to        00G  ha. up to now concentra-    1. Undor FICP forestry reserch
Improve regeonrtion In logged  ted Ita reserch offort In           is b     'ing strengthoned In
over forest snd to Improve      Javs, whereas the min forest       Sumatra and K elTintan; and
production from forest          are amr in the outer
plantatioms.                     slands of Sumatra,             2. Under FICP  I, a regional
Kalimantan *nd Irian Jaya.         rerch *tntion .iI1 be
In the future, 00C  noeds to      constructed In Iran Jays.
put more emphasis on rsearch
In Sumatra, K limantan and
Irian Jays
I
w



Annex 2
Page 6 of 7
Kew Pollyc Area             Oblecthv.smues                      GOI Actions                      Bask Assistanc
F. Nature Conservation    The main objective Is tho        In the past 00e   hag paid      1. Under fICP fIve nationsl
protection otf_ genet  div e-    littie attention to naturo         park plans were reviewed
*Ity . *s*ource of genes for    conservation but devoloped          and *re now being imple-
agricultural1 medicine and       a series of national and           mented. Bufferzone
forestry research and dave-      More detailed protected            planning has also been started
lopmnt   The main issue is      area management pIne. Very          for the first timo ln
balancing nature conservation    few of the  have been              Indonesia.
needb with needs of Iocal        i plemonted.  Tho plans need
populotions that may be          to be reviewed/rovised to       2. Under proposed FICP II,
dependent on the resourco.       make thm more cost-o fec-          roviews and reformulation
tive and to make thm               of  dditional plans will
suitable for foreign funding       be done with a views to
and implementation.                Implementation under FICP III.
I



Annex 2
Pogo e of 7
SKu  Pollcy Ares            Oblfttlveeth  /Ia_                   GOI Acties                        aitsh AssIstam
G. Institutional          Main GOI objectivo ts to          Recognising these problems,      1. Bank assisted FICP Is helping,
Development Policy     establish functional and          MOf has: (1) Decided to             through  eries ot studies  to
effective Institutions           move staff to the main              identify tho  cop  and th
capable of formulating           forest greas In the outer           magnitud  of tasks that need
and Implementing resource        Islands and for this purpose,       to be undertakn for
utilization, conservation        regional rosearch and               Institutional Improvement.
and  anagement programs in       training centers have
line with the Coverneent's       been constructed in              2. FICP II will establish
policies.  The main problems     Sumatra and Kalimantan              systems which will be the
have been: (1) The               and one Is now planned              basis of future institu-
concontration of W F staff       for Irian Jaya;                     tional restructuring undor
In Java, whereas the main        (2) Roorganized the Ministry        tho Forestry III Project,
forest areas in tho outer        in 1988/89 *nd added new            and this will include a
Islands of Sumatra.              Directorate of Extension            comprehensive human resources
Kalimantan and Irian Jaya;       to improve services; and            devolopment progrom.
(2) MOF staff rolationship       (3) Started tho formulation
with local population has        of a comprehensive Human
been poor; and (3) MOF           Rosource Devolopment
staff devolopment has been       Plan.
poor because of a lack of
well thought out plan and
training needs assessment.
-J



- 38 -
ANNEX 3
Page 1 of 4
INDONESIA
SECOND FORESTRY INSTITUTIONS AND CONSERVATION PROJECT
TERMS OF REFERENCE
Introduction
1.   The Government of Indonesia has requested financial assistance from the
World Bank to implement a Second Forest Institutions and Conservation Project.
The Project aims to forest management, planning and conservation with an
objective of establishing and maintaining an economically and environmentally
sound resource management system. The project consists of five main
components:
(a)  Formulation and implementation of a Concession hanagement system;
(b)   Formulation of a Naster Plan for Plantation Establishment;
(c)   Formulation and revision of Nanagement Plans for Selected
National Parks and Wetland Areas;
(d)   Formulation of a Master Plan for Forest Research and Establishment
of a Research Station in Irian Jaya; and
(e)   Provision of a High-level Advisor to the Minister of Forest.
2.    This TOR deals with the Concession Management Component, which the
Government of Indonesia intends to implement under a contractual arrangement
with an eligible consulting firm.
Background
3.   Indonesia's  forest area is variously estimated at between 100 to 114
million hectares. Precise resource data is not available. Improved resource
assessment is now being done under the Bank assisted Forest Institutions and
Conservation Project (FICP Loan 2930-IND). The current annual output of
industrial wood produced from the Production Forest and Conversion Forest is
about 32 million m3. Utilization of the forest for production of commercial
wood is mainly undertaken by the private sector operating under concession
arrangements made with the Ministry of Forest (MOF). The concessionaires are
responsible for formulating general forest management plans, five year
development plans and annual operational plans in line with guidelines
provided by the MOF to ensure sustainability of resources and protection of
environment. MOF is responsible for allocation of concessions and monitoring
their utilization through its central (Directorate General for Forest
Utilization) and provincial organizations (KANWIL) in collaboration with the
Provincial Forest Departments (DINAS). The main objective of the control of
MOF is to ensure that the sustained yield management principles are observed,



-39-                           ANNEX  3
Page 2 of 4
environment is protected and revenues are realized.
4.    The studies carried out under the Forest Institutions and Conservation
Project have confirmed the observations of the Ministry that performances of
the concessionaires and the forestry organizations responsible for control
needs improvement. The main problem can be described in general terms that the
concessionaires are not observing governments guidelines thus results are:
decline in resource productivity, loss in government revenues and
environmental deterioration.
Objective
5.    In response to these observations the Government of Indonesia decided to
strengthen its concession management syst_m with the objective of establishing
an effective and comprehensive management system capable of capturing maximum
revenues based on accurate accounting of wood production and assessment of
true value of logs while ensuring that forest resources are utilized in line
with principles of sustained-yield management and environmental protection.
Strategy
5.    In view of urgency attached to the proper management of forest resources
and the anticipated time lag to improve present institutional capability the
Government of Indonesia decided to hire services of a firm to develop and
implement: (a) a wood administration (log accounting) system; and (b) forest
operations inspection system in the short run-and develop sustainable forest
management systems and demonstrate their implementation in the intermediate-
run. The ultimate objective of the Government is evolve the
short/intermediate-run institutions into more permanent ones. The firm,
therefore, is also expected to identify alternative long-term institutional
arrangements and provide training programs for all parties (public and
private) accordingly.
Descrintion of Task
6.    Design of Wood Administration (Log Accountina) System.  The consultant
will design and test a streamlined and cost effective log measurement,
recording and log flow control system. This system should provide relevant
information :
(a)   to verify that all logs, both in the forest and various points of
transfer, are produced from the trees marked and felled within the
coup area approved by the PH;and
(b)   to calculate volume of wood in terms of species groups, assortment
classes (i.e. sawlogs, peelerlogs, etc.) and quality classes as
specified by the rules and regulations issued by MOF in order to
establish a base for revenue calculation;
7.    The consultant will design and cost an organization (organization chart,
job description, qualification and experience of staff, infrastructure
requirement, means of mobility etc.) for the implementation of the system. He
will describe, in detail, procedures for scaling/log measurement, log
identification, recording, documentation for log transport, etc. He will also



-40-                       ANNEX  3
Page 3 of 4
describe methodology of determining intensity of control measures,
responsibilities of parties and remedies to be taken in case of nonconformity.
8.    Design of Revenue Assessment and Collection System. The Consultant will
review the current revenue collection system (royalties, Reforestation Fees,
etc.) and will formulate an improved Revenue Assessment and Collection System.
The Consultant will formulate methodology and procedures for estimating the
net value of the wood removed or cut in the concession in order to establish a
base for MOF and the concessionaire to agree upon their respective margins.
The methodology will describe sources of production data, production cost
information, and information to be used for assessing the market value of
logs. The related procedures will describe types of payments by the
concessionaire, time and frequency of payments, and recommend remedies in case
of breach of agreements.
9.    Design of Forest Operations Inspection System. The consultant will
review the present system of forest operation inspection as described by
various laws, decrees and orders and assess the effectiveness of its
implementation with a view of designing an improved and cost effective
inspection system. He will:
(a)   analyze and identify general and specific objectives of intended
control;
(b)   design model plans for; (i) General Forest Management Plan; (ii)
Five-Year Development Plan; and (iii) Annual Operation Plan,
define the purpose of the each plan and describe type of data
required, source of data, methodology of data processing and
format of report, specify qualifications and experience required
to prepare such plans and the procedures for plan review, approval
and revision;
(c)   design and describe in detail systems in terms of clear procedures
and methodology for the assessment of concessionaires performance
in implementing such plans, define remedies need to be taken in
case of breach and unauthorized deviations in implementing such
plans;
(d)   define organizational structure, in terms of organization chart,
personnel requirement, job descriptions, qualifications and
experience, equipment, mobility and infrastructure needs, specify
responsibilities and duties of parties .
10.   The consultant, after discussing and obtaining the approval of above
systems from the MOP, will implement (a) Log Administration System; (b)
Revenue Collection System ; and (c) Forest Operations Inspection System. For
this purpose he will prepare a general program consisting of detailed annual
programs described by:
(a)   concessions to be covered;
(b) staff to be employed;



- 41 -
ANNEX 3
Pate 4 of 4
(c)   type, number and timing of reports; and
(d) cost estimates.
Institution Building and Training
11.   The consultant after completion of the design stage will prepare a
perspective program for the development of the MOF institutions to supervise
concession management and,in cornection with this, the consultants will
prepare and implement, after discussions and approval of MOF and
the World Bank, a program to train staff of NOF and DINAS, concessionaires and
others regarding the implementation of above mentioned systems.
Timing
12.   The design stage is estimated to be completed within a period of six
months. Implementation will commence immediately after completion of design
stage following the reviews by the Government of Indonesia and the Bank and
approval by the Government and will continue fo- a period of three years.
Ltoca&in
13.   The MOF has selected two provinces; Riau, East Kalimantan and Maluku for
commencing implementation of the (a) Log Management System; and (b) Forest
Operations Inspection System. Full implementation of the Revenue Collection
System should be an integral part of above mentioned systems. However the
consultant should formulate a phased program to commence implementation of
whole or part of the Revenue Collection System in all provinces.



- 42 -
Annex 4
Page 1 o0 3
INDONESIA
SECOND FORESTRY INSTITUTIONS AND CONSERVATION PROJECT
NATIONAL MASTER PLAN FOR PLANTATIONS COMPONENT
Draft
Terms of Reference
Background
The Government of Indonesia (GOI) has requested financial assistance
from the World Bank (as Loan) and group of donors (as grant funding) to
implement a forestry project, The Forestry Institutions and Conservation II
Project (FICP II), of which preparation of the National Master Plan for Forest
Plantation is a component.
The objective of the Government is to improve forest management and
utilization practices, especially those carried out by the private sector
under concession management, and expand the productive resource base through
establishing new plantations. The Government policy in conducting economic
activity in forestry sector is to encourage private investment and management
in market related activities while retaining responsibility of sustaining
collective value and benefit stream from forest resources under the
responsibility of the Government, through the Ministry of Forest.
In view of steadily increasing local demand for wood products,
prospects for maintaining economic gains in serving world wood markets, and
the existence of large anthropogenic grasslands and degraded forest areas, the
Government wants to asses the potential of expanding its industrial wood
production base in order to adopt a long term development program. However,
available data on land resources in terms of location of land suitable for
plantation establishment, its production potential, and current use is not
adequate to ensure correctness of policies to be adopted and investments to be
supported. To remedy this the Governments wants to formulate a National
Master Plan for Forest Plantations.
National Master Plan for Forest Plantations
Objectives
The long-term objective of formulating a National Master Plan for
Forest Plantations is to sustain and expand economic activity supported by
wood products obtained from forest resources while repairing environmental
damages occurred by poor resource utilization practices in the past.
The immediate objectives are:
(a) to determine size, location, suitability of land for
establishing industrial plantations,
(b) to assess investment requirements;



- 43 -
Annex 4
rage z orT J
(c) to identify institutional, legal and procedural improvements;
and
(d) to establish a sustainable planning and monitoring system in
the headquarters of the Ministry of Forest as well at province
level.
Desin
The component would require execution in two stages. The first stage
would be:
(a) establishing a data base using existing information, especially
those generated by forest studies have been executed under the
on going Bank-assisted Forest Institutions and Conservation
Project;
(b) upgrading/enhancing this data base by developing species/sites
match information;
(c) developing management alternatives expressed in terms of
establishment technology, cost and yield;
(d) developing economic criteria and identification of social and
environmental constraints;
(e) designing a decision (problem solving) system by integrating the
above (economic criteria and constraints) into the data
(f) generating alternative long term development
options defined in terms of costs and benefits
(economic, financial, social and environmental);
(g) preparing a matrix to illustrate financial,
institutional, legal prerequisites for adopting a
given development alternative; and
(h) establishing National Master Plan for Forest
Plantations by training national staff on the job
and delivering a complete and sustainable system.
The second stage would be establishing program development capability
at provincial level in order to ensure implementation of the National Master
Plan for Forest Plantation as an integral part of the National Development
Plans (REPELITAs). This would be attained by:
(a) Building technical and institutional capability
for program/project preparation at province level;
and
(b) identifying formal linkages between provincial and
central agencies.



- 44 -
Annex 4
Page 3 of 3
,Personnel. To assist in formulating National Master Plan for Forest
Plantation of the FICP II the following inputs will be required:
- 81 staff-months of international personnel; and
* 124 staff-months of national personnel;
A detailed description of the Personnel inputs is included in Annex 4, Table 1.
£gauiment.  The consultant will prepare system specifications for GIS
to be installed at the headquarters and the equipment required at province
level. Procurement, installation and maintenance will be the responsibility
of the Government of Indonesia.
Irafrin±. The Consultant will have the responsibility of training
counterpart staff on the job. Consultant will prepare and execute training
courses and workshops for the provincial level system operators, surveyors and
professional staff to be engaged in the preparation of provincial level
prc;rams in the selected four provinces.
Renorting. Consultant will submit 3 monthly progress reports to the
Ministry of Forest and a Final Evaluation Report at the end of their contract.



_ 45 -                       ANNEX 5
Page 1 of 3
INDONESIA
SECOND FORESTRY INSTITUTIONS AND CONSERVATION PROJECT
RESEARCH COMPONENT
Terms of Reference
1.   Research Management Specialist
Location:         AFRD, FRDC, Bogor
Duration of
Assignment:     6 months
Qualification:    Post-graduate degree in Forestry or related subject
Experiences       Minimum of ten years experience in the management of
forestry research systems at both institutional and
national levels, preferably in a developing country.
Similar experience in a combined forestry and
agricultural institution or agricultural institution
alone may be judged appropriate. Knowledge of the
Indonesian language desirable.
Position:         Specialist in research management techniques, policy
guidelines, national level planning and implementation
strategies to prepare a policy and master plan for
forestry research in Indonesia; reporting through the
Director FRDC to Director General APRD.
Responsibilities: (a)  Assisting in the allocation, review and revision of
research priority ratings to ensure that research is
responsible to forestry sector goals and the long-term
developments plans of GOI;
(b) Constructing methodologies for improved cooperation
between AFRD, universities public corporations
(Inhutanis) and the private sector (concessionaires) in
the conduct of research programs;
(c) Preparing an initial Master Plan for forestry research
and setting a timetable and guidelines for its periodic
review;
(d) Developing a national Forestry Research System through
the integration of university, staff, the public and
private sectors, bilateral and multilateral technical
assistance teams, regional and subregional centers;



-46 -                         ANNEX 5
Page 2 of 3
(e) Encouraging multi-disciplinary approaches to research
problems and developing procedures for updating inter-
institutional research and networking arrangements with
regional and International research institutions;
(f) Exploring alternative sources for funding research
operating costs (taxes or levies on production,
contractual research, generation of funds from research
facilities and services);
(g) Exploring alternative institutional arrangements for
conducting forestry research including privatization or
forming a corporation to enable more flexibility in
setting salaries and budgets for research than is
currently the case within government service;
(h) Interacting with the high-level advisor the Minister of
Forestry (to be provided under the Project) on research
policy matters;
(i) Making effective the Research Council and Policy Unit
by suggesting changes in chairmanship, membership and
function and convening a meeting of the Council before
the end of the consultancy, to consider recommendations
and research policy and to present a draft Master Plan
for comments and suggestions by the Council.
2.  Research Plannina and Programming SDecialist
Locations         AFRD, FRDC, Bogor
Duration of
Assignments     2 years
Qualifications    Post-graduate degree in Forestry or related subject
Experience:       Minimum of 10 years experience in planning and
programming research activities. Knowledge of the
Indonesian language desirable.
Position:         Specialist to work with both the Director General, AFRD
and the head of the FRDC, Bogor on detailed planning
and programming of forest research.
Responsibilities, (a)  Implementing more effective research planning by
relating program to identified priorities;
(b) Arranging procedures for updating the Master Plan at
five-year intervals synchronized with Indonesia five-
year planning periods (in conjunction with the Research
Management Specialist, See No. 1 above, with whom there
should be at least two months overlap);



- 47 -                        ANNEX 5
Page 3 of 3
(c) Developing further a research management information
system, including a national research project
(computerized) for all traceable past, current and
planned projects at all institutions engaged in
forestry research in Indonesia (an inventory of
institutions and research workers reportedly has been
made).
(d) Improving the monitoring and evaluation of research by
introducing periodic external reviews and establishing
peer review committees at research institutions;
(e) Advising on personnel management and development
programs;
(f) Identifying training requirements for approved research
programs and administrative and service tasks;
(g) Advising on staff training, recruitment and
reallocation in response to program needs;
(h) Promoting the participation in research networking
arrangements with other research institutions both
national and international (in conjunction with and
following the departure of the Research Management
Specialist);
ii) Improving accounting and auditing practices
particularly for contract research (if this procedure
is adopted) and for projects funded by agencies
external to government;
(j) Devising standard proformas for planning, organizing,
staffing, directing and controlling research carried
out under different categories of funding;
(k) Assisting GOI with preparation of the research
component for World Bank Forestry III;
(1) Elaborating TORe for Consultants (outlines in
Appendix 2);
(m) Conducting on-the-job training for planning,
coordinating, accounting, reporting, research
information systems, management of contract research as
required; and
(n)  Improving communication of research results by
organizing a schedule of seminars and workshops for
government and industry.



- 48 -                       Annex 6
Page 1 of 10
INDONESIA
SECOND FORESTRY INSTITUTIONS AND CONSERVATION PROJECT
TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR NATIONAL PAMS INVESTMENT CONSULTANTS
The consultants selected to undertake work on the national parks
investment component of Forestry II, will consist of a small multidisciplinary
core team of expatriate experts, plus Indoensian consultants. The team would
systematically undertake the short term planning needs and be responsible for
the actual revision of management plans for 10 selected national parks. For
each plan the core team would be joined by PHPA counterparts drawn from the
park; these would be the same counterparts expected to work later with
implementation teams functioning under Forestry II or III. Planners from
PHPA's National Park/Recreation Forests would work closely with the core team
to monitor progress and also to gain experience needed to provide guidance
and evaluation for Indonesian consultants doing future plan preparation and
revision.
The core team would consist of the following members:
Proiect Manager-ex2satriate (12 months)
Oualifications: Extensive experience in natural resource
conservation project management, preferably in southeast Asia;
ideal background would include national park planning and
leadership of multidisciplinary teams; excellent communication and
leadership skills, cross-cultural sensitivity and the ability to
provide on-the-job training to counterparts.
SQooe of work
*A actively participate in a scoping workshop helping determine
priority ranking of national parks for potential investment
*    assume project leadership and assist in identification and
recruitment of remaining team members, manage project
finances and equipment, and coordinate necessary
administration
*   provide coordination of efforts of all team members, ensuring
their contributions meet project objectives, standards of
quality, and are produced on time
*   provide periodic progress reports to PHPA Directorates and
make necessary adjustments in the plan of operations
*   maintain necessary contacts with. the Conservation Advisory
Commission established under FICP II
*    actively participate in field activities as team leader



- 49 -                     Annex 6
Page 2 of 10
*    ensure timely production of updated management plans for the
10 selected national parks (such plans might include the
management prescription detailed in an appendix to this
annex) and their selective implementation as operational
plans under Forestry II
*   provide guidance to local consultants, particularly those who
may not be familiar with operational planning and national
park management
*   provide assistance and guidance as needed in pilot projects
to be implemented with funds in the present project
*   organize and delegate leadership in workshops where revised
management plans (operational plans) are presented to local
PHPA staff, officials and community leaders
*   provide on-the-job training to assigned PHPA counterparts
i   encourage commitment to management plan implementation by
PHPA providing legalized status of approved plans
Marine Park SDecialist-exnatriate (4months)
Oualifications: Extensive field experience in the planning and
management of tropical marine conservation areas, preferably in
southeast Asia; ideal background would include practical
experience in marine area tourism, facilities operations, and
multiple use management of marine buffer zones; cross-cultural
sensitivity and the ability to work within a team effort in both
office and field conditions are imperative; an ability to provide
on-the-job training to counterparts is required.
Sgogeof W£ork
*   serve as specialist team member under the leadership of the
Project Manager
*   provide the team's principal review and recommendations of
management plans for Pulau Seribu Marine National Park, Teluk
Cendrawasih (and additional areas as directed by the scoping
workshop) and selective implementation of the plans under
FICP II
*   provide recommendations on activities in other national parks
with significant coastal resources eg. Tanjung Puting
*   actively participate in team field work, providing leading
role where the study is related to marine resources



Annex 6
- 50 -                     Pg     0
*    provide assistance and guidance as needed if activities
within a marine area have been selected for implementation
with funds under the present project
*   participate in or lead one or more presentation workshops
designed to review final operational plans
*    provide on-the-job training to appropriate PHPA counterparts
Environmental Assessment Snecialist/Ecologist-local (8 months)
OualificAtions: Trained biologist or ecologist with experience in
the environmental impact review of development activities
programs, especially in ecologically-sensitive areas such as parks
and reserves; ideal candidate would be a biologist or natural
resources specialist trained in environmental assessment in a
variety of habitats in Indonesia; English language speaking and
writing ability is highly desirable; ability to function as a
member of a team both in the office and the field, and cross-
cultural sensitivity are essential.
Scope of Work
*    serve as specialist team member under the leadership of the
Project Manager
*    provide the team's basic expertise in the environmental
impact review of development activities in or proximal to the
priority parks (for example review of existing roads, trail
and building design engineering and habitat or species-
specific management and protection proposals)
*   provide major input on recommendations to proceed with or
modify activities proposed in the management plans
*    actively participate in the team's field work
*   provide specific recommendations for protecting environmental
values of parks with management plans for immediate
implementation
*    participate in or lead one or more workshops to present draft
operational plans in or close to the concerned parks
*   provide on-the-job training to assigned PHPA counterparts
Park Planner/Landacale Architect-local (8 months)
Oualifications: Experience in the design of physical facilities
for administration, protection and tourism within conservation



Annex 6
- 51 -                       Page 4 Ot 1u
areas in Indonesia; ideal candidate would be a trained landscape
architect with strong background in design of roads, trails and
buildings in ecologically sensitive areas, with special attention
to locally appropriate architectural styles and building
techniques; English language ability in speaking and writing is
desirable; cross-cultural sensitivity and the ability to function
within a team both in the office and the field are essential.
Scope of Rork
*   serve as specialist member of the team under leadership of
the Project Manager
*   provide the team's primary review of existing design
engineering studies, and assist in recommendations to accept
or modify such designs before implementation
*   assist the team in developing guidelines for future PHPA use
in contracting out design engineering work
*    actively participate in the team's field work
*   provide specific recommended design modifications for
protection of environmental values if physical development
activities in pilot parks are selected for immediate
implementation
*   participate in or lead workshops to present draft operational
plans in or close to the concerned parks
*   provide on-the-job training to assigned PHPA counterparts
Bufferzone Sgecialist-local 8 months
Qualifications: Experienced rural sociologist or social science
discipline related to rural development with sustained use
objectives; ideal candidate would have a background in multiple
use activities around conservation areas, a knowledge of
Indonesian rural social structures, and experience in involving
local residents and leaders in joint decision-making for resource
use; English language speaking and writing ability is desirable;
cross-cultural sensitivity and the ability to function within a
planning team in both the office and the field are essential.
Scope of WrkA
*    serve as a specialist team member under the leadership of the
Project Manager
*   provide the team's principle input in recommending practical
bufferzone management activities in the operational plans of



Annex 6
-52 -                           Page 5 of 10
the priority parks 'close coordination with Forestry I
bufferzone activities is essential)
*   provide recommendations for additional site-specific studies
and/or field testing trials of bufferzone alternatives to be
undertaken within Forestry III or other implementation phases
*    actively participate in the team's field work
*   provide specific recommendations on buffer zone activities if
such activities are selected for implementation in some areas
with funding from the bufferzone component under Forestry I
*   participate in or lead workshops to present draft operational
plans in or close to the concerned national parks
*   provide on-the-job training to assigned PHPA counterparts
Short Tero  Consultants-local (19 month)  -
Oualifications and Scone of Work: To be decided during the
project. Examples would include: advise on remote sensing
aquisition, community participation, fisheries management.



- 53 -
AN:EX 6
Page 6 of r0
INDONESIA
SECOND FORESTRY INSTITUTIONS AND CONSERVATION PROJECT
OUALIFICATIONS AND SCOPE OF WORK OF MANGROVE CONSERVATION CONSULTANTS
Project team Leader:
24 months; expatriate.
The team leader will be responsible for the scientific and technical
management and implementation of the project.
Specific tasks will include:
1.  To be responsible for the scientific and technical aspects of
project implementation as outlined in the project document.
2.   To coordinate and supervise the project activities.
3.   To coordinate project implementation with the PHPA and coordinate
cooperation with other Indonesian agencies and NGOs involved.
4.  To coordinate and manage the scientific and  counterpart project
staff.
5.   To develop workplans for all activities in conjunction with project
staff and counterpart agencies.
6.   To identify suitable Indonesian consultants for involvement in
execution and implementation of specialized project activities.
7. To consult and where appropriate develop cooperation with other
relevant wetland related projects of PHPA and AWB.
8.   To pay special attention to the integration and consideration of
related socio-economic and rural development aspects in project
implementation.
9.   To supervise the financial management of the project with assistance
from the resident administrative staff.
Oualifications recuired:
-    (MSc or equivalent in rural development sciences or equivalent
professional working experience.
-   At least five years experience of carrying out socio-economic
assessments and rural development in tropical coastal areas.



- 54-                         MTEX  6
Page 7 of 10
Reasonable understanding of principles of agro-forestry and/or
ecological processes in tropical coastal areas.
Experience in project development and coordination.
Fluent in English and proficient in Indonesian (or willing to
learn).
Experience in leading multi-disciplinary teams.
Coastal Conservation SDegialist
A total of 18 mouths; expatriate.
The Coastal Conservation Specialist will be responsible for development
of guidelines for mangrove conservation, coastal reserve management
planning and first stage infrastructure development for (reserve)
management for one key mangrove reserved.
Specific tasks will include:
1.   To establish criteria for the selection of an existing protected
mangrove area for conservation management planning.
2.   To select the site for management planning and implementation in
consultation and cooperation with PHPA and other relevant Indonesian
authorities and NGOs.
3.  To cooperate with the other team members and consultants in the
development of guidelines for mangrove management integrating
forestry exploitation, conservation and sustainable use of other
mangrove forest resources.
4.   Development of a conservation management plan including a detailed
bufferzone development and management design for the selected key
mangrove reserve in conjunction with local communities, NGOs and
authorities.
5.   To coordinate first stage reserve management implementation for
basic infrastructural development.
6.   To contribute and participate in the projects workshops and training
events, including on-the-job training of counterparts and reserve
management personnel.
7.   To regularly report on activities, scientific results, management
results and the cooperation with the local communities, NGOs and
authorities to the project team leader.



55 -                      A.MX  6
Page 8 of 10
Oualifications recuired:
-   MSc in natural sciences or equivalent professional working
experience.
-   Experience of information review, coastal wetland survey techniques.
-   Experience in bufferzone development/management.
-   At least one year's experience in tropical coastal wetlands.
-   Fluent in English and proficient (or willing to learn) Indonesia.
-   Experience in running field survey teams and report preparation.
-   Willing to work in difficult rural field conditions for long periods
of time.
Land-use 2lanning expert/conservation ilanner
A total 12 months; expatriate.
The land-use planning expert(s) will be responsible for the development
of guidelines for integrated land-use and conservation planning in
mangrove areas and will utilize and test these guidelines in two pilot
projects.
Specific tasks will include:
1.   To establish criteria for the selection of two key mangrove areas
for the implementation of integrated land-use and conservation
planning as outlined in the project document.
2.   To select the two mangrove sites for integrated land-use and
conservation planning in consultation and cooperation with PHPA and
other relevant Indonesian authorities and NGOs.
3.  To cooperate with other team members and consultants in the
development of guidelines for mangrove management, integrating
forestry exploitation, conservation and sustainable use of other
mangrove forest resources.
4.  To implement multi-sectoral land-use and conservation planning in
the two selected areas in conjunction with local authorities, local
NGOs and local communities and with assistance of Indonesian
consultants, using and testing the guidelines as outlined in the
project document.
5.  To contribute to and participate in the project's workshops and
training events, including on-the-job training of counterparts.



-56-                         ANIREX  6
Page 9 of 10
6.   To regularly report on activities, scientific results, land-use
planning results and the cooperation with Indonesian counterpart
agencies and local communities to the project team leader.
Oualifications required:
-    lMSc or equivalent in a discipline related to resource assessment and
land-use planning, or equivalent professional experience.
-   Thorough understanding of ecological processes in tropical coastal
areas.
-   Knowledge of principles of socio-economic evaluation.
Experience with community development and/or working with people
from developing countries.
-    Preferably fluent in Indonesian and English (or willing to learn).
- -Experience in running field survey teams and report preparation.
-   Willing to work in difficult rural field conditions for short
periods.
Local Consultants (Short Term)
A total of 24 months for Indonesian consultants is planned.
Specific terms of reference will be established by the project team after
site selection and preliminary inventory of problems and specialized
tasks. It is anticipated that a total number of 5 to 10 different
specialists will be employed as consultants on a short-term (1-6 months)
basis, pending needs for specialist input.
It is expected that consultancy input will be in the following
disciplines:
HltOxlogist:
Responsible for assessing the hydrologic functions of the selected sites,
and their contribution to maintaining important environmental services,
including: mitigation of storm and flooding hazards, maintenance of
groundwater resources, control of surface water flows, water pollution
control, etc.



- 57 -
A.1EX 6
Page 10 of 1U
Resource Economist:
Responsible for examining the social and economic significance of the
functions of the selected wetlands and the environmental and pecuniary
resources derived from them. An example of a specific case study might
be the assessment of the environmental and economic impact of extensive
shrimp pond siting in mangrove, or the impact of intensification of
shrimp pond production.
Fishery ExZert:
Responsible for assessing specific fishery functions of the selected
sites.
Soil Scientist
Responsible for assessing specific aspects of soils, in particular
potential occurence and impact of acidification.
Buffer Zone Management SRecialist
Assistance for the preparation of buffer zone management planning,
particularly in relation to the needs of local communities.



- 58 -
INDONESIA
ANNEX 7
SECOND0 FORESTRY INSTITUTINS AND CONSERVATION PROJECT Page 1 o 
PIROJEC  COSTS AnD DISUURDIZN
gattonal Ka trPMfrFrs   tns'j                                                                  ________01
Deswiplkx                                                   Qabstity               vat  it"    so" casu MRP mlion)                          ea. code, (US$ 00U)
Clod   coo
Uskt mm9  91Ml 92Ml 9319  TOW    USt   tRpM be                 19   91      9119   93194  TOW   90)9   9119   92)0   9319   TOWI
No        3              I                           100 321.?   324       0          0    116      70      0       0      0     10
no        3      3      3       3     33     110       9.9     20      20     30    333    217      37     17      I7     72    323
501111-                   304~U    2       3      3     is     23    300         3.3      4      S      II     1  23  3       2       3      2      1I    2)
Nbodhow"                       EA~LII        3      3         33I    223    im        9.0    21       21     27    117    t97      3  IS is       i      di    30
-&b-odd G A)                I      I              I        I           146 1   421   43   ~~~249174         304     3$      i         m  x
S.VoblaIas-4wdGI)             336.     ~~~4 t0       a1             Jo I    W.      u3s    199   310- -49           0    9W      m3    its   219    0    13
C. TonkiAl Asistan.
1. hillSa11gC
L3AmSp"IgILw                          W-.       38      33            24    314    3710        4.7   139    310    310    102  3050    305    M91391             90    19
ramowmamommis               W.cb       24     26                    40    2275       6.1    341    21S       0      0    23       el   3In        0      0    20
sawimbww                        1~W~    2     a2                    24    3371       4.3     73      73      0      0    345      41     41       0      0     91
So W -                            Wbk        32    32                     U4    3371       6.      73     71       0      0    341      41     41      0       0     el
SM1011114                  ~~WN1        9      9                    34    3371       4.3     49      49      0      0     97      37     21       0      0     36
Sm"Osim                                12~~..h   31 4               34    3371        .3     73    341       0      0    239      43     St       0      0    316
WdM*A8.Mbd                            wbu        33     32                    24    3371       4.3     73     73      0       0    145      41     43      0      0      to
ormalimp"m                 ~W.gB       32                           32    337        4.3     73       0      0      0      73     43      a       0      0     41
W~~~  9  9      9 ~~~~24    3315              46.3     49     49     49       0    345     27      27     2?      0      ft
SbdmdmreA                  ~welh       32    24    13               49      700       Is     Is      a0  s 3        a 0    s4             37      9      0     34
Swummindlud                  W.b        3     33     A3      24    340      700      13      Is      65     45     10    374       9      34     34     3?     9
1100611106114Wb                         2     33     A       24    340      700      3.3    35       45     G5     30    374       3     34      16     31     9
0I -    -0-                ~~wed       24     33     s  33    4    333      700      3.3    20       45     a      20    39"      17     16      36     31    104
CEWaM&                                   36'3           24     24     24       4      700      3.3    31      30     30      10    106      I      37     37    31       19
IFINIMAdlood"Iswea                      a                            9      700      33       30      0      0      0      30      4      0       0      0      6
3.wwm                                  W         4                             4     700       3.       5      0      0       0      II     3       0      0      0       3
sm .                     WOMU    ~~~~331   331    9 I            4t 0    700       3.3    231   28       30      30i   731   IS        Is      4      6 1    2
&6-4a3lO                               -   -   -I -                                                  9271 3133340  2923392  337 731362 363773
D.LI_a
S=h~~~~                       l~Oo       2      4       9      I     33    3800        3.6      7     34     29     29      74      4             1      3      44
NfO       4      9      36     34     441   10m        9.0    16       72    144    144    39S      10     40       0     903
&&-4Id    0 D)                                                                                        45      a.    172    372    474      24      461   94            2
I Ao. & Seo.t Pr~iaf
rAp-                          ~~~~no   200    1001   0010000 0to              so       0.3    Is      2      21     21      99     30      35     3s     is     Ss
bb"                           ~~~~~no  200    209    200    200    No         10     0.44       7 ,    7      7       7     29n     4       4      4      4      34W
SW140101 G D)                                                                                         21      3  34         34u   32XT1   4        39     39     to     71
TOTAL  DvEa s        1fA T  3br                                                                             383  317   1338       76?   s2m      749  3M3      711    457   2991
I. INCRBMNTAL OP. COM7
A. SA*ffA6n3MMMireSh
Spum      -&S                                      4      a      34,    14     44     3000       3.9      7      4     29     29      79      4       6     14     34     4
Smamommicamr.%w               3k         4      4      34     36     40    3000        351     7       7     29     29      12      4      4      34     34     40
9CIOR9W"v                               so         4      4      Is     If     40      3000      35       7      7     29      29     72      4       4     38     36      40
Cutcpqb                                 sw         21    41    a         at    k       000        . 3    4    713 4            14     29      2,    4        6,    61   2
Suhah (U A)                                                                                           22      361  303    303    2621   34         20     16  6    19  46
IL Croce mmummns3
Lm  fi-vot pow .year                   No                2      4      a      14    s00m        .               *      6     7      324                    20     40     10
c. car opetaihs co"
(O OOIly.so3                                     4      9      36     36     44      710      :,J3     1      3             332    19      t3      6      32      2     33
TOTAL INCR.0? COP       STS                                                                                  23     61    3se    394    447       37     16     so    306    24
TOTAL COMCPON4ENT COST                                                                                     33    3I",   313         I    60      76 10304I  an9    13    33



59
AM= 7
Page 2 of
Forest" Research                                                                                                               01
Qua*             Usk V*  sm cow ft Mau=)   BMCOOA(MOQO
coo   coo
Usk 2mllnmi gm "M Tod $=  RP SO im gim W" "I" T4w som I 910 MN WM TOW
t  10"   17"   100    0    0    0    ISOI  SW         0    0    0   too
VMID84P                          I                     I  to"    MS   m        0    0    0    m        too    0    0    a   too
Sbft"m"                  m         now              Wm      0.0   Gm      0  low     a    a   low       0   m      0   10  so
odmbaamwu*m
- ------              m               lim        an      OA    00     0    0   m       0    m        0    0  4M      0   4"
No        4"    0.4  ISJU      a    0   m       0    3"      0    0   216    0  216
uSm&Tmwmmr.R=m          la               m          W      OA   AS       0    0   W            W       0         In     0   In
sm&mlmn"                W               I.M        ISM     "    "        0    0   W            W       0    40  40S    a  418
&"-Rmw*MMO-*M           W               %GW         no     W    OA$    a    0   in       0    of       a    0   m       0  no
vain                    W              MAN    NOW  Om  am   0  0 40   0  40    0  0 m   0 m
amb                     W              WIN         Wm  go  Om   0  a IM   0  114    a  0 "   0 60
mNdftbwooin                                            I   SSAI, SW, as    0,   0.   a    as    W            a    0,   0         W,
4" Ims 4M   0  an   M   so a"   a xm
so              SW   M          no    IJ    to  0    0  M    M        on      a    a   Is*  M    4%
M                M          M   Q.S  OA$  0  0 M   0  30    0  a M   0 M
M                           M      OA   0.0     0-  0   1% -0    I"           0    0   too    0   la
sdp-Tod                                                                   0    0   M    so   13"        0    0   4m   30   738
3m    Ss"               MD           3$9              no    4   200
3MA   4"                449         440               350        Wa
a,                                              I  30A   310A    0    0  so        0    is       a    0  M           200
I          I  LI&O  So"      0    6   aw      0    269      0    a   ISO    0   M
1.1howmidAndlo4bul       an                 I          1, is"   2doi    a    0  2091   01  30           01   0   ISO 1   4   Ift
Sib-T44010C)                                            I             .  a    0  S1W      a I  lim      0    0   ml   0 1 "o
D. vebma a D)             Z-       1   41   4    a   to   I"       US    SI tu   in    "I  3n            0   74   74   n   M
L M PM lawiam
S, - molmim              Rh                      3    3   toko  179J    a    0    0   M         uo      0    a    0   306  300
V4' MWM*M"Tgbb           VA                      6    4   M      12L?    0    0    0   7$4    M                        as  40
Cbmww""        EA                       I    1   7&0  in.?    0    0    0   126   126                    :   70   70
CANK""         EA                      I    I   7"    ML?    0    0    0   In    tu           ol   0    0   74   70
0    0-   0  is"   is"        ol   0    ol 001 No.
P. Teebguf
a-M* we soomit           mm      4                     6   tsA   2L9  ta       a    0    0    ta       90    0    0    0   go
FA16MWWbWT#GVWWb*        Wm    3   12    9            Z4   13i   24.2  73  291  us    0    $42    41  la   122    0   324
r"mr-d'acmult";          Wm                      3    3   DJ    24.2    a    0    0   73    73          0    0    0   41   41
SmdT4dw*wC=wdvw          mm                      6    4   13J   24.2    0    0    0   145   145         0    a    0   or   $I
mim                     6    11  13.5  24.2    0    0          145   14S      0               to   $I
rgncmwdl                 mm                      2    2   aj   34.2    0    0    :   4B    49           a    10,       27   v
a I                   "W                      6    6   MS   24.2    0    0    a   14S   145          0    0         of   St
rmmwAw"w                 Wm                      6    4   I&S   2u        a    0    0   145   to        0    0          a    $I
romaRLUmin               mm                      3    s   Di    3u        4    0    0   73    In        a    0    0   a    41
wvmldmmm                NM                      11  11   Di    242                      145   145      0               a    $1
omp   ,                  Wm                      3    3   Di    U.2            :-  :-  73    73         0               41   4.
3Wb-TddGF)                                                              224  2"   210   2!   1717   131  in   in   3541 go.
0. BimsdooAXA
owo                      PM          19       246   U?  de    2.5   43    o   m   tios  tosd   mi       0   Sol  613   031 law
ISM-DWO                  PM           to   25   so   91    2.0    U       0   n    90  to    327        0   n    A   to  In
11006 LOWMO              "M    4   140   30          to    Si    L7   SI$  399    M       0    $17     a   iso   UI   a   M
Bob-TaISIOG)                                       I    1               113  IM   t3M   00    3135    E   Xg  7401 40  am
TarALbriMTWMTCM                                                             01 SW   41MI 4M   IWI.  40   070, 4MI IIW  91'n
gjmmmwop, am$
qpwfimwdumtw             sm                                               0   so       M      S39           $0  100 1 3M   4501
["rALCO190tam    vaws                                                       as  2M                             las  4m1 274   M



£600  012K  959K  V919   914   K16  OM   OM t019  £1 91N?Sj#JW W
a     11    0t    0      0     it    a2    3?    0      0      08?    0010           Vt   I                   sniUdO ASGI
Isl0s 2IK   919   319   016   61961 £91   9119  2319  999?                                                                       SLUAkaul.am iW.Oj
Ks2 0       01    0      a     LU6   0      214   0     gill pip
S     0     0     0      a     i1    0      0     0     SI    051    £51      I                         I      Pt~w
set? 0       act   0      0     on   0       06    0     0      003    u4£    U%            IC                  ON                                  I
Cl    a 0   II   0       0     2110         2110        0      r£1o1           o 01                           ON01  CI  OW
£9o   0     LIP   0      0     Ott   0      0ct   0     0      01l    119?   at            09                  am"m
St    0     SI    0      0     a     0      a1    0     0      521    £0181   I            I                   ON
It   a0    Is    0      0      02    0     01    0      a     00?t   ILL      2            1                  OM
a     0     a     0      0     09    0      09    0     0      02     till   Kt            QC                  OM
It    0     12    0     0      K     0     at    0      0     55      90      a            St                 OK
55    0     91    0      0     001  0       ac010       0      0V     31    U9              t                 a9m
"a 9111  £6 got   ?   0     111111  4m   yISt  21K    0                                                           __A__     ___   ____   ___   __
MUt  ff4   Opt   516   0       961   6s2   2192  al- 0                                                         PAPs-
at10        0     U?i   0      La    0      0     La   0       69p    01£?   It                               VW  193
13011 0     0     at?   0      tot   0      0     tot   0      29?    65tt   1                   2t           Wa                             osrJ
0     0     0     V5    0      0?    0      0     01    0      WV      a"£    £                  2            PUS93m
a2    0     0      £a    0     a9    0      0     a9    0      292     m 00   &3                 1            1931 
LI   0      0     it    0      a9    0      0     Sp    0      It?    OKg 651                    2            me1I93tmv
9?    0     0     511 0        tZ    0      0     92    0      22    6111               I                     193V                   I-A     Iu--R
a     a     0     £2    0      VP    0      0     09    0      292    65      t9Ms-1121 311Wa
a2    0     0     £a     0I90               0     0     0      292    *m 001?                    2            FM193tu-nm
OK2   WI?  Kt    K9    0       6      3    511   U      0      "Il   6001   01    0?    1        1             GM
an   £0?   OIL   Kt    0       mg1  OSI   Ott   U       0      091     mi   K        0     L     1             OKGMa
I0                  I      I            I                  I                                                                           £0 ILl
3    a 0    a     0      5091        0  0         0      1    r9t    01K£?   t                         S      mg
£2    0     0     0      £2    09    0      0     0      Sp9   r 291    6111                           2      Ms                           wbAW
it    0     0     0      5091£       0     0      0     U £     f 292 t651 t                           2      193If W
So    0     0     0      St    a1    0      0     0      a    £t       ml    a                         Zs    Wa
to    0     0     0      to    5910        0      0     of1  r9t    65239                              9      Wa                               -pf
to    0     0     0      to    Pt10        0      0     59?   en      am119                            9      we91om
It    0     0     0      5091        0     0      0     IL    192     ow 651                           1      PMWamp"
19    0     0     0      5091a       0     0      0     IL    rp 292    6511                           1      Wa                       -OS
it    0     0     0      0091£       0     0      0     "     ro 292    521                            1      WaawfAN
Is    0     0     0      to    Pt10        0      0     59?   292    65119                             9      rW               a_I_______
U     0     0     0      U     £6    0      0     0     £4     r       Mu2 6 11I                         
£1    0     0     0      59101c    0        0     0     01    29      out    9                         9      Wa                                  SW
£1    0     0     0      rot1a       0      0     0     01    SI9      a"4    9                        9      Wa
U     0     0     0      U     £9    0      0     0     £9    22    65w?   t                           9      mg3
to    0     0     0      Is    5910        0      0     59 rot292        t 651                         9      WaM
LI    0     0     0      59101t    0        0     0     01   4I1       01£?   9                        9      NM                                a
arg   Ott    m    Ki                              -      -     -      -     - co                                   (vtl0Ott
Lot a U           etU    USo  us   6        Kt   46    5       Kut   out    II    11   ti    to    t          19
01n   0I    0?    of    Os    tic   5?    9?    O  06    06 WS          05m     92    2    2     01 0         Ii'?tL   
WI K 91           91      t    o 01  925    59    5      U     WI     ow 60   219          91    91    cc    19
so9         ml a1t05?   OS  ilcm 65    6                 et D l 41    £651   19   a1    a1    aI    9         on
33100 jmwm.1
oosin) 'M'3 -0    (Wam" ~ wpoo vmugq i.n ui                                                                                      u150="n
uoyz3.p.ui  pS UWI3U3)469 UOTGSS*UODo
-09-



- 61 -
ANNEX  7
Page 4 of 8
National Parks\Advisor  -                     __                    _                                                        01
D. dpd_                              .                   a-  -. a_m __c_ma_ie) __CoOOP
Usk 9m  9t2 9a m     "m  TON  Us           3U K1 19191 9% l  9am   Tow   90m  9"ml92193 939M4 T4t1
L tNVBSM CO                                       ___                                _    
_     v.              6W       2    9                a 26       2e      o2                           45W 04    ot
WNL                    Wa      s    a                4  20    U24         2 3      0    0            41   t4    0    o   34
2.t Lo   wff
BP. A& 404"3W.                               _           21      44   IS   35    0    0    34        S  o4    0    0 o2
_A1__Aes"*             W       I    s                5   21      49   Is   25    0    a    34        5   14    0    0   25
§_b_rdn* "a521 4_9   I    2m                                                       0    0    3o    o      £4    0    0   2o
a"      4     o              26  21*      4    3    St    a 0 0        n  14  I     i o        a   7*
45    0    *    0    ~~45    as    0    0    0   2s
Vdoo0                                                                  34    20    0    0    0   30
diu0 11_2 lb0 a                                                                        n O    a           a O    0    0   19
we                           I  WM51    2.2  33    0    0    0    25    t9    0    0    0   to
a                            1   3        94 S   O   0    0    0              3    0    0    0    2
Wodk 3 wrf n           Vd2    54    9    0    9s    IS   30    *    0   so
cbovwu                 Vam                                             54 249    25    @      O      3_100   32       Ohi
.__         _      _                      _       __                         is __  n 0        o 0    9 40       0    0   50
896aI G A)                                                            61P  ON    45    0   a" 3      0se 26   2s    0   lo0
!    ia CII                                                                               oo
* I .nv.Iw                     2 a1       9         24  am    2L9   tI  26   26    0    ON           4s  to   129    0  360
0hdosCamw.                     2  U       9         24 Dt5   249t  2U 29          M     0    S       41  1I2 tZ
2. vA   E{
Wa                                              4    4                 I 0  t  2    2    0    0    4
C.                     Vd                                                    0    0    0       2      1    0    0        O 
1maflhSU..             V_E                                             45    0          0    45    s5    0    0           25
3. -o
iOWAWTMWM        _ T_                                                   4    0    0            4      2    0    0    0    2
D%wTnbkg        VWa                                               i    4    0     0      9      3    2    0    0    S
| a~p SWaT_             V9   tt    0 o    0                                                   2      t    t0    0    0   IS
304  vww                                             tt~~~~~~~~~~I  22    0    0    39    t0   II    0    0   2?
P'Iuw_                 YEa                                              5    9    4    0      Is      I    s    2    0   t0
_mmS lmbsa             Vww                       .      _9    9    0    0 .1s                       5    s    0    0   tO
'Wbtou I GO)            -    -MI 6253                                            464    0   1397   14 31959I   01 778
TOrAL 111134254  COST                                                     882  £301 300    0   20II  492  702  284    0  ISn$
ii. ma.  mm oe
A. Nd. SkOP. e
I1 A    Tr             Van                                             27   36   14    0    79    tS   20    9    0   44
_ *_            Vd                        l                      i    9    5    0    #1        4    s    3    0   12
I  q _m           v a                                              2    s5    2    0      9      £    3          o 0    s
L. Cm. AiMv. Op.  t
Vdddoop"m              V*V                                              4          s 5    4          a2    2          2    10
&t=mb          vwa                                             2?   $4   45    0    2       IS   30   25    0   la
|   & _  I.L            Va                                                  14   14    0      n 3    4    *    5    0   22
_____                                                ~~ ~~~~ ~~             ~~     ~~~~~ ~~2    2    2    2  I  I          It    4
?OTALfhCL                                                                   it 3S  -  = -  = -  = =  t t2  11  0  3  441 750  o   It67
ITOrALPAm&A DvUOR                                                        I on l=     5s9         5  1   ml 82  334    31 10



_ 62 -
..                                   ~~M  
Wetland/ Mangrove Conservation                                                                                                               01
Dssoipdm                                      Q=Aft              Usk   U*k  DMCOMa(Itp miaa)    am co" (USS 000)
cold Qft
Uul   g     gm91  am  UN914 Tohi uS   1M1 N   gem  gm0939 am           1NM  Total  90m9  911991am931    TOWa
g.~~~~~~~~~gw-~~~~~~~
3qm0a                  *0       0                      10.  u40    O6s   la                           tS     to   oa             a    to
Godeloo              AG*     45                      40    to0    03       I                         7      4     0    0       a 
:                                               ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~to  etu  st                      o     0     0     a    t
Ka                                                                             a  0W 0.  3 0 0 0 I  Is   02  a    0    80
Mdn                                                  to4 o us 04 2  Is  0  a   40      to   t2    0      0    27
_mobw  U      90                                                  9   890     0     0      U9   21     921     0    0 s
Fa                         VAd      70                                                 to    0      0      i2     10   1O      0     0    t0
_alilkswelbobw             van                                                    9     0           0 to           0    to      0    0    to
_         1                 1X      50    40                90    3ao jdm         0    88    0      0      88      0    80    0      0    n0
A_tUN"mmmb                                                                        9    IS     0     0       s   10  t0    0           0    to
tVauP                                     a                                       9  0 t o 0        0    to        0    20    0      0    s0
Ci_i-awn                             6     6                 a    sm      94    $4    9       0     0      18      O    10    a      0    10
t_t_      ~      ~~~~  V2   9                                                 t -          OO m 9        18 O 3 14   0844t
1_-m3                      V-                                                     O 82    00  9O $4   14 0 0O    20    O             0    40
T_       Qm                          S     9                82  V.         9A    2?1   0o0                too      is   42      0     0  10
d. law OMW9 2 U                                             24    10 3e             it    a  32     o      u       e    24   is      0    a4
TOrALl.VWIw4  00W                                                                     so    as   85      0 a I  it16"    1m l 0    Si    0   40
I  _____                                                                          8    2 Is    0    0 S4           10   20      0     0    60
,_*.                                                                              1                 0s  I  18      4  O         0     0     9
mm      aTmb         -        __s                                                14            _9                  tt             It a    13 92    0  8    8)    0  0    21
vwho                                    ~~~~~~~~9 Is  0    5     27      S1   10,   0       0    Ls
%ftsTAL a*                                                              0=IfS                so_ISi       0    93
TOTAL VMCL   ( O M.=01                                                                its   870.  83     0.   25)       a.  go       8     0   14Itoo
TOrAL MAN_ RO                                                                         WI  ml  701   o 0    I  .4I   ni   om 91             o 0   3i
TOTAL  Vh_Uff    WI                                                                 1 14191      783      1   4O 1     n   I9  1   4 O        21   1



- 63 -
ANNEX 7
Page 6 of 8
Policy AdvisorgM xrice                                                                                              01
Duuipliua                            QuauY         WUt   Wt    Rm Cq (Rp MWht)              Bm CoS  (USS 000)
Iuh  gm   em   a"   " o   =$ Rn              m        geml T"  l T   0t91 |n    92M  _m  T*W
1. nwnff COSFS
LaItimx                      6tat  b     2 a    Ct    3 5K   269  la   so         la 4         go  to0  ISO  go  S40
LUM14m                 a__om*  I C       a 3 2   24  OM    24.2  3414   7t 73                   34 1   14t   41 324
It. Votimm             vwm26  14   0    0                                                 0    20    0   0    0   sO
4.11 8          _        -    4   31   t e    61 tl  IJ    IA  31  22  22  IIa  43                  32        4   36
$.<1111D*_              IW                                          *   lI  tl  ii   39   34    4    4    4   3
TOTAL UNVWUT C001                                                    291 4    4461 21 1746   1331 336  MD0131 972
UI. _cI.  com
1.                                                                  9    9    9   9    36       S    S   S          20
_2.Tmt_to_ 16 2_  2?  is   90   tO  is                                                                          to s0
TOTWL D6C. Or. 0015                                                   2    36, 2   VI  U2,   U   20  20   U   70
TOTALc m =wT I                                                        ml61  ml9 am  US   to70   340 3a ml0  In  1304t



- 64 -
INDONESIA                              ANNEX 7
SECOND FORESTRY INSTITUTIONS AND CONSERVATION PROJECT         --------
Page 7 of 8
Disbursement Schedule
(X'S$ million)
Disbursement           Indonesia       Comparitive Profile
Bank           --------------------------------- Agriculture        Bank-wide Forestry
FY   Semester  Semester   Cumulative        %         (%)                  (%)
1991      I         1.00        1.00         5.00        0.00               0.00
II         1.50        2.50       12.50         3.00               3.00
1992      I          1.50       4.00        20.00        6.00              10.00
II         2.00        6.00       30.00        10.00              14.00
1993      I          2.00       8.00       40.00       .14.00              22.00
II         3.00      11.00        55.00        22.00 .            26.00
1994      I          2.50      13.50        67.50       26.00              34.00
II         2.50       16.00       80.00        34.00             42.00
1995      I         2.00       18.00       90.00        42.00              50.00
II         2.00      20.00       100.00        50.00              58.00
1996      I                                             62.00              66.00
II                                             70.00              74.00
1997      I                                             78.00              82.00
II                                             90.00              90.00
19%8      I                                             98.00              98.00
II                                            100.00              100.00



ANE  7
- 65-                         Page  of8
NDOERSIA
SECOND FORESTRY INSTITUTIONS AND CONSERVATION PROJECT
Proposed Loan Allocation
Amount of the         2 of
loan allocated    Expenditures
Category                                 (US$ M)      to be financed
1. Civil Works                                   2.8               55
2. Equipment and furniture                       1.4         1002 of foreign
expenditure;
10O of local
expenditures
(ex-factory cost);
and 652 of other
goods locally
procured.
3. Planting costs                                0.6               60
4. Inspection service                            4.7        852 up to June 30,
1992; and 452
thereafter
5. Technical Assistance                          6.6              100
6. Training                                      2.9              100
7.  Unallocated                                  1.0
Total                                    20.0



ORGANIZATION CHART
THo VOtEST DEPARThEN? ORCOAIZAtlO SthUC YRE
Hir,iater
|lnspectorase Ceneral |SZtZ  Geea
DLrectorate C-neral               Dtrectorate General of               Dtrectorate General of               Agency  or Forest            Agency for Forestry
of Forant                        Refor etation and                  Yoreut Prot-ctlon and                  and Land Use                  Research and
Utilszation                     Lnd Rehabilitation                  Nature ConservatLon                     lnventory                    Development
|  Secretary    F          |       Secretarr          F         |      S cretary                           Secretary                     Secretary
birtectorate for                                                       Drcectorate for                    Centre for Foreat            Centre for Forestry
Planning                           txten lon                           Extension                          Inventory                    Research and
Development
Directorate for                    DLreetorate for                      Directorate for                  (Centre for Happing           Centre for Forestry
Forest                          Reforestation                      Forest Protection                 land Survey                   Products Research
Exploitation                                                                                                                           and Development
Directorate for                |    Directorate for                      Directorate for                   Ceatre for Forest
Forest Products     LSotl Conservation                                  nature Conservatton                    Land Use
Processing       Iapptna s
laD



_ 67 -
ANNEX 9
Page 1 of 12
INDONESIA
SECOND FORESTRY INSTITUTIONS AND CONSERVATION PROJECT
NATIONAL MASTER PLAN FOR FOREST PLANTATIONS
IMPLEMETATION SCHEDULE
1 ADVERTISE                             6.00 Weeks
Sched Start: Jul 2, 1990               Sched Finish: Aug 10, 1990
*  2 REVIEW AND SELECTION                  4.00 Weeks
Sched Start: Aug 13, 1990              Sched Finish: Sep  7, 1990
*  3 CONTRACT AWARD                        2.00 Weeks
Sched Start: Sep 10, 1990             Sched Finish: Sep 21, 1990
* 4 OFFICE SET UP                          4.00 Weeks
Sched Start: Sep 24, 1990             Sched Finish: Oct 19, 1990
==                                      ------------------------------
5 INITIAL DATA GETHERING                4.00 Weeks
Sched Start: Oct 22, 1990             Sched Finish: Nov 16, 1990
___                                     ------------------------------
*  6 PROJECT MANAGEMENT                    52.00 Weeks
Sched Start: Oct 22, 1990             Sched Finish: Oct 18, 1991
.                                        ------------------------------
7 ESTABLISH DATA BASE                   8.00 Weeks
Sched Start: Nov 19, 1990              Sched Finish: Jan 11, 1991
                                        _--- --- --- ---- --- --- ---
8 ECONOMIC STUDIES                      40.00 Weeks
Sched Start: Nov 19, 1990             Sched Finish: Aug 23, 1991
____                                    ------------------------------
9 SILVICULTURAL STUDIES                 12.00 Weeks
Sched Start: Jan 14, 1991             Sched Finish: Apr 5, 1991
_    _  _____  __    ___   _    _    _  _    _   _ ......
10 ECOLOGIC STUDIES                      8.00 Weeks
Sched Start: Jan 14, 1991             Sched Finish: Mar 8, 1991
 _--------                                       --_ ------ -------- .
11 SOCIAL STUDIES                        12.00 Weeks
Sched  Start: Jan 14, 1991             Sched Finish: Apr 5, 1991
--_    .-                                  -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -
12 WATERSHED STUDIES                     12.00 Weeks
Sched Start: Jan 14, 1991              Sched Finish: Apr 5, 1991
-                                       ------------------------------
13 DECISION FORMULAS                     8.00 Weeks
Sched Start: Apr  8, 1991              Sched Finish: May 31, 1991
_   _  _  _  __   _  _  ___   ___   _  _.   ._- _- _____-___ __ - ._____.-_
14 DEVELOPMENT ALTERNATIVES              4.00 Weeks
Sched Start: Jun 3, 1991               Sched Finish: Jun 28, 1991



- 68 -
ANNEX 9
Page 2 of 12
15 PREPARE NAPS                            8.00 Months
Sched  Start: Jan 14, 1991              Sched Finish: Sep 12, 1991
.............. ....   _   __  . ...  _  _.  --- -- -- --- -- -- --- -- --
16 SEMINAR                                 2.00 Days
Sched  Start: Jul  1, 1991              Sched Finish: Jul  2, 1991
17 POLICY PAPER                            4.00 Weeks
Sched  Start: Jul  3, 1991              Sched Finish: Jul 30, 1991
18 SEMINAR-Il                              3.00 Days
Sched  Start: Jul 31, 1991              Sched Finish: Aug  2, 1991
_ _.__.____ ___ __ __ ___ _ __..........._...................
19 NATIObUAL PLAN                          8.00 Weeks
Sched  Start: Aug  5, 1991              Sched Finish: Sep 27, 1991



- 69-
ANNEX 9
Page 3 of 12
INDONESIA
SECOND FORESTRY INSTITUTIONS
AND CONSERVATION PROJECT
PROVINCIAL PLANTATION PROGRAMS
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
____-     -_-     -- - -  - ____-_-__-_-_-__-_-_-_
1 SELECT PROVINCE 1                    0.00 Days
Sched Start: Oct 28, 1991            Sched Finish: Oct 28, 1991
2 OFFICE SET UP                        4.00 Weeks
Sched Start: Oct 28, 1991            Sched Finish: Nov 22, 1991
__.                                   -------------------------------
3 STABLISH DATA BASE                   4.00 Weeks
Sched Start: Nov 25, 1991            Sched Finish: Dec 20, 1991
=  .  _    _   _    _  _ .__ _     _ __ .  .-- - _- __- __- _- ___-__ -_
4 TRAIN SYSTEM OPERATORS               4.00 Weeks
Sched Start: Nov 25, 1991            Sched Finish: Dec 20, 1991
=  -_ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _  _ _  _ _     ---------------------------_-_ -
5 TRAIN EXECUTIVES                     2.00 Weeks
Sched Start: Nov 25, 1991            Sched Finish: Dec 6, 1991
.                                      -------------------------------
6 PREPARE MANUALS                      8.00 Weeks
Sched Start: Nov 25, 1991            Sched Finish: Jan 17, 1992
._    _  _    _    _   _    _   _   .  .- - - - -- - - - --_-_-_
7 TRAINING SOCIO-ECONOMICS             3.00 Weeks
Sched Start: Jan 20, 1992            Sched Finish: Feb 7, 1992
-                                      -------------------------------
8 TRAINING SOIL-SITE                   3.00 Weeks
Sched Start: Jan 20, 1992            Sched Finish: Feb 7, 1992
9 TRAINING WATERSHED                   3.00 Weeks
Sched Start: Jan 20, 1992            Sched Finish: Feb 7, 1992
10 WORKSHOP 1                           1.00 Week
Sched Start: Feb 10, 1992            Sched Finish: Feb 14, 1992
11 DATA BASE UP DATE                    12.00 Weeks
Sched Start: Feb 17, 1992            Sched Finish: May 8, 1992
12 TRAINING PLANNING                    4.00 Weeks
Sched Start: May 25, 1992            Sched Finish: Jun 19, 1992
13 FIVE-YEAR PLAN 1                     4.00 Weeks
Sched Start: Jun 22, 1992            Sched Finish: Jul 17, 1992
.    _.                   _ .        .__                 
14 SELECT PROVINCE 2                    0.00 Weeks
Sched Start: Feb 14, 1992            Sched Finish: Feb 14, 1992



- 70 -
ANNEX 9
Page 4 of 12
15 0 m  CE SET-UP                           2.00 Weeks
Sched  Start: Feb 17, 1992               Sched Finish: Feb 28, 1992
16 TRAINING(SOCIO/SOIL/WATERSHED)           3.00 Weeks
Sched  Start: Mar  2, 1992               Sched Finish: Mar 20, 1992
17 TRAINING OPERATORS/EXECUTIVES)           4.00 Weeks
Sched  Start: Mar  2, 1992               Sched Finish: Mar 27, 1992
18 ESTABLISH DATA BASE                      4.00 Weeks
Sched  Start: Mar  2, 1992               Sched Finish: Mar 27, 1992
19 WORKSHOP 2                               1.00 Week
Sched  Start: Mar 30, 1992               Sched Finish: Apr  3, 1992
20 UP DATE DATA BASE 2                      12.00 Weeks
Sched  Start: Apr  6, 1992               Sched Finish: Jun 26, 1992
21 TRAINING PLANNING 2                      4.00 Weeks
Sched  Start: Jul 20, 1992               Sched Finish: Aug 14, 1992
22 FIVE-YEAR PLAN 2                         6.00 Weeks
Sched  Start: Aug 17, 1992               Sched Finish: Sep 25, 1992
23 SELECT PROVINCE 3                        0.00 Weeks
Sched  Start: Apr  3, 1992               Sched Finish: Apr  3, 1992
24 OFFICE SET UP 3                          1.00 Week
Sched  Start: Apr  6, 1992               Sched Finish: Apr 10, 1992
25 ESTABLISH DATA BASE 3                    3.00 Weeks
Sched  Start: Apr 13, 1992               Sched Finish: May  1, 1992
26 TRAINING (ALL)                           6.00 Weeks
Sched  Start: Apr 13, 1992               Sched Finish: May 22, 1992
27 WORKSHOP 3                               1.00 Week
Sched  Start: May 25, 1992               Sched Finish: May 29, 1992
28 UP DATE DATA BASE 3                      12.00 Weeks
Sched  Start: Jun  1, 1992               Sched Finish: Aug 21, 1992
29 PLANNING TRAINING 3                      4.00 Weeks
Sched  Start: Sep 28, 1992               Sched Finish: Oct 23, 1992
30 FIVE YEAR PLAN 3                         6.00 Weeks
Sched  Start: Oct 26, 1992               Sched Finish: Dec  4, 1992



- 71 -
ANNEX 9
Page 5 of 12
31 SELECT PROVINCE 4 AND 5                0.00 Weeks
Sched  Start: Dec 4, 1992              Sched Finish: Dec 4, 1992
._  ____      _..___   .......  _   ...____................................  ----- -- - ----- -- ----
32 OFFICE SET UP 4,5                      2.00 Weeks
Sched  Start: Dec  7, 1992             Sched Finish: Dec 18, 1992
33 DATA BASE ESTABLISHMENT 4,5            4.00 Weeks
Sched  Start: Dec 21, 1992             Sched Finisti: Jan 15, 1993
34 TRAINING 4,5                           4.00 Weeks
Sched  Start: Dec 21, 1992             Sched Finish: Jan 15, 1993
35 WORKSHOP 4,5                           1.00 Week
Sched  Start: Jan 18, 1993             Sched Finish: Jan 22, 1993
36 DATA BASE UP DATE 4,5                  12.00 Weeks
Sched  Start: Jan 25, 1993             Sched Finish: Apr 16, 1993
37 PLANNING TRAINING 4,5                  4.00 Weeks
Sched  Start: Apr 19, 1993             Sched Finish: May 14, 1993
38 FIVE-YEAR PLAN 4,5                     6.00 Weeks
Sched  Start: May 17, 1993             Sched Finish: Jun 25, 1993
39 SELECT PROVINCE 6,7,8                  2.00 Weeks
Sched  Start: Jan 25, 1993             Sched Finish: Feb  5, 1993
40 OFFICE SET UP 6,7,8                    2.00 Weeks
Sched  Start: Feb  8, 1993             Sched Finish: Feb 19, 1993
41 ESTABLISH DATA BASE  6,7,8             4.00 Weeks
Sched  Start: Feb 22, 1993             Sched Finish: Mar 19, 1993
42 TRAINING                               4.00 Weeks
Sched  Start: Feb 22, 1993             Sched Finish: Mar 19, 1993
43 WORKSHOP 6,7,8                         1.00 Week
Sched  Start: Mar 22, 1993             Sched Finish: Mar 26, 1993
44 DATA BASE UP DATE 6,7,8                12.00 Weeks
Sched  Start: Mar 29, 1993             Sched Finish: Jun 18, 1993
45 PLANNING TRAINING 6,7,8                4.00 Weeks
Sched  Start: Jun 28, 1993             Sched Finish: Jul 23, 1993



- 72 -                                              ANNE9
Page 6 of 12
. . ._............................ *.......................................... . ......... ................. ...............
46 FIVE-YEAR PLAN 6,7,8                                                     6.00 Weeks
Sched  Start: Jul 26, 1993                                            Sched Finish: Sep  3, 1993
. .. ..... ................ ............................_. .. ............  . ............................. .....
47 SUBMIT FIVE YEAR PLANS                                                   0.00 Weeks
Sched  Start: Mar  1, 1994                                            Sched Finish: Mar  1, 1994



73 -                 ~~~~~ANNEX 9
Page 7 of 12
INDONESIA
SECOND FORESTRY INSTITUTIONS AND CONSERVATION PROJECT
CONCESSION MANAGEMENT
Implementation Schedule
1 PREPARE TOR                              2.00 Weeks
Sched  Start: Apr 18, 1990               Sched Finish: May  1, 1990
2 GET GOV. CLEARANCE                       1.00 Week
Sched  Start: May  2, 1990               Sched Finish: May  8, 1990
3 CLEAR WITH BANK                          1.00 Week
Sched  Start: May 14, 1990               Sched Finish: May 18, 1990
4 SIGN LOAN                                0.00 Months
Sched  Start: Jul  2, 1990               Sched Finish: Jul  2, 1990
*  5 ADVERTISE                                45.00 Days
Sched  Start: Jul  2, 1990               Sched Finish: Aug 31, 1990
*  6 EVALUATE                                 1.00 Week
Sched  Start: Sep  3, 1990               Sched Finish: Sep  7, 1990
*  7 GOV. CLEARANCE                           2.00 Weeks
Sched  Start: Sep 10, 1990               Sched Finish: Sep 21, 1990
*  8 BANK CLEARANCE                           2.00 Weeks
Sched  Start: Sep 10, 1990               Sched Finish: Sep 21, 1990
9 SIGN CONTRACT                            1.00 Week
Sched  Start: Sep 24, 1990               Sched Finish: Sep 28, 1990
* 10 ESTABLISH OFFICE                         2.00 Weeks
Sched  Start: Oct  1, 1990               Sched Finish: Oct 12, 1990
* 11 PROJECT MANAGEMENT                       42.00 Months
Sched  Start: Oct 15, 1990               Sched Finish: Apr  8, 1994
12 DESIGN WOOD ADMIN.                       6.00 Months
Sched  Start: Oct 15, 1990               Sched Finish: Apr 12, 1991
13 DESIGN OPERATION INSPECTION              6.00 Months
Sched  Start: Oct 15, 1990               Sched Finish: Apr 12, 1991
14 DESIGN FOR.MAN. INS.SYS                  6.00 Months
Sched  Start: Oct 15, 1990               Sched Finish: Apr 12, 1991



- 74 -                         ANE 9
Page 8 of 12
. .. ...  _. .......................................................... ...... ............ ..... 
15 PREPARE INSTITUTION DEVELOPNENT PROPOSAL3.00 Months
Sched Start: Oct 15, 1990              Sched Finish: Jan 11, 1991
~~~~ ._. ................................................................ ..... ............. .
16 PREPARE TRAINING PROGRAMS              2.00 Months
Sched Start: Feb 13, 1991              Sched Finish: Apr 15, 1991
.   ............................ I----- ----- ----- ----- ----- ----- ----- ----- ----- -----
17 INTERIM REPORT/GOVERNMENT REVIEW       1.00 Month
Sched Start: Apr 16, 1991              Sched Finish: May 15, 1991
18 IMPLEMENT WOOD ADMIN                   34.00 Nonths
Sched Start: May 15, 1991              Sched Finish: Mar 11, 1994
19 IMPLEMENT OPERATION INSPECTION         34.00 Months
Sched  Start: May 15, 1991             Sched Finish: Mar 11, 1994
20 TRAINING                               34.00 Months
Sched Start: May 15, 1991              Sched Finish: Mar 11, 1994
21 IMPLEMENT FOREST MANAGEMENT            34.00 Months
Sched Start: May 15, 1991              Sched Finish: Mar 11, 1994
22 FINALISE ALTERNATIVE ORG. PROPOSALS    3.00 Months
Sched Start: Jul 1, 1993               Sched Finish: Sep 29, 1993



ANNEX 9
- 75              ~              Page 9 of 12
INDONESIA
SECOND FORE3TRY INSTTTUTIONS AND CONSERVATION PROJECT
NATIONAL PARKS INVESTMENT
Implementation Schedule
_.__.........___. _......... .......... .......................... _........................... . 
1 DRAFT TOR                               0.00 Days
Sched  Start: Mar 28, 1990              Sched Finish: Mar 28, 1990
2 SHORT LIST                              0.00 Months
Sched  Start: Jun  4, 1990              Sched Finish: Jun  4, 1990
*  3 CLEAR SHORT LIST                        4.00 Weeks
Sched  Start: Jun  4, 1990              Sched Finish: Jun 29, 1990
*  4 ADVERTISE                               1.00 Week
Sched  Start: Jul  2, 1990              Sched Finish: Jul  6, 1990
*  5 RECEIVE PROPOSAL                        1.00 Month
Sched  Start: Jul  9, 1990              Sched Finish: Aug  7, 1990
*  6 EVALWATION OF PROP.                     2.00 Weeks
Sched  Start: Aug  7, 1990              Sched Finish: Aug 21, 1990
*  7 BANK CLERANCE                           2.00 Weeks
Sched  Start: Aug 21, 1990              Sched Finish: Sep  4, 1990
*  8 CONTRACT SIGNING                        1.00 Month
Sched  Start: Sep  4, 1990              Sched Finish: Oct  4, 1990
*  9 ESTABLISH OFFICE                        1.00 Month
Sched  Start: Oct  4, 1990              Sched Finish: Nov  2, 1990
* 10 PARK PLANNER/PM ARRIVES                 0.00 Months
Sched  Start: Nov  2, 1990              Sched Finish: Nov  2, 1990
11 MARINE PARK SPEC ARRIVES                0.00 Months
Sched  Start: Nov  2, 1990              Sched Finish: Nov  2, 1990
12 ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT SPEC. ARRIVES 0.00 Months
Sched  Start: Nov  2, 1990              Sched Finish: Nov  2, 1990
13 PREPARE MANAGEMENT PLANS OF PARKS       3.00 Months
Sched  Start: Nov  2, 1990              Sched Finish: Feb  1, 1991
14 REVIEW MANAGEMENT ASPECTS OF MAN.PLANS 8.00 Months
Sched  Start: Nov  2, 1990              Sched Finish: Jul  4, 1991



- 76 -                       ANNEX9
Page 10 of 12
* 15 REVISE MANAGEMENT PLANS                  10.00 Months
Sched  Start: Nov  2, 1990              Sched Finish: Sep  3, 1991
16 LANDSCAPE ARCHITECH ARRIVES              0.00 Months
Sched  Start: Nov  2, 1990               Sched Finish: Nov  2, 1990
17 INFRASTRUCTURE DESIGNING                 8.00 Months
Sched  Start: Nov  2, 1990              Sched Finish: Jul  4, 1991
18 BUFFER ZONE SPEC. ARRIVES                0.00 Weeks
Sched  Start: Nov  2, 1990              Sched Finish: Nov  2, 1990
19 PREPARE BUFFERZONE PLANS                 8.00 Monchs
Sched  Start: Nov  2, 1990              Sched Finish: Jul  4, 1991
20 NATIONAL CONS. PLAN ADVISOR ARRIVES      0.00 Months
Sched  Start: Sep 17, 1990              Sched Finish: Sep 17, 1990
* 21 PROGRAM DEV.& IMPLEMENT.                 24.00 Months
Sched  Start: Sep  3, 1991              Sched Finish: Aug 31, 1993
22 CONSERVATION FUNDING ADVISOR ARRIVES    0.00 Months
Sched  Start: Sep 17, 1990               Sched Finish: Sep 17, 1990
23 INV.PROG. BUDGETING                      24.00 Months
Sched  Start: Sep 17, 1990               Sched Finish: Sep 11, 1992
24 IMPLEMENTATION/MANAGEMENT ADVISOR ARRIV.0.00 Months
Sched  Start: Sep 17, 1990               Sched Finish: Sep 17, 1990
25 IMPLEMENT NATIONAL CONSERVATION PLAN    24.00 Months
Sched  Start: Sep 17, 1990               Sched Finish: Sep 11, 1992
26 MARINE CONSERVA./MANAGEMENT ADVISOR ARR.O.OQ Months
Sched  Start: Sep 17, 1990               Sched Finish: Sep 17, 1990
27 POLICY AND PROGRAM  DEVELOPMEN           24.00 Months
Sched  Start: Sep 17, 1990               Sched Finish: Sep 11, 1992



- 77 -
ANNEX 9
Page ll of 12
INDONESIA
SECOND FORESTRY INSTITUTIONS
AND CONSERVATION PROJECT
WETLANDS/MANGROVE CONSERVATION
Imlementation Schedule
1 TOR                                      0.00 Months
Sched  Start: Mar 28, 1990               Sched Finish: Mar 28, 1990
2 SHORT LIST                               0.00 Weeks
Sched. Start: Aug  3, 1990               Sched Finish: Aug  3, 1990
3 CLEAR SHORTLIST                          2.00 Weeks
Sched  Start: Aug  3, 1990               Sched Finish: Aug 16, 1990
4 INVITE PROPOSALS                         2.00 Weeks
Sched  Start: Aug 17, 1990               Sched Finish: Aug 30, 1990
5 RECEIVE PROP PROPOSALS                   2.00 Months
Sched  Start: Aug 31, 1990               Sched Finish: Oct 31, 1990
6 EVALUATE                                 2.00 Weeks
Sched  Start: Oct 31, 1990               Sched Finish: Nov 14, 1990
7 BANK CLERANCE                            2.00 Weeks
Sched  Start: Nov 14, 1990               Schad Finish: Nov 28, 1990
8 SIGN CONTRACT                            1.00 Month
Sched  Start: Nov 28, 1990               Sched Finish: Dec 27, 1990
9 ESTABLISH OFFICE                         1.00 Month
Sched  Start: Dec 27, 1990               Sched Finish: Jan 28, 1991
10 TEAM LEADER                              0.00 Months
Sched  Start: Jan 28, 1991               Sched Finish: Jan 28, 1991
11 DATA REVIEW/DESK STUDY                   1.00 Month
Sched  Start: Jan 28, 1991               Sched Finish: Feb 27, 1991
12 ESTABLISH DATA BASE&INTEGRATED PLAN      6.00 Months
Sched  Start: Feb 27, 1991               Sched Finish: Aug 28, 1991
13 COASTAL CONSERVATION SPECIALIST ARRIVES 0.00 Months
Sched  Start: Apr  1, 1991               Sched Finish: Apr  1, 1991
14 IDENTIFY CAND.SITES                      3.00 Months
Sched  Start: Apr  1, 1991               Sched Finish: Jun 28, 1991



- 78 -
ANNEX 9
Page 12 of 12
15 PREPARE MANG. PLANS                      15.00 Months
Sched  Start: Aug 28, 1991               Sched Finish: Nov 25, 1992
16 DATA BASE FOR MULT./MULT SEC,AREAS       3.00 Months
Sched  Start: Jul  1, 1991               Sched Finish: Sep 27, 1991
17 LANDUSE PLANNER ARRIVE                   0.00 Months
Sched  Start: Sep 27, 1991               Sched Finish: Sep 27, 1991
18 PRAPARE PILOT AREA PLANS                 6.00 Months
Sched  Start: Sep 30, 1991               Sched Finish: Mar 27, 1992
19 START IMP.PILOT PLANS                    6.00 Months
Sched  Start: Mar 30, 1992               Sched Finish: Sep 25, 1992
20 TAINING SPEC.ARRIVE                      0.00 Months
Sched  Start: Nov  1, 1991              Sched Finish: Nov  1, 1991
- 21 PREPARE TRAIN PROG & MATERIALS           3.00 Months
Sched  Start: Nov  1, 1991              Sched Finish: Jan 30, 1992
* 22 TRAINING                                 12.00 Months
Sched  Start: Jan 31, 1992               Sched Finish: Jan 28, 1993



- 79 -
ANNEX 10
Page 7 of 7
INDONESIA
SECOND FORESTRY INSTITUTIONS AND CONSERVATION PROJECT
LIST OF REIATED DOCUMENTS AND DATA AVAILABLE
IN THE PROJECT FILE
A.    Selected Reports and Studies on the Sector
A.1   Environment Sector Report (Report No.7822-IND of
June 5, 1989)
A.2   Forestry Institutions and Conservation Project SAR
(Report No. 7002-IND of February 19, 1988)
A.3   FICP Forestry Studies
-    Forestry Concessions in Indonesia by Gray and
Hadi, July 1989
-    Outlook and Prospects for Forest Plantations by
Davis, October 1989
-    Environment and Conservation Aspects by
Weir & Manan, November 1989
-    Efficiency of Indonesia's Industries by
Constantino, January 1990
-    Fiscal Policies by Gray and Hadi, April 1990
B.    Selected Working Papers
B.1   -    Forestry Research
B.2   -    Foresty Plantations
B.3   -    Concession Management
B.4   -    Nature Conservation
B.5   -    High Level Advisor
B.6   -    Project Costs
B.7   -    Benefit Calculations



*           3-                                        U        A T           R                                     A                          .        ..        .......      / pi A    T    F- R  A
l,RD 22351
f  CI,w {>t'~             ,           C'                               S' * Sja                                                                  a,                                                                 INDONESIA
w heirna Sr-                                                                 PHIUPPIN                                SECOND FORESTRY INSTITUTIONS
MSER                     ['A                                                                                                                                                AND CONSERVATION PROJECT
507          o',       MALAYSA  I' ftNi ' -                                                                                                                                                                                    ft| .a, '|
- ~~~  AAM1IU                                                                                                                           a ~~~~~~~u. C.,.,woot,, Am.          A       F~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,o.sv IA/no,rh SEsSWoNousC--g. A
Ni.,  RE~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C.d, mgAA.oU REgnCJ,Ae
N/os                         K>    TSIN PORE                      /                                                                                                                                           NORTH PACIFIC OCEAN *
S D.LOGAKR1   AbT                                            14
141  (AUMANTcARAT    sERr8Us,   ,          2)                                                                               ,_                                                M ANOKW AR
SAwul                     101                                                                                                                                                                               EW
I1 SUOI.JAARTA                                                                                                                                           -                - C  5   YSO-  mQN                                1
2  JAWA RARAT                          ;b g                                                                                     LA poC.IE IT _S   -TN/10WH
3 JUAATENGGA                  7            (D                                        ANEAN                                                                                                                                        R I A AN
5  JAWA TiMUR            B~uu~RR{
6L tMPFUNG                                                                                                                               21 I Van&riih                                                                             A> JAV Y A
7  EENGKUWU                                   65WA                                                                                                                                                                                         2  
I, 08SUMAkTERA SCLATAN4                        2oo                        ',~S
10AMBSI                         (RISKON  1
26 ~ ~    ~       ~      ~      ~      IC44 NRA 1AYA'                                                                                                                                              7'Xrc Bzncttf    ~  -   .n  tIstC        -~\   UrAu  UE19
12SUMATPA ETARAT                                                                                                                                                           1z
1 2SUMAATERA LRARAT             BAR/SAN                                    WO~1u~  %NOGIR
1 3  DI ACON                             PULAU4L                           CATCHEMET ARACI
15KA =OIIATAN TENGAH                                                                      Md ®odu * 2   e
16  KACAIMANTAN0SELATANw*                                                                                                              .Io
1 7KAIAIM4TAN TIMoUR                                                                                                                                                                                   ha
20  SULAWESI SELATAN                                    GEE bSvot                 YEdd T~b/                                                               Ao
21  SUAESrENGGARA                                                                                                                                                                               i"  0 *4 0         2D       W              OW
23  NUATNGR  AA                       NOi-OOO cpik              INIDIAN OCEAN                                                              24              /
2$  MALUKU                            Fl     Q.-oOCOOW.2
62?  1MOCR T)/oUR                     Inem -too 64/0,.                                                                                              J)1,
JUNE 1990



