Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 15294
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
SECOND FORESTRY INSTITUTIONS AND CONSERVATION PROJECT
(LOAN 3243-IND)
JANUARY 17, 1996
Agriculture Operations Division
Country Department III
East Asia and Pacific Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfornance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Table of Contents
Preface ................................................
Evaluation Summary ...............................................                                          i
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION  ASSESSMENT   ...............................................                             1
A. Statement/Evaluation of Objectives............  ...............................................1................................I
B. Achievement of Objectives ..........................2
Disbursement Objectives ..........................4
Concession Management and Inspection ...........................4
Reforestation ...5........................
Conservation Planning ...................5
Research .................6
High Level Policy Advisor .................6
Institutional Objectives .................7
Financial and Economic Objectives .........................................7
C. Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project .............................................8
D. Project Sustainability ..............................................                                               10
E. Bank Performance ...............................................11
F. Borrower Performance ...............................................11
G. Assessment of Outcome..................... 12
H. Future Operations ...............                                                                                    12
I. Key Lessons Learned ............... 13
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments .17
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits .19
Table 3: Project Timetable .20
Table 4:   Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual                                                  20
Table 5:   Key Indicators for Project Implementation                                                                   21
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation .22
Table 7: Studies Included in Project .22
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed wiihout World Bank authorization.



Table 8A: Project Costs ........................................                                                                 23
Table 8B: Project Financing ........................................                                                             23
Table 9:    Economic Costs and Benefits ........................................ 24
Table 10:  Status of Legal Covenants ........................................                                                    24
Table I 1:  Compliance with Operational Manual Statements ...................                              ..................... 24
Table 12:  Bank Resources: Staff Inputs ........................................                                                 25
Table 13:  Bank Resources: Missions ........................................                                                     25
APPENDIX A: Mission's Aide-Memoire
B: Project Review from the Borrower's Perspective



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
SECOND FORESTRY INSTITUTIONS AND
CONSERVATION PROJECT (FICP II)
LOAN 3243-IND
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the FICP II in Indonesia,
for which Loan 3243-IND in the amount of US$20 million equivalent was approved in
June 1990, and made effective in October 1990.
The loan closed on June 30, 1995; the original closing date. Final disbursement
took place on November 1, 1995, at which time a balance of US$10.54 million was
canceled. Cofinancing of the project was provided by the Govemment of Indonesia, and
the Govemment of Japan (under Japanese Grant Funds).
The ICR was prepared by Jim Douglas, East Asia and Pacific Region, and
reviewed by Jay Blakeney, Asia Technical Environment Division.  Gershon Feder
(Division Chief, EA3 AG) cleared the final draft.
Preparation of this ICR began during the final supervision mission for FICP II, in
June 1995, and is based on material from project files. The Borrower contributed a report
of the views of the Government of Indonesia which is attached as Appendix B to this
report, and also participated in preparation of the ICR mission aide memoire, which is
attached as Appendix A.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
SECOND FORESTRY INSTITUTIONS AND
CONSERVATION PROJECT (FICP II)
LOAN 3243-IND
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
1.    The Bank initiated a program of activities in the forestry sector of Indonesia with
its first Forestry Institutions and Conservation Project (FICP 1) in 1989. This project was
focused on gathering information and undertaking analyses of the sector, and, although it
had only been under implementation for eighteen months when FICP II was initiated, it
was felt at the time that sufficient indication of strong need for further investment was
already apparent to justify a second project.
Objectives
2.    Activities under FICP II were initiated in late 1990. The underlying objectives of
the project were to reduce the pace of deforestation in Indonesia; and to sustain and
maximize the flow of benefits from forest resource use.
3.    The activities undertaken in pursuit of these objectives were focused on natural
forest management, plantation planning, research planning and development, and
conservation of valuable forest environments.
Implementation Experience
4.    The project implementation period coincided with a time of very rapid change in
the forestry sector of Indonesia:
large increases in donor interest in and (grant-based) contributions to the
forestry sector occurred after the Tropical Forestry Action Program final
roundtable conference in 1991, and this had major implications for the demand
for lending inputs into the sector;



-111-
* this trend was reinforced by large increases in the domestic revenues being
accumulated within the sector, and efforts by the Government of Indonesia to
reduce its dependence on foreign borrowings.
5.    The result of these developments was that the Ministry of Forestry eventually
requested the Bank to cancel the second phase of the concession management component,
and the construction of a research facility in Irian Jaya, from the Loan, on grounds that
these activities would be financed from alternative sources.
6.    The Bank agreed to cancellation of components on these grounds, but nevertheless
rated implementation under the loan unsatisfactory in the final two supervisions of the
project, because of the major shortfall in disbursement which resulted, and the fact that
outputs from the canceled components were not achieved when the report was completed.
For that reason, overall project outcome has been rated unsatisfactory upon completion.
A review of status may be justified later, if these outputs are produced under alternative
funding arrangements.
7.    Some systemic and common problems were also apparent in implementation of the
project: there were delays in selection of consultants and finalization of contracts (a hiatus
of several months between the departure of the original Bank task manager, and
appointment of a replacement, was responsible for some of this delay, early in the project);
some Ministry project officers were either not appointed or hired, or were changed
frequently; and communication and coordination problems were both between different
areas of the Ministry managing the various components, and between consultants and
Ministry counterparts.
8.    However, these problems would in themselves not have prevented the project from
successfully completing implementation of the various components (albeit that an
extension of project duration may have been required in some cases), and it should be
noted that the Ministry of Forestry did eventually take measures which significantly
reduced processing delays and coordination problems.
Outcomes and Lessons Learned
9.    Outcomes under the five components of the project are summarized below:
*  concession management: the first phase of this component, involving a
consultancy based design of a concession management and inspection system,
was completed, and accepted by the relevant area of the Ministry. The
second, implementation phase of the component was canceled from the loan.
According to the Ministry, many of the activities designed for this component
are intended for completion under a number of donor and Ministry financed
projects;



-Iv-
*   research: the research master plan, and research scientist training programs
included in this component were completed.   Construction plans for the
research facility at Manokwari in Irian Jaya were completed under the project;
actual construction was canceled from the loan, but according to the Ministry
of Forestry, will be completed under alternative finance sources;
*   plantation master plan:  all activities and outputs under this component
were successfully completed;
*   conservation planning: consultants have delivered outputs on conservation
planning, and management plans for specific parks: these await final approval
and clearance by the Ministry. A third package - plans for the management of
mangrove forest areas - has been completed and cleared by the Ministry;
* high level policy advisor: after some initial delay in selection of a candidate
for this post, an appointment was made, and advisory activities have
proceeded satisfactorily.
10.   Some aspects of project activity appear to have reasonably good prospects of
sustainability: concession management improvement activities, although not completed
under the loan, are widespread under various donor and government programs in
Indonesia; it is likely that the research facility intended for Irian Jaya under the project will
be completed, and that trained staff will be available to operate it. More generally on
research, however, some doubts apply as to the likelihood of implementation of the
research master plan completed under the project, due to the institutional weakness of the
research infrastructure in Indonesia forestry.  Similar institutional doubts apply to
implementation of the planning outputs provided in the conservation component.
11.   In fact, the need to deal comprehensively with institutional constraints is a major
lesson which arises from experience with this project. A number of Ministry of Forestry
and donor programs (including those ongoing in the sector by the Bank) are addressing
sustainable forest management and conservation technical issues in many ways. However,
the abilities of the executing agencies in the forestry sector to formulate appropriate
institutional policies, arrangements and human resource development programs to
implement the improvements generated in these projects remains in some doubt.
12.   Some more generic lessons can also be drawn from the FICP II experience. Better
preparation of the Ministry of Forestry to handle a complex technical assistance project
such as FICP II would have been a worthwhile investment early on in this type of project:
although not obvious at the time, in retrospect it may have been advisable to
delay preparation and implementation of FICP II until the outcome of the
1991 Tropical Forestry Action Programme was known, so that more
information on other donor programs, and Ministry of Forestry priorities,
would have been available;



* measures to ensure and monitor better coordination between agencies within
the Ministry responsible for various aspects of project implementation - as
were eventually put in place - should have been built into the original design of
the project.
13.   Two broad findings, which apply to all aspects of forestry sector development in
Indonesia, are worthy of inclusion in the list of lessons to be drawn from experience in the
sector:
*   major policy constraints - some of which are beyond the mandate of the
Ministry of Forestry - need to be removed, to allow technical improvements
currently being generated to bear fruit: incorrect pricing and allocation
mechanisms for forest resources; and inappropriate incentive structures for
interest groups to pursue sustainability, are two major areas of concern;
* more focused donor and Government coordination is needed, especially to
close some major gaps in policy development, institutional reform and human
resource development.



PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. STATEMENT/EVALUATION OF OBJECTIVES
I.    The underlying goal of the project was to reduce the pace of deforestation and to
sustain and maximize long-term benefits from forest resources in Indonesia.
2.    When the project was initiated, the Bank's first Forestry Institutions and
Conservation Project (FICP I - Loan 2930-IND) had only been operating for less than two
years, and was in fact scheduled to run longer than FICP II - a closing date of June 30,
1996, applies to FICP I; compared to June 30, 1995, for FICP II. The rationale for a
second project at that stage was given as:
- FICP I, which is essentially an information gathering and sectoral analysis project,
was progressing well but had already indicated a strong need in Indonesia for
further investments in forest research, management and conservation.
- forestry was at the time (and remains) a sector of major economic and
environmental importance to Indonesia.
3.    The request for FICP II from the Government of Indonesia originally was directed
heavily at plantation development. However, on the basis of experience elsewhere in the
world, especially on the necessity for community participation and resolution of tenure
issues in projects involving large tracts of forest land, the Bank and GOI agreed on a more
cautious approach, allowing for further study, therefore proceeding with major investment
in field development.
4.    Accordingly, the specific inputs of the project were designed to lay the
groundwork for sector management and research for natural production forests,
plantations and conservation activities within forest areas. The specific activities were:
* concession management and inspection inputs to (a) improve the skills of forest
conservation managers and staff, to achieve better planning and management of
improved systems; (b) introduce improved systems for inspection and audit of
forest concessions, and royalty collection;
. reforestation inputs to complete a comprehensive master plan in time to assist
materially in the effective implementation of Indonesia's ambitious and very large
scale plantation program;



-2-
. research inputs to: (a) strengthen the ability of the Ministry of Forestry to plan
and implement effective forest research, primarily through completion of a
comprehensive research master plan; and (b) construct the first phase of a research
station in Irian Jaya;
* conservation planning inputs focused on (a) developing specific park
management plans for selected field sites; (b) improving the capability of the
Ministry of Forestry to plan and manage national forest conservation activities; and
(c) developing a specific planning approach for the management and conservation
of Indonesia's extensive mangrove forests;
* policy advice inputs, based primarily on selection and fielding of a highly qualified
and experienced professional to provide critical policy advice and analysis to the
Minister for Forests and senior ministry officials.
5.    Since implementation of the different components of the project was to be
undertaken in separate Directorates General of the Ministry of Forestry, a planning and
coordination function was to be undertaken by the Bureau of Planning in the Ministry,
while the secretaries of the involved DGs were expected to take primary responsibility for
implementation of the components under their management.
B. ACMEVEMEENT OF OBJECTIVES
6.    In the supervision report of 1994 for the project, an unsatisfactory rating for
implementation was given, because of extremely long delays in implementation of the
second (field) phase of the concession management of the component.
7.    The final supervision of the project, in 1995, rated the project unsatisfactory in
terms of both implementation and development objectives, because by then it had become
clear that the Ministry of Forestry did not intend to proceed under the loan with either the
concession management component, nor the construction of a research facility in Irian
Jaya, and requested cancellation of these components from the loan.
8.    It should be noted at this point that the Ministry of Forestry has advised that the
substantive elements of concession management as designed under the first phase of this
component of the project will be completed, under other financing and implementation
arrangements. In similar vein, the Ministry advises that the research station at Manokwari
will be built, using other funding arrangements. The assessment of the outcome of the
project is 'Unsatisfactory" (as shown in Table I of the statistical annex to this report)
because, at the time of writing, these outputs which were intended to be produced under
the project, had not been achieved. If, in follow up and assessments which may be done
on this project, it is shown that in fact both components have been implemented under
other funding arrangements, then the project might retrospectively be accorded a more
satisfactory assessment.



-3-
9.    It is important to consider the reasons for the decisions of the Ministry not to
proceed with two major aspects of the project, since this has a considerable bearing on the
future prospects of positive outcomes in these areas:
(a)   following the successful mobilization of donor interest in the Indonesian
forestry sector and the Tropical Forestry Action Program roundtable held
at Yogyakarta in 1991, donor contributions in the forestry sector have risen
enormously:  commitments by donors prior to 1991 were less than
$100 million - the bulk of this amount through the lending agencies - the
World Bank, ADB and OECD. By 1995, donor commitments in the sector
have risen to about $400 million - much of this now derived from grant-
based bilateral and multilateral services, and much of it focused on natural
forest concessions management and research;
(b)   in May  1992, the Cabinet of Indonesia, responding  in part to
macroeconomic counseling by the Bank's economic team, urged ministers
to reduce borrowing from all sources in their portfolios, to avoid higher
than desirable indebtedness levels in Indonesia;
(c)   in early 1993, soon after the design phase of the concession management
component under FICP II was delivered to GOI, the Minister for Forestry
decided to work towards establishment of an independent forest concession
inspection service, as an alternative to having this task carried out within
the Ministry. Although this decision necessitated a re-casting of the design
of the concessions management component under FICP II, the Bank
believed it to be an institutionally superior approach, and had in fact been a
major protagonist of this approach. At this point, the Bank offered to
work with the Ministry on redesigning the concession management
component accordingly, and also offered its assistance for establishment of
the new independent inspection service. Both offers were accepted at that
point;
(d)   the Ministry of Forestry controls a large off-budget fund - the
Reforestation Fund - which is based on collections of a levy on
concessionaires, proportional to their extracted log volume. The per cubic
meter amount of this levy has almost tripled from about $7 per cubic meter
in 1990, to about $20 per cm in 1995, and accordingly, the Fund has
expanded considerably. Again, this development can be attributed in part
to Bank policy advice to GOI; conditionalities in both FICP I and FICP II
called for increased forest rent collections by GOI, and the Bank has
directed numerous recommendations to the same effect to GOI in the
intervening years, in various ways. In fact, this has been a major thrust of
the Bank's intensive policy dialogue with GOI in the forestry sector.
Following his appointment in early 1993, the new Minister for Forestry
began to broaden the purposes for which the Reforestation Fund could be
spent - away from purely plantation purposes, and towards natural forest
management and research. The pressure on the Ministry to disburse the



-4-
Fund is great, and it has already been made clear in Indonesia that if the
Fund is not successfully disbursed for forestry purposes, it will be utilized
in other areas of the economy.
10.   In early 1994, the Minister for Forestry advised the Bank that a third Forestry
Institutions and Conservation Project - then under preparation following a request to that
effect from the previous Minister - should be postponed given the factors described above.
For the same reasons, it was further indicated by the Minister at that point, although not
confirmed, that discrete areas of FICP II not yet under implementation (in effect, the
second, field-oriented phase of the concessions management component; and the
construction of the Irian Jaya research facility) might be proposed to the Bank for
cancellation from the loan. The Minister felt that cancellation of components not yet
under implementation under the loan, would be less disruptive for both the Bank and the
Government, than interruption of ongoing activities.
11.   Given the circumstances, the Bank believes it was appropriate to express its
willingness to the Minister for Forestry to suspend preparation of FICP III and, by
extension, to cooperate in cancellation of elements from FICP II, if that was eventually
requested.  The Minister requested an internal review to determine if, and where,
reductions in the Ministry's borrowing exposure - current and projected - could be made.
12.   Eventually, after an extended period of review, and consideration of various
alternatives (including extension of the project to allow completion of the two aspects of
the project which were held in abeyance during this period - the second phase of
concession management, and construction of the research facility in Irian Jaya) the
Minister decided to request cancellation of both components from the loan.
Unfortunately, this decision was not made until quite late in the project; and it superseded
a decision made in 1994 by the Ministry of Forestry to request an extension of the project.
Some considerable amount of time and effort had therefore been spent, by the Bank and
Ministry officials, on preparing details of a project extension request.
Disbursement Objectives
13.   FICP II closed on schedule on June 30, 1995. Total disbursements under the
project were about US$9.46 million from an original loan amount of $20 million -- i.e.,
47 percent of the original. Virtually all of this shortfall is attributable to the cancellation of
the second phase of concession management and of construction of the research facility in
Irian Jaya, from the loan.
Concession Management and Inspection
14.   Although the major field phase of this component was not completed under the
project, it is the case that:
(a)    very high levels of financing and technical assistance are now being
directed from grant-based donor sources at all aspects of sustainable
natural forestry and concession management, to the point where the



-5-
absorptive capacity of the Ministry of Forestry are stretched to the limit in
this area;
(b)   the Bank is involved, via an IDF Grant, in the institutional creation of an
independent forest concession inspection organization in Indonesia. This
organization is intended to carry out many of the functions originally
designed into the concession management component for implementation
by the Ministry of Forestry.
15.   No precise estimate of recent rates of deforestation in Indonesia can be made, until
the final results of the nationwide forest inventory study being undertaken under FICP I
becomes available in 1996. However, estimates of deforestation made in recent years
have ranged between 700,000 ha and 1,300,000 ha per annum; it is likely that the current
level of forest loss will turn out to be still within this range.
Reforestation
16.   A Plantation Master Plan, complete with extensive reports, software and adapted
hardware, has been completed under the project. The relevant area of the Ministry of
Forestry has worked closely with the consultants on development of this plan, and has
now begun to extend its application and use into the Ministry's provincial offices.
17.   The Ministry regards the Plantation Master Plan as a highly successful
collaboration between its staff and the Bank, and is of the view that the information and
analytical systems developed will greatly enhance the effectiveness of the national
plantation program in Indonesia.
Conservation Planning
18.   In the Staff Appraisal Report, the conservation planning objective was described
under two headings: national park planning, and mangrove conservation. Subsequently,
the Bank and GOI agreed to implement this component under three separate consultancy-
based activities:
* Package 'A': development of management plans for selected national parks;
* Package 'B': development of a methodology and approach for conservation
planning at the national level;
* Package 'C': mangrove conservation planning.
19.   Package 'A' completed plans for seven national parks, rather than the ten plans
originally called for in the project. There were some institutional and implementational
reasons for this shortfall, and these are discussed in the next section of this report.
However, there is also a technical reason, namely that after this sub-component was
designed, requirements of a national park plan were altered by the Ministry. This was a
positive step, in that the new plan pro forma called for a much more detailed definition of
the investment implications of the plan. A decision was taken to attempt to include as



-6-
much of this new requirement into the plans being prepared under the project as possible,
even if this meant completing fewer plans than originally intended.
20.   Package 'B' has resulted in delivery of a consultancy report detailing an approach
to national park planning to the Ministry of Forestry, but at the time of writing, the
Ministry was still reviewing this report. There is some possibility that the Ministry may
negotiate some further inputs from the consultants on its own account, or provide some
additional inputs itself, before completing this component.
21.   Package 'C' has delivered comprehensive reports, software and other material to
the Ministry on mangrove conservation, including some innovative audio-visual
technology which is now in operation in the Ministry. The Ministry believes the output
from this sub-component to be highly relevant to current concerns over mangrove
management in Indonesia and very applicable to their solution.
Research
22.   The Master Plan for Forest Research was delivered to the Ministry in late 1994.
Considerable continuity and consultant/Ministry interaction on this sub-component was
lost, due to the sudden death of the consultant. Nevertheless, the consulting firm involved
was able to complete the task using short-term consultants, to the extent that, in May
1995, the Ministry cleared and finalized the report for use in its ongoing research planning
development.
23.   For reasons given in paragraph 9 above, the Minister for Forestry decided not to
proceed with construction of the research facility at Manokwari in Irian Jaya, under the
Bank loan. However, plans and contracts were finalized under the project, and the
Ministry advises that it will proceed with construction using its own funds, and possibly
some grant financing from other donors. Training of staff to man the facility, locally and
in international institutions, has been almost completed: several trainees due to complete
their programs in late 1995 or early 1996, will do so under financing from the Ministry.
High Level Policy Advisor
24.   After some delay in identifying a local consultant to this position, an appointment
was made in 1993. Some formal and informal reports were completed by the consultant,
but the main purpose of the position was to provide day-to-day advice to the Minister for
Forestry, and senior ministry officials - and the consultant has been very successful in this
regard. The consultant has also proved to be a valuable liaison point between the Bank
and the Ministry, so far as policy dialogue and development are concerned, and has
worked constructively with the Bank on establishing a number of formal and informal
mechanisms to facilitate policy exchanges and review.



-7-
Institutional Objectives
25.    No specific institutional goals were defined in the project, but it had an overall aim
of improving the capability of the Ministry of Forestry to manage its traditional
responsibilities in the area of forest management and regulation, and royalty collection,
and newer responsibilities developing in the areas of environmental management and
conservation, and development of community participation in the management of the
resources.
26.   Since no specific goals were set, it is possible to comment only on where
institutional competence has been enhanced under the project and where it has not.
Clearly, the project has improved the level of information, technology and the capability
within the Ministry to employ these in its management of the sector, in the areas of
plantation planning and research management. Some development along these lines have
also occurred in conservation planning and forest concession management, but severe
limitations on capacity still apply in these areas in the Ministry. The project has had
relatively little impact on the nature and design of training and human resource
management in the forestry sector, and it has not produced any major effects on the
overall design and functions of major forestry sector institutions.
Financial and Economic Objectives
27.   In policy agreements between GOI and the Bank set out in the Staff Appraisal
Report, reference is made to the need to improve both the level of rent collected in the
forestry sector, and the effectiveness of rent collection in the forestry agencies. During
the period of implementation of the project, the Bank has maintained intensive dialogue
and monitoring of these issues. Per cubic meter rent collected from forest concessions has
expanded almost threefold during the life of the project. The Bank is of the view that
significant further increases could be and should be collected, but nevertheless the gains
made represent substantial improvement.
28.   In the absence of a systematic study of the effectiveness of rent collection, it is
more difficult to assess the extent to which this has improved during the life of the project.
There are general indicators that the incidei,ce of regulatory and punitive measures applied
in this area - from improved access for Ministry personnel to financial records of
concessions, to license revocations and levying of fines - has increased markedly. The
project, through its enhancement of the dialogue process in general, and its specific inputs
in the concession management system design areas, has had some significant role in these
developments. In particular, it is reasonable to suggest that the current effort to develop
an independent forest concessions inspection organization in Indonesia, and the Bank's
role in funding this endeavor, are to some extent spin-off benefits from the operation of
FICP II.



-8-
C. IMPLEMENTATION RECORD AND MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
29.   The  project was  prepared  by  Bank  staff and  individual consultants.
Implementation of some components was delayed by a hiatus within the Bank during
which the original task manager left, and was not formally replaced for several months.
30.   Some major delays were experienced in the finalization of contracts for some
components.  Of these, the most serious was the inspection services/concession
management consulting contract. At negotiations an undertaking was given that this
contract would be signed by December 31, 1990, but in fact it was more than twelve
months later that finalization of this contract occurred.  Nevertheless, some slight
compression of the original time schedule as given in the SAR would have still allowed
this component to have been completed, had it not been for the developments described in
paragraph 7 of this report.
31.   Further delay was introduced into the concession management and research station
construction components, principally by the decision by the Minister to review the matter
of whether to proceed with these components under Bank lending.
32.   A decision was taken in 1994 by the Ministry of Forestry, to request extension of
the project - principally to allow completion of these two components and in fact an
official telex requesting extension was forwarded to the Bank in December 1994.
However, the Minister for Forestry subsequently decided, on the basis of the
developments outlined in paragraph 7, to revoke this decision and cancel these
components from the loan.
33.   Although the Bank would have preferred to see some of the specific ideas
developed in the design phase for concession management and inspection implemented
under a project designed for the purpose, the Bank understands the rationale behind the
Minister's decision. The fact of the matter is that, so far as inputs into forest concessions
are concerned, since inception of the project (when relatively little donor financing was
devoted to this purpose) major increases in donor participation have occurred. The end
result is that, by 1995, the Ministry of Forestry is in a situation where grant-based donor
funds, and the imperative to disburse significant amounts of the Reforestation Fund into
natural forest management and organization are sufficient to take up all of the Ministry's
absorptive capacity for developmental work in this field.
34.   Implementation under other components of the project ranged from satisfactory to
good. In the case of the conservation packages, contract approval delays occurred in all
cases, and conceivable additional involvement by Bank and Ministry staff was required to
achieve results in this area.
35.   The more serious problem in the implementation of the conservation packages,
however, related to the lack of adequate formal and informal mechanisms to facilitate
effective day-to-day contact between consultant staff and Ministry personnel.  This
problem became potentially limiting in the case of Package 'C', and the Bank was obliged
to intervene to bring about consultancy personnel changes. The relevant Directorate of



-9-
the Ministry then appointed a senior officer to oversee implementation of all the packages.
Major improvement in implementation of Package 'C' occurred after these measures.
Some improvement in Package 'B' implementation also occurred, although at the time of
writing some further consultancy inputs into the final report may be required and the
Ministry is in consultation with the consultancy firm to resolve this matter.
36.   Package 'A' has delivered a final report. As noted earlier, the number of parks for
which designs were completed was reduced, to allow more comprehensive plans which
would comply with new Ministry guidelines to be completed. The time frame finally
negotiated between consultants and the Ministry for completion of this package was
24 months, and in retrospect this period may have been unrealistically short.
37.   The Research Master Plan consultancy has delivered a final report, which has been
approved and issued by the Ministry. The communication linkages between the original
consultant and Ministry staff in the research directorate were good, until the untimely
death of the consultant. Interim measures utilizing short duration consultancy inputs b-
international forestry research academics were employed to complete the work, and
although this approach has been less ideal than having a long-term expert in place, it was
all that was possible at this juncture, and it did result in a satisfactory report.
38.   Both the Government and the Bank are well satisfied with the output from the
Plantation Master Plan component of the project.  While minor adjustments of
programming and outputs originally described in the SAR occurred, these changes were
designed on this basis of very good communication between the Ministry, consultants and
the Bank, and all parties accept that original objectives of this component - and some
additional ones in the area of extending the core of the technology and data are in
provincial forest offices - have been achieved.
39.   A problem which occurred in several areas of the project, with varying seriousness,
was the lack of appointment of long-term project officers to each area. The project relied
in design on overall supervision of the components by the Secretaries of the involved
Directorates-General. However, these officials are extremely busy with regular ministry
tasks, and are simply not able to devote time to supervision of project inputs.  In
retrospect, early appointment of project officei (which did eventuate in some cases)
should have been part of project design.
40.   An extremely effective mechanism for management of routine implementation and
disbursement problems was devised by the Bank and the Ministry in the latter half of the
project, when a consultancy group with very strong experience in management of Bank
projects elsewhere in GOI was attached to the Bureau of International Cooperation,
utilizing forest funds from FICP I. Following establishment of this arrangement, better
reporting and stronger coordination between the Directorates implementing the project
has occurred.



-10-
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
41.   As originally conceived, FICP II was to be part of a program  of Bank-GOI
interventions in the forestry sector. Although major policy dialogue with GOI continues,
direct investments by the Bank in mainstream forest operational activities will cease after
the closure of FICP I in 1996. Whether the overall goal of reduction of deforestation and
the specific objectives set out under this project will now be achieved by increased
investments from other sources cannot be determined at this point, and therefore the
sustainability of the project outcomes is judged as uncertain.
42.   According to the Ministry of Forestry, aspects of the design for concession
management systems produced in FICP II now already are in other donor and Ministry
funded projects. Also, the Minister has made public commitments to provide continued
financial support to the new independent inspection service (the Indonesian Ecolabelling
Institute) when it is ready to commence work.
43.   The Minister has also indicated that the research station at Manokwari, designed
under FICP II, will be built under the Ministry's own funds.
44.   The output from the Research and Conservation components of the project is
composed largely of reports on information and technology for improved design and
management in these areas. Whether or not these will be put to effective use is essentially
a question of policy and institutional reforms, and human resource management, since
major changes in these areas are needed in the Ministry of Forestry to allow new
approaches and systems to be applied effectively.
45.   This leads to the major project sustainability concern, in the view of the Bank.
While significant technical and investment inputs are continuing to occur in the sector, it is
a fact that neither the Bank-financed field-based watershed, integrated conservation and
development and rural development projects, nor the programs of other donors, are able
to deal effectively with policy and institutional reform and human resource management on
a broad basis in the forestry sector. Particular attention needs to be given to: developing
the institutional capacity of the conservation, training and research areas of the Ministry to
manage the rapidly changing and developixAg responsibilities more effectively; to specific
investments to mobilize the Institute for Ecolabelling as quickly and effectively as
possible, and to the major issue of policy, institutional and regulatory reforms needed to
involve forest dwelling and adjacent communities effectively in natural forest management.
46.   Thus, while a great deal of good work is being done in forestry and conservation in
Indonesia, by GOI, the Bank, and other donors, the concern here is that this program lacks
an institutional policy and human resources center: a sector-wide coordinating input that
would allow the many interesting, isolated developments to be brought effectively to bear
on the deforestation objective.



-1 1-
E. BANK PERFORMANCE
47.   After a somewhat slow start, due to the hiatus in appointment of a replacement
task manager, the Bank's performance through the project cycle was satisfactory. In
virtually every component, major and minor mid-course corrections needed to be made,
and these were designed and processed reasonably effectively by the Bank.
48.   Design of the components of the project was reasonable, given the indications at
the time from FICP I, and the reasonable assumption that the project would be allowed to
run its course, and would probably be followed on with a third FICP. More attention
could have been given to the institutional arrangements prescribed for project management
and implementation: stronger commitment to appointments of long-term, full time project
managers from within the Ministry; and earlier specification of a coordinating consultancy
(as was eventually introduced) would have helped.
49.   With the benefit of hindsight, the Bank may have been well-advised to wait a year
or two longer, before initiating FICP II little more than 18 months after inception of
FICP I. This would have allowed the perceptions of the new Minister for Forestry to be
better taken account of, and would also have had the benefit of the output from the
Tropical Forestry Action Program donors roundtable in 1991.
50.   The Bank had identified some of the communication problems between consultants
and Ministry staff in the conservation package in supervision reports as early as 1992.
Although a strong, proactive intervention eventually was made by the Bank, in retrospect
it may have been advisable to do so earlier. This is a somewhat delicate matter, involving
as it does the role of the Ministry in dealing with such matters, and the (usually) specific
relationship between consultants and the Government.
F. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
51.   This project was implemented entirely within the Ministry of Forestry. Although
this Ministry is also the recipient of assistance under FICP I, that project only commenced
operation eighteen months or so before FICP I1. These two projects comprise the first
interaction between the Bank and the Ministry uf Forestry on lending projects. Some
inexperience with Bank procedures and requirements was therefore inevitable at the outset
of this project, and this was manifested in occasionally slow responses to information and
processing requirements. These were exacerbated by some generic problems in the
Government of Indonesia in mobilization of counterpart project funding.
52.   As noted earlier, the project suffered from the lack of long-term appointment of
project coordinators from within the Ministry, and/or the frequent changing of personnel
in these positions.  However, the lack of institutional memory, inter-component
coordination and generally slow response caused by this problem was greatly reduced
towards the latter part of the project, when the Ministry appointed experienced local
consultants to handle the management and coordination tasks.



-12-
53.   The final assessment under this heading is that, once problems of inexperience and
poor intemal coordination were overcome, tL  Ministry was able to manage in a
satisfactory manner the complexities of a multi-component project which was executed in
several separate Directorates fairly well.  The Ministry did react positively when
shortcomings were pointed out, and personnel associated with the project were well-
motivated and helpful.
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
54.   It is the case that, this project, based as it is heavily upon improvement of planning
and management technology and institutional capacity within a line agency, has delivered
most of the technical outputs expected of it. For reasons explained under paragraph 7, it
has not delivered major field outcomes (concession management field operations; a
research station at Manokwari).  It is for this reason that the project was rated
unsatisfactory in the two most recent Bank supervisions, and its overall outcome is judged
unsatisfactory.
55.   Because the project was conceived as part of a program of assistance, bridging
the essentially information gathering role of FICP I, to a much more intensive sector
reform program as was planned for FICP III, it is difficult to speculate on the long term
value of the inputs generated as a whole, given the slow progress (to date) on the policy
reforms and institutional changes that were anticipated when FICP II was designed.
Clearly, in areas such as the Plantation Master Plan, the very high level of interest in
plantations in Indonesia, and the high level of involvement in and acceptance by the
Ministry in the component, will probably make this a valuable input.  Similarly, the
provision of a senior advisor who was able to act as a conduit between the Bank and the
new Minister for Forestry on important policy issues has been of obvious value.
56.   The outcome in other areas of the project is less certain. Both the research and
conservation management areas of the Ministry of Forestry are under increasing pressure
in the modem forest land management environment, and these areas will require major
investment in human resource development and institutional and policy reform, if they are
to take advantage of technical assistance which has been and is being provided by the
Bank and other donors.  In the area of con,ssion management, major policy and
institutional reform and development are also needed, and to some extent are under way in
Indonesia. The technical inpu.s which are now being sponsored by the donor group in
Indonesia in this area are vital, but they place absorptive capacity demands upon the
system, and ultimately they require very strong institutional and political commitment to
change, for their effective implementation. It is simply too early to judge whether this will
be forthcoming in Indonesia, on a scale and in a time frame commensurate with the
problems of deforestation and inefficient forest use.
H. FUTURE OPERATIONS
57.   Given that major direct lending through the Ministry of Forestry is now no longer
possible, the Bank is pursuing a two-pronged strategy in the forestry sector of Indonesia:



-13-
(i)   an energetic and broad-based policy dialogue is being pursued,
whereby the essential policy and institutional issues in the forestry
sector are being included in the Bank's broader economic
management dialogue with the Government. Also, the Bank is
responding positively to a request from the Minister for Forestry
that a strong policy presence be maintained by the Bank in the
sector;
(ii)   lending and grant-based assistance is being directed to projects in
watershed development, land administration, and integrated
conservation and development activities, with strong connections to
forestry (most occur on significant areas officially designated as
forest land).  The grant-based elements of these projects are
focusing  on  concession  management  and  other  forestry
management activities, as well as a wide range of biodiversity
conservation activities, and are being implemented to a large extent
through the Ministry of Forestry - which is also leveraging these
inputs with funding of its own. Funding is being directed through
other Ministries - BANGDA, BAPPENAS, Agriculture and
Environment, and through other levels of government - in pursuit of
rural development, poverty alleviation and decentralization
objectives in sites clearly associated with forests and valuable
biodiversity, soil and water assets.
1. KEY LESSONS LEARNED
58.   In hindsight, better preparation of the Ministry of Forestry to accept the task of
managing a rather complex, technical assistance based project would have been
worthwhile: had the system of management, coordination and reporting which was in
place by the end of the project been developed earlier, more timely and effective
implementation of the components, and better integration of their outputs into mainstream
Ministry activities would have resulted.
59.   As far as the components which were canceled from the loan are concerned,
perhaps the only real lesson to be drawn from this is that it may have been useful had the
Bank and the Government cooperated on a more timely and definitive approach to the
decisions needed. As it was, the period of review was extended, almost to the scheduled
end of the project, and considerable resources from both the Bank and the Government
were consumed in this process.
60.   Two broader, related aspects of forestry in Indonesia need to be dealt with under
this heading:
(i)   the Bank's experience, in FICP II and elsewhere, is that some
important and basic policy issues must be dealt with by
Government, to allow the technical and other developments from



-14-
the sector programs which are now in progress in Indonesia to bear
fruit. Correct resolution of some important matters to do with the
methods of pricing and allocation of the forest resource; the basic
economics of sustainability; and the best means of providing
meaningful incentives for all interest groups in the sector to pursue
it, is needed, and donors will need to work increasingly closely with
Government on these, for the next level of development to be
achieved.
(ii)   the Bank took some role in the coordination of donor inputs and
responses in the forestry sector; and the Ministry of Forestry has
made a commendable start on this major task. However, large gaps
remain in the program, especially in the difficult areas of policy and
institutional reform and development discussed earlier.  Unless
problems in these areas are resolved, through careful interaction
between donors, the Government and other interest groups in the
sector, it is likely that the effectiveness and implementation of
technical developments currently being pursued in the sector will be
slow, and the ultimate benefits of them will be much reduced.



PAR T II:
STA TISTICAL ANNEXES






-17-
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of objectives             Substantial       Partial        Negligible    Not applicable
(.1       )      (V()                            (/)
Macro policies                            D2                               D               D]
Sector policies                           D                                Dg              D I
Financial objectives                      D                 I                              D<  m 
Institutional development                 D               I,;              D               D
Physical objectives                      LIi              D                               [I 
Poverty reduction                         D               D                D:              1
Gender issues                             D                                Dt              D- 
Other social objectives                   D               D                D               g
Environmental objectives                  D                               El               El
Public sector management                 El                 l             [3 
Private sector development                El              El                               E 
Other (specify)                          Li]              El              El               El



-18--
B. Project sustainability               Lily                Unlikely            Uncertain
C')                  C')                (v')
O                   ODEh
Highly
C. Barnkperformance-                   satisfactory        Satisfactor          Deficien
C')                  C')                 C')
Identification                         D                   E3                    D
Preparation assistance                 D                                        [E
Appraisal                              L                                        []
Supervision                            C                    i                    C
Highly
D. Borrower performance               satisfactory        Satisfactory         Deficien
C')                C')                  C')
Preparation                            C                                        L]
Implementation                         C                                        LI
Covenant compliance                   [                                         [I
Operation (if applicable)              CI                  [
Highly                                     Hily
E. Assessment of outcome             satisfacto     Satisfactory   Unsafisfactory  unsatisfactory
(/)      (C/)            C')          C')
OI            LI                         LI



-19-
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Year of
Loanlcredit title                                   Purpose                  Approval       Status
Preceding operations
1. Forestry Institutions and Conservation   To strengthen planning, management  1988       Ongoing
Project                            and conservation efforts in this sector
for maximizing long-term contributions
from forest resources for the welfare of
the Indonesian people.
2. National Watershed Management and   To improve the living standards of poor  1993       Ongoing
Conservation Project               upland farmers by improving and
restoring the productive potential of
their resource base and to improve
watershed environnmental quality and
protect downstream watershed
resources.
3. Land Administration Project        To foster efficient and equitable land   1994        Ongoing
markets and alleviate social conflicts
over land.
Following operations
1. Kerinci Seblat Integrated Conservation  To secure the biodiversity of KSNP and  1996     Under
and Development Project            stop further habitat fragmentation by:             preparation
(a) improving Park protection and
management, including the involvement
of local communities; and (b)
promoting sustainable management and
the maintenance of permanent forest
cover in the remaining buffer zon
concession areas.
2. Kutai Integrated Conservation and  To protect biodiversity in the Kutai     1998         Under
Development Project                National Park, and in the process                  preparation
reduce poverty and foster development
in areas surrounding the Park.



-20-
Table 3: Project Timetable
Date actual/
Steps in project cycle                   Date planned      |      latest estimate
Identification (Executive Project Summary)            November 1989               March 1990
Preparation                                          January 15, 1990             March 1990
Appraisal               -                              March 1990                 April 1990
Negotiations                                            May 1990                  May 1990
Letter of development policy (if applicable)               n.a.                      n.a.
Board presentation                                      June 1990                 June 1990
Signing                                                 July 1990                July 6, 1990
Effectiveness                                          October 1990             October 6, 1990
First tranche release (if applicable)                      n.a.                      n.a.
Midterm review (if applicable)                         March 1993                   n.a. \a
Second (and third) tranche release (if applicable)         n.a.                      n.a.
Project completion                                    June 30, 1994             June 30, 1995
Loan closing                                          June 30, 1995             June 30, 1995
\a A mid-term review was intended once the major field activity (concession management) was under
implementation, but since this component was cancelled, no review was done.
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursement: Cumulative Estirnated and Actual
(US$ thousands)
EY9-            EY92           FY93           EY94            EY95
Appraisal estimate             2,500          6,000           11,000          16,000         20,000
Actual                         1,000           1,000          4,110           6,650           9,439
Actual as % of estimate        40              17             37              42             47
Date of final disbursement     November 2, 1995



-21-
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
I.Key implementation indicators in SAR/President's Report \a  Unit     Estimated       Actual
1. National Master Plan Forest Plantations
(a) Economic Study                                        set           1              1
(b) Silvicultural Report                                  set           I              I
(c) Ecological and Watershed Repon                        set           I              I
(d) Sociological Studies                                  set           I              I
(e) Decision Formulas                                     set           I              1
(f) DevelopmenE of Alternative Models                     set           I              I
(g) Maps and Imagery                                      set           I              I
(h) Seminars and Policy Papers                            set           I              I
(i) National Plan Repons                                  set           1              1
2. Concession Management
(a) Design woodflow admin. system                       number          1              I
(b) Design operation inspection system                  number          1              I
(c) Design forest management system                     number          I              I
(d) Prepare institutional development proposal          number          1              1
(e) Prepare training programs                           number          I              1
(f) Interim review and report                           number          I              I
(g) Implement designed systems and programs             number          I             0
(h) Finalize organizational proposals                   number          1             0
3. Conservation
(a) Management plans for parks                          number          10            7
(b) Preparation of national conservation plan           number          I
(c) Management plans for selected mangrove areas        number         n.a.            3
(d) Training program and materials completion             set           I              1
4. Research
(a) Complete master plan for forest research              set           I              1
(b) Complete plans and contracting for construction of    set           I              I
research facility at Manokwari (hrian Jaya)
(c) Construct research facility at Manokwari            number          I             0
5. High-Level Policy Advisory
(a) Selection and Appointment                           number          I              I
\a No specific indicators were provided in reports: these have been derived from objectives and contents given in
the report.



-22-
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
I.Key implementation indicators in SAR/President's Report \a             Targets         Actual
1. National Master Plan Forest Plantations
(a) Establish consultant/GOI planning office                            I                1
(b) Establish system for data gathering (8 provinces)                   I                I
(c) GOI adoption of training manuals, systems & technical methods       I 1
2. Concession Management
(a) Adoption of concession management system design                     1                1
(b) Training/fielding of personnel to implement systems                 I                I
(c) Implementation of field system                                      I                0
3. Conservation
(a) Implementation of individual national park plans                    11               7
(b) Adoption of national park management system                         I              0 \b
(c) Implementation of mangrove site plans                               3              0 \b
4. Research
(a) Approve and adopt Master Plan                                       1                1
(b) Operate research facility at Manokwari                              I               0
\a No specific indicators given in report: the listing here is derived from objectives and outputs given in the
report.
\b Pending.
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
The project produced no stand-alone studies, but included analysis of many technical, institutional
and policy issues in the large number of reports produced.



-23-
Table 8A: Project Costs
Appraisal estimate (US$'000)  Actual/latest estimate (US$'000)
Local     Foreign                Local    Foreign
Component                costs      costs       Total      costs     costs     Total
1. Research                           5,600      4,000       9,600     1,406     1,004     2,410
2. Concession Management da           6,500       4,200     10,700     1.219       788     2,007
3. Forest Plantations                  1,400      1,900      3,300     1,708     2,319     4,027
4. Conservation                        1,100      1,400      2,500     1,286      1,637    2,923
5. Policy Advisory Service \b           200        800       1,000        55        14        69
Total Base Costs                      14,800     12,300     27,100     5,674     5,762    11,436
Physical Contingencies                 1,200       800       2,000         -         -         -
Price Contingencies                   2,400       1,600      4,000         -         -         -
TOTAL                    18,400     14,700   33,100 \c    5,674     5,762    11,436
\a The Concession Management component (the major component) was not completed.
\b For the Policy Advisory Service, local consultant was hired.
\c The total costs in SAR exclude Netherlands Grant Funds (US$2.8 million) which GOI decided not to use.
Table 8B: Project Financing
Appraisal estimate (US$'000)     Actual/latest estimate (USS'000)
Local      Foreign                Local      Foreign
Source               costs       costs       Total      costs       costs      Total
IBRD                                7.3        12.7      20.0         3.4         6.0        9.4
GOI                                10.8         1.0      11.8          1.7        0.1        1.8
Japanese Grant Facility             0.3         0.2       0.5            -        0.2        0.2
ITTO                                  -         0.8       0.8                       -
Government of Netherlands \a          -           -       2.8            -          -
TOTAL                     18.4        14.7      33.1          5.1        6.3        11.4
\a The project received Netherlands Grant Fund (US$2.8 million) which was not included in the SAR; GOI later
decided not to use the funds. The Civil Works for the reserach component was delayed, pending completion of
the forest research master plan and a review of reserch needs.



-24-
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
Due to the nature of the project, no estimate of benefits or economic returns was possible at appraisal.
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Indonesia
Second Forestry Institutions and Conservation Project
Original     Revised
Covenant    Present   fulfillment   fulfillment                Description of
Agreement   Section       type       status      date         date                       covenant
Article III   3.01 (a)     5          CP         n.a.         n.a.      Achievement of main objectives of project.
3.01 (b)      5          CD       12/31/91     6/30/92     Sign consultancy contract: Plantation Master
Plan.
5         CD        12/31/91     6/30/92     Sign consultancy contract: Research Master
Plan.
5        NC \a      3/31/93                  Mid-term review.
5        CP \b      12/31/91     6/30/92     Sign consultancy contract: Concession
Management
3.02        5           C          n.a.         n.a.     Agreement to follow Bank procurement
procedures.
3.03        13          C          n.a.         n.a.     Satisfactory representation of women in
training programs.
3.04        13         CD        12/31/90     12/31/91    Provide training action plan.
3.05        6           C          n.a.         n.a.     Park plans from project to comply with
environmental criteria.
Article IV    4.01         2          C          n.a.         n.a.      Agreement to comply with Bank audit and
record requirements.
Covenant Class:                                                        Present Status:
2  Financial performance/generate revenue from beneficiaries           C = covenant complied with
5  Management aspects of the Project or its executing agency           CD = complied with after delay
6  Environmental convenants                                            CP   complied with partially
13 Other                                                               NC = not complied with
\a Dispensed with due to non-progress on concession management component.
\b Contract for first phase (design) completed; second phase withdrawn.
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Statement number and title                I      Describe and comment on lack of compliance
There are no OMS relevant to the project that have not been complied with and/or 5een acted against.



-25-
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Planned                       Revised                       Actual
Stage of project cycle
Weeks        US$'000         Weeks         US$'000         Weeks        US$'000
Through appraisal                 59.2           128.3          n.a.           n.a.           45.4          101.4
Appraisal - Board                  3.8            8.1           n.a.           n.a.           17.5          35.1
Board - effectiveness              n.a.          n.a.           n.a.           n.a.           n.a.          n.a.
Supervision                       76.6           173.9          n.a.           n.a.           81.2          193.8
Completion                         9.0           20.6           n.a.           n.a.            2.8           9.1
TOTAL                   148.6          331.0          n.a.           n.a.           146.9         339.3
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Number   Days    Specialized
Stage of             Month/          of        in      staff skills        Performance rating        Types of
project cycle           year         persons   field   representated                                   problems
Implementation   Development
status        objectives
Through appraisal       November 1989       n.a.     n.a.        n.a.                     |
to March 1990
Appraisal through        March to June      n.a.     n.a.        n.a.                      |
Board approval               1990
Board approval through    June to October   n.a.     n.a.        n.a.                     |
effectiveness                1990
Supervision 1           December 1990        4        14     FS, FA, A,           1               1 1
Cs
Supervision 2           December 1991        5        9      FS, FA, A,           2               1 I
C/E. CS
Supervision 3            February 1992       4        18    FS, FA, E, A          2               1 I
Supervision 4             April 1993         3        14      FS, FE, A           2               1 I
Supervision 5             April 1994         4       21    FS, FE, A, E          U                U           PMP
Supervision 6             April 1995         4        10     FS, FE, A,          U                U           AGP
Cs
Completion              September 1995       2                  FS, A                     |
Specialized Staff: FS   Forestry Specialist; FA = Financial Analyst; A = Agronomist; CS = Conservation Specialist; E =
Economist; FE = Forestry Expert
Problems: PMP = Project Management Performance; AGP = Altered Government Policy






APPENDIX A
INDONESIA
SECOND FORESTRY INSTITUTIONS AND CONSERVATION PROJECT
(LOAN 3243-IND)
.Implementation Completion Mission
AIDE MEMOIRE
I. INTRODUCTION
1.        A World Bank Mission,  comprising Messrs J. Douglas and
Soemardjo,   undertook initial consultations and preparation work
for an implementation completion report for FICP II, between 8-18
September, 1995.  The loan closed on 30 June 1995, and is expected
to complete all disbursements by end October 1995. The Ministry of
Forestry has agreed to provide a listing of actions which will be
taken to both complete activities still current from the loan
project, and to promote the sustainability of the project outputs.
A wrap-up meeting chaired by Mr. Widarya, of the Bureau of
International Cooperation in the Ministry, was held on 19 September
1995.   This aide memoire records the mission's main findings and
recommendations, and is subject to review and confirmation by the
Bank's management.   The mission wishes to record its appreciation
to the Government of Indonesia for assistance and cooperation
during the review period.
II. PROGRESS ON ACTIONS AGREED WITH PREVIOUS SUPERVISION MISSION
2.      At the previous supervision mission, in May 1995, several
actions to be taken by GOI were agreed upon, for FICP II.  These,
and the outcomes so far, are given below:
(i)    advise Bank on decision whether Ministry will proceed
with concession management component of project (by June 20).
The Ministry advised the Bank of its decision not to proceed
by the due date;
(ii)    if yes,  provide Bank with work plans etc.  This no
longer applies;
(iii)  consider the proposal for extension of FICP II for 12
months.   It has been mutually agreed with the Bank not to
proceed with an extension of FICP II, given the decision not
to proceed with the concession management component;



(iv)    advise Bank of any further inputs or requirements for
completion  of  conservation  packages  under  FICP  II.    The
Ministry has advised the Bank on the status of these sub-
components.
III. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
3.        The project was based largely on technical  assistance:
implementation can be assessed largely on the basis of whether
technical outputs identified in the SAR were forthcoming, but the
longer term value of the project must be judgea on the extent to
which this technology is extended and used within the sector in
Indonesia.   At this stage,  the degree to which technical outputs
have been delivered can be assessed: judgements about the longer
term value and sustainability will be made when compiling the ICR
itself, once all data, information and opinions are available.
4.       Before considering implementation outcomes by component,
some general remarks on implementation under this project are in
order:
(i)      initiation of some components  of the project were
considerably delayed in this project.   Part of the cause of
this was the hiatus in appointment of a replacement of the
original task manager for the project by the Bank, early in
the project life. Other delays occurred in the assessment and
selection of consultants for various tasks, and in the
Ministry's finalization of reports and other output from such
consultancies.   However,  it is clear that the Bank  was too
optimistic in its estimates of time frames needed to implement
many of the components of this project, in the original
project design.
(ii)     some components under the project suffered from lack
of appointment of a permanent PIMPRO until late in the life of
the project, and some proportion of the delays and other
problems in implementation can be attributed to this.
(iii)    coordination of pzoje' t activities, and of reporting
outputs from it, was not strong in the early phases of the
project, although this improved significantly toward the later
stages, as the Bureau of International Cooperation in the
Ministry took a stronger role in this task.
(iv)     because the Ministry of Forestry decided not to
proceed with two components under the loan, disbursement has
been reduced to about $US 12 million, instead of $US 20
million originally planned.



5.         Concession  management.      About  one  third  of  total
disbursements originally foreshadowed for the FICP II project in
the staff appraisal report were intended for the forest concession
management component.    In the final supervision report for FICP
II, completed in May 1995, the project was given an Unsatisfactory
rating in the Bank's internal assessment process, because it was
considered likely that this component would not proceed under
project financing.   In the event, this proved to be the case: the
Ministry of Forestry has decided not to proceed with this component
under an extension phase for the project, and the funds for
implementation of the second, field phase of this component have
been canceled.
6.       It is emphasized here that this rating is based on the
restricted criterion of   disbursement  under  the project.    The
decision of the Ministry not to proceed with the component has to
do with the Minister's decision to replace loan funds with grant
based funds, and funds from the Ministry's own resources, in major
Ministry development projects. It does not denote dissatisfaction
on the part of either the Government nor the Bank with the design
for concession management developed in the first phase of this
project. There were significant delays in implementing the first,
design phase for this component, but these alone would not have
warranted an Unsatisfactory implementation rating for the project
had the second phase proceeded.
7.      The plantation master plan.  This component of the project
has been completed, with a fairly short extension to the original
implementation  schedule  being  required.       The  technology  and
software  developed  under  the  project  has  been  effectively
transferred to the Ministry of Forestry, and the Ministry has
already transferred equipment to the provinces to allow the system
to be used there.
B.      Management planning for national parks and wetland areas.
Package 'C' under this componen:, t.- Mangrove management project,
has delivered reports and technology satisfactory to the Ministry.
Package  'A'  (national  park  plans)  was  intended  to  deliver
management plans for 27 national parks, but has so far only
delivered  18 plans.  Package  'B'  (park planning methodology)  is
under review by the Ministry, and is also incomplete at this stage.
The Ministry will review the status of contract payments made to
the consultants, and will withhold any payments as yet undisbursed
pending completion of output to the Ministry's satisfaction.



9.      Some significant communication problems developed between
project consultants and Ministry staff during the implementation of
this  component.    While  these were  eventually mostly resolved,
better terms of reference on this matter in project design, and
more rigorous monitoring of this matter would have considerably
reduced the amount of time and effort eventually required to solve
this problem.
10.        Master plan for forest research.   Although adversely
affected by the untimely death of the expatriate consultant midway
through the plan formulation process, a master plan for forest
research has been completed and accepted by the Ministry of
Forestry.
11.       Establishment of a research station in Irian Jaya.   The
design and selection of contractors for construction were completed
under the FICP II project.  However, construction did not proceed
under the project for similar reasons to those outlined for the
concession management component under paragraph 5 above.
12.       Provision of a high level advisor to the Minister for
Forestry. An advisor was selected and appointed under the project,
and remains in place in the Ministry.
IV. OTHER MATTERS
13.      Audits and Accounts: No audit reports are outstanding for
this project.
14.     Disbursements:  As of September 19, an amount of about $US
10 million had been disbursed from the loan amount of USD 20
million, with a further 2 million or so committed for disbursement
up to the final date. The mission advised the Government that only
expenditures incurred by the final disbursement date of October 31
1995 would be eligible for reimbursement under the loan.
15.     Loan covenants:    The jorrrwer is in compliance with all
major loan covenants.
16.     Implementation completion report: The mission has advised
the Government of the new Bank procedures regarding project
completion reporting, and it was agreed at the meeting that the
Government will provide the necessary factual and financial
information for the project to the Bank by the end of October (by
which time all expenditure under the project must cease), and will
also provide a report conveying the Government of Indonesia's
assessment of the project.   A format for this report, based on
recent examples submitted to the Bank in other sectors, was



discussed and agreed upon, and it was also agreed that Government
would provide this report to the bank by end October 1995.
17.     In view of the fact that major components of the loan were
deleted, the subject of component completion, follow-up and the
sustainability of project outputs was discussed extensively, and
the Government agreed to provide to the Bank, by the end of
October, an action plan describing how these matters will be dealt
with by the Government.






APPENDIX B
IMPLEINMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA SECOND FORESTRY
INSTITUTIONS AND CONSERVATION PROJECT (IBRD LOAN NO.3243-IND)
Project Objectives
1.1.  Background
In line with its broader national development objectives the development
objectives in forestry sector among others are to conserve and sustain natural
resources for long-term benefit of the nation.
As quoted from the Appraisal Report, in its Repelita V GOI is emphasizing
(a)  Improvement of the management of natural forests and plantations to sustain
their productivity for the future;
(b)  Increase in non-oil export revenues through increase exports of value-added
forestry products;
(c)  Conservation of watersheds to ensure uninterrupted flow of water for
irrigation and urban consumption;
(d)  Protection and conservation of wildlife, genetic resources in natural forests,
and scenic and recreation areas; and
(e)  Reforestation of about 10 million ha of the 20 million ha of deforested and
degraded lands, of which about 1.5 million ha will be undertaken within the
Repelita V period and the balance of about 8.5 million ha partly during the
Repelita V period and partly thereafter.
Stron, forestry sector is important to the Indonesian Economy, therefore the
support of the World Bank, through FICP I and FICP II to strengthen the sector
is of great importance, particularly in the late 80's decade.
1.2.  Project Objective of FICP II
The main objectives of the project are to reduce the pace of deforestation and to
sustain and maximiz.. long-term benefits from the forest resources in Indonesia.
Strategies to achieve these objectives include
(a)  Better management of production forest to reduce logging damage and to
sustain the productive and regenerative capacity of these forest for longer-
term;
(b)  Increase in resource mobilization for national development and reforestation
through improved collection of forestry royaties and fees;
(c)  Improve the efficiency of future reforestation activities through improved
site selection and planning;
(d)  Improve the technical basis for reforestation and concession management
through applied and adaptive research; and



(e)  Improve the  management of nature  conservation  areas through better
planning.
The main project components are
(a)  Concession Management and Inspection. Logging damage to forests and
environment in forest concession areas would be reduced through: (i)
improvement of the management of forestry operations by concessionaires
of about 50 million ha of production forests, including the training of
managers and staff in better planning of logging, skidding, and road con-
struction; and the development of an improved wood accounting system;
and (ii) introduction of an improved concession inspection and audit system,
such system to establish the amount of logs extracted as a basis for royalty
and fee assessment and collection, and to ensure that environmental
guidelines and appropriate silvicultural practices are followed
(b)  Formulation of master plan for forest plantation. Indonesia plans to put a
big investment for the reforestation of degraded lands. To ensure efficient
and timely investment, a national master plan for reforestation of about 10
million ha, including a review and evaluation of land tenure status of sites,
and incentive, financing and control mechanisms, will be prepared;
(c)  Forestry Research. Planning  and management of research  would  be
improved through: (i) strengthening of the Agency for Forestry Research
and Development by improving planning, programming, monitoring,
evaluation, financial and economic analysis skills; and (ii) the first phase of
a multi-phased plan for establishment of a regional forestry research and
training center at Manokwari, Irian Jaya, including contruction of buildings
for laboratory, staff housing and training facilities, provision of related
equipment and furniture, training of research station staff and establishment
of a forestry research program on about 11 sites for research on forest
ecology, silviculture,  tree  improvement,  fire  protection  and  nature
conservation, including livelihood needs of the local people, through the
active participation of the people therein.
(d)  Conservation. The National Conservation Plan for terrestrial and marine
conservation will be reveiwed and revised.  Improved management and
investment plans for ten national parks and buffer zone around the parks
will be   developed,  with  active  participation of  the local people.
An integrated plan for the sustainable multiple-use of mangrove forests and
a conservation management plan for a mangrove reserve will be prepared;
and
(e)  Policy Avdisory Service.  The Minister of Forestry's policy formulation
and his supervisory duties will be assisted by the provision of a highly
qualified and experienced resident forestry advisor, and short-term technical
assistance.



-3-
2.   Achievement of Project Objectives
2.1.  The Government of Indonesia believes that control over deforestation in Indonesia
is gradually being achieved. It is difficult to estimate progress here, until more
accurate forest inventory figures are available (which will be in 1996) so that a
new estimate of forest removal can be made.
2.2.  Since FIC-P II began, in 1990, a number of important new developments have
occurred
(i) at the Indonesian Tropical Forestry Action Plan roundtable in 1991, large
increases in donor inputs into sustainable forest management in Indonesia
were pledged, and these funds are now being disbursed;
(ii)  the Ministry of Forestry has formally adopted a reduced level of annual
allowable cut from Indonesia's natural forests (22 million cubic metres per
annum, down from about 30 million cubic metres pa in recent years) and
has advised individual concessionaires that their level of cut will have to
be adjusted accordingly;
(iii) the Ministry has tightened regulatory procedures and enforcement in
recent years. There is now a requirement that concession operations be a
joint venture between the state owned company and the private company.
(iv)  since 1990, combined forest royalties and  fees have risen, from an
average of $10 per cubic matre, to $25 per cubic metre as of June 1995,
and the Minister has stated that the fees will continue to be reviewed on a
regular basis;
2.3.  The Government believes that the effect of the factors listed above will be to
reduce deforestation in Indonesia, while allowing the contribution of forest
resources to economic welfare and environmental protection to continue rising in
the long term.
2.4.  Although two major activities originally intended for implementation under FICP
II have been only partially completed (see under section 3 below), the
Government intends that the basic activities scheduled under each will in fact be
done, under certain arrangements. The Government believes that FICP II, as one
of the early major donor projects in the forestry sector in Indonesia, was
instrumental in setting the scene for entry of other projects, and has made an
important contribution to the deforestation and sustainability objectives in
Indonesia.
3.   Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting Output
3.1.  Implementation and disbursement performance varied across the various activities
in the project.  Before discussing these in more detail, there are two general
factors that have influenced implementation under this project
(i)  although the Ministry has now instituted cross-agency coordination and
communication mechanisms for the management of donor programs, these
were not well-developed for the early part of this project, and this created
difficulties in managing and reporting for the project as a whole.



-4 -
(ii)  as noted above, the Ministry is now in receipt of major increases in donor
contributions for forestry sector development. This has counter funding
and counterpart support problems,which to some extent affected FICP II,
among other projects.
3.2.  With the exception of the field implementation of concession management, and
contruction of the Manokwari research facility, the project has achieved most of
the outputs defined under terms of reference given for each component in the
Staff Appraisal Report. As in the case of implementation, the actual quality of
output varies from one component to another, and so more specific comments on
this is included with discussion of implementation by components below.
3.3.  Prior to the explanation of each of the project components, it should be noted that
FICP II was proposed to be financed by several sources of fund, inter alia:
- IBRD Loan No. 3243-IND                            US $  20,000,000
- GOI Contribution                                  US $  11,800,000
- Japanese Grant 2765-0 Y 72,500,000 or             US $      500,000
- ITTO Grant                                        US $      800,000
Total Project Cost                             US $ 33,100,000
In addition, by a separate grant agreement, the government of Netherland (based
on the letter of IBRD Head office dated January 14, 1991) intended to contribute
an amount of US $ 2,839,000 for FICP II which was associated with IBRD Loan
No. 3243-IND. However, due to the government policy, such Netherland grant
was cancelled, whereas the ITTO grant has never come into force.
IBRD Loan No. 3243-IND mentioned abouve was signed on July 6, 1990,
effective on October 6, 1990 and closing date on June 30, 1995.
The executing agencies involved in the project were the Directorate General
of Forest Utilization, the Directorate General of Reforestation and Land
Rehabilitation, the Directorate General of Forest Protection and Nature
Conservation, Agency for Forestry Research and Development and Secretariat
General.
3.4.  Concession Management and Inspection Services
3.4.1. The design phase for Concession Management was completed in April
1993. It was also confirmed by IBRD's Supervision Aide Memoire April,
1993 and the consultants have submitted their design to GOI.
3.4.2. Despite the completion of design phase, however, two major issues have
occurred which consequently resulted in the changes of approaches:
1) In October 1993, the Minister for Forestry announced the
Government's intention  to  establish  the   Indonesia  Ecolabel
Institute, Lembaga Ekolabel Indonesia (LEI). The LEI will certify
forest  products originating from  sustainably managed concessions,



based on field inspection of forest concession operations. This institute
would take over some of the inspection and monitoring responsibilities
of the Ministry of Forestry. While the Ministry and the Bank have
agreed that this is a very positive development in transparency and
responsibility in the Indonesian forestry sector, it has created some
short term institutional issues which need to be solved, and these affect
the concession management design provided under the project.
2) The Ministry of Forestry has embarked upon an acceleration of its
KPHP initiative, whereby forest land uses are rationalized on a
provincial basis, in cooperation with local interested groups. This
initiative has implications for some institutional measures proposed in
the original design.
3.4.3. The Ministry has not proceeded with implementation of the field
application phase of concession management under FICP II. There are two
linked reasons why this decision has been taken by the Ministry
(i) In 1993 it has been decreed that financing the management activities
and regeneration of natural production forest are permissible with
the use of reforestation funds. In fact, it has proven difficult in the
past for the Ministry of Forestry to disburse reforestation funds
effectively, and the Minister has taken the view that it would be
preferable to utilize these funds for eligible investments, than to
continue to rely on borrowed funds for these purposes. This has
resulted in the Ministry requesting major lending agencies such as
the World Bank, the Asian Development Bank, the NIB and the
Japanese OECF, to cancel loan preparation activities in the sector -
at least for the time being - and it has also impacted on the parts of
FICP II which  were  at a   stage of execution which could be
considered for replacement by Ministry financing.
(ii) There has been a major increase in grant based donor funding
available to the forestry sector in Indonesia, especially since the
Indonesia Tropical Forest Development Plan meetings in 1991.
Much of this funding is directed at the forest management priority.
This large increase in activity in the forest management area has
created specific counterparting and absorption problems in the area
of the Ministry dealing with forest management. It has been decided
to rationalize inputs in this  area, and reduction of the use of
borrowed funds is logical part of this process.
3.4.4. The Ministry believes the design elements developed in this component
are useful and applicable to the forest management situation in the field in
Indonesia.  Once the process of rationalization of Ministry and donor
activities is complete, the Minuistry is confident that implementation in the
field of substantial elements of the design will be possible.
3.4.5. Up to September 30. 1995. DG of Forest Utilization has spent expenditure
of about US $ 2,002,019.64, whereas its allocation for Technical Assis-
tance activities should be US $ 1,278,100.00 only.



-6 -
3.5.  Formulation of National master plan and Provincial master plan for forest
plantation establisment.
3.5.1. The project has run approximately three months over the original
estimated time for execution. However, by the close of the project in June
1995, the master plan had been delivered to and accepted by Government,
and supporting  software, training and  technology transfer had been
completed.
In fact, this material is in use within the relevant agency, and the Ministry
believes this component has delivered on virtually every objective given
for it in the staff Appraisal Report.
3.5.2. The outputs of this component were achieved through the following
activities:
(i) Producing a national master plan   for forest plantations with
maps at the scale of 1: 2,500,000 and eight provincial plans with
maps at the scale of 1: 250,000  (Aceh,   North  Sumatera,
Riau, Jambi, S. Kalimantan, L. kalimantan, W. Kalimantan and
C. Sulawesi
(ii) Development of data base and Geographical Information System set
up in DGRLR Jakarta and the eight provincies mentioned above.
(iii) GIS trainings for DGRLR and provincial staff.
3.5.3. The total disbursement of this component up to September 30, 1995 was
about US $ 3,099,914.95, compared to its original allocation amounting
US $ 2,232,600.00. As reported by the Executing Agency, all expen-
ditures of the project were, in fact claimed under Technical Assistance
category because the "No Objection Letter" of the World bank stated that
the whole project falls under this category.
3.6.  Formulation and revision . of management plans for national parks and
wetland areas.
3.6.1. Although described in the Staff Appraisal Report under two basic headings
(National Parks, and wetland/Mangrove Conservation) it was subsequently
decided, in conisultation with the Bank, to execute this component under
three separate consultancy activities:
- Improved management and investment plans for 10 (ten) national parks
which was finally reduced into 7 (seven) national parks (package A).
- Review and Revision of the existing National Conservation Plan for
terrestrial and marine conservation (Package B).
- An integrated plan for the sustainable use mangrove forests and a
management plan for a mangrove reserve (Package C).
3.6.2. Improved management and investment plans for 7 (seven) national parks
have been completed.  Despite the completion of Package A, the
Directorate General of PHPA re-included the prepar.tion of Management
Plan for Gede Pangrango National Parks. Which was previously excluded



- 7 -
from the programm. This plan was financed from the Japanese Grant
Fund (JGF) TFA 2765-0 amounting to Rp. 185.215.000,- equivalent Yen
7,975,056.
3.6.3. Package B and C have also been completed by the project. However, in
order to meet the requirement the DG of PHPA needs further finalization
of those packages financed from the Japanese Grant Fund TFA 2765-0
amounting Rp. 45.900.000 and Rp. 135.838.250 respectively, or equivalet
Yen 1,966,466 and Yen 5,819,636.
3.6.4. Up to September 30, 1995, the disbursement of the above three packages
charged to IBRD Loan No. 3243-IND were US $ 2,248.760.92 compared
to its allocation US $ 1,926,700.
3.7.  Forestry Research
3.7.1. The major activities included in Forestry Research component which was
financed under FICP II were among others: the preparation of Research
Master Plan, the construction of Manokwari Research Station and its
facilities, Experts, short term and long term training (overseas and
in-country).
3.7.2. The master plan for forest research was delivered to the Ministry in early
1995, and cleared by the Ministry in May 1995. It was particularly
unfortunate that the expatriate consultant on this project died unexpectedly
in 1994, when work on the, plan formulation was about half-completed.
While the Ministry appreciates the efforts of the consultancy firm involved
to utilize short term consultants to complete the work, it is a fact that
continuity was lost, and this especially affected the design of follow-up
and implementation activities for the plan. The main outputs raised in the
research master plan are the need for reorganization and zonation of
Forestry Research Institute and the streamlining of research priorities.
3.7.3. Establishment of a research station in Irian Jaya. The intention under this
component of the loan project was to design a research facility for
Manokwari, in Irian Jaya, train personnel to staff the station, and
construct the first phase of the facility.
3.7.4. The design of the facility was completed under the project, as was asses-
ment and selection of contractors to construct it.  It  was decided to
proceed no further than this under the loan, for essentially the same rea-
sons outlined for the concession management field component.  The
Ministry of Forestry is committed to construct the facility as planned.
3.7.5. The outputs related to the development of Forestry Research Station which
have been produced were among others:
- Land acquisition was cleared in December 1989
- Design Engineering was done by "Lembaga Pengabdian Masyarakat",
University of Gajah Mada (FY 1991 - 1992).



- 8 -
- Study onl Environmental Impact Assesment was carried out by the Center
of Environmental Study, University of Cenderawasih, in mid of 1993.
- Detail Design was performed by PT. Architeant DC. Bandung in the
same year (end 1992)
- Site preparation was accomplished by PT. Fulica Manokwari in FY
1993/1994.
- Road construction of about 8,5 Km was done in 1:\ 1994/1995.
3.7.6. Most training intended under this component has been completed: that
still outstanding which is not covered under existing withdrawals from
loan funds will be completed under financing by Ilhe Ministry itself.
3.7.7. Based on IBRD Financial report, the disbursement of AFRD up to
September 30, 1995 was about US $ 1,849,598.92, including the
disbursement of category I (civil works) amounting to US $ 545,808.33.
3.8.  Policy Advisory Service.
3.8.1. Provision of a high level advisor to the Minister tor Forestry. After some
initial delay in selection of an appropriate candidate for this post, an
advisor was appointed in 1993, and remains in plaice in the Ministry. The
advisor lias had good access to the Minietr of Forestry, and has
participated in a number of important initiatives in the policy development
and intitutional reform area.
3.8.2. Based on the given task in the field of policy withiin MOF, the High Level
Advisor (Mr. Lukito Daryadi) has accomplished the following tasks:
- Policy formulation on National Forest Programumes which has been
included in the preparation of the Secondl Stage of Long Term
Development Plan and Repelita VI.
- Sustainable Forest Management, particular by the preparation of land
titling system and forestry ecolabelling.
- Participating several international conferences ot forestry global issues
- Recommendation on operational policies.
3.8.3. Accordiing to the Monthly Disbursement Summary issued by IBRD/RSI on
September 30. 1995, it was recorded that the disbursement for HLA
componcnt was about US $ 63,730.64 or equivalent Rp. 143.426.000,-
4.   Project Sustainability
4.1.  FICP II is largely an information and technology based Project, rather than a field
operation.  Tlherefore, sustainability must be assessed l'! the degree to which
technical outputs from the project are put to effective use in the sector in
Indonesia. As in the case implementation and outputs, this will vary across the
components



- 9-
4.2.  A concession management system.
4.2.1. Obviously, there is no field based concession management system in place
under the project, since this part of the component was cancelled from the
loan. Howevere, as noted earlier, the Ministry is now involved in a large
number of initiatives and projects in the sustainable management field (see
table attached), on its own account, and in cooperation with new donor
activities. Aspects of the design done for concession management are
already in use in some of these projects. In order to anticipate the
implementation of the inspection service component, the MOF has
prepared the field trained personel to participate in the projects; and now
they are  being  involved  in  the   other similar inspection activities.
Meanwhile the most of the inspection systems under Forestry II will be
adopted by the Institute for Ecolabelling when they have been well
function.
4.2.2. For these reasons, and given the increased level of commitment in general
of the Ministry to the objective of sustainable forest management in
Indonesia, the Ministry believes that progress will be made in this area,
and that inputs from FICP II will have had a significant role in this
progress.
4.3.  Master plan for plantation development. The master plan information and
technology is already in use in the Ministry of Forestry. The Ministry is
investing its own funds to extend the use of the methods developed to regional
forestry agencies, as part of the Government's decentralization strategy. The
consultants employed on this project devoted considerable effort to involvement
and training of Ministry officials in the process of developing the plan, and a high
level of ownership is now present in the agency concerned.
4.4.  Conservation Packages.
4.4.1. Package C, on mangrove conservation, was augmented by development of
useful audio-visual technology for extension activities, and this will aid
considerably in applicability and sustainability of the information and
technology developed.
4.4.2. It is likely that sustainability and usefulness of the other packages A and B
of the Conservation Component, will depend much more on the degree to
which the relevant agency of the Ministry, PHPA, can develop the institu-
tional capability to utilize the fairly detailed and sophisticated planning
material delivered.
4.5.  Forestry Reserch.
4.5. 1. Irian Jaya research station. The Ministry will complete the construction of
this facility, and arrange for completion of training of work in it.



- 10 -
4.5.2. Master plan for research. The Ministry is engaged in an ongoing review
of research design and management, and the master plan documents are
already playing a significant part in this process. The difficulty, so far as
sustainability is concerned, will come at the stage when plans must be
translated into specific actions in the field, and it is clear that more work
will need to be done within the Ministrty to prepare the ground for this.
4.6.  High Level Advisor. To date, this position has been retained within the Ministry
of Forestry, and the advisor continues to participate in institutional and policy
development work.
5.   Bank Performance.
5.1.  In general, performance by the Bank in this project has been satisfactory. As will
be discussed under Lessons Learned below, the Bank needs to take at least two
important messages about project preparation from this project: on project
activity time frames, and follow-up measures.
5.2.  A significant problemm arose early in the life of the project when the Bank did
not replace the original task manager for the project for several months, and at
least some of the delays on project component inception noted in Section 3 are
attibutable to this.
5.3.  Supervision by the Bank has been regular and generally positive and helpful
thoughout the project.
5.4.  The Bank has flexible in its attitude to the many changes in detail which have
been necessary during this project. Good technical and other assistance has been
provided to facilitate processing of these changes, and general relation between
Bank staff associated with the project and Government personnel have been
cordial and productive.
6.   Borrower Peformance.
6.1.  The Ministry  of Forestry  has expended  considerable  effort to  improve
management in this project, and performance in this regard especially in this
project - has shown the effects of this effort.
6.2.  A major problem early in the project was the lack of an effective mechanism to
coordinate and promote communication between the agencies within the ministry
responsible for project execution. This often resulted in conflicting proposals for
actitivity, reallocation  and  other  matters related to implementation. Some
agencies early on experienced greated difficulty in meeting the Bank's reporting
requirements adequately.
6.3.  Major improvements have been effected through the appointment of consultant
experienced and skilled in Bank project counterpart management, and the fact that
they have been appointed to the Bureau of International Cooperation in the
Ministry, which has a central coordinating role across the line agencies. This
development. which has been financed under grant funds made available under



- J1 -
the other Bank forestry project - FICP I - will also improve the Ministry's ability
to manage and coordinate all donor activities, not simply those supported by the
Bank.
7.   Other Matters.
7.1.  Audit and Accounts, No audit reports are outstanding
7.2.  Loan Covenants. Due to one and another case, most of executing agencies were
initially confused  with the fairly  detailed  and sophisticated loan and SAR
covenants.
8.   Lessons Learned
8.1.  Lessons for the Bank:
- project design should have allowed more time (and in some cases resources) for
assessment and selection of consultants to work in the project, and for
discussion and consideration of their inputs within the Ministry;
- project design should have included more specific inputs to ensure that design
and plan outputs (which comprised a major part of total project output) were
properly assimilated into Ministry activities;
- in one component, earlier recognition of the communication problem that
existed between Ministry staff and project consultants would have greatly
reduced the workload involved in correcting this problem later on;
8.2.  Lessons for the Borrower:
- better mechanisms for coordination, communication and  reporting for the
project, managed from a central Ministry agency - such as were eventually put
in place - should have been established at the outset of project implementation;
- decisions to cancel activities under the project, although justified in this case,
should have been confirmed and communicated to the Bank earlier: significant
Bank and Ministry resources were expended on re-design and reallocation for
components which had a high risk of not proceeding.



TABLE: PROJECT FUNDED BY INTERNATIONAL DONOR
IN DIRECTORATE GENERAL OF FOREST UTILIZATION
START FROMI 1990
NO. jNIA-Nv[E OF PROJECT         - DONLOR COUNTRY   DURATION j            PURPOSES &
- LOAN/GRANT         _                   ACTIVITIES
1.   Promotion of Sustainable    - Republic of Gcrinatly  15 years  - To improve silviculture
Forcst Managcniciit        (GTZ)                1990 - 2005    techniqtues of tropical
System in East Kalimantan  - Grant                              rain forest
DNI 11,794,171.                   - to develop a sustainabie
management unit and
forcst liarvesting niodcl
- to improve institutional
capabilities in
inanageing the Lropical
forest
- to increase the
einciency of logging
and industrial wood
waste utilization
- to prepare an
appropriate plan of
wood waste utilization
for possible
development
- to inistall small scale
wood waste processing
industry
- to develop social
forestry system and to
promote the utilization
of non - timber forest
products
2.   Tropical Forcst            - ODA - U-K           1991 - 1997   - To promote sustainaible
Mvanaaecnieiet Projeccr Sub   - Gramu                           m.:1ma0ccilt of
Project 1: Sclnior           1,793,000                         Indoniesias dipterocarp
managcilmenlt Advisory                                         forcst hlirougl ilitc
Team n                                                          provision of advice to
scnior policy makers in
MOF
- Establishment of iegally
conistituticd pcmaninct
producLioni frorcst estazc
- introdluction of
improvcd nianagcincnt
plans and control
systeus at all Icvel



- Fasilitation of informcd
decision makilkg within
MOF by collation and
presentation of rclevant
data
- Encouragcmcnt of
information exchange
and co-opcration
bctwccsn hMOF and othcr
relcvant Minisirics by
llicans of Seminars
;.   Tropical Manii-czncnt Sub   - ODA - UK            1992 - 1997   - To assisE -Provincial
Project 2 Provinci.al     - Granit                              authiorities in Central
Forcst Maniagicnti           1 ,9 million                      Kalimanitai, Jamnbi and
Riau to introduce
sustainable dipterocarp
forest productioni by
gazetting- and nanaging
KPHPs
- Institution of Provincial
KPHP Implemlienitation
Tcmnis strengtlicred by
Tcchnical Assistance
- To devide up areas of
land capability classes
BIB and HPT stocked
with dipterocarp forest
inito rational KPHPs
- In each Province, to
defire dipterocarp forest
types and drawv up
Model Improved
Management Plans for
each type
- To draw-up and agree a
planiuing methodology
for dipterocarp forest
wliicii will evenitually be
convcrtcd to other land
use
- To draw-up a
netihodology for
forecasting long term
estimates of wood
production, from
dipterocarp KPHPs and
convcrsion forest



4.    Managemnet Plan for        - NIB/NDF               1993 - 1996   - Idcntification of KPHs
Industrial Project (KPHP)   - Loan                                withlin assigncd Sub
Loan NIBNDF                 US S 2,7997,0 1                       regions as part of
Forcstry Provincial
Planning
- Opcrational
M4anagcmcnt Planninig
with KPHP as Forest
Managcennt UInit.
5.    Tinmbcer Plantation        - XDB                  1990 - 1996   - Development of tinmbcr
Devclopment Projczt        - Loan 1000 - N'O                      plantationi of 4 sites
US s 33,000                           totalling 51,000 hla of
production forest lands
- Adaptive research on
tree iimproveiiient,
brccding, secd sclection
including sclection of
motlhcr trees,
germination, storage
and otlher rclatcd sced
production tcchliology.
- In-country and overseas
training in forest
planning and
management, industrial
plantation foresuy,
environment
conservation, fire
procection and
li_iarvesting techlniques












IM AGING
Report NoL:      15294
TLype: ICF,,



