Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 16556
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT IN
THE STATE OF PARANA
(LOAN NO. 3100-BR)
April 28, 1997
Public Sector Modernization and
Private Sector Development Division
Country Department I
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit: Brazilian Reais (R$)
EXCHANGE RATE
(as of August 8, 1996)
US$1.00 = R$1.0099
R$1.00 = US$0.9902
WEIGHITS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CEF              -   Caixa Economica Fe,deral
FAMEPAR          -   Parana Foundation foir Assistance of Municipalities
FAP              -   Financial Action Plans
FDU              -   State Urban Developraent Fund
FGTS             -   Social Security Payments
ICMS             -   State Value-Added Tax
ID               -   Institutional Development
IDB              -   Inter-American Development Bank
IERR             -   Internal Economic Rate of Return
INSS             -   Social Security
IPTU             -   Property Tax
OECF             -   Organization of Economic Cooperation Fund
PEDU             -   Parana Municipal Development
PIMES            -   Municipal Development Project in the State of Rio Grande do Suil
PRAM             -   Parana Market Towns Development
SEDU             -   Secretariat of Urban I)evelopment
SUCEAM           -   Parana Erosion Control Agency
Vice President               Shahid Javed Burki
Director                     Gobind T. Nankani
Division Chief               Paul Meo
Task Manager                 Braz Menezes



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
MUNICIPAL ]DEVELOPMENT PROJECT IN THE STATE OF PARANA
(LOAN NO. 3100-BR)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page Number
PREFACE.                         ......................................................... I
EVALUATION SUMMARY .........................................................                                                    I
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE ......................................... 1
A. PROJECT OBJECTIVES .......................................................                                         1
B. ACHEVEMvENT OF OBJECTIVES ....................................................... 2
C   MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTiNG  THE PROJECT .......................................................                       5
D    SUSTAPNAhBILITY .......................................................                                          7
E. BANK PERFORMANCE .......................................................                                           7
F.  BORROW}R'S PERFORMANCE .......................................................                                    7
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME .......................................................                                      8
H. FUTURE OPERATIONS .......................................................                                          8
I.  LESSONS ]LEARNED ....................................................... 8
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE .......................... 10
A. IN TRODUCTION .......................................................                                            10
B. RESULTS OF THE PROJECT ....................................................... 10
C . ACHEVEiMENT OF PEDU  PROJECT OBJECTIVES ....................................................... 1 3
D. EXTERNAL FACTORS AFFECTiNG THE PROJECT .......................................................  1 6
E.  FACTORS TJNDER THE CONTROL OF THE PROJECT AUTHORITIES .................                             ................. 16
F.  PERFORMANCE OF THE BANK .......................................................                                  17
G. PERFORMANCE OF THE STATE GOVERNMENT .......................................................   18
H. MAIN LESSONS OF THE EXPERIENCE .......................................................                            1 8
PART II: STATIS'TICAL TABLES .........................................................                                         19
1   SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS ....................................................... 19
2   RELATED ]3ANK LOANS/CREDITS .......................................................                             20
3   PROJECT TIMETABLE ....................................................... 21
4   LoAN DIS3URSEMENTS: CUMULATIVE ESTiMATE AND ACTUAL ................................. 21
5A  SELECTED FINANCIAL RESULTS OF MUNICIPALMES .................................................. 2 1
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Cont.)
Page Number
5B  CHANGiNG LOCAL TAx COLLECTION  1989-94 ..........................................                               22
5c  SANEPAR  FINANCIAL RESULTS 1989- 95 ..........................................                                  22
6A PROJECT COSTS ..........................................                                                          23
6B PROJECT FINANCING ..........................................                                                     23
7   ECoNoMIC  COSTS AND BENEFITS ..........................................                                         23
8 STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANT S ........................................... 24
9    COMPLIANCE WITH OPERATIONAL MANUAL STATEMENTS ......................................... 25
10  BANK RESOURCES: STAFF INPUTS ..........................................                                         25
11  BANK RESOURCES: MISSIONS ..........................................                                             26



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT IN THE STATE OF PARANA
(LOAN 3100-BR)
PREFACE
This is the ImplemLentation Completion Report (ICR) for the Municipal Development Project in
the State of Parana in Brazil, for which Loan 3100-BR in the amount of US$100 million equivalent
was approved on June 22, 1989, and made effective on January 19, 1990.
The Loan was closed on December 31, 1995, six and a half years after Board approval and
one year beyond the original closing date. Final disbursement took place on May 3, 1996, at which
time the Loan was fully disbursed.
T-he ICR was prepared by Roy Gilbert, consultant, under the supervision of Braz Menezes
(Task Manager) from the P'ublic Sector Modernization and Private Sector Development Division
(LAIPS) of Country Department I, Latin America and Caribbean Region. It was reviewed by Paul
Meo (Division Chief LAI'S) and Orville Grimes (Projects Adviser).
The ICR mission visited Curitiba, Sao Jose dos Pinhais and Paranagui. The ICR is based
upon progress and audit reports of the project, material in Bank files, interviews with Bank staff
responsible for the project, city mayors and officials and project staff in Curitiba.
This ICR incorporates a project review from the Borrower's Perspective (Part II).






-1-
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT IN THE STATE OF PARANA
(LOAN 3100-BR)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
i.    Taking Brazil's nunicipal reform agenda some important steps further, the Parani Municipal
Development (PEDU) Project (Ln. 3100-BR) was modeled upon its predecessor, the satisfactory
Parana Market Towns Development (PRAM) Project (Ln 2343-BR). PEDU itself was the third
municipal development operation supported by the Bank in Brazil. It was prepared jointly with the
Municipal Development (PIMES) Project in the State of Rio Grande do Sul (Loan 3129-BR)--
approved four months later--with which it shared a similar design and set of objectives. The PEDU
project was replicated by similar on-going operations later approved in the states of Minas Gerais (Ln.
3639-BR), Ceara (Ln. 3789-BR), and Bahia (Ln. 4140-BR).
Project Objectives
T'he objectives of the project were to:
(i) improve the managerial and institutional capacity and fiscal efficiency of municipalities
and state agencies.
(ii)  provide basic economic and social infrastructure in urban areas.
(iii) decentralize urban administration and financial management.
(iv) improve targeting of urban programs to lower-income populations.
(v)  create and strengthen a State urban development fund (FDJ).
ii.    To fulfill these objectives the PEDU project used Bank Loan proceeds and Parana state
counterpart funding to capitalize a specially created Urban Development Fund (FDIJ), which provided
a line of credit for investments in urban infrastructure and services by municipalities throughout the
state. The PEDU project design required that FDU loans would be made to municipalities embarked
upon institutional reform. Implementation responsibility for the project was in the hands of the state
Secretariat of Urban Development (SEDU) and the Parana Foundation for Assistance to Municipalities
(FAMEPAR). This arrangement brought to PEDU the considerable experience acquired by both
agencies through the implementation of the earlier PRAM project.
Implementation Experience and Results
iii.   PEDIYs objectives were achieved in a satisfactory manner:
(i)  The project caused 367 municipalities in Parana--98.7% of the total--to prepare and
adhere to Financial Action Plans (FAPs) aimed at improving their financial performance
in order to qualify for FDU funding. FAPs therefore incorporated institutional reform at
the municipal level by linking indirect cost recovery performance to eligibility for
additional P'EDU project funding. PEDU also provided the means to help municipalities



become eligible, especially through institutional development (ID) actions to, improve
the coverage and collection of local taxes, for instance. By 1994, Parman municipalities
had become major investors, responsible collectively for US$395.4 million investment
expenditure in that year. This was three times more than in 1989, before the PEDU
project began. Local management of this investment became more business-like.
Meantime, municipal expenditures on personnel--which were discouraged in FAPs--
barely increased in real te:rms. For medium and small cities in Parana (population range:
75,000-200,000) there is statistical evidence that municipal fiscal efforts at the level of
individual municipalities is a positive and significant function of a municipality's
involvement in the PEDU project, measured by PEDU investment in that municipality.
(ii)  Substantial amounts of urban infrastructure were directly supplied by the project
throughout the state of Parana: 1,552 kms. of urban paving; 48,857 square meters of
erosion control works; 41 health posts; 60 day care centers; 35 schools; 26 bus
terminals; 369 kms. of water distribution network, and 735 kms. of sewerage. Actual
PEDU investments exceeded physical targets by 7.7% overall.
(iii) PEDU helped municipalities assume greater responsibilities under decentralization--
notably for project planning, design and procurement--through the strengthening of their
management received under the project's institutional development (ID) component.
Through the PEDU project experience, participating municipalities learned how to plan,
budget and cost infrastntcture investments, managing tasks such as procurement, for
instance, that had formerly been a responsibility of the state.
(iv)  Altogether, 80.8% of PEDU infrastructure investment was in street paving which
typically benefited the urban poor, since higher income families in Parana live in urban
neighborhoods that are already paved in the cities of the state.
(v)  FDU's cash flow became stronger than expected, with actual annual returns of the order
of US$35.5 million compared with US$18.0 million forecast at appraisal, according to
PEDU mid-term projections.
iv.    External factors beyond the borrower's control that helped PEDU included: (a) stronger than
expected demand for FDU funding by municipalities; (b) ParanA municipalities' existing familiarity
with lending mechanisms through the experience of the earlier PRAM project; and (c) rigorous and
objective control of PEDU accounts by the State Tribunal de Contas as the project auditors. External
factors that harmed the project included: (a) macro-economic and policy uncertainties in Brazil with
severe monetary instability and hyper-inflation, especially during 1990-92; (b) Central Bank
Resolution 58 forbidding lending to municipalities that were delinquent with their social security
payments--although intended to help; (c) additional transfer income awarded municipadities through the
1988 Constitution and possibilities of alternative sources of funding on eas,ier terms that were
disincentives to municipal participatiojn in the PEDU program; and (d) the proliferation of new
municipalities with an extremely weak organizational and fiscal base, whose creation was made easier
by the 1988 Constitution.
v.     Among factors under the borrower's control that helped project execution: (a) strong borrower
ownership by Parana authorities who treated PEDU as one of the state's key development programs,
guaranteeing substantial counterpart funding and political support; (b) intensive use of in-house
capacity for PEDU preparation and implementation that was built up through the experience of the
previous PRAM operation; (c) excellent working relationship between Parana staff and Bank missions;
and (d) the maintenance of a solid pool of technical assistance capability in state agencies such as
FAMEPAR. Factors still under the control of the borrower, but which adversely affected the project,
were: (a) a tendency by the Borrower's project team to over-complicate PEDIJ in its early stages,



leading to the collection of excessive amounts of data not needed for implementation management; (b)
the lack of development of a monitoring system that allows information retrieval for evaluation
purposes; and (c) initially slow implementation of PEDU's ID component.
vi.    Bank performance is rated as highly satisfactory throughout. Borrower perfornance is rated
satisfactory in all respects, except for project preparation which is rated highly satisfactory. Previous
experience acquired by both the Bank and the borrower through the earlier PRAM project (Loan 2343-
BR), both sides' familiarity with the Bank: borrower dialogue were important ingredients of this
success.
Summary of Findings, Future Operations and Key Lessons Learned
vii.    Overall, the PEDU project outcome is rated as satisfactory and its sustainability as likely.
Institutional reform at the municipal level in Parana continues with the approval of the PARANA-
URBANO project jointly financed by the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB) and the Japanese
government's OECF.
viii.  Important lessons drawn from the PEDU project experience include:
e  Municipal Development loans, when accompanied by Borrower ownership, are effective
instruments to: (a) improve the management capacity and fiscal efficiency of municipalities; (b)
provide basic economic and social infrastructure, primarily targeted at low-income beneficiaries;
(c) transform municipalities from a reliance on grants to an intelligent use of credit (with zero
delinquencies); and (d) support the decentralization mandated under the Constitution, through
institutional strengthening, which in turn will guarantee the successful execution of other sectoral
investments (education, health, etc.), normally a municipal responsibility.
*  Project ownership and priority for the program by the State was the key to its successful
outcome.
• Simple and transparent rules about indirect cost recovery can transcend party political
differences and help develop a consensus to help ensure broad and continuing support for a
project among competing political interests. Urban poverty targeting is achievable in the design
of a project.
*  The design of development programs should incorporate clear incentives to pursue institutional
reform and providLe means to achieve reform targets.
* Intensive marketing of project ideas to clients--municipalities in the PEDU case-is essential to
stimulate demand and achieve a successful project start-up.
*  Borrowers need to be vigilant and firm in maintaining sound rules of development programs,
which specific groups may try to circumvent if they fear their interests to be threatened, or where
there may be an opportunity for free-ridership.
*  Larger cities with more than 200,000 inhabitants require more detailed and individual attention in
the design and supervision of institutional reform at the municipal level. Standardized models of
interventions, thait worked successfully for medium and smaller cities in the case of PEDU, did
not have the same impact upon larger and institutionally more complex urban centers.
*  With increasing responsibilities of municipalities as investors and managers of development
programs covering many sectors, municipal refonn of the PEDU kind is, among other things,
part of a risk aversion strategy. Reformed and strengthened municipalities mean that sectoral
operations in education, health and the environment, for instance--that increasingly depend upon
municipal administrations--are more likely to succeed.



I



-1-
IMJ.PLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
MUNICIPAL I)EVELOPMENT PROJECT IN THE STATE OF PARANA
(LOAN 3100-BR)
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
A. PROJECT OBJECTIVES
1.    According to the Loan Agreement, the project had five objectives:
i. improve the managerial and institutional capacity and fiscal efficiency of
municipalities and state agencies to plan, finance and execute cost effective projects
and programs.
ii. provide basic economic and social infrastructure in urban areas.
iii. decentralize urban administration and financial management by transferring federal
and state responsibilities to municipalities and improve policy coordination.
iv. improve targeting of urban programs to lower income populations.
v. create and strengthen the state urban development fund (FDU) as a source of long-
term financing for urban development.
2.    With these objecltives the Parana Municipal Development Project (Loan 3100-BR), known
locally as the PEDU project, took further important steps in the direction of municipal reform
begun under the predecessor ParanA Market Towns Project (Loan 2343-BR 1983-89), called the
PRAM project in Brazil. PEDU required municipal creditworthiness and improved management as
conditions for allowing local governments to participate in the program. The PEDU project thus
aimed to put into practice cost recovery that had been introduced only as a principle by the earlier
PRAM operation. One of the few criticisms of the otherwise highly satisfactory PRAM by the
OED audit of the project was that institutional reform at the municipal level had been eclipsed by
the PRAM project's emphasis upon physical works. Through highlighting institutional development
(ID) much more that it predecessor, PEDU aimed to redress that imbalance.
3.    Under the PEDU project, Bank Loan proceeds capitalized a line-of-credit to finance
municipal infiastructure in Parana through an Urban Development Fund (FDU) specifically
created and introduced as an instrument of the PEDU project itself. Apart from funding for project
ID actions, all project proceeds from the Bank Loan and state counterpart funding were on-lent to
final borrowers. PEDU thus discontinued grant funding for infrastructure investments that had
been used under the earlier PRAM program. Overall project responsibility lay with the state
government's Secretariat of Urban Development (SEDU), while day-to-day project management
was handled by the Parana Municipal Assistance Foundation, itself directly under the control of
SEDU. Entrusting project preparation and implementation of the project to the direct state
administration of Parana was a sound design feature of PEDU. It took advantage of administrative
strength and know-how of the state's 'corporate structure' that had been built up through the



-2-
experience of implementing the previous PRAM project over a period of six years during 1983-
89.'
4.     Parana's previous experience and sound administrative practice ensured that project
processing went smoothly. The in-house SEDU/FAMEPAR team--many of whose members
worked on the earlier PRAM project--prepared the project efficiently with a minimum of external
support. During implementation, the PEDU project team managed routine matters of reporting,
accounting, disbursements and procurement with minimal difficulties. Solid comnmitment by the
highest Parana state authorities through successive administrations guaranteed firrn political and
financial support for the project at all times. The Bank chose Parania for this project deliberately. It
was not only an excellent state for the Bank to work in, but also was one which provided the best
opportunity to advance the frontier of reform at the municipal level a little further.
B. ACHI]EVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES
5.    Improvements in  the  fiscal performance  of Parana  municipalities  during  the
implementation of the PEDU are evidence of the effects of the ID impacts of the PEDU project
(details: Part III. Tables 5A and 5B). PEDU ID actions introduced various innovations to
municipalities--updated cadastres, computerized tax collections etc.--which resulted in larger tax
collections in the beneficiary municipality.
6.     Objective  (i)--improving  the  management capacity  and  fiscal efficiency  of
municipalities and other Parana state agencies to plan, finance and execute cost effective programs
was successfully achieved, as demonstrated by the following project outcomes:
*  PEDU caused 367 local govemments in the state--98.7% of the total of ParanA--to individually
prepare and adhere to Financial Action Plans (FAPs) in order to qualify for FDU funding for
priority municipal investments in urban services and infrastructure. In practice, municipalities
generally addressed to FAP targels in order to remain eligible for project financing, Each
municipality's FAP included transparent benchmark targets for indirect cost recovery. These
covered percentage real increase in own revenues per capita over a specified period, for
instance. To remain eligible for PEDU project financing, municipalities had to achieve or
surpass these targets.
* For the first time in Parana, if not in Brazil as well, funding for more than UJS$200 million in
municipal investments over a period of five years was awarded, conditional upon progress with
municipal institutional reform as far as the internal management efficiency of local government
was concerned.
* Data on municipal finances in ParanA for 1989-94 reveal substantial improvements in the
fiscal performance of local governments while PEDU was under implementation. Investments
by municipalities increased threefold, while their salary bill rose only by 28.0% between 1989
and 1994. Also, municipalities in Parana succeeded in increasing their property tax (IPTU)
revenues more than three times in real terms over the same period. IPTU was one of the
principal targets of PEDU ID interventions (: Part HI. Table 5A). Results such as these are
consistent with the hypothesis that PEDU project municipalities increased their tax effort in
order to qualify for project financing and to be able to repay FDU loans.
' By contrast, the otherwise similar PIMES project (Loan 3129-BR) for Rio Grande do Sul (RGS)
assigded implementation responsibility to the RGS state development bank, rather than the direct RGS
state administration itself which lacked Parani's experience of earlier operations of this kind.



-3-
*  For medium and small Cities in Parana (population 25,000 - 200,000), increases in annual
property tax collections during 1989-94 at the level of individual municipalities are positively
and significantly correlated with PEDU project investments made in those municipalities.
There are also weaker, but still significant correlation's between increases in total local tax
collections and PEDU project investments for these cities. While the fiscal performance of the
three larger cities of the state--Londrina, Maringa and Ponto Grossa---improved over the same
period, this ICR could find no clear evidence linking the improvement with PEDU project
interventions. In hindsight, the complex ID challenge posed by these larger cities required more
individual treatment than the standard PEDU formula was able to offer. At the other end of the
demographic scale, the fiscal performance of very small cities with populations of less than
25,000, also bore little statistical relationship to PEDU project interventions. This is not to say
that there were no improvements through the project in very small cities: only that
municipalities in this heterogeneous group were affected in different ways by PEDU (see Part
HI. Table 5B). The results observed for medium and small cities especially are consistent with
the hypothesis that fiscal improvements at the level of individual municipalities were a function
of the degree of the, municipality's involvement in the PEDU program, as measured by the
amount of project investment made there.
*  As Parana state's pnncipal project executing agency and largest FDU borrower, the state water
company (SANEPAR) met agreed financial ratios under the project. As proposed by PEDU,
significant reevaluations of company assets dramatically reduced the debt leverage of the
company. By 1995, SANEPAR's debt: equity ratio had fallen to a mere 0.5:1, well below the
PEDU covenanted mnaximum of 2.3:1 and the 4.0:1 ratio actually reported in 1989 before the
project start-up. Wilh the exception of 1995, when there was a smaller inflationary adjustment
on its books than expected, SANEPAR reported profits for most years while PEDU was being
implemented (Part III, Table 5C). Current financial difficulties now that inflationary financing
of company commitments is no longer possible, however, have led SANEPAR to request re-
negotiating the terms of its existing FDU debt. In hindsight, SENEPAR's recent difficulties
suggest that projects like PEDU should incorporate more specific reform measures in cases
such as large state w(ater companies.
*  From Bank mission contacts with local mayors and their technical teams in more than nine
cities2, there is evidence that PEDU participation induced a more business-like approach
toward managing investment at the local level. Thus municipal managers ensured rigorous
fulfillment of formal project requirements related to supervision, reporting, accounting and
procurement. These procedures continue to be applied as standard practice for managing state-
supported municipal investments in Parana.
7.     Objective (ii)--providing basic economic and social infrastructure in urban areas was
substantially achieved, thanks to project investments of US$202.4 million in some 985 urban
service sub-projects throughout the state. Aggregate delivery by principal component through
PEDU included:
*  1,552 kms. of street paving
* 45,857 square meters of erosion control works
*  social services (41 health posts; 60 day care centers; 35 schools)
*  26 bus terminals
2Cities visited include: Cascavel, ParanaguA, Sao Jos6 dos Pinhais, Castro, Pirai do Sul, MaringA, and
Ponta Grossa.



-4-
* 369 kms. of water distribution network (70,173 connections serving 315,779)'.
* 735 kms. of sewerage distribution network (44,675 connections serving 195,429).
Actual investments on average exceeded their physical targets by 7.7%, or by as much as 39.5% in
the case of street paving for which mrunicipal demand was very buoyant. Stieet paving remains
popular with city mayors in the state. It has imnnediate and favorable environmental impacts, yields
electoral dividends among low income voters especially, and allows for oDst recovery when
beneficiaries pay property tax for the first time, or at higher rates than before. On the other hand,
municipal demand for social services through the PEDU project--health and educationa in particular-
was more slack as alternative funding was available on easier tenrs to local administrations than
FDUs. As transaction costs of FDU funds--notably through administrative procedures--for
municipalities were high and fixed per loan, most local governments preferred to contract PEDU
financing only for larger lumpy investments, leaving smaller cost items to be funded under their own
budgets. At completion, the internal economic rate of return (IERR) of the project was estimated as
15.9%, not significantly different from the appraisal estimate of 17.1%, indicating that the PEDU
investments overall were worthwhile from an economic point of view. The actual PEDU IERR might
have been higher if there had been less project investment in sewerage, an environmentally sound
component, but one with typically high costs and low quantifiable benefits and consequently low
estimated IERRs. For other such projects, notably street lighting, paving andL drainage, average
IERRs were significantly higher than appraisal estimates.
8.    Objective (iii)--decentralizing federal and state responsibilities to imunicipalities was
achieved indirectly through PEDU's institutional strengthening of municipal administrations
throughout the state. By enlarging municipal investment programs and providing techinical assistance
to nmanage them better, the PEDU project enabled municipalities to take on greater responsibilities
resulting from decentralization. Through the PEDU project experience, participating municipalities
learned how to plan, budget and cost infrastructure investments, managing tasks such as
procurement, for instance, that had formerly been a responsibility of the state. Although PEDU
spending of US$13.4 million on ID was below appraisal expectations of US$17.9 million, PEDU's
performance was better than PRAM's that succeeded in investing only one-third of resources planned
for this component.
9.    Objective (iv)--improving the targeting of urban programs upon low  income
beneficiaries was achieved through the kind of investments made under the project. LUrban paving in
particular, which accounted for 80.8%/o of all PEDU infrastructure investments, was typically
demanded by poorer people, since higher-income residents already live in paved areas of cities in
Parani. Data from the 1991 census infer that the great majority of urban residents of Parana live
along paved streets. Altogether, 87.2% of urban households report having solid waste collected from
their homes, a service that is generally provided only in paved areas of cities. In thiese circumstances,
remaining poor areas of cities in Paranri that still needing paving can be readily identified, and are
well-known to their respective local governments. Except in very small cities, community
associations are active in most of these areas, and engage the municipality in discussions about
project implementation. In this way, E'EDU paving investments concentrated in recently settled
poorer areas, a number of which were visited by Bank missions during the implementation of the
project.
10.   Objective--(v) creating and strengthening FDU as a source of long-term financing for
urban development was satisfactorily achieved. Financial results of FDU soon exceeded those



-5-
expected at appraisal. Repayments by municipal borrowers grew rapidly as the shortest term loans-
five years for paving and drainage investments--proved more popular among municipalities than
expected at appraisal. Also, no case of delinquency in repayment by municipalities has been reported.
Municipal pledges of their transfers of state value-added tax (ICMS) in case of default proved to be
solid guarantees. By project mid-term, average annual returns to the FDU over the 1997-2000 period
were projected to be US$35.5 million compared with US$18.0 million forecast at appraisal.
11.   Other satisfactory results of the project. Parana's economy suffered a less sharp recession
than the national economy's during the period of PEDU's implementation. While the PEDU project
by itself could not directly affect the performance of a large state economy--GDP US$34.1 billion--in
a significant way, many PEDU project interventions are associated with improved economic
performance locally. According to municipal officials, project investments in paving and drainage in
poorer neighborhoods near the main airport of Curitiba in the metropolitan municipality of Sao Jose
dos Pinhais, improved the image of the city. This in turn helped it win as a location for a major car
assembly plant by Peugeot against fierce competition among cities throughout the country. PEDU
paving investnents in Paranagua helped the port city handle the export of record soybean harvests in
the state and in neighboring Paraguay. PEDU investments to contain severe land erosion in smaller
cities in the north of the state improved access and helped transform urban economies formerly based
upon coffee mono-culture into important centers for commerce in general.
C. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
12.   Beyond the control of the borrower: Factors that favorablv affected the project included:
0 Stronger than expected demand for project funding by municipalities. By completion, 367
municipalities, 98.7% of the total in Parana, participated in the PEDU project. Among the
reasons: (i) increased creditworthiness of municipalities following extra transfer of revenues
awarded under the 1988 Constitution; and (ii) drying up of alternative sources of funding for
infrastructure particularly from the Federal Economic Fund (Caixa Econ6mica Federal - CEF).
To these must be added the State's own intensive campaigning to promote the PEDU project
during 1989/90 among municipalities in all regions of Parana.
*  299 local governments in Parana were already familiar with lending mechanisms through their
experience under the pievious PRAM project.
* Rigorous and objective control of project implementation exercised by the ParanA state Tribunal
de Contas as PEDU project auditors.
13.   Beyond the control of the borrower: Factors that adversely affected the project included:
* Macro-economic and policy uncertainties and monetary instability in Brazil especially during
1990-92, made some rnunicipalities unwilling to assume the risks of borrowing and also made
the planning of repayments extremely difficult. With some justification, they feared that harmful
changes in the terms of repayment could come without warning.
* Central Bank Resolution number 58 in 1992 that prohibited government lending of any kind-
including credit through FDU--to entities seriously delinquent with social security payments
(FGTS and INSS). At that time, the majority of Parana municipalities, like most in Brazil, were
disqualified on these grounds. An exemption to this rule was eventually granted in the case of the
PEDU project, thanks to the active involvement of high authorities of the State, with the support
of Bank missions.
* Structural disincentives to municipalities' following tight FDU loan conditionalities and PEDU
project recipes of fiscal rigor, through: (i) the possibility-even if only very slim-of receiving



-6-
funds from alternative sources on much easier terms, such as those of ]languishing CEF
programs; and (ii) the substitution effect of large fiscal transfers awarded to mwuicipalities by the
1988 Constitution that discouraged municipalities' own tax efforts and searches for additional
sources of funding.
The proliferation of new municipalities with an extremely weak organizational base and little
chance of mnaking fiscal improvements in the short run. The 1988 Constitution made the
dismemberment of existing municipalities easier by removing the former option of federal
government veto against the creation of unsustainable municipal administrations.
14.   Under the control of the borrower: Factors that favorably affected the project included:
*  Strong borrower ownership of thie PEDU project. Successive Parana authorities of different
political persuasions treated it as one of the state's principal development programs in support of
municipalities. By completion, Parana state had contributed US$80.3 million in counterpart
funding, substantially more than the US$67.4 million committed at appraisal. The close and
careful attention to the project lby the state governor during implementation helped ensure
PEDUs centrality as a key state government program and its entitlement to financial support by
the state. Municipal repayment into FDU of loans taken out under the earlier PRAM program
helped augment state counterpart iunding for the project.
*  For project preparation and implementation, the intensive use of existing in-house
SEDU/FAMEPAR capacity acquired from the experience of the PRAM project within the core
PEDU team.
*  Excellent working relationships between successive administration's PEDU teams and Bank
supervision missions, characterized by an open dialogue that led to the early identification of
difficulties and joint ParanWBank search for solutions before problems became intractable.
* The maintenance of a solid pool of technical assistance and support to municipalities through
entities such as FAMEPAR and SUCEAM (Parana's erosion control agency) from which new
mayors and their staffs could readily draw advice and infonnation on administrative procedures
and technical standards concerning municipal development projects.
15.   Under the control of the borrower: Factors that adversely affected the project included:
*  A tendency by the project team to over-complicate the project in early stages of implementation,
delaying start-up and characterizing PEDU as a "bureaucratic" operaltion in the eyes of
municipal authorities. Entry to the program by municipalities was a process of endless form
filling, needlessly providing the PEDU team with large amounts of infomiation that was used
neither in managing project implementation nor in project evaluation. The PEDU team ably
simplified this data collection effort, with the assistance of Bank missions.
*  In spite of efforts at simplification, PEDU still did not develop a monitoring system that permits
the ready retrieval of project implementation information for evaluation purposes. Collecting
information for this ICR itself proved to be a difficult and laborious exercise for the project
team, for instance.
*  Slow initial implementation of PEDU's Institutional Development (ID) component for lack of
budget allocations by the state, an issue that was taken up by successive Bank missions. Public
sector agencies in Parana and elsewhere in Brazil found the large demand for ID interventions in
nearly 300 municipalities overwhelming. Even so, there was much more ID progress under
PEDU than under the preceding PRAM project.



-7-
D. SUSTAINABILITY
16.   Likely: Five factors indicate that benefits from the PEDU project are likely to continue to
flow in the long run: (i) the financial health of municipalities; (ii) the capitalization of FDU; (iii)
continued demand for urban infrastructure improvements by municipalities; (iv) Parana state still
treats the PRAM/PEDU program idea--now in its thirteenth year--as the heart of its municipal
development policy; and (v) financial support by IDB and Japan's OECF for a similar project
estimated to cost US$498 million.3
E. BANK PERFORMANCE
17.   Project identification and preparation assistance - Highly Satisfactory. Preparation was
very smooth. The Bank took advantage of its on-going supervision of the PRAM project to discuss
various plans by the Parand authorities for a follow-up operation. The past history of an effective
dialogue between the Bankl and the ParanA authorities allowed missions to rapidly introduce new
project ideas-the revolving fund for municipal development, eliminating grant funding for
infrastructure, and indirect cost recovery through local taxation adjustments, for instance--quickly
securing the agreement and support of the Parana authorities in a friendly climate of professional
dialogue.
18.   Appraisal - Highly Satisfactory. The Bank appraised the project efficiently, having
carefully prepared the ground previously. Major issues on the political agenda of Parana, such as
whether to include the city of Curitiba in the program and proposals in some quarters to abolish
FAMEPAR, were dealt with effectively by the Bank appraisal mission, ensuring minimum
disruption to the PEDU project idea.
19.   Supervision - Highly Satisfactory. Supervision missions were fielded regularly, with the
exception of a gap between August 1994 and October 1995, and were characterized by continued
openness in dealing with issues that came up during implementation. Bank supervision benefited
from the continuity of staffing of the missions throughout implementation.
F. BORROWER's PERFORMANCE
20.   Preparation of the project - Highly Satisfactory. The state authorities gave full support
to project preparation, and SEDU's in-house team demonstrated its ability to prepare the project
with minimum outside assistance, but with the full support of the highest state authorities.
21.   Project Implemientation - Satisfactory. The state authorities, through FAMEPAR,
implemented the project efficiently with a minimum of difficulties. When problems arose-notably
related to the procurement of contracts by SANEPAR--they were promptly dealt with by the well
qualified staff of the project team. Similarly, incessant but healthy criticisms by the State Tribunal
3 There is one important caveat, however, in the light of SANEPAR's request in 1996-following the
company's poor financial results in the previous year--to soften the terms and conditions of its
outstanding loans with FD1U. If Parana state would allow SANEPAR to repay FDU loans with company
shares as SANEPAR propcsed instead of cash, this would not only contradict Objective (v) of the PEDU
project, but would also corLtribute to undermining its sustainability by reducing funding available for
reinvestment in municipal development projects.



-8-
de Contas as PEDU project auditors, kept the project team on its toes, rapidly eliciting meaningful
responses to mostly minor qualifications raised in successive audit repoits. The borrower
efficiently re-drafted project operational manuals early during implementation, aLt the suggestion of
the Bank, in order to make them more intelligible to users in municipalities throughout the state.
Also, in order to implement PEDU's indirect cost recovery provisions, the projiect team--with the
help of outside consultants--successfully developed and applied a computerized method of
automatically screening municipalities for eligibility for PEDU project funding on the basis of an
assessment of their existing and potential tax revenues.
22.   Compliance with Loan Covenants - Satisfactory. There was compliance with major
Loan covenants. Effective monitoring by the state Tribunal de Contas helped ensure this
satisfactory result.
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
23.   Overall rating - Satisfactory. The project met all main objectives with favorable
repercussions for the economic development and institutional reform of municipalities in Parani.
As well as noteworthy in themselves, it is significant that these achievements were realized in a
climate of effective cooperation and dialogue between borrower and Bank built up over a period of
some fifteen years and two successive projects.
H. FUTURE OPERATIONS
24.   Follow-up Actions. The Bank was not eager to finance a follow-on loan after PEDU, as
State authorities and technical teams had demonstrated how very well they could manage and
implement this kind of operation on their own. Nonetheless, institutional reform of Parana's
municipalities is likely to continue through the PARANA-URBANO program, to be financed by
IDB and the Japanese government's OECF. Building upon the PEDU project design, the new
project should take municipal reform a few steps further, particularly through; (i) creating a new
autonomous legal entity out of FDU by merging it with FAMEPAR; (ii) studying the introduction
of financial risk classifications for Parana municipalities, the securitization of muniicipal debt and
the development of a municipal bond market in ParanA; (iii) slimming municipal administrations
further by offering early retirement packages to emnployees; and (iv) assigning an increasing role to
associations of municipalities in rules for resource allocation under future arrangements.
I. LESSONS LEARNED
25.   Significant lessons learned fronm the experience of the project include:
Municipal Development loans when accompanied by Borrower ownership, are effective
instruments to: (a) improve management capacity and fiscal efficiency of municipalities; (b)
provide basic economic and social infrastructure, primarily targeted at low-income
beneficiaries; (c) transform municipalities from a reliance on grants to an intelligent use of
credit (zero delinquencies reported for PEDU); and (d) support the decentralization mandated
under the Constitution, through institutional strengthening, which in turn will guarantee the
successful execution of other sectoral investments (e.g., education and health), normally a
municipal responsibility.



-9-
*    Project ownership and priority for the program by the State was the key to its successful
outcome.
*    Simple and transparent rules about indirect cost recovery can transcend party political
differences and help develop a consensus to help ensure broad and continuing support for a
project among competing political interests. Urban poverty targeting is achievable in the
design of a project.
*    The design of development programs should incorporate clear incentives to pursue
institutional reform and provide means to achieve reform targets.
*    Intensive marketing of project ideas to clients--municipalities in the PEDU case--is essential
to stimulate demand and achieve a successful project start-up.
*    Borrowers need to be vigilant and firm in maintaining sound rules of development programs,
which specific groups may try to circumvent if they fear their interests to be threatened, or
where there may be an opportunity for free-ridership.
*    Larger cities with more than 200,000 inhabitants require more detailed and individual
attention in the design and supervision of institutional reform at the municipal level.
Standardized models of interventions, that worked successfully for medium and smaller cities
in the case of PEDU, did not have the same impact upon larger and institutionally more
complex urban centers.
*    With increasing responsibilities of municipalities as investors and managers of development
programs covering many sectors, municipal reform of the PEDU kind is, among other things,
part of a risk aversion strategy. Reformed and strengthened municipalities mean that sectoral
operations in education, health and the environment, for instance--that increasingly depend
upon municipal administrations--are more likely to succeed.



-10-
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE4
(Summary: full report available in project files)
Ai. INTRODUCTION
26.   The present document contains information about the completion olf the, Parana State
Municipal Development Project (Programa Estadual de Desenvolvimento Urbano - PEDU)
resulting from Loan Agreement No. :3100-BR with the World Bank. This report is presented in
fulfillment of Section 3.04c(vi) of that legal agreement.
27.   This report reviews information available locally and seeks to portray ithe implementation
of the project, highlighting results obtained, the achievement of the intended objectives, factors that
affected implementation, the performance of the agencies involved, and the principal lessons that
derive from the implementation of PEDU.
B. RESULTS OF THE PROJECT
Physical
28.   The project served 367 municipalities of the 371 in the State of Parana, thus covering 99%
of all cities through its investment component (municipal and SANEPAR infrastructure) and
institutional development. If we consicler that the four municipalities not addressed by these sub-
programs received computer equipment financed through PEDU, we have a 100% coverage of the
municipalities of the state through the project.
29.   In terms of municipal urban infrastructure, the project covered 234 municipalities through
financing 985 works to a total investment of US$118.2 million. The physical targets achieved by
type of sub-project are listed below:
Type of sub-project           units           No. of sub-projects  Target achieved
Street lighting               lamp-posts      23                 3,940.00
Street paving                 m2              748                10,859,837.39
Erosion control               m2              22                 45,857.00
Day care centers              m2              60                 21,810.19
Markets                       m2              2                  944.86
Bus terminals                 m2              26                 38,949.87
Schools                       m2              35                 22,762.87
4 (Unofficial translation, March 1997)



-11-
Type of sub-project           units           No. of sub-projects  Target achieved
Abattoirs                     m2              1                  256.61
Public squares                m2              7                  10,734.32
Old peoples' homes            m2              7                  1,088.65
Sports areas                  m2              5                  6,152.46
Health posts                  m2              41                 10,928.76
Community centers             m2              4                  1,416.30
Theaters                      m2              1                  1,474.32
Fire stations                 m2              3                  1,423.86
30.   Investmerts by SANEPAR totaled US$91 million with works in 313 municipalities,
providing main sewerage services to 195,000 inhabitants and piped water to an additional 604,000.
31.   Through its institutional development component, PEDU invested US$13.3 million in 291
municipalities in the state, as well as in state agencies that participated in the project. If we
consider the provision of computer equipment, the number of participating municipalities rises to
354. Of the total invested in institutional development, US$9.3 rnillion was for technical assistance
to municipalities, US$1.4 million for technical assistance to the State, US$1.6 million for training,
and US$1.0 million for the computerization of administrative tasks in municipalities.
Financial
32.   Project investments totaled US$221.51 million. The following table shows estimated
values at appraisal and mid-term, and final amounts actually invested.
COMPONENT                                        millions of US dollars
Appraisal       Mid-term        Actual
estimate        estimate        investment
A. INSTITUTIONAL                             21.68           21.68            13.37
DEVELOPMENT
- Technical Assistance                     15.87           15.87           11.79
- Training                                 5.81             5.81            1.58
B. INFRASTRUCTURE                           205.22          194.06          208.14
B.1 Municipal Infrastructure                 90.74           86.76           114.85
- Street paving                           45.19            68.51           95.55
- Street lighting                          11.19            1.50            0.89
- Health posts                             7.51             3.00            2.29
- Day-care centers                         2.30             2.00            3.70
- Schools                                 13.57             4.00            2.79
- Fire stations                             1.45            1.00            0.27
- Abattoirs                                2.91             0.07            0.04
- Markets                                  3.03             0.03            0.10



-12-
- Bus stations                              3.39            6.65            8.16
COMPONENT                           millions of US
dollars
Appraisal       Mid-term        Actual
_ estimate        estimate        investment
B.2 Environmental and Sanitary              105.76          107.30            93.29
Infrastructure
- Water (municipal)                                         1.00 _
- Water (SANEPAR)                         58.75           19.60            41.48
- Sewerage (municipal)                                     2.00
- Sewerage (SANEPAR)                      16.84           61.70            48.46
- Erosion control                         11.99           12.00             3.35
- Solid waste                             18.17            8.00 _
- Operational development                                  3.00
(SANEPAR)
B.3 Housing                                   8.72
- Low-cost houses                         8.72
TOTAL:                                      226.90          215.74 _        221.51
33.   Final values by source of finance are detailed in the table below which shows that State
counterpart exceeded the initial estimate, while municipal counterpart funding was less than
expected.
Source of Funds                              in millions of US dollars
Appraisal              =       Actual
World Bank                                      100.00                       100.00
State                                            67.40                       86.20
Municipalities                                   59.50                        35.29
TOTAL:                                          226.90             _        221.49
Economic
34.   As from the mid-term evaluation mission of June 1993, the PEDU adopted a World Bank
methodology to analyze the economic feasibility of new sub-projects and retrieved information on
the economic performance of works already completed.
35.   From 1994, when resources fromn the State Fund for Urban Development (Fundo Estadual
de Desenvolvimento Urbano - FDU) were first used to finance new sub-projects without the
financial participation of the World Bank, the same methodology of economic evaluation was still
applied.
36.   From internal rate of return dalta for samples of sub-projects an estimate of a weighted
average rate of return for the PEDU project can be made. The table below shows investment values
by sub-project for the PEDU project as a whole and for the sample of sub-projects evaluated
together with the estimated internal rates of return. It should be noted that the investmznt values of
the samples for street paving and street lighting exceed the total PEDU project investment for these



-13-
sub-projects. This is because the samples include sub-projects financed by FDU's own resources.
In the case of SANEPAR, actual investment values slightly exceed those of the sample evaluated.
PEDU PROJECT             SAMPLE EVALUATED
INVESTMENT  INVESTMENT    INTERNAL
(in millions of US    (in millions of   ECONOMIC RATE
dollars)        US dollars)     OF RETURN (%)
STREET PAVING                  95.55             136.65             18.8%
STREET LIGHTING                 0.89             3.36               26.5%
BUS TERMINALS                   8.16             5.87               15.9%
WATER                          41.48             39.84              18.0%
SEWERAGE                       49.84             40.94              3.1%
Weighted Average Internal Rate of Return:                 15.9%
37    The 15.9% internal economic rate of return of PEDU covers 87.8% of the investments
made. This compares with an appraisal estimate of 17.1% covering 63.5% of total investments.
38    The table below illustrates appraisal and final estimates of internal economic rates of
return by component as well as each component's share in total project costs.
Component                    Appraisal Estimate               Final Estimate
% of total cost    IERR        % of total cost    IERR
STREET PAVING                    25.2          15.7%            43.1          18.8%
STREET LIGHTING                   5.0          15.7%             0.4          26.5%
BUS TERMINALS                         _ ____                     3.7          15.9%
WATER                            25.0          18.4%            18.7          18.0%
SEWERAGE                          7.4          18.4%            21.9           3.0%
TOTAL:                           63.5         17.1%             87.8         15.9%
C. ACHIEVEMENT OF PEDU PROJECT OBJECTIVES
To improve the managerial and institutional capacity and fiscal efficiency of municipalities
and state agencies to plan, finance and execute cost effective projects and programs.
39    Overall, the aggregate borrowing capacity of Paranai municipalities--excluding Curitiba--
grew from US$50 million in 1989 to US$300 million in 1995, reflecting an improved fiscal
situation at the municipal. level. In addition, 1990 and 1994 balance sheets of a sample of 55
municipalities were analyzed with respect to indicators of equilibrium, revenues per capita,
savings, administrative performance, tax efforts and investments. The main finding was that
municipal financial autonomy had increased, but that there had not been an improvement in the
quality of the of investments made, as per data in PEDU's Impact Report of December 1995.
To provide basic economic and social infrastructure in urban areas.
40.   In view of the scope and coverage of the PEDU project and the large physical quantity of
investments made, it can be said that this objective was achieved. PEDU investments accounted
for 14.5% of all investments made in the sample of 55 municipalities during the 1990-94 period.



-14-
For municipalities in the metropolitan region of Curitiba, this share was 9.8%, for regional growth
poles 17.6%, municipalities with special functions 5.0% and small cities 18.8%X).
To decentralize urban administratiion and financial management by transferring federal and
state responsibilities to municipalities and improve policy coordination.
41. The increased financial autoniomy of municipalities mentioned earlier supports the idea of
decentralization. But it is also important to ask whether increased autonomy may not have been the
result of the 1988 Constitution, which established new municipal responsibilities and ensured a
greater share of tax revenues going to municipalities.
To create and strengthen the state urban development fund (FDU) as a source of long-term
financing for urban development.
42.   PEDU project implementation contributed decisively to the sustainalbility of FDU as a
source of funding for urban development interventions.
43.   Among factors contributing to the success of FDU are:
a) Parana State general budget resources instead of FDU proceeds being used to service
the World Bank Loan. This is equivalent to an additional injection of resources by the
State into FDU throughouit the entire period of amortization of the Bank Loan.
b) no delinquency by sub-borrowers.
c) priority for municipal fnancing for executing urban development works with a drastic
reduction of grant funding.
d) repayments of FDU loans go exclusively into FDU itself.
e) most loans were short term for re-payment witiin five years (for street paving and
street iighting).
44.   Taking into account annual balances of funds available, it is possible to project FDUs
flow of funds, based upon the following premises: (i) Loan amortization continiues to be financed
through the ParanA State budget as per the PEDU procedures using budget allocations: 3271, 4361
and 3273; (ii) refinancing of further loans with following terms: 5 years (10% of total); 10 years
(70% of total); and 15 years (20% of' total). Using these criteria, the following table presents the
FDU projection.
FDU FUNDING
(millions of US dollars)
Year             Existing funds        Refinancing            TOTAL
1997                       49.07                  6.77                55.84
1998                       44.47                 15.30                59.77
1999                       34.74                25.00                 59.74
2000                        26.05                34.88                60.93
2001                        17.64                44.42                62.06
2002                        15.57                53.63                69.20
2003                        15.20                63.53                78.73
2004                        14.09                74.90                88.99
2005                        12.42                87.97               100.39



-15-
FDU FUNDING
(millions of US dollars)
Year            Existing funds         Refinancing           TOTAL
2007                         9.94               112.68               122.62
2008                         7.53               124.35               131.88
2009                         3.17               140.82               143.99
TOTAL                       260.47               885.25              1,145.72
45.   FDU funding, together with Parana State counterpart, are mobilizing new external
resources, increasing total investment capacity and thereby making better use of the debt capacity
of municipalities and state borrowers.
46.   It should be noted that this projection does not include FDU capitalization through external
contributions of the PARANA llRBANO project (Loan 917/OC-BID), nor counterpart funding of
this new operation. With the inclusion of PARANA URBANO funding and its resultant
refinancing, simulations indicate even higher annual flows of FDU funds, but such projections
would not be comparable with those made during the appraisal of PEDU itself.
47.   FDU funds applied to cdate and projections for the next few years exceed the simulations
made at PEDU appraisal and reported in the SAR. The figure below illustrates a comparison
between appraisal and current projections for FDU.
-,                      APPRAIISAL AND CURRENT FDU PROJECTIONS
160
;>      140 -140
S   120                                                       l    E     i
. X                    .                                    X    s    llL           Projections: (Current)
o      100
E0      80
S 20                                  S                                      S i Project: (Appraisal)
z     ~40
20
1997     1999       2001       2003      2005      2007       2009
YEAR



-16-
D. EXTERNAL FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
Negative Factors
48.   The change of municipal administrations in 1993 which led to a reduction in the rhythm of
project activities from October 1992 onwards and the need to provide new incoming municipal
administrations with PEDU project infonnation all over again from January 1993.
49.   Alterations in federal legislation with respect to municipal debt capacity during the
implementation of the project. They included: (i) Senate Resolutions 94/89 and 58/90 requiring
municipalities to be up to date with federal dues, notably INSS, FGTS and the Internal Revenue
Service ('Receita Federal'); and (ii) Senate Resolution 36/92 requiring, in addition, that the Senate
approve each application for credit inclividually together with the Central Bank.
50.   Divergence between local legislation and World Bank requirements in relation to
procurement and alterations in local legislation on this topic. At the beginning of. the PEDU project,
the procedures of Federal Decree No. 2,300 and World Bank Procurement Guidelines had to be
made compatible and incorporated in the elaboration and approval of the PEDU's Procurement
Manuals.
51.   Periods of inflation, changes of Brazil's monetary unit and general price freezes.
52.   Moving the PEDU project Special Account from the Central Bank to the Banco do Brasil,
that led to a period during which the Special Account was not replenished. Replenishment occurred
only after procedures acceptable to the Bank for using the Account were adopted. In addition, there
were delays in Federal Government's approvals of moving special accounts like this from the
Central Bank to commercial banks.
Positive Aspects
53.   Senate Resolution 11/94 restored exclusive responsibility for approving individual
municipality's debt capacity to the Central Bank.
E. FACTORS UNDER THE CONTROL OF THE PROJECT AUTHORITIES
AFFECTING PEDU
Negative Aspects
54.   No allocation of necessary computer equipment to project executing agencies
(FAMEPAR/SEDU and CPU/SEDU) at PEDU start-up. Computers were only iatroduced in 1995,
and financed by the State's own resources. Equipment procured with Bank funds (ICB No. 00 1/94)
could only be delivered at the beginning of 1996, after customs clearance and contract verifications
following the fact that the equipment provided by the international supplier did not fully match the
specifications laid out in the bidding documents.
55.   The lack of development of an integrated monitoring system at project start-up. Effective
monitoring only began in 1995, and was financed with PEDU funds. It proved impossible ex post
to retrieve relevant project implementation data prior to that date.



-17-
56.   The non-compliance with Parana State Decree No. 236/91 stipulating 48 hours as the
maximum period in which funds should be transferred from the State Budget to FDU. In actual
practice, transfers took 15 days on average.
Positive Aspects
57.   High priority given PEDU by ParanA State and the drastic reduction of grant funding for
urban development operations at the municipal level.
58.   FDUs regulatory framework requiring that surplus FDU resources be re-invested in
accordance with the initial PEDU idea of creating a permanent and sustainable revolving fund to
finance urban development operations. This framework is still being maintained to date and,
moreover, constitutes part of the new PARANA URBANO project (Loan 917/OC-BR IDB).
59.   Debt service payrrLents for the Bank PEDU Loan were made directly with State budget
funds. This was a different arrangement from that foreseen at appraisal, when it was expected that
the Loan would be amortized through the use of FDU resources. Paying directly from the State
Budget effectively meant ani injection of additional State counterpart funding to PEDU of the order
of US$39.0 million during project implementation. As these arrangements will continue until the
full repayment of the Bank Loan, they constitute an important factor in the capitalization of FDU.
60.   The major effort to complete PEDU's institutional development component in 1995, 75%
of which was implemented in one year alone.
61.   Continuity of PEDU's technical teams throughout project implementation, in spite of
changes of government at the State level.
F. PERFORMANCE OF THE BANK
62.   The World Bank always followed up the implementation of PEDU with the aim of guiding
and streanilining project execution as follows:
63.   Identification, preparation and appraisal missions were perfectly timed, and mission
contributions to the design and set up of PEDU were valuable. The State and the Bank had not
clearly defined the parameters of institutional analysis and its relationship to PEDU's infrastructure
component, however. This contributed to start-up delays of at least eight months.
64.   Official Bank missions gave adequate attention to project problems and provided solutions
that helped streamline the project.
65.   The Disbursement Division at Bank Headquarters provided excellent and rapid answers to
questions raised by PEDIJ managers about the transfer of project resources. In addition, this
Division organized local disbursement seminars that were very valuable for the PEDU project
teams.
66.   The Bank office in Brasilia dealt promptly with inquiries by PEDU managers and provided
necessary material and advice about how to request replenishment of the Special Account.



-18-
G. PERFORMANCE OF THE STATE GOVERNMENT, ITS AGENCIES AND
MUNICIPAL ADMINISTRATIONS
67.   Within the bounds of the human and equipment resources available, participating State
agencies strove to implement PEDU with their best efforts. Apart from start-up delays during
1989/90, the planned timetable of project execution was met. The initial strt-up delay was
responsible for the extension of Loan Closing approved by the Bank and the Federal Government
in 1994.
68.   Municipalities managed to adapt to PEDU's new procedures, which were different from
those of the earlier PRAM project l'Loan 2343-BR Programa de AVdo Muniicipal). State funding
for municipalities under PRAM was on a non-refundable grant basis, while participating
municipalities took out parallel loans financed by the Bank. On the other hanmd, in the great
majority of cases under PEDU, nmunicipalities take project funding in the form of loans. In
addition, municipalities finance palt of the costs from their own resources. In this way, PEDU
discontinued an incentive for municipalities to participate in the project simply because grant
funding was available with no obligation for repayment. PEDU required immediate provision of
counterpart funding by municipalities for the first time.
H. MAIN LESSONS OF THE EXPERIENCE
69.   During the implementation of PEDU, some aspects stand out as positive and negative
experiences of the project. They are summarized below, as some may perhaps be useful in helping
the design and implementation of newv projects.
a)   Before project start-up, it is extremely important to havre a computerized
monitoring system. Iinadequate computer equipment in the case of PEDU,
prevented the systematic evaluation of the results of project actions, principally
those concerning institutional development
b)  Advantage  should  be  taken  of  experiences  acquired  through  the
implementation of projects, in order to perfect the execution of future
operations. This aspect was clear at State level with respect to the design of
the new PARANA URBANO project, which benefited from previous
experiences, ranging from the treatment of major issues to mmior operational
questions
c.  It is important for executing agencies in this kind of project to offer conditions
of administrative flexibility with respect to allocating equipment, systems and
personnel necessary for project implementation



-19-
Part III: STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of obiectives                  Substantial         Partial       Ne1ljidble     Not applcable
Macro Policies                                    El               LI]             L]               []
Sector Policies                                   El               LI                   
Financial objectives                              EL                               EI 0
Institutional Development                          @                              LI] 
Physical objectives                                  ]             C1              L                L
Poverty reduction                                                  E [I             I 
Gender issues                                       L                               5                xL
Other social objectives                           E                 @              E                E
Environmental objectives                           @               II              E                EL
Public sector management                           @               E               EL               E
Private sector development                         EL              E               E 
B. Proiect sustainabilitv                       Likely           Unlikely       Uncertain
C. Bank performance                             Hih            Satisfactorv      Deficient
satisfactory
Identification                                    E                  L             E
Preparation assistance                            EL               E               E
Appraisal                                          @               E               E
Supervision                                       E                                ELI
D. Borrower performance            Rgh                          Satisfactory     Deficient
satisfactorv
Preparation                                       @                EL              E
Implementation                                    E                E               E
Covenant compliance                               E                EL 
Operation (if applicable)                         E                EL              E
Hinhli
E. Assessment of outcome                         ig             Satisfactory  Unsatisfactoy    unsatisfactoy
satisfactory
EL               EL             EL               EL



-20-
Table 2: Re]lated Bank Loans/Credits
I Amount  Year of                  Status
Loan                           Purpose                 (US$       Armal                (0713196)
Preceding Operations
1. Medium Sized Cities       To improve the living conditions and  70         1979      Implementation completed.
Project (Ln. 1720-BR)        increase the incomes of the                                Project performance audit
populations, particularly the urban                        repodt (PPAR) dated 12/01/89.
poor, of eight rapidly growing medium-
sized cities.                                             __
2. Parana Market Towns       To develop an alternative system of   52.7       1983      Implementation completed.
Improvement (Ln. 2343-BR)    long-term borrowing for the                                Project completion report
municipalities, establish systematic                      (PCR) dated 6/12189.
criteria for the selection of sub-
projects, develop measures for cost
recovery of investment costs and
improve standard of living in urban
areas.                                                    __
3. Santa Catarina Small Towns   To improve the managerial capacity  24.5      1985      Implementation completed.
Improvement (Ln. 2623-BR)    and fiscal efficiency of the                               Implementation completion
municipalities; provide basic economic                    report (ICR) dated 12/30/94.
and social infrastructure to small urban
areas; and decentralize urban
administration and financial
manaaement for small urban areas.                                                      l
4. Rio Grande do Sul         increase municipal capacity to plan,  100.0      1989      Loan closed December 31,
Municipal Development (Ln.    finance and execute projects through                      :1995. Implementation
3129-BR)                     full cost recovery, improve                                 ompletion report to be issued
coordination of urban development                          early CY97.
policy and investment decisions, and
improve targeting these programs to
urban poor.                                        __
Subsequent Operations
1. Minas Gerais Municipal    Strengthen municipal financial       150.0       1993      Scheduled to close December
Management and               management, improve environmental                          511, 51998.
Environmental Infrastructure  management and mobilize private
(Ln. 3639-BR)                resources for municipal service
provision in the State.                            _
2. Ceara Urban Development   Strengthen local governments and     140.0       1994    Scheduled to close March 31,
and Water Resources          water resource management in the                           2000.
Management (Ln. 3789-BR)     State.                                              _
3. Bahia Municipal           Help Bahia State's program of reform  100.0      1997      Scheduled to close December
Management Project (Ln.      for management of urban areas and                          31, 2000.
4140-BR)                     improve the living conditions of urban
residents, primariily the poor.                              _



-21-
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle     Date Planned        Actual Date/or      Planned: Actual
Duration           Difference
Identification (initial Executive  02/23/88           02/23/88                0
Project Summary)
Preparation                       12 months           12 months               0
Appraisal                         02/13/89            02/13/89                0
Negotiations                      05/04/89            05/04/89                0
Board Presentation                06/22/89            06/22/89                0
Loan Signing                      08/14/89            08/14/89                0
Loan Effectiveness                  10/89             01/19/90             3 months
Loan closing                      12/31/94             12/31/95           12 months
Table 4: Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ million)
FY90       FY91       FY92       FY93       FY94      FY95      FY96
Appraisal estimate         11.0       34.0       59.0       86.0       100.0     100.0     100.0
Actual                     0.0         5.8       22.8       45.4       59.8      92.6      100.0
Actual as % of estimate    0%         17%        39%        53%        60%       93%       100%
Date of final disbursement: May 3, 1996
Key Indicators for Project Implementation and Operation
Table 5A Selected Financial Results of Municipalities before and after Project
(US$ million))
1989             1994           % change
Total Investment Expenditure                         123.9             395.4            219.1%
Personnel Expenditure                                551,7*            706.2            28.0%
Property Tax Revenues (lPT)                           23.4             79.3             238.9%
Service Tax Revenues (ISS)                           131.1             246.6            88.1%
Note: * data refer to 1990
Source: Parand State Tribunnal de Contas



-22-
Key Indicators for Project Implementation and Operation (Cont)
Table 5B. iChanging Local Tax Collection 19891-94 related to
PEDU Project Investments at Municipal Level
(correlation coefficients)
Ir____________________________________ rnumber of cities   | ProperTax                     | All Local Taxes
LargerCities (200,000-500,000) 1/    _            K                 3     _0.13[                 _      -0.47
|| Medium Cities (75,000-200,000)     -                             10 1              0.68O                0.49
l| Small Cities (25,000-75,000)           X                         43 |              0.66 |              0.52
Very Small Cities (<25,000)                       J              2161                0.07t               0.09
Note: 1/ With only 3 cases in the sample, care should be taken in interpreting the correlation coefficients for the larger cities groups. Behind the low and
negative values estimated lie substantial gains in tax collection for these three cities-Londrina (67.2°/e), Maring. (87.0%) and Ponta Grossa (119.4%). The
degree of increase did not appear to be closely related to the PEDU investmnent in these cities, which amnounted to US$5.1 million, US$2.1 million and
US$7.4 million respectively.
Source: Parana State Tribunal de Contas
Table 5C SANEPAR Financial Results 1989-1995
(in millions of US dollars)
1989     1990     1991      1992     1993      1994     1995
INCOMEEXPENSEDATA:                                                                      _
1 TOTAL REVENUES                      213.1    252.7    211.5    256.0    297.5    298.8    342.4
2 total operating revenues             213.0    253.0    211.0    256.2    297.9    298.7    347.7
3 net non-operating income               0.2     -0.3       0.6     -0.2      -0.4      0.1     -5.3
4 TOTAL EXPENSES                      427.8    319.7    119.4    184.2    256.1    284.6    410.2
5 operating & maintenance expenses      96.9    105.0    108.8    125.3 _ 153.7    172.3    211.2
6 commercial expenses                   16.5     17.2      14.7     18.3     23.4      24.3     26.5
7 administrative expenses               34.6     37.5      32.3     36.0     47.7      55.4     60.0
8 financial expenses                     2.8     12.0    -24.5      13.0      3.6      33.6     55.4
9 net inflation adjustment            277.0    148.0    -11.8       -8.4     27.8      -1.0     57.1
10 depreciation/provisions          __                  _                           ____
11 NET PROFIT (after tax) (1-4)       -214.7    -67.0      92.1      71.7     41.4      14.3    -67.8
BALANCE SHEETDATA:                                                                            _
12 Long-term debt                      353.8    301.6    344.1    235.5    288.3    426.4    487.6
13 Equity                                87.4    239.7    500.7    696.3    751.5    957.8    955.6
_  FINANCLIL RATIOS:                 ___ _
14 Operating ratio (4/1)                 2.01     1.27     0.56      0.72     0.86      0.95     1.20
15 Net profit margin (11/1)             -1.01    -0.27     0.44      0.28     0.14      0.05    -0.20
16 Debt equity ratio (12/13)             4.05     1.26     0.69      0.34     0.36      0.45     0.51
Source: Audited accounts of SANEPAR



-23-
Table 6A: Project Costs
Appraisal Estimate (US$M)          Actual (USSM)I
Item              Local   Foreign    Total       Local   Foreign   Total /1
Costs    Costs                Costs   Costs /2
A. Institutional Development    13.8    4.1        17.9      10.3     3.1       13.4
B. Infrastructure             130.4     38.9      169.3     160.3    47.8      208.1
C. Contingencies              30.6      9.1       39.7       0.0      0.0       0.0
Total                          174.8     52.1      226.9     170.6    50.9      221.5
/1 Total does not include repayments to FDU by PEDU borrowers, but does include repayments into FDU
from the earlier PRAM project (Ln. 2343-BR)
/2 Foreign costs, in the absence of new data, are assumed to account for the same shares estimated at
appraisal.
Table 6B: Project Financing
Appraisal Estimate (US$M)          Actual (US$M)/
Source               Local    Foreign      Total     Local Foreign   Total /1
costs      costs               costs  costs /2
IBRD                       47.9       52.1       100.0    49.1      50.9    100.0
State of Parana            67.4       0.0        67.4     86.2      0.0      86.2
Sub-borrowers              59.5       0.0        59.5     35.3      0.0      35.3
|Total                      174.8      52.1       226.9    170.6    50.9    221.5
/1  Total does not include repayments to FDU by PEDU borrowers, but does include repayments into FDU from
the earlier PRAM project (Lna. 2343-BR)
/2 Foreign costs, amounting to the same share estimated at appraisal, are assumed to be borne by the Bank Loan.
Table 7: Economic Costs and Benefits
Internal Economic Rate of Return (%)
Components:                        Appraisal Estimate                Actual Estimate
Water and Sewerage                       18.4%                            10.5%
Paving and Drainage                      15.7%                            18.8%
Street lighting                          15.7%                            26.5%
TOTAL:                                   17.1%                            15.9%



-24-
Table 8: Status of Legal Covenants
Agreement        section      Type of    Present                     Desription of Covenant                              Comments
t                      ~~~~~~~~Covent   status_
Lean           3.02               10          C       Procurement to be in accordance with Bank GuidelGnes       done
Agreeent                         _
l_________   3.03(a)              4           C        Borrower to provide adequate counterpart funda.           done
3.04(c-i)         9            C       Borrower to furnish Bank with quarterly progress          done
l__________    _________   ________     reports.
3.04(c-ii)        9            C       Borrower to monitor economic, financial and fiscal        done
l__________    _________   ________     impact of project.
3.04(c-iv)        9            C       Borrower to report on municipal borrower capacity amnd    done: included as part of
l_________  ________  _______   creditworthiness.                                                 quarterly reporting
3.04 (c-vi)       9            C       Borrower to prepare a completion report.                  done
3.05              9            C       Participation agreements to be entered into for making    done
l__________    .________   ________     subloans.
3.07(a)           10          C        Prepare a technical assistance program for the            done
municipalities through FAMEPAR
3.07(c)           10          C        Technical assistance program to provide training for sub-   done
borrower's staff.
l__________  3.07(d)              10          C        Borrower to formulate yearly technical assistance plan.   done
3.08(a)           2            C       Borrower to ensure that repayments of sub-loans under     done
l_________                                  .______  the project are made into FDU                          __l
3.08(b)           2           C        Borrower to ensure that FDU proceeds are used to          done
finance sub-loans under the project                                                      l
3.09(a)           5           C        Borrower, through FAMEPAR, to sign participation          done
agreements with participating municipalities and
l________                                              SANEPAR.                                                      _
3.10(a)           5            C       Borrower to exchange views with Bank on progress cf       done
l                                                      project.                                                                                 l
3.10(c)           9           C        Borrower to undertake site inspections of works           done
l __________    __________    _________                completed  under the project.
3.11              3           C        Borrower not to change conditions of FDU lending that    done
l_________                                 ________  would adversely affect implementation of the project.
r__________  3.12 (c)              5           C       Exchange views annually on housing subloans.               done
3.13              9           C        Borrower to furnish monitoring indicators.                done: Indicators form part of
standard simplified quarterly
l _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   __________   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  rep o rt.
4.01 (b)          1           C        Annual audit of the project account and SOB to be         done: rigorous auditing
furnished to the Bank.                                    standards were maintained
throughout project
I ___________   ___________    _________                                                                          implementation.
Schedule 3,       9           C        Borrower to ensure that sub-borrowers execute sub-        done: through detailed
l_________   Section A                             _ projects as agreed.                                          controls by FAMEPAR.
Schedule 3,       5           C        Borrower to retain ICMS transfers to municipalities as    done
Section B                              collateral for sub-loans.                            __l
Schedule 3,       9            C       Sub-borrower shall prepare a report on execution of its   done
Section C                              sub-projects.                                                                           l
Schedule 7      6,7,10        C        Water supply and sewerage sub-projects to meet a          done
number of additional conditions, including: (i) being
least cost solutions; (ii) in cities of over 50,000
inhabitants have water tariffs at least equal to 75 % of
marginal cost of supply; (iii) an envirommental impact
l __________    __________    ________                 report; and  (iv) relocation  studies.                                                   l
Project        2.02               10          C       Procurement to be in accordance with Bank guidelines.    done
Agreement
(SANEPAR)                   
2.05(a)           5            C       SANEPAR to exchange views with the Bank on progress    done
l ___________                 _________    ________    of  the  project.                                                                        l
2.05(c)           2            C       SANEPAR to prepare financial forecasts and an             done
l_______  investment plan annually.



-25-
Table 8: Status of Legal Covenants (Cont.)
2.05(d)         3           C      SANEPAR not to vary above investment plan by more    done
l____                  than 10% without the agreement of the Bank.
2.06(a)         2           C      SANEPAR to carry out a long-run marginal cost study.    done
2.06(d)          2          C      SANEPAR to implement results of study in tariff      done
I_____                 structure.
4.01(b)          1         C       Annual audit reports for SANEPAR financial statements   done
and project account.
4.02(a)         2           C      SANEPAR to ensure that: total revenues > sum of: total  done
operating expenses + depreciation and debt services for
each fiscal year.
4.02(c)         2           C      If above condition is not met, SANEPAR should take   not applicable
necessary measures to adjust tariffs.
4.03(a)         2          C       SANEPAR to maintain debt/equity ratio of 70/30.      done
4.04(a)         2          C       SANEPAR to maintain debt service coverage ratio of 1.5   done
___________               ~~~~~times.
4.05(a)         2          C       SANEPAR to carry out asset revaluation.              done
4.05(b)         2           C      SANEPAR to revalue assets every 3 years as necessary.    done
4.05(c)         2           C      SANEPAR to incorporate revaluation into annual       done
financial statements.
Covenant Types:                                                    Present Status:
1 -Accounts/Audits                                                 C   = compliance
2 = Financial performance/generate revenue from beneficiaries       CD = compliance after delay
3 -Flow and utilization of Project funids                           CP = partial compliance
4 = Counterpart funding                                            NC = Not complied with
5 = Management aspects of the project or executing agency
6 = Environmental covenants
7 = involuntary resettlement
S = indigenous people
9 = Monitoring, review and reporting
10 = Project implementation not covered by categories 1-9
11 = Sectoral or cross sectoral budgetary or other resource allocation
12 = Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/ regulatory/institutional action
13 = Other
Table 9: Comnliance with Operational Manual Statements
Supervision missions routinely reviewed project compliance with operational manual
statements and reported no case of non-compliance during project implementation.
Table 10: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Stage of project cycle                                   Actul
Weeks          US$ (thousands)
Through appraisal /I                          40.7                 62.9
Appraisal-Board                             56.4                 74.7
Board-effectiveness                           7.2                  8.6
Supervision                              88.5                240.9
Completion                                4.0                  9.8
TOTAL                                 196.8               396.9
/1 Jointly with Rio Grande do Sul Municipal Development (Ln. 3129-BR).



-26-
Table 11: Bank Resources: Missions
Stage of                Month/       Number                Specialized
Project cycle             year          of      Days in    staff skills         Performance rating
persons    field    represented 1/
Implementation    Development            Tyes of
Status        ob=jctives             problems
Through appraisal    March 1988         2         7        Urb; Coff          N/A              N/Al
2/                   December           2         10        Urb; Fin;
1988                                Hours; Econ.
Appraisa through     February 1989      7         21        Fin; nst;          N/A            N/Ak
Board approval                                             Econ; Lawr
Hours; Fin.
Board approval       (none)
through effectiveness
Supervision          May 1990           4         2       Urb; Fin lnst;        1               1         Changes in coordination team
MunF.                                       of projecL Lack of
countelpart finds.
January 1991       3         4        Fin; Inst;          1                         Needto strengthen PEDU
Econ.                                       project coordination.
September         2          2        Fin; Econ.          1               1         Restrictions imposed by
1991                                                                                Resolution #58 of 1990-
which prevented those
municipalities not current with
Federal social security
obligations from incurring
debt
March 1992         2         2        Fin; Econ I                        I         Need emphasis by PEDU on
technical assistance
component.
October 1992       2         2        Urb; Fin.           1               1         Lag in implementation of
institutional development
component
June 1993          4         7        Fin; Econ;          1               1         Lag in implementation of
EngC; EngS.                                    institutional development
component
November           4         3        Fin; Econ;          1               1         Implementation of
1993                                EngC; EngS.                                    institutional development
component continues to lag
July 1994          2         3      EngC; EngS.           S               S         No pending issues.
August 1994        3         2       Fin; EngC;           S               S         No pending issues.
EngS.
October 1995       3         2       Econ; EngC;          S               S         No pending issues.
EngS.
Completion           August 1996        1                    Econ.
I/ Key to specialization:
Coff     Country Oflicer
Econ     Economist
EngC     Civil Engineer
EngS     Sanitary Engineer
Fin      Financial Analyst
Inst     Insfitutional Development Specialist
Hours    Housing Specialist
Law      Lawyer
MunF    Municipal Finance Specialist
Urb      Urban Planmer
2/ Jointly with Rio Grande do Sul Municipal Development Project ( La 3129-BR).



MAP SECTION






B R A Z I L                       ,SAO                           PAULO
MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STATE OF PARANA (PEDU)                                                                                                         Region Centers
REGIONS AND ADMINISTRATIVE CENTERS               ! "                    I                                                      .   RegionOCentes
I ARGENTINA                                                     Region Offices
NA~~~~~~~Ai              "T- ~~~~~~~~~~~~~(FAMEPAR)
jro A /X 0    NA                       I               :3 -?    Region Boundaries
"a                                           0~~~~~~~~~~~~01    State Capital
Municipal Boundories
Mo- 0        ° rEdo,o&               do                       State Boundaries
-- International Boundaries
t } /~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~7-    0   50  100:\S 
PR ' /'- -  /
KILOMETERS
ARGENTINA                        i             C         0l1fl{7 k
PONTA |  GRO SA 
B.. OO00I 0000  -Ol 1 0
AVENzU9  .OU.UAN                      BE1Tu- K             -
/       A        -~~~~~~~~ A
K..  ~~~~~~~~  BRAZIL                                         -~~~,,,T  BA
R OILIVA
a-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~U
L/                                     ~~~~~~~~SANTA     CATARINA                                                           F
00                                                                                                                 U,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0









IMAGING
Report No:         1e556
Type:    ICR



