Document of
The Wcrld Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 7715-a
STAFF APPRAISLL REPORT
BRAZIL
MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
IN THE STATE OF PARANA
MAY 22, 1989
LA! Department
Latin American and the Caribbean Regional Office
|Thi document has a restrited distrbton and may be used by  only En the pedornsnce of
dti officIh dutes. Its otents may not odhowse be dsced_      Wodd Bnk auhodzbiu



BRAZIL
MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT IN THE STATE OF PARANA
Currency Eauivalents
March 3, 1989
Currency Unit     -      Cruzado Novo (NCz$)
US$1        -     NCz$1
NCz$l       -     US$1
Fiscal Year
January 1         -     December 31
Weights and Measures
1 meter (m)                          3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)               5     0.62 mile (mi)
1 square kilometer (km2)       -     0.386 square mil (sq mi)
1 metric tonne    (t)          -     2200 pounds
List of Acronyms
Parana:
BANESTADO         Parana State Bank
COHAPAR           Parana State Low Income Housing Company
FAMEPAR           Foundation for the Assistance of Municipalities of the State
of Parana
FAP                (Municipal) Financial Action Plan
FDU               Urban Development Fund (of Parana State)
IPARDES           Economic and Social Development Institute of Parana
PCU               The Project Coordination Unit in SEDU
PEDU              State Urban Development Program (Parana)
PR                The State of Parana
PRAM              Parana K rket Towns Improvement Project (Loan 2343-BR)
SANEPAR           Parana State Water Company
SEDU              State Secretariat of Urban Development and Environment
SUCEAM            Agency for Soil Erosion Control and Environmental Health
SUREHMA           Parana's Agency of Environmental Protection
Others
CEF               Federal Economic Fund
CPO               Central Project Office (of FAMEPAR)
ICM or ICMS       Merchandize Circulation (Value Added) Tax
RPO               Regional Project Office (of FAMEPAR)
SUDS              Unified (Federal-State-Municipal) Public Health System



Nq . L.NILsA I , ..t.j,
BRAZIL - MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
IN THE STATE OF PARANA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents                                                           Paie No.
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY ..... ................
I .   THE SECTOR 1................. 
General Background on Urbanization                               1
Government Structure and the Provision of Urban
Services ..2
Public Sector Financing and Intergovernmental
Fiscal Relations.         ........................              3
Public Sector Administration..........s.tration                  4
Sector Development Ild;les and Objectives........                4
Bank Lending for Urban Developmen t ..............               5
Current Strategy ...... .            .. .O-* .........           6
Rationale for Bank Involvement.*..#*#*.........                  6
TI.   THE PROJECT ...                        J                                  7.....................  7
Project Objectives and Desription ..............r                7
Project Components ........... .... .............                a
Selection Criteria ....         .........................        9
Project Costs ...............                                    9
Financing Plan .....................................            10
III.  PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ....... ........................                 11
Institutional Arrangements              .....................   11
Monitoring and Evaluation .......................               12
Procurement ....................................                13
Disbursement ....          ...............................      14
Accounts and Audits .....          .......................      15
Reporting                         . .    15
Legal Aspects ...................................               15
IV.   FINANCIAL ASPECTS ...................................                   16
Urban Development Fund - FDU.......                             16
Policies on Cost Recovery, Grants & Subsididies.                17
Appraisal of Sub-Borrowers .          ....................      17
Appraisal of Sub-Projects ........... ...........               19
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited Brazil
during February/H4rch 1989. The mission comprised Messrs/Mmes B. Menezes (Mission
Leader) LA1IE, R. Gilbert (Deputy Mission Leader) CONS, E. Abbott LEGLA, P.
Doty, T. Lobo, M. Sheehan and D. Vetter (CONS).
This document has a restricted distribetion and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its conter;ts may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



ii
V.PROJECT-JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS ......................    19
Demand for FDU Lending .............     ............ .  19
Financial Impact ..............................  19
Economic Justification ............................. .  20
Poverty Impact ..................................  20
Environmental Impact .       ..........................  20
Project Benefits and Rissks ........   20
VI.      AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMENDATIONS ..21
Agreements Reached at Negotiations..                21
Conditions of Disbursement .        .               24
Conditions of Effectiveness       .     ..24



*iil
ANNEXES
ANNEX 1:    Demoaraphic and Economic Trends in the State
ANNEX 2:    State and Municival Finances
- Impact of the New Constitution
- Debt Capacity
- Impact upon Municipal Finances.
ANNEX 3:    Proiect Description
- Institutional and Human Resource Development Component.
- Water and Sewerage Component
Pilot Housing sub-project
- Community Facilities sub-project
- Other Infrastructure Components
ANNEX 4:    Selection Criteria for Eligible Sub-Borrowers
ANNEX 5:    Selection Criteria for Eligible Sub-Proiects
ANNEX 6:    Proiect Cost and Financing Plan
ANNEX 7:    Implementation Arrangements
ANNEX 8:    Operation Manuals
ANNEX 9:    Monitorina and Evaluation of Project
ANNEX 10:   Urban Develotment Fund - PDU
- Key features of FDU
- The Managers and Users of FDU
- Operating Principles-of FDU
- FDU Financial Projections
ANNEX lls   Eligible sub-Proiects and Cost Recovery Policy
ANNEX 12:  Organizational Charts
- SANEPAR
ANNEX 13:   Consolidated Accounts of Financial..Intermediaries
- BANESTADO
- SANEPAR
ANNEX 14:   Bank Lending for Urban Development
ANNEX 15:   Economic Evaluation
ANNEX 16:   Selected Documents on Proiect File
MAP: IBRD 21580-Hay 1989/Municival Develoument Proiect (PEDU)



iv
BRAZIL - MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
IN THE STATE OF PARANA
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:           The State of Parana (PR)
Guarantors          Federative Republic of Brazil
Executing Agency:   Foundation for the Assistance of Municipalities of the State
of Parana FAMEPAR);
Amount:              US$100 million equivalent.
Terms:              Repayment in 15 years, including five years of grace, with
interest at the Bank's standard variable rate.
Relendina Terms:    The Borrower would on-lend to sub-borrowers about $92 million
of the proceeds of the Bank loan plus 74Z of its own state
counterpart contribution, through its Urban Development Fund
(FDU) operated by its commercial bank BANESTADO. The FDU
would provide sub-loans for terms of 5, 10 and 15 years
including one year grace with variable real interest -at least
three percentage points above the cost of borrowing to help
cover exchange risks and pay administrative fees. Credit
risks are minimal since municipalities would offer their
Value Added Tax (ICM) entitlement as collateral for the sub-
loans, and SANEPAR and CORAPAR, their revenue entitlement.
Beneficiariess       Sub-borrowers (municipalities, SANEPAR and COHAPAR) which
meet pre-agreed selection criteria would become eligible to
take sub-loans after preparing an investment plan and
financial program that demonstrates their ability to finance
and sustain the investments. Sub-projects proposed would
also meet pre-agreed eligibility criteria.
Proiect Obiectives
and Description   The project aims to improve the capacity of municipalities
to effectively assume their increased responsibilities under
Brazil's new Constitution by enabling them to efficiently
utilize their- significantly increased fiscal resources. The
specific objectives are to: (a) increase the ability of
municipalities to plan, finance and execute cost-effective
projects and programs through full cost recovery at the local
level and through appropriate policy reforms; (b) improve
the coordination of urban development policy and investment
decisions at the state and municipal levels; (c) improve
targeting of these program benefits towards the poor.
The project will support a state-wide program (PEDU) in
Parana which will include two components: (a) Institutional
and Human Resource Development consisting of technical
assistance, training, and equipment, to municipalities to



v
strengthen   their   financial  management   and  overall
administration through improved tax collection, cadastre
renewals, financial information systems, investment planning,
accounting procedures and preparation of land use planss
and, (b) Infrastructure Investments consisting of street
paving and lighting, basic sanitation, drainage, solid waste,
community facilities (health posts, day care centers and
school building extensions), and other agreed eligible sub-
projects, including pilot pro ects for low income self-help
house construction.   PEDU would have a special Project
Coordinating Unit (PCU) in SEDU, responsible for overall
management, policy, monitoring, and evaluation of the
program. Primary execution and coordination of technical
assistance to the municipalities will rest- with FAMEPAR.
Responsibility for implementation of sub-projects would rest
with the sub-borrowers, supervised through a Central Project
Office (CPO) and 17 Regional Project Offices (RPOs) of
FAMEPAR, in accordance with Operation Manuals (OMs), which
will  set  forth  project  policy,  selection  criteria,
principles, procedures, etc, as well as indicators for
rigorous performance monitoring by independent agencies.
Proiect Benefits:   Improved resource mobilization and allocation by Parana
State and municipalities will ensure the sustainability of
investments, and provide a timely response to new demands
placed on local governments by the recently approved
Constitution. At the same time, it will directly contribute
towards meeting the macro-economic objectives of increased
public sector efficiency and lower deficits. The project's
emphasis on targeting investments to the urban poor, through
appropriate design standards and locations of investments,
will improve their living standards. Finally, this project
is intended to provide a model to be replicated in all the
more urbanized states of Brazil.
Prolect Risks:       There are two specific risks: (a) possible lack of political
will to follow through on the part of the State; and (b)
difficulties in coordination, given the large number of
participating agencies. Eligibility criteria for sub-projects
and sub-borrowers, the latters' sound financial guarantees
and agreed full cost recovery policies are designed to
minimize the former risk. Also, Parana State Government's
enthnsiasm for the project, its sustained preparation
efforts, and the extensive promotion of the project among
the newly elected mayors, ensures a strong politlcal
commitment to the project at both levels. Comprehensive
Operation Manuals acceptable to the- State, municipalities
and the Bank, detailing institutional roles and implementing
procedures should considerably reduce these risks. Parana
State's institutional preparedness and previous successful
experience in Bank financed projects considerably reduce the
technical risks of the project.



vi
Table 1: Project Costs
(US$ million)
Percent of
Local  Foreign    Total Base Cost
PARANA MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT           -----  -------    ----- ---------
A. INSTITUTIONAL )EVELOPMENT            13.8      4.1     17.9        9.61
- Technical Assistance                 10.1      3.0    13.1        7.01
- Training                              3.7      1.1      4.8       2.6X
B. INFRASTRUCTURE                      130.4    38.9   169.3         90.4Z
- Municipal Infrastructure             57.E     17.2    7'*.8      40.02
- Environmental Health Infrastr.       67.3     20.0     87.3      46.6Z
- Housing Construction Loans            5.5      1.7      7.2       3.81
BASE COST:                         144.2     43.0    187.2     100.02
x2aa=    zzzr=    82=         -
Physical Contingencies             14.4      4.3     18.7      10.02
Price Contingencies                16.2      4.8     21.0      11.21
CONTINGENCIESs                      30.6      9.1     39.7      21.2Z
TOTAL PROJECT COST:                174.8     52.1    226.9
Financing Plan                                                 Percent of
-------------- -                                               Total Cost
Proposed IBRD Loan                    47.9     52.1    100.0      44.12
State of Parana                       67.4        0     67.4      29.71
Sub-Borrowers                         59.5        0     59.5      26.22
TOTAL:                             174.8     52.1    226.9     100.02
Estimated Disbursement     (Bank Fiscal Year)
1990     1991     1992     1993      1994
Annual                11.0     23.0     25.0     27.0      14.0
Cumulative           .11.0     34.0     59.0     86.0     100.0
Economic Rate of Return
_______________________
17.11 (for sub-projects for which IRR can be estimated which
together account for 63.51 of total project costs)



1
PART I. THE SECTOR
General Backproynd on Urbanization
1.01        The rate of urban population growth in Brazil was very high
throughout the country during the 1970's (4.42 per annum), while urban household
growth was even faster (5.7Z per annum), having been propelled by large numbers
of young people entering prime age groups of family formation. Although this
trend has peaked, over the 1986195 period urban households are still projected
to increase by 3.72 per annum to a total of 32.7 million by 1995. In that year,
Brazil should have almost twice as many urban households as it had in 1980 (see
Annex 1). Expanded urban centers of all sizes place increased strain upon the
environment as undisposed solid waste and untreated sewerage become vectors of
pollution and urban growth forces the agricultural frontier to further encroach
in Brazil's few remaining forests in the more urbanized regions of the country.
During the 1980's, urban population growth has continued apace as the national
economy slowed down; a combination of trends that has--led to the addition of
large contingents of the urban poor to the populations of all major cities in
Brazil, including the richer ones such as Sao Paulo (details in Annex 1). The
1970's urbanization trend in the State of Parana itself was even more. intensive
than for Brazil as a whole (6.OZ p.a. for population and 7.3Z p.a. for
households), and will continue to be so during the coming years, making Parana,
with its traditionally strong agricultural sector in..its economic base, one of
the most rapidly urbanizing states of Brazil.  The Brazilian Statistical and
Geographical- Foundation (FIBGE) projects an anmnal. rate of urban household
formation of 5.4Z over the 1986-95 period for Paran-, generating a total increase
of 0.8 million urban households, or 602 of the entire urban household population
of Parana today.
1.02        Meeting the growing demand for urban services will be the major
;       sector challenge for the states in the forthcoming decade, a task made more
-difficult by the dramatic increase in urban poverty in Parana, particularly
during the first years of this decade.  In 1985, the proportion of the total
population living in families with incomes below the poverty line in the
metropolitan region of Curitiba (the capital city of the State of Parana), for
example, was estimated to be 21.62 (see Annex 1). Urban poverty measured by this
indicator was more than three and a half times greater in 1985 than in 1981 in
that metropolitan region. In absolute terms, 332,000 people were added to the
urban poor of the metropolitan region of Curitiba in a period of only four years.
For the State of Parana as a whole in 1986, 0.7 million urban households (56.12
of the total) had incomes of five minimum salaries or less; of th§se 0.3 million
(19.72 of total) had two salaries or less (See Annex 1).  Brazil's current
economic crisis has exacerbated these trends of impoverishment.
1.03        Environmental degradation is also increasing in Parana with the
growing deficits of basic urban infrastructure and services. Of total urban
households, 43.3Z in the State had only rudimentary sanitary facilities or none
whatsoever in 1984: a deficit affecting more than 0.5 million dwelling units.
About one third of the urban households in Parana burned, buried or simply
discarded their garbage in.vacant lots or in drainage systems. Hospital and
other hazardous wastes are not always separated from regular garbage. Even for
water supply, where the efforts of the public sector have been greatest, more



2
than 235,000 urban househiolds (19.32 of the total) in 1984 had no piped water
to their dwellings and had to draw water from public standpipes, wells or rivers.
The urban poor, the populations most affected by these deficits, will be targetsd
by the proposed project, through low-cost design standards that are affordable
by them (which are at the same time unattractive to higher income groups), and
location in low-income areas of the municipalities served.
Government Structure and irovision of Urban Services
1.04        Municipalities in Brazil have long been responsible for planning and
administering the urban development of their areas, but have not been able to
fulfill that responsibility effectively as political power and resources became
centralized (particularly in the federal governmevt) during the period of
military dictatorship from 1964. The watershed for municipalities came in 1985
with the first elections held in key citie. where mayors had been appointed by
state governors (who in turn had been appointed rather than elected prior to
1983). The-repent municipal elections in November, 1988 were hotly .contested,
with unprecedented elector awareness of naticial and local issues, and brought
to power a new generation of mayors with direct accountability to their
constituents for, among other things, the provision and maintenance of urban
services in their localities.
1.05        The promulgation of the new Constitution on October 5, 1988 marks
another watershed for municipalities, which gained considerable new powers and
responsibilities. Under Article 30 of that Constitution, municipalities are now
required, for example, to prepare urban plans and provide local services.
Municipalities now find themselves shouldering constitutional responsibility for
the provision of such services as basic sanitation, water supply, education,
primary and secondary education and health care, which they may either operate
tbemselves or delegate to a higher level of government (as they did for water
and sewerage under the National Sanitation Plan, or PLANASA, for example). At
the same time, however, they will have much greater resources to finance these
services through increased direct taxation and greater revenue sharing (details
in Annex 2).  A key question is whether municipalities will have sufficient
institutional capacity to cope with their new responsibilities, and to
efficiently allocate dramatically increased resources after over 20 years of
neglect. The first year of this new system and a new crop of mayors provide,
a particularly opportune time to implement measures designed to strengthen
municipal administration.
1.06        Municipalities rely heavily on state  administrations and sectoral
agencies of the state governments for guidance and assistance in carrying out
some of their responsibilities. In Parana for example, the State Secretariat
of Urban Development and Environment (SEDU) is responsible for overall urban
development policy. Within SEDU, the state water company (SANEPAR), is
responsible for the provision of water supply and sanitation. Also within SEDU,
the Foundation for the Assistance of Municipalities of the State of Parana
(FAMEPAR), has statutory responsibilities for inter-alia, the provision of
technical assistance to municipal governments; the Superintendency for the
Control of Erosion and Environmental Sanitation (SUCEAM) for environmental
policy; and the Parana State Low Income Housing Company (COHAPAR) for technical
assistance and financing of low-income housing. Other state secretariats are
responsible for policy and program implementation for education, health, highway



3
construction and maintenance, and so forth. Specialized agencies within these
secretariats, provide a support.u.&g institutional framnrtork for municipal
governments.
Public Sector Financing and Intergovernmental Fiscal Relations
1.07        The fiscal reform of the new Constitution reestablished fisc4l
federalism in Brazil by increasing both the sharing of Fgderal revenues with the
states and municipalities and also the taxing powers of the sub-national
governments. While total revenues of states will rise significantly, those of
the municipalities will increase even more (see Annex 2).  These  increases
include the gains in municipal revenues arising from the increased share in and
the expanded base of the state value added tax (ICMS) and also greater shares
in existing taxes (such as federal income tax and industrial product tax) and
the full share of the new retail tax on fuels and income tax on unearned income.
The total increase in municipal revenues in 1989 over the 1985 level should be
well in excess of US$1.7 billion (over 301) or about 0.5Z of GDP.
1.08        Due to the formula used in revenue sharing and the impact of the
municipalities' economic base on their new taxing powers, the total impact of
the fiscal reform-will vary greatly among municipalities, with increases in total
current revenues generally varying from about 202 to 452 around an average of
30X.  In general, the total increase in municipal curront revenues from the
fiscal  reform  is  iaversely  proportional  to  population  size.    Smaller
municipalities with industrial bases have higher increases (sometimes exceeding
402) and larger municipalities receiving smaller relative increases ranging from
302 upwards.  Municipalities that make up the large dormitory suburbs of large
cities (where mnmy of Brazil's urban poor live) will probably not gain as much
as others under the reform, due to their large populations and limited economic
base. Nevertheless, the new tax code to regulate the new system, which must be
adopted this year, may well resolve this problem by revising the weights used
in revenue sharing, to offset the disadvantage.
1.09        For the State of Parana, simulations indicate a 11.11 increase in
own tax revenues over the 1985193 period and a 17.22 increase in income from
shared revenues, giving increases of total revenue of 12.12. Increases in own
tax revenues will take effect immediately, while those derived from revenue
sharing will be phased over a four year period until fully deployed in 1993.
On the other hand, federal participation in municipal ar.d state spending through
earmarked grants has been cut back sharply as. municipalities assume greater
direct responsibilities for services and also to compensate for greater revenue
sharing with the states and municipalities. In part, this served in the effort
to contain the federal public sector deficit. In this respect, the federal
government has proposed cuts of over.US$5 billion starting for fiscal year 1989,
which have still to be approved by Congress. At the time of writing Congress was
in the process of approving the federal budget for 1989.
1.10        Prior to the constitutional reform the municipalities had low
revenues and hence relatively little access to credit, so most now have low debts
and debt service (with a few-notable exceptions). The availability of grants from
the federal government also reduced their propensity to borrow.   Thus, the
capacity of the municipalities to borrow was considerable even before the reform,
and has been increased considerably by it, as further described in Ananex 2. In



4
the past a few of the larger municipalities of the state (including Curit!ba,
Maringa, Londrina and Cascavel) accumulated significant debt and might find their
.-bility to borrow under the project constrained during the first year of
implementation until the fiscal reforms begin to take full effect and raise their
debt ceilings. Such a limitation has, neverthleless, been taken into account in
assessing the likely total demand for sub-loans under the project.
Public Sector Administration
1.11        Municipal administration in Brazil reflects many of the problems
associated with the public sector in general, but only more so.  With a few
exceptions, municipalities are considered to be over-staffed and poorly paid,
with no incentives for efficiency or productivity. In a typical municipality,
each ch-.nge in administration (every four years) is estimated to lead to a
turnover (usually to other municipalities or to the state or federal governments)
of at least 15Z of total personnel, often the better qualified. The absence of
qualified technical and administrative staff and inadequate access to training
and technical assistance, result in seduced mobilization of resources at the
local level, slow implementation of projects and overall inefficienriy in the
provision, operation and maintenance of basic municipal services. Many smaller
municipalities lack adequate financial information systems, and a large number
suffer from outdated property and other tax cadastres, thus making the
modernization of the administrative machinery an important priority. The new
responsibilities and resources under the new Constitution will improve the
political climate for addressing these issues over the long term.
Sector Development Issues and Obiectives
1.12        The ability to formulate urban policy, and to devise and finance
national programs, was seriously curtailed when the Federal Government, forced
to reduce the fiscal deficit, dr..stically cut back many of its programs and
reorganized its administrative structure.  Federal level policy-making for a
number of important urban functions was dealt a final blow by the abolition of
the Ministry of Housing and Social Development (formerly Ministry of Urban
Development) as part of the "Summer Plan' emergency anti-inflation measures taken
on January 15, 1989. Thus, at the time of writing, the only entity with explicit
responsibility for urban policy as a whole, the National Urban Development
Commission, is now under the auspices of the Ministry of the Interior. The
Brazilian Company for Urban Transport (EBTU), was transferred to the Ministry
of Transport (then abolished and is in the process of being restored by the
Brazilian Congress), and water supply and sanitation-.matters rest- with the
Ministry of Health.   At the same time, responsibility for financing these
programs remains with the Federal Economic Fund (CEF), which was at the time of
writing subordinated to the Ministry of Finance.   Thus was aborted the long
effort to bring a more integrated approach to urban policy and implementation
ir Brazil, and are founded new concerns for the possible total loss of the
institutional memory and experience in the sector, in a nation with the largest
urban population in Latin Americal
1.13        Because of the recent changes in federal responsibilities noted
above, as well as constant institutional shifts, it has proved difficult to
obtain a consolidated estimate of expenditures in the sector, as these normally
are made at the national, state and municipal level. As macro-economic issues
related to the external debt and inflation have received greater attention,



5
dialegue on sector policy is also in a state of hiatus in the absence of an
interlocutor on the federal side. On the other hand discussions have become more
direct and relevant at the State level where tne pressure on rapid urban growth
has been most felt. The main issues and priorities remain unchanged and daily
become more urgent: (a) to develop and implement a coherent and sustainable
"core" program to in.prove overall urban sector policies in an integrated
approach, focused on the municipality as the primary agent for economic
developmant; (b) to continue to address sectoral constraints in (i) basic
sanitation; (ii) low-income housing, and (iii) urban transportation; and (c) deal
with serious environmental problems.
Bank Lending for Urban Development
1.14        The Bank has made 12 loans totalling US$1.1 billion to Brazil for
urban development and transport projects since 1978 and another 12 for a further
US$1.1 billion for basic sanitation projects since 1971. Of these, 5 loans
primarily in the Northeast (612) for a total of US$326 million, have focused on
municipal development (see Annex 14).  These show a declining dependence on
Federal Government participation, a gradual reduction in grants, an increase in
the p-articipation by municipalities from their own funds, as well as an inctease
in municipal willingness to borrow. Three experimental integrated metropolitan
area projects experienced initial problems in coordinating components of housing,
squatter upgrading, low-cost infrastructure, drainage and solid waste, but
rapidly made significant institutional strides. Bank lending ia the sanitation
sector has sought to strengthen PLANASA and the national and state institutions
which finance investments in water supply and sewerage treatment and disposal.
Four trenusportation sector loans have focused on improving oLverall management
ana coordination of the sector and metropolitan transit systems in particular.
1.15         To date, only two projects have been audited by OED.  In the first
case, the audit of the Urban Transport I Project (Loan 1563-BR), a project
appraised in 1971, drew attention to the need for greater flexibility to allow
changes in the project during implementation. In the second, the audit of the
Sites and Services and Low Cost Housing Project (Loan 1654-BR) pointed out the
threat to project success from the Bank dealing with an unwilling borrower, the
Nati'nal Housing Bank (BNH) and weak executing agencies, the State Low Income
Housing Companies (COHABs). The key le-ssons brought out in the audits have been
incorporated, into the current project design.  Sub-borrowers' willingness to
participate will be  assured by their  entering voluntarily  into  sub-loan
agreements within the project.  Institutional strengthe..ng, aimed at overcoming
the weakness of the COHABs experience is a cornerstone of the current project.
F.ndings of the PCRs currently under preparation for the Medium -Sized Cities
Project (Loan 1720-BR) and the North-East Metropolitan Project (Loan 2193-BR)
also have reinforced the conceptual evolution embodied in the proposed project,
especially with respect to the need for coordination and institutional
strengthening at the local level. Important lessons have been learned from the
Parana Market Towns Improvement Project-FWAM (Loan 2343-BR), nearing completion,
and the Santa Catarina Small Towns Development Project (Loan 2623-BR), currently
under implementation. This experience reaffirms the need to strengthen the
financial mechanisms of project implementation and provide performance incentives
to  municipalities  responsible  for  prnoect  execution.    In  addition  to
demonstrating the feasibility of devolving investment decisions to the municipal
level, the PRAM Project highlighted the need for-a revolving fund to finance



6
ongoing investments, and for more thorough financial monitoring of participating
municipalities.
1.16        The decentralization of functions to state and municipal governments
in the new Constitution reinforces the need for a more coordinated-approach to
multi-dimensional urban problems, as well as the need to increase the capacity
of sub-national governments to address the problems of the poor. On the whole,
Bank lending and policy dialogue so far, have been more effective in addressing
the need for clear overall policy, than in promoting efficiency and fiscal
responsibility in programming and budgeting at the sub-national level.  The
Bank's own reorganization will now also permit a more coherent approach in its
lending program and provide opportunities to improve coordination between urban
and other infrastructure projects.
Current Strate v
1.17        Based on past experience, the main objectives in current strategy
for lending for urban development are tot
(a)   increase the mobilization of local resources;
(b)   improve the efficiency of resource allocation through enhanced
coordination, fiscal policy, financial management and project
evaluation;
(c)   strengthen sectoral and financial institutions dealing with rapid
urbanization;
(d)   improve targeting of benefits on low-income populations;
(e)   contribute to reducing fiscal deficits at the local level through
(a) and (b); and
(f) support the government's concern for controlling environmental
degradation.
The socio-economic and political realities of Brazil today, under the constraint
of excessive internal and external indebtedness, reinforce the appropriateness
of this strategy. The decentralization mandated by the Constitution underscores
the importance of the effort to strengthen sub-national governments, and
particularly. municipal administrations. Because of the many problems facing
local governments at this time and the demands for Bank support in the sector,
a selective approach has been adopted, to allow for the sharp disparities-between
states in institutional capacity, managerial skills, locally generated financial
resources and the general level, of services.  By building on the framework
already established and gradually broadening the coverage of such programs as
experience is gained, the Bank can rapidly develop a sustainable program of
support for the federal and state government's own efforts in this regard. The
Bank has previously employed this 'proce'esw orientatioft successfully in Brazil
and elsewhere for strengthening institucional capacities of development agencies.
Rational for Bank Involvement
1.18        The Bank's assistance strategy to Brazil is to support policies and
investments that will encourage economic growth and social development in a
context of macroeconomic stability, with an emphasis on efficient resource
allocation and administration in the public sector, and appropriate targeting
and delivery of support systems to the poor. The proposed project is fully
consistent with these longer development goals, and is in keeping with its



7
strategy outlined above, by (a) utilizing the experience and momentum generated
by the PRAM Project; (b) improving project design with on-going experience from
other similar projects (e.g. the Santa Catarina Project - Loan 2623-BR); and (c)
transferring this experience to new *participants" (e.g. the Municipal
Development Project in the State of Rio Grande do Sul, which was prepared in
parallel with this project). This strategy has already resulted in a rapid
transfer -of knowledge and experience, thereby accelerating institutional
development, and at the same time providing an institutional memory for the
sector (see paras. 1.12 and 1.13).
1.19        Now that many of the Federal poverty programs have either been
eliminated or drastically cut back, sectoral programs to assist the poor in
housing, sites and services water and basic sanitation will increasingly be
implemented by sub-national governments, making it important to now introduce
redistributive policies and strategies at this level, to correct the tendency
to subsidize higher income groups noted in Bank studies.
PART II - THE PROJECT
2.01        The proposed project was first identified in October 1987 following
a request to the Bank by federal sector agencies. The original proposals from
the State of Parana consisted of an investment program for the Me-ropolitan
Region of Curitiba, which the Government subsequently extended to cover the
entire State. Preparation of project proposals was resumed in mid 1988, and a
pre-appraisal mission sent in December ll88.   Appraisal was carried out in
February and Negotiations were concluded in Hay, 1989.
Proiect Obiectives and Description
2.02        The main objective of this project is to increase the general
capacity of mu.icipalities to effectively assume their increased responsibilities
under Brazil's-new Constitution, thereby enabling them to efficiently utilize
the dramatic increase in their fiscal resources, and strengthen their
administrative capability after nearly twenty years of relative neglect. The
specific objectives are to:
(a)   increase the institutional capacity of municiptlities to plan,
finance and execute cost effective projects and programs, through
appropriate policy reforms;
(b)   improve the coordination of urban development and environmental
policy and investment decisions at the state and municipal levels,
and
(c)   improve the targeting of these program benefits towards the lower
income population.
(d)   strengthen the state's Urban Development Fund (FDU) as a reliable
source Af financing.-
The project objectives would be achieved through the support of a state-wide
program in Parars - the "Programa Estadual de Desenvolvimento Urbano' (PEDU).
2.03        Under PEDU, eligible sub-borrowers, who would be self-selected would
have access to sub-loans to finance essential municipal infrastructure and
services and related equipment. Eligible sub-borrowers would have to meet agreed
limits set by FAMEPAR on their debt-servicing capacity and criteria for sub-



8
project eligibility, as well as technical design standards, all of which will
be set out in detail in the Operation Manual (see example in Annex 8). During
Loan Negotiations agreement was reached on revisions to the Operation Manual.
Each sub-borrower would be subjected to a financial and institutional appraisal
which would establish its borrowing capacity and also define the minimum content
for an institutional development package of institutional strengthening,
including technical assistance and training, that the sub-borrower would
implement, as a condition for receiving a sub-logn.  The  sub-borrower would
first prepare a Financial Action Plan (PAP) aimed at making its oyerall financif.l
management more efficient and also increasing its revenues, and containing its
current expenditures, etc.   The appraisal of this FAP by FAMEPAR would be
accompanied by a parallel appraisal of the sub-borrower's institutional capacity,
by IPARDES, the Economic and Social Institute of Parana, and lead. to an agreed
program of technical assistance (for example in updating of cadastres) and
training in order to successfully implement the sub-borrpwer's investment
program. All su'.-borrowers will be required to participate in the Institutional
and Human Resou ce Development component, which is a key element designed to meet
the specific objectives of the project. Those sub-borrowers demonstrating to
FAMEPAR a satisfactory performance in meeting their planned targets for
increasing revenues for example, would be eligible for further sub-loans to
finance investments under the Infrastructure component.  The project is thus
designed to ensure that each action and step in securing, utilizing, and repaying
a sub-loan, also reinforces and consolidates the financial, institutional and
poverty-targeting policy objectives of the project. T-he 'a priori" requirement
that sub-borrowers demonstrate their improved financial and managerial
performance, will stimulate competition for limited funds between) sub-borrowerZ,
an essential feature of this project.
2.04        Altogether in the State of Parana, about 318 municipalities, and the
state water company (SANEPAR) would be %ligible to eventually participate in PEDU
(see details in- Annex 1.5 for list of municipalities by size group and
population). Based-on experience under the PRAM (Ln 2343-BR), about 902 of all
the municipalities and SANEPAR, can be expected to participate within the first
18 months of -the program. Under the proposed loan, policies and conditions (for
example on tariffs and operating ratios) for municipal and state water companies
will be consistent with those proposed under Bank financed water sector projects
in Brazil.
Proiect Components
2.06        There are two principal components:
(a) Institutional and Human Resource Development. (see Annex 3.1 for details)
The objectives for this component are to rectify present constraints and actively
support the decentralization program, through strengthening the institutional
framework and the development of human resources. It would include technical
assistance, training and equipment to (a) municipalities to strengthen their
financial management and overall administration; (b) to SEDU, FAMEPAR, and
selected sector agencies (COHAPAR, COMEC, SANEPAR, amongst others) to improve
their institutional capacity for project management and supporting role
functions, including in the appraisal of sub-borrowers and sub-projects; and (c)
to training and technical assistance agencies (principally IPARDES) for
strengthening their capacity and qualitative improvements.  The training and
technical assistance would focus on knowledge enhancement and specific practical



9
skills training in such areas as programing and budgeting, preparation of FAPs,
project formulation, economic evaluation and project appraisal, improving
cadastres, public accounting, inventory control, pricing of services, legal
aspects of municipal legislation, labor law, procurement, operation and
maintenance of technical services. It is estimated that this component would
represent about 9.62 (US$18 million) of the base cost of PEDU, of which US$ 13.1
million (7.0). would be the. cost of technical assistance, and US$ 4.8 million
(2.62) of training. The project would finance the cost of courses, travel and
subsistence, and teaching materials, equipment and studies.   No civil works
construction is to be financed under this component.
(b) Infrastructure Investments.  (see Annexes 3.2 to 3.4 for details)  This
component represents about 90.4? (US$169.3 million) of the total base costs of
PEDU.   Typical investments would include water supply and basic sanitation,
street paving and lighting, drainage, solid and toxic waste management, community
facilities (health posts, day care centers and school building extensions), and
other eligible special sub-projects, including pilot projects for construction
of low income self-help housing. Unplanned growth of low income settlements in
Parana is a relative recent and growing phenomenon, and alternative approaches
to address the problems on a significant scale are still lacking.
Selection Criteria
2.07        -The main conditions for receiving sub-loans by each sub-borrower
upder PEDU would be: (a) a demonstrated financial capacity to service the
proposed debt, and an institutional capacity to execute its investment program;
(b) the acceptance of the financial terms and conditions as specified in their
respective sub-loan agreements with BANESTADO, and (c) agreement to comply with
the guidelines and procedures, includirg procurement, accounting, monitoring,
reporting, etc. set out in the Operation Manuals of PEDU (see Annexes 4 and 8
for details). Details of selection criteria satisfactory to the Bank for the
eligible sub-projects to be financed under PEDU were agreed during appraisal and
are set out in Annex 5. Agreement was also reached during Loan Negotiations on
the eligibility criteria for sub-borrowers and for-sub-project selection.
Proiect Costs
2.08        The total project cost is estimated at US$226.9 million equivalent,
including base costs, contingencies, and taxes. The proposed Bank loan of US$100
million to the State of Parana would represent about 44.12 of total project cost.
A summary of project cost by main component is presented in Table 1 and details
are given in Annex 6.
2.09        Project costs estimates were-based upon unit costs recently incurred
on similar sub-projects during the implementation of the PRAM Project. Final
engineering designs and preliminary drawings have been used in the majority of
cases to determine costs of typical sub-projects.   Unit costs for training
(cost/participant/day) have been estimated on the basis of ongoing programs and
have been averaged out from aggregated costs/day/event.   To take account of
possible variations from design quantities during implementation, physical
conttngencies of between 5Z and 15? of base costs have been included. Current
estimates put physical contingencies at about 10.0? of total project base costs.
Price contingencies estimated at 5.3Z in 1990 and 4.1? in each of the years 1991-
94 (OPN 3.11/October. 1988), amount to 11.2? of base costs.



10
2.10        Th4s far in project preparation, US dollars have been used to express
costs because of the difficulties in interpreting the real value of nominal
cruzado novo amounts with monthly inflation having reached 28X.   Although
uncertainty exists concerning the stability of the currency with respect to
inflation at least in the short run, the state and municipal authorities of
Parana have in the past become familiar with the effect of inflation upon their
finances, and have coped successfully with this.   However,  should further
devaluations occur during the course of project implementation, there is a risk
of slower disbursement of the Bank loan. -This risk will be mitigated by the
greater allocation of cruzado novo amounts of counterpart funds by the state and
the sub-borrowers, a practice that has been successfully followed in implementing
the PRAM Project.
Financing Plan
2.11        The Bank loan of approximately $100 million to the State of Parana
would be used to finance 44.1Z of the total project costs. The State of Parana's
credit-worthiness to take the loan was evaluated by the Federal Government as
guarantor. Taxes, estimated at 9.8Z of total project costs, will not be eligible
for reimbursement. Counterpart funding from the state budget will provide for
32Z of total project costs, while the sub-borrowers' own budget counterpart will
finance 23X of the total costs which include taxes (see Table 2).
2.12        About 922 of the Bank loan (US$92.1 million) together with 74Z of
state counterpart funding (US$49.6 million) would be on-lent to the eligible sub-
borrowers under terms and conditions specified in Annex 10. The balance of the
Bank loan of US$7.9 million will provide 5OZ co-financing with the state for
institutional development sub-projects which will be passed on substantially as
grants to eligible municipalities. In addition the state would provide grants
totalling approximately 5Z (US$10.5 million) of the infrastructure component.
These grants, not to exceed 302 of the cost of any specific sub-project, will
be targeted to community facilities (See Annex 3.4) and special environmental
sub-projects (See Annex 11). The project will be implemented in five years as
against a sector profile of 6.5 years. This is justified based on Parana's
experience under the PRAM project, which was satisfactorily completed over five
years.
Table 2: PROJECT FINANCING PLAN
(US$ million)
Bank Fiscal Year
Financing
Sources                1990   1991   1992   1993   1994   Total   z
State of Parana         7.4   15.5   16.9   18.2    9.4   67.4   29.72
Sub-Borrowers           6.5   13.7   14.9   16.1    8.3   59.5   26.22
Proposed IBRD Loan    11.0   23.0   25.0   27.0   14.0  100.0   44.12
TOTAL:             24.9   52.2   56.8   61.3   31.7  226.9  100.OZ



11
PART III - PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Institutional Arrangements
3.01        The primary responsibility for overall project coordination and
management of the FDU will remain with the Secretariat of Urban Development
(SEDU) through a special project coordination unit -(PCU). General project
execution will rest with FAMEPAR, the Parana State agency responsible for
overseeing municipal development. FAMEPAR, responsible for the implementation
of the PRAM Project, has considerable experience in this kind of work. FAMEPAR's
organization has undergone streamlining in order for it to better respond to the
financial and institutional development aspects of this project (largely absent
from the PRAM Project). The administration of FAMEPAR's central project office
(CPO) in Curitiba, the State capital, will be decentralized through 16 regional
project offices (RPOs) which would be consolidated out of FAMEPAR's existing
regional structure, and strengthened. Responsibility for project implementation
would rest with the sub-borrowers, namely municipalities, and the state water
company, SANEPAR. BANESTADO as the financial agent, will provide all financial
services for project implementation, including administration of the accounts
held by the project's Urban Development Fund (FDU). All these institutions are
in place and have previous experience of working .with the Bank. During Loan
Negotiations agreement was reached that the PCU and FAMEPAR will be adequately
staffed and provided with functions and other resources, to carry out its tasks
in a manner that would be satisfactory to the Bank. In this connection, the Bank
emphasized the necessity of not increasing excessively the size of the staff
force, but instead, through a greater reliance on the efficient re-deployment
cof existing staff of SEDU and reassignment of experienced staff from other state
government agencies. Agreement was also reached during Negotiations that FAMEPAR
would enter into a Technical Cooperation Agreement with selected state agencies,
satisfactory to the Bank, providing for the supervision of the execution of sub-
projects and provision of technical assistance in procurement and other aspects
of project implementation. Where-necessary, especially in relation to financial
appraisals, and supervision of sector agencies, assistance will be sought from
consultants acceptable to the Bank.
3.02        The specific responsibilities of the agencies responsible for the
implementation of PEDU are detailed in Annex 7, and can-be summarized as followss
(a) SEDU/PCU: (i) monitor the overall performance of the project; (ii)
ensure overall compliance with project objectives; (iii) manage and monitor
the performance of the FDU (administered on behalf of the state government
by  BANESTADO),   including,   'hat  timely  and  adequate  budgetary
appropriations are made and trans!erred to the FDU; (iv) appraise the
financial and institutIonal capacity of SANEPAR, COHAPAR and other non-
municipal sub-borrowers (through the use of consultants as necessary); (v)
maintain high level contact with key officials as necessary, for dealing
with any special problems that may arise from time to time; and (vi)
perform the functions of a technical secretariat for PEDU including
responsibility for all reporting requirements to the Bank.
(-b) FAMEPAR - CPO (Central Proiect Office): (i) monitor the progress of
that part of the project focused on the municipalities; (ii) appraise the
debt capacity of municipal sub-borrowers; (iii) assess the institutional



12
capacity and additional strengthening needs (with the assistance of
IPARDES) of each sub-borrower; (iv) evaluate the Financial Action Plans
(FAPs) prepared by potential sub-borrowers, and (v) recommend approved sub-
borrowers to BANESTADO for sub-loans through the FDU. - these
responsibilities will be met by streamlining the existing organization of
FAMEPAR as detailed in Annex 7.
(c) FAMEPAR - RPOs (Regional Project Offices) (i) promote the project to
potential sub-borrowers; (ii) receive and carry out a technical review of
sub-project proposals from sub-borrowers; (iii) review compliance with
procurement procedures; (iv) carry out day to day supervision of progress
of civil works, and (v) report to and forward documentation to CPO on all
above. - FAMEPAR's 16 existing regional offices will be used and
strengthened as part of the overall reorganization.
(d) BANESTADO: Ci) administer the FDU in accordance with directions from
the PCU; (ii) perform other financial services in connection with
disbursements by the World Bank via the Special Account and repayments-of
the loan; (iii) prepare and execute sub-loan-agreements with sub-borrowers;
and (d) execute sanctions (such as retention of ICM transfers or water
company revenues) in case- of non-compliance with sub-loan agreements. With
respect to latter, BANESTADO's tasks would be similar to those it had
during the implementation of the PRAM Project (Ln 2343-BR).
(e) Sub-Borrowers (Municipalities and SANEPAR)s (i) prepare Financial
Action Plans (FAPs) for approval by FAMEPAR; (ii) prepare sub-projects
for approval by FAMEPAR and the PCU; (iii) implement approved sub-projects
under PEDU.
3.03        The Bank loan would be made to the State of Parana, with a Guarantee
Agreement with the Federal Government. A separate Project Agreement would be
signed with SANEPAR. The FDU would be operated by the State in accordance with
Law no. 8917-PR of December 15, 1988. Each eligible sub-borrower would enter
into a sub-loan agreement with BANESTADO.
Monitoring and Evaluation
3.04        Systematic monitoring would be undertaken by the SEDU-PCU and
FAMEPAR-CPO, of specific and broad ranging -indicators that measure the overall
performance- and impact of the project.  Special attention woAld be given to
financial indicators of improvements in municipal finances, notably increased
capacity to invest, and increased revenue capacity. Institutional monitoring
by FAMEPAR-CPO would examine the implementation of training programs, and to the
extent that they are discernable, the changes in the human resource profile of
t7ce municipalities in terms of their needs for qualified personnel, and other
training requirements. An important aspect of this project will be to induce
change -in the way institutions carry out their respective roles and to improve
efficiency. For example, indicators will measure the elapsed time for actions
in connection with sub-borrower appraisal (paragraphs 4.05), and loan
adminlstration by BANESTADO. - The normal monitoring of physical progress and
expenditures.in the execution of sub-projects would be handled by PAMEPAR-RPOs,
in order to ensure,, at every stage, that project implementation is proceeding
as intended. Specific indicators, w'll be developed for different size and types



13
of municipality and sub-borrower. Annex 9 lists typical indicators that would
be utilized and their control points. A draft set of monitoring indicators has
been agreed with SANEPAR. Agreement was reached during Negotiations that, not
later than September 30, 1989, the PCU and FAMEPAR would prepare and furnish to
the Bank, a final set of financial, economic, technical, environmental and social
monitoring indicators, satisfactory to the Bank, for the project and the sub-
borrowers, to be included in the respective participation agreements.
3.05        Monitoring will be undertaken on a continuous .basis.  In addition
to routine monthly reporting by eligible sub-borrowers and quarterly reporting
by the PCU and FAMEPAR (para. 3.12), the CPO and RPOs will undertake random spot
checks of the performance of sub-borrowers to verify their compliance with the
conditions of its borrowing under the program.
Procurement
3.06        Over 300 municipalities are expected to participate in PEDU, so that
a large number of contracts of limited size, in scattered locations, will be
awarded. Where possible, such as in the case of large scale purchases of
materials, contracts will be grouped to gain advantages of economies of scale
(See Table 3).   The following limits and ranges were   agreed during Loan
Negotiations: (a) International Competitive Biddingt over US$1,500,000 million
for civil works and over US$300,OfO for goods and equipment; (b) Local
Competitive Bidding: from US$50,000 to US$1,500,000 for civil works and from
US$20,000 to US$300,000 for goods and equipment; (c) Local Shoppings below
US$50,000 civil works, and below US$20,000 for goods and equipment. The values
expected to be procured by each method were estimated as followss ICB - US$60.9
million; LCB -US$80.7 million; Local Shopping - US$68.3 million.   The above
includes materials and equipment, in the aggregate not to exceed US$4.0 million
equivalent for minor civil works to be carried out under force account. All
procurement would be carried out following the World Bank's. Guidelines for
Procurement of May 1985, and local competitive bidding (including local shopping)
procedures would be acceptable to the Bank.  Goods and equipment subject to
reserve procurement (notably micro-computers and vehicles) whose import into
Brazil is prohibited, would not be eligible for reimbursement and have not been
included in the project cost estimates.
Table 3: PROCUREMENT: ESTIMATED VALUE BY METHOD
(US$ million)
Local
Category                  ICB     LCB     ShopDing Other    Total
Civil works                   6.9     65.1      52.7      -      124.7
(3.0)   (28.7)   (23.2)             (54.9)
Equipment and materials      54.0     15.6      15.6      -       85.2
(23.8)    (6.9)    (6.9)             (37.6)
Tech. asst. and Training       -       -          -      17.0     17.0
(7.5)    (7.5)
Total        60.9      80.7     68.3     17.0    226.9
(Bank loan)    (26.8)   (35.6)   (30.1)    (7.5)  (100.0)



14
3.07        Technical assistance and Training (total value US$17.0 million) would
be contracted according to the Bank's Guidelines for the use of Consultants of
Auaust 1981, and related materials and equipment would be procured under LCB.
3.08        Given the very large number of small contracts involved, their review
and approval would be undertaken by FAMEPAR (in the case of municipal sub-
bQrrowers), and by the PCU, who would keep all documentation for review by the
Bank at its request. FAMEPAR-RPOs would be primarily responsible for this task
where contract values do not exceed $250,000 for civil works or $100,000 for
materials and equipment. Above that limit, FAMEPAR-CPO would be responsible for
LCB and ICB procurement. The PCU would undertake these tasks for non-municipal
sub-borrowers. Bank review of bidding documents, awards, and contracts would
be carried out for all ICB procurement. The Bank would also exercise prior
review, irrespective of the amount, of the first three contracts to be awarded
using LCB for goods and works respectively, and would periodically _examine a
sample of the procurement documents to verify that goods and services had been
procured in accordance with the agreed procedures.  If, in the review by
sampling, the Bank determined that procurement had been inconsistent with agreed
procedures, no expenditures for such items would be financed out of that
particular Loan, and the Bank-would cancel a corresponding amount of the Loan.
Auditors responsible for the verification of project accounts would be instructed
to examine and report -upon the procurement procedures adopted during project
execution.
Disbursement
.09         The Bank loan will disburse against 65? of all Sub-Loans- for eligible
expenditures made for civil works, equipment and materials, and against 50? of
eligible expenditures for the Institutional Development Component, with an
overall maximum of $100 million or 44.12 of the project cost.   Project
expenditures made for land and for the payment of local taxes would not be
eligible for disbursement.
3.10        Disbursements under the loan for civil works amounting to less than
US$1.5 million and for goods, equipment and services amounting to less than
US$300,000 would be against certified Statements of Expenditures (SOEs) made
under eligible sub-prQjects. Supporting documentation for these expenditures
would be retained by the PCU and FAMEPAR and would be inspected periodically by
the Bank at its request and be retained for inspection by independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank.  For works and goods for greater amounts than those
mentioned, disbursement would be against full documentation. It was agreed that
retroactive financing, amounting to no more than $5.0 million would be permitted
for expenditures made under the Institutional Development component, and some
urgent works carried out by SANEPAR, as of March 03, 1989 and for other eligible
expenditures, after the Bank has formally approved the Operation Manual, and
subject to all procurement in accordance with Bank guidelines. A preliminary
estimated disbursement schedule is given in Table 1.   Through the State's
accumulated experience, it is expected to improve on the execution of the earlier
PRAM Project (Ln 2343-BR), a smaller operation almost fully completed over a five
year period, by fully disbursing the present larger loan within the same time
frame.



15
Accounts and Audits
3.11        A Special Account would be established in U.S. dollars in the Central
Bank of Brazil with an initial.deposit of $7.0 million, equivalent to about four
months of disbursements. A Project Account would be established in BANESTADO
and be operated by the PCU, which would certify statements of expenditures and
would make supporting documentation available to Bank supervision missions.
Beneficiary sub-borrowers would be required to maintain detailed project and
financial accounts which would be audited annually by independent auditors
acceptable to BANESTADO and the Bank. The audit reports would be held by the
PCU and an additional copy be made available to the Bank for review. Because
of the project's objective towards the decentralization of local development
functions and responsibilities to the municipalities, additional random spot
checks and verifications of the Municipalities' operations would routinely be
carried out by FAMEPAR-RPOs.   Each of the implementing agencies receiving
proceeds of the Bank loan would be responsible for keeping separate project
accounts.  BANESTADO would open and maintain an account to operate the FDU.
These would reflect all project expenditures as well as the debt tables relating
to each of the eligible sub-borrowers.   The individual project accounts of
implementing agencies, including FAMEPAR and COHAPAR, and of the FDU, as well
as the Special Account, would be audited annually by independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank. The auditor's report on SANEPARt would be submitted by
the PCU to the Bank no later than five months of the end of the fiscal year, and
the consolidated auditor's reports for the remainder, would be forwarded to the
Bank no later than six months after the end of the borrower's fiscal year.
Reporting
3.12        The PCU and FAMEPAR would require monthly reports from each of the
sub-borrowers and from the agencies responsible for specific components (for
example: housing. training, etc), and in turn the PCU would submit quarterly
reports on project implementation to the Bank, within 30 days of the end of each
quarter. Agreement was reached during Negotiations that by October 31, of each
year, the PCU and FAMEPAR will carry out jointly with the Bank a yearly review
oft (i) the borrowing capacity and creditworthiness of the municipalities,
SANEPAR, COHAPAR and other Eligible Sub-borrowers; (ii) resource allocation,
including grants and sub-loans, under PEDU by region, type of municipalities,
and nature of investments for the current and forthcoming calendar years; (iii)
indicators of fiscal, financial and cost recovery performance of the Sub-
borrowers; arid (iv) the status of the Institutional Development Component. There
would also be an annual review of quality and performance of monitoring and
evaluation program.   FAMEPAR-CPO would also prepare and submit a Project
Completion Report within six months of the Closing Date.
Legal Aspects
3.13        For the implementation of the project, the following legal documents
would be necessary. Drafts of these were received by the Bank and were reviewed
and agreed at Negotiations:
a)    Draft Participation Agreement (State/Municipalities);
b)    Draft Financial Agency Agreement (State/FDU/BANESTADO);
c)    Revised Draft Sub-Loan Agreement (State/BANESTADO/Municipalities);
d)    Revised Draft Sub-Loan Agreement (State/BANESTADO/Agencies;
e)    Revised Draft of PEDU Program to be issued as a decree of Government
of State of Parana;



16
f)    Draft SEDUIPCU Convenio for the management of FDU, and implementation
of PEDU;
g)    Revised Draft Municipal Law approving municipal indebtedness under
sub-loans from FDU through BANESTADO;
h)    Revised draft Operation Manual (FDU);
i)    Revised draft Operation Manual (PEDU);
j)    Draft Amendment to the 'Estatutos* of FAMEPAR, including authority
to implement PEDU;
k)    Draft participation agreements (convenios) between the State and
FDU, through the PCU. with SANEPAR, COHAPAR, SUCEAM, SUREHMA, and
other sectoral agencies of the State that will participate in project
execution; and
1)    Copies of convenios between municipalities and COHAPAR, SUCEAM,
SUREEHMA, and other sectoral agencies of the State that will
participate  in  the project  execution,. together with  relevant
legislation.
PART IV - FINANCIAL ASPECTS
Urban Development Fund - FDU
4.01        A key distinguishing feature of this project which builds upon
experience of previous projects, is the emphasis upon the use of a newly created
Urban Development Fund (FDU) in Parana, which will be able to provide
municipalities and other state agencies with an annual source of investment
funds. In addition to the proceeds of the Bank loan, there are two other sources
of FDU funds: the state government's capital contribution over the disbursement
period, and the amortization of principal and interest payments of the sub-loans
(the latter including a three-point spread over the FDU's cost of borrowing).
Financial projections indicate that capital from these two sources during the
disbursement period is sufficient to provide a significant annual investment
program- after the Bank loan has been disbursed (details of FDU are in Annex 10).
4.02         FDU was legally constituted in December 1988 with Law No. 8917-PR
which specifically authorized the FDU to finance the PEDU program. Eligible sub-
borrowers would be entitled to sub-loan financing from FDU in accordance with
the conditions and procedures established by the PEDU Operation Manual.
responsibility for approving the eligibility of sub-borrowers to take sub-loans,
will rest with the PCU in the case of non-municipal sub-borrowers, and with
FAMEPAR-CPO in the case of municipalities. BANESTADO, the State Commercial Bank,
would administer the FDU through the FDU accounts it would hold.   General
operating principles of FDU would be that: (a) State counterpart funds will be
a permanent capital contribution to FDU; (b) sub-loans will carry terms of 5,
10 and 15 years including one year of grace in each case; (c) FDU will lend at
a rate of at least 3 percentage points above the cost of borrowed funds; (d) all
repayments to FDU during the disbursement of the Bank loan will be redeployed
in the PEDU project; and (e) all sub-loans will be guaranteed through BANESTADO's
holdings of sub-borrowers' entitlement to value-added tax (ICMS) transfers and
user fees - a practice successfully followed in the Parana Market Towns Project
(Ln 2343-BR) with practically zero delinquency. Agreement was reached during
Negotiations on the operating terms of FDU. These terms will be reviewed on an
annual basis in discussion with the Bank and agreed changes will be implemented
at the beginning of each calendar year.



17
annual basis in discussion with the Bank and agreed changes will be implemented
at the beginning of each calendar year.
Policies on Cost Recovery, Grants and Subsidies
4.03        Under PEDU, about 922 of Bank loan proceeds and 741 of the State
government's counterpart funds, which will be on lent as sub-loans via the FDU.
will be fully recovered from the sub-borrowers. Sub-borrowers would in turn
recover costs from end-users and other beneficiaries. The .vwerall policy for
cost recovery criteria would be included in the Operation Manuals for PEDU. In
principal, for non revenue-earning investments such as paving, drainage, erosion
control and street light-ing, capital and operating costs will be recovered
through direct betterment charges to the beneficiaries, and/or indirectly
recovered through general incremental property tax, depending upon the particular
circumstances of the municipality concerned (to be determined through evaluation
of it Financial Action Plan - PAP). Revenue earning services whose capital and
operating costs can be accounted for (water supply, sewerage, and solid waste
services), will be fully recovered through user charges (tariffs). SANEPAR and
municipal water companies would be required to comply with the National Tariff
Law.11 In addition, as solid waste costs are seldom separately accounted for
in Brazil, sub-borrowers would be required introduce separate cost-accounting
for solid waste services, to enable their eventual conversion to user charges.
Revenue earnina facilities  (markets, slaughter-houses, transport terminals,
regional sanitary land fill sites, incinerators, toxic waste treatment etc.)
would be subject to full cost recovery directly, through recourse to market-
value rents. user charges and fees. Community facilities (health centers, day-
care centers and school extensions) would not be subject to cost recovery, as
is current customary practice in Brazil. However, studies are in progress to
ascertain the potential recovery.of recurrent .costs for the health and day care
centers.  House loans  would directly recover 10O2 of the amount of loans made
for the purchase of building materials or loans for the construction of core
housing (sites and services)..
Grants and Subsidies
4.04        In addition to grants for the community facilities noted above, and
for selected technical- assistance and training, partial grants (not to exceed
302 of total sub-project cost) will be made for specific investments having a
high positive environmental impact, such as regional solid and toxic waste
disposal. Partial grants would also be available only for selected technical
assistance sub-projects with short-term financial gains foi the municipality
(such as indexing taxation revenues), The municipalities in these cases, would
share 252 of the costs (details Annex 11). Agreement was reached at Negotiations
on allocation criteria for grants (see Annex 5). In cases where subsidies are
necessary to ensure affordability to beneficiaries at lower levels of the income
strata, user charges (eg. water and sewerage tariffs) will be calculated to
ensure differential pricing of services with internal cross subsidies.
Appraisal of Sub-Borrowers
The National Tariff Law (1978)  requires that all State water
companies under the PLANASA system recover, through operating
revenues, all operating costs, depreciation charges and debt service
costs, subject to a maximum annual remuneration of 12Z on assets.



18
FAMEPAR, confirming its intention to participate in the program; (b) prepare and
submit (with technical assistance if required) a detailed Financial Action Plan
(PAP) which would include a diagnosis of its financial position (with supporting
data), and identify the key areas in whicn financial and administrative
improvements will be undertakent  (c) undergo an institutional appraisal, by
FAMEPAR-CPO (assisted by I-PARDES), who would then agree the scope of the
institutional package, indicate the credit limit for the respective sub-borrower
from the FDU, and recomend the applicant to BANESTADO for a sub-loan. The early
definition of a credit limit is an important innovation and should produce
considerable savings in expenditures normally incurred by municipal sub-borrowers
in the preparation of unaffordable or unsustainable investment plans (wish-
lists).
4.06        At stage two, after the institutional appraisal has been completed,
the sub-borrower woulds (a) submit an investment plan having demonstrated through
its Financial Action Plan, its ability to finance and sustain tae investments
made, especially in the case of community facilities where recurrent personnel
costs and other operat-ing costs can be considerable: and (b) enter into a Sub-
Loan Agreement with BAPESTADO under which its participation in project financing
is regulated.
4.07        In the case of SANEPAR. since it is the largest single sub-borrower,
the financial, economic, technical, and institutional appraisal has been under-
taken by the Bank (thus the abovementioned process is not applicable). SANEPAR's
sub-projects under PEDU would include mainly investments for connection of
consumers in pockets of surplus capacity, in both water supply and sewerage
treatment, with not more than about 201 of the total sub-project investments
allocated for water production. Total investments in the sub-sector represent
less than 202 of SANEPAR's projected investment program for the period. Similar
to most Brazilian state water companies, during the period 1985-1987, SANEPAR's
financial position was very weak due to tariff erosion in real terms. However,
as shown in the summary financial statements in Annex 13, during 1988 tariffs
recovered (increasing roughly 1002 in real terms), so that SANEPAR is now in
compliance with the minimum requirements of the National Tariff Law (NTL), the
legislation which regulates water sector finances.   Prior- to Negotiations,
SANEPAR furnished to the Bank. formal evidence of compliance with its financial
recuperation plan (aimed at achieving NTL compliance) agreed with CEF for 1988.
Indicators show that SANEPAR is more efficient (e.g. cost control, consumers per
employee, losses) than most water companies in Brazil, but also that it has a
heavy debt burden and a temporary problem with its a-counting/commercial system.
During Negotiations assurances were obtained that SANEPAR's debtsequity ratio
would not exceed 70:30 during the project period, and that its debt service
coverage would not fall below 1.5.  Other monitoring indicators were agreed
during Negotiations (see Annex 9), and will be part of the Participation
Agreement between SANEPAR and the PCU, as would a schedule for the final
adjustments to the accounting/commercial system before end-1990. Also during
Negotiations, agreement was reached that SANEPAR would: (a) comply with the
requirements of the NTL during the project period; (b) continue to use PLANASA
eligibility criteria for sub-projects; (c) complete a marginal cost pricing study
by end-1989, and implement recommendations from such a study by end-1990; (d)
perform a study of asset value, based on current market costs and realistic
depreciation charges, by June 30, 1990, and incorporate recommended asset value



19
changes deemed necessary by such study by end-1990, updating such valuatien every
three yearst (e) furnish to the Bank and the PCU, not later than November 30 of
each year, a financial projection for the following five-year period, in detail
for the upcoming year, including specific monitoring of internal cash generation
as a percentage of overall investments (to establish a target of 201 by 1993);
(f) consult with the Bank and the PCU on changes-of more than 101 in its annual
investment program.  These agreements with SANEPAR reflect the policies and
agreements reached under other water sector operations.
Appraisal of Sub-Projects
4.08        Sub-projects will be prepared at the municipal level and reviewed
and appraised at FAMEPAR's Regional Product Offices (RPOs) in accordance with
financial, technical, economic and institutional criteria set out in the
Operation Manuals, which will have been reviewed and found to be acceptable to
the Bank. Past experience confirms that the majority of sub-projects are simple
and small in size, and, in many cases, are based on prototype plans adapted to
local conditions.  Previous Bank experience with this type of component has
demonstrated that few technical difficulties are likely to be encountered. Water
sector sub-projects undertaken by SANEPAR would be chosen on the basis of the
selection criteria agreed with CEF and currently in use, and will be reviewed
by the PCU through the use of consultants acceptable to the Bank.
PART V. PROJECT JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
Demand for FDU Funding
5.01        From past experience of the PRAM Project (Loan 2343-BR) and the Santa
Catarina Swall Towns Development Project (Loan 2623-BR), where on-lending terms
are similar to those proposed under PEDU, the demand for fuads through FDU can
be expected to be buoyant, especially considering the absence of competing
sources of funds as former subsidized lines of credit and grants have dried up.
Furthermore, the use of well-tested cost-effective solutions used in those
projects will ensure affordability by the targeted low income beneficiaries.
Financial Impact
5.02        An analysis of municipal indebtedness in the state (details in Annex
2) demonstrates a large capacity for further borrowing. Exceptionally for Brazil
however, a few- of the larger municipalities of Parana, through their
participation in earlier programs, do have significant debts and will be
constrained frcm participating in the PEDU project in the earlier years. Even
under current levels of revenues (which are expected to increase by 351 under
the new Constitution), debt capacity in Parana is estimated to be more than twice
that needed for municipalities to be able to take the sub-loans foreseen under
the project.  Supported by the program's Financial Action Plans, PEDU's cost
recovery policies (details in Annex 11) will avoid undue burdens upon municipal
finance. Excluding the costs of the electricity and water components (which will
be fully recovered by the public entities providing them) and also the cost of
operation of the community facilities, the municipalities will recover 1001 of
project costs. Tne institutional development component of the project itself
should be instrumental in assisting municipalities to increase their own taxation
revenues through extending and modernizing cadastres, for example. The Parana
State Government is being encouraged to implement policy changes in connection



20
with the operating costs of community facilities by redirecting some of the
subsidies away from higher income groups (',hich can provide full cost recovery)
to lower income benef'ciaries.
Economic Justification
5.03        The overall internal rate of return for water, sewerage, paving and
drainage was estimated using the increase in land values to estimate benefits.
Preliminary calculations in Parana show an internal rate of return (IRR) of 17.12
for components whose costs account for 63.52 of the total investment of the
project.   The IRR falls to 13.02 if costs increase by 202 and to 12.5Z if
benefits fall by 20X (see Annex 15 for details).
Poverty Impact
5.04        The beneficiaries of the investments made under PEDU will, through
appropriate design standards and locations, will be targeted among households
with an income of up to 5 minimum salaries. 749,000 urban househo:ds (56Z of
the total of Parana) were in this range of income in 1986. The project will also
increase employment. Accepting the estimate of 302 for the cost of labor in
total project cost, and using a rough estimate of the monthly wage of (low
income) construction workers of US$100, the project should generate over 50,000
man-years of work in Parana.
Environmental Impact
5.05        The project will directly contribute to containing environmental
damage that has resulted in the past from uncontrolled urban growth and to
minimizing further deterioration through better planning and improved resource
management.   Specific design features of components accounting for 46.62 of
project costs (notably, water, sewerage, drainage and solid waste) will seek to
correct existing environmental problems or prevent them from happening in the
future, such as by controlling or preventing pollution of water reserves, better
disposal of solid and toxic waste, especially from hospitals, and control of
water pollution and hillside erosion.
Project Benefits and Risks
5.06        The improved capacity by the State of P-arana and its municipalities
to mobilize and allocate local resources, coupled with overall improved fiscal
policies and management, will ensure the sustainability of investments, provide
a timely response to new demands upon local governments (dictated by the recently
approved Constitution), and also directly contribute towards meeting macro-
economic objectives of increased public sector efficiency and lower deficits.
The project's emphasis on targeting investments to the urban poor, will improve
their living standards, and additional un-quantifiable benefits are derived..from
the large number of project components which directly contribute to reduction
of environmental damage caused by uncontrolled urban growth.
5.07        There are two specific risks:  (a) a possible lack of political will
to follow through on *the part of the State government, and (b) difficulties
inherent in coordination, given the number of participating agencies.   Sub-
project and sub-borrower eligibil-ity criteria,--secure guarantee through receipts
and sales tax commitments, and agreed policies for full cost recovery have been
designed to minimize the former. In addition, the enthusiasm and results shown
by both State and municipal governments, inspite of a difficult macroeconomic



21
designed to minimize the former. In addition, the enthusiasm and results shown
by both State and municipal governments, inspite of a difficult macroeconomic
environment,  ensure strong commitment to project objectives.   Considerable
attention has being placed on defining the institutional roles and
responsibilities of the various agencies before project inception, through the
use of a pre-approved Operation Manual, which should reduce the risk of problems
resulting from the lack of coordination.   The previous experience of SEDU,
FAMEPAR, BANESTADO, SANEPAR and the majority of the participating municipalities
in previous Bank-financed projecto should further mitigate project risks. The
straightforward nature of the technical assistance, training and works involved,
implies few technical risks.
PART VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
6.01        Prior to Negotiations  of the proposed project,  the following
documentation was submitted to the Bank by the State of Parana:
(a)   revised organizational chart, staffing plan and "modus operandi, a
of the PCU and FAMEPAR's CPO and RPOs;
(b)   revised draft Operation Manual, taling into account changes proposed
in the institutional structure;
(c)   draft Manual for the preparation of Financial Action Plans (FAPs);
(d)   a draft report of a survey of NGOs and existing child-care centers;
(e)   evidence of SANEPAR's compliance with its Financial
Recuperation Plan for 1988, and
(f)   full details of proposed training programs for the first year.
Agreements Reached during Negotiations
C.02        The following agreements were reached during Negotiations:
(a)   revision to the revised draft Operation Manual (para. 2.03);
(b)   the eligibility criteria for a municipality to participate in the
program, (Lnnex 4) and to take sub-loans from FDU, and terms of
appraisal of: (i) borrowing capacity; (ii) Financial Action Plan
(FAP) for the improvement of financial management and fiscal
performance, and (iii) guarantee (ICM/receipts) (para. 2.07)
Cc)   the eligibility criteria for sub-project selection (para. 2.07);
(d)   thaL the PCU and FAMEPAR will be adequately staffed and provided
with functions and other resources, to carry out its tasks in a
manner that would be satisiactory to the Bank (para. 3.01);



22
(e)   that FAMEPAR would enter int-. a Technical Cooperation Agreement with
selected state agencies, satisfactory to the Bank, providing for the
supervision of the execution of sub-projects and provision of
technical assistance in procurement and other aspects of project
implementation.
(f)   that not later than September 30, 1989, the PCU and FAMEPAR would
prepare and furnish to the Bank, a final set of financial, economic,
technical,   environmental  and  social  monitoring  indicators,
satisfactorv to the Bank, for the project and the sub-borrowers, to
be included in the respective participation agreements (para. 3.04);
(g)   that by October 31, of each year, the PCU and FAMEPAR will carry out
jointly with the Bank a yearly review of: (i) the borrowing capacity
and creditworthiness of the municipalities, SANEPAR, COHAPAR and
other Eligible Sub-borrowers; (ii) resource allocation, including
grants and sub-loans, under PEDU by region, type of municipalities,
and nature of investments for the current and forthcoming calendar
years; (iii) indicators of fiscal, financial and cost recovery
performance of the Sub-borrowers; and (iv) the status of the
Institutional Development Component. There would also be an annual
review of quality and performarnce of monitoring and evaluation
program (para. 3.12);
(h)   the operating terms and conditions of FDU. as noted in Annex 10
(para. 4.02);
(i)   the annual review of the terms and conditions of FDU and the
implementation of revised ones satisfactory to the Bank by October
31 of each year (para. 4.02)
(j)   the criteria for allocation of grant funds out of the FDU for
eligible community services-, in connection with sub-loans for
municipalities, as noted in Annex (para. 4.04);
In addition the following agreements were reached specifically for SANEPAR:
(k)   compliance with the Natioual Tariff Law, and guarantee
of provision of sufficient internal cash for all
counterpart funds to be committed by the company to the
project (para. 4.07);
(1)   continuation of the use of PLANASA eligibility criteria
for sub-projects (para. 4.07);
(m)   completion of a study of marginal cost pricing by
December 31, 1989 and its implementation by December 31,
1990 (para. 4.07);
(n)   schedule for the completion of a study of asset value
(by June 30, 1990), based on current market costs and
realistic depreciation charges, and the subsequent



23
incorporation of any required asset value changes deemed
necessary by such study December 31, 1990, updating such
revaluation every three years (para. 4.07);
(o)   agreement  on  financial  and  operating  mow'toring
indicators and levels, to become conditions of
participation agreement with the PCU and sub-loan
agreement with BANESTADO (para. 4.07);
(p)   submission to the Bank through the PCU, not later than
October 31 of each year, a general financial projection
for the following five-year period, with specific
details on investment plans for the upcoming year (para.
4.07);
(q)   to consult with the Bank and the PCU if changes of more than 102 of
the investment targets in its annual program are proposed (para.
4.07);
(r)   that SANEPAR's debt:equity ratio not exceed 70:30 and that its debt
service coverage does not fall below 1.5 during the period of loan
disbursement (para. 4.07);
6.03        Agreements on more general conditions of Bank lendings
(a)   that the State of Parana make available adequate and appropriate
counterpart funds (defining sources, amounts and timing) to
capitalize the FDU and finance the Institutional Development
Component in accordance with the financing plan agreed with the
Bank;
(b)   that procurement procedures for civil works, goods and consulting
services will be in accordance with the World Bank's guidelines and
within limits for the various sub-projects;
(c)   that the PCU would furnish to the Bank quarterly progress reports;
(d)   that the PCU would be responsible for organizing and preparing a
Project Completion Report six months after the closing date;
(e)   that all loan funds be committed to sub-borrowers within five years;
(f)   that a Speci-al Account be established in the Central Bank with an
initial deposit of about US$7.0 million;
(g)   that external audits be carried out annually by independent auditors
on all project financial documents of all sub-borrowers (end-year
financial statements, project accounts, statements of expenditure
and Special Account) -and that these be submitted to the Bank through
the PCU, not later than June 30 of each year.



24
Conditions of Disbursement
6.04        During Negotiations, it was agreed that Bank loan disbursement would
be subject to the following conditions having been mett
(a)   for any sub-project costing in excess of US$3 million, the prior
appraisal of technical, financial, economic and institutional
aspects and its prior review by the Bank to its full satisfaction;
(b)   that any Toxic Waste Management Sub-project also must have been
satisfactorily appraised previously (technical, financial, economic
and institutional aspects) and have been reviewed by the Bank;
(c)   that  any  pilot  housing  Sub-project  must  have  undergone  a
satisfactory social, technical and financial appraisal by COHAPAR,
and have been reviewed by the ECU and the Bank (including a list of
the intended beneficiaries); and
(d)   submission of a satisfactory resettlement plan for any sub-projects
involving  the  relocation  of  families  arising  out  of  the
imnplementation of civil works under the project.
Conditions of Effectiveness
6.05        For the loan to become effective, it wk.; agreed that the following
conditions be met:
(a)   the Loan Agreement has been duly registered by the Central Bank;
(b)   the FAMEPAR agreement has been executed on behalf of the State of
Parana and FAMEPAR;
(c)   the Financial Agency Agreement has been executed on behalf of the
State of Parana and BANESTADO;
(d)   the PCU has been established; and
(e)   a Participation Agreement has been executed on behalf of the State
of Parana and SANEPAR.
kecommendation
6.06        With the above assurances, agreements and conditions, the proposed
project would be suitable for a Bank loan of US$100.0 million to be repaid over
15 years, including five years of grace.



ANNEX 1
Page 1 of 5
25
BRAZIL - MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
IN THE STATE OF PARANA
Demographic and Economic Trends in the State
1.          High rates of population growth and household formation in urban
areas require that a substantial effort will have to be made just to meet
Brazil's demographic demand for housing and basic urban infrastructure in the
coming decade. As can be seen from Table 1.1, Brazil's population grew by 2.5?
per year during the 1970's, and its urban population by 4.4Z a year. The growth
rate of urban household formation, having been propelled by young people entering
the prime ages of family formation was even higher at 5.7? a year. Even with
a slowing down of this trend over the 1986/95 period, urban households tre still
projected to increase by 3.72 a year to 32.7 million in 1995, almost twice the
number Brazil had in 1980.
2.          The State of Parana had a total population of 8.4 million in 1986.
Of these, 5.5 million were living in urban areas of the State. Due to the strong
agricultural base to Parana's economy, the State's share of Brazil's urban
population, at 5.5?, is lower than its share of the total population of the
country, at 6.22.   What is important for the urban development of Parana,
however, is that the groath of demographic demand was more intense during the
1970's than for Brazil as a whole (7.3? growth per annum against Brazil's 5.62),
and will continue to be so during the coming years, as can be seen in Table 1.1.
The .total urian population in Parana grew at a rate of 6.0? per year during the
1970's to reach 4.5 million by 1980 (an absolute increase of 2.0..million). A
further million was added during the 1980-56 period. Urban household formation
in Parana was also much higher than for Brazil as a whole during the 1970'ss
7.3Z a year.
3.          The Brazilian  Statistical and Geographical Foundation  (FIBGE)
projects annual urban household formation of 5.4? over the 1986 to 1995 period
for Parana giving an absolute increase of 760,000 urban households for this
period. This iacrement alone would be more than half the total number of urban
households in Parana today.
4.          This rapid rias in demographic demand will have to be met despite
a dramatic rise of households below the poverty line in Parana. The incidence
of poverty in urban areas of Parana was high in 1986 and rose very rapidly during
the first years of this decade. Ther:e were 263,000 urban households with incomes
of two minimum salaries or less in Parana in 1986 (19.7? of the total), and 748
thousand urban households with incomes of five minimum salaries or less (56.1?
of the total) (see: Table 1.2).
5.          A recent study of poverty (details given in Tables 1.3 and 1.4)
showed that the percentage of total population living in families with incomes



AMNN 1
Page 2 of 5
26
below the poverty line in 1985 to be 21.6Z in Metropolitan Region of Curitiba.1
While this was not the highest share among Brazil's metropolitan regions, what
is significant has been its very rapid rate of growth, so that, after four years,
it was more than 3.5 times higher. In absolute terms, this meant than there were
more than 300 thousand additional people living in poverty in Curitiba in 1985
compared with 1981. The per capita poverty line in the metropolitan regions of
these two States in 1985 was about a half a minimum salary or about 2 minimum
salaries for a family of four.2
6.          Beyond the metropolitan region of Curitiba itself, the. state of
Parana has a wide range of city sizes making up its urban structure. Table 1.5
shows the distribution of municipalities by population size groups in 1985.
The importance of smaller urban centers (which are expected to participate
actively in PEDU) is brought out by the fact that over 5.5 million people (64.9Z
of the total population of Parana) lived in municipalities of 100,000 or less
in 1985.
1      Sonia Rocha, LINHAS DE POBREZA PARK AS REGIOES METROPOLITANAS NA
PRIMEIRA METADE DA DECAD& DE 80, IPEA/INPES, 1988, xerox.
2      idem.



27                                 AN=  1
Page 3 of 5
BRAZIL
MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
IN THE STATE OF PARANA
Table 1.1
URBAN AND RURAL POPULATION AND HOUSEHOLDS
BRAZIL, PARANA: 19711 - 2060
(666'.)
Change 88/96
1970   1980   1986   1990   1995    26 ---
-                                     Abs.  X p.a.
Population:
Brazil          93,139 119,003 13E,608 148,894 166,684 179,436  30,476     2.3X
Urban        62,086  36,436  98,764 111,217 129,012 143,106  30,248     3.6%
Rural        41,064  38,566  36,844 38,945  87,072  86,381    228       6.1X
Parana          6,936   7,629  8,381   9,126  10,161  11,153   '.776       2.2%
Urban         2,604   4,473   6,503  6,398  7,711   8,838   2,208       3.8x
Rural         4,425   3,157   2,878  2,674   2,440  2,316    (488)    -1.8%
Households:
Brazil          17,629  26,211  81,160  35,116 40,872 45,764   9,772       3.1%
Urban        10,276  17,771 23,620 27,248  82.748  87,613  9,225        3.7X
Rural        7,352   7,446  7,680  7,817   8,124  8,151        544      o.sx
Parana           1,272   1,603   1,860  2,151   2,679  2,949      719      8.7%
Urban          490    095  1,266   1,566  2,026  *2,406    760          5.4%
Rural           782    6e6     594    676    653    543        (41)   -o.8x
Sources:  IBGE, CENSO DEMOGRAPHICO  1980; PNAD-1986 *nd Luil Armando do Mode7ros
Frias, PROJECOES DA POPULACAO RESIDENTE E NUMERO DE DOMICILIOS PARTICULARES
OCUPADOS: 1986-2020, Volume I, Numero 6, Toxtos para Discussao,
IBOE, Rio do Janeiro, Maio do 1988. -
Tablo 1.2
PRIVATE URBAN HOUSEHOLDS BY MONTHLY HOUSEHOLD INCOME
PARANA 1986
(666'.)
Total    Monthly Household Income Groups (Minimum Salaries)
1 or   > 1-2   > 2-6 > 5-10 > 10-20   > 20        No
less                                        Response
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Total             1329.79  93.90  163.86 485.88  312.56  182.21   91.18    0.23
X of Total          100.0    7.1   12.3   86.6   23.5   13.7    6.9           6.0
Accum. X                      7.1   19.4   s6.9   79.4   93.1  106.0   16060
Source: I8E, Posquisa Nacional por Amostre do Domicillos PNAD.



ANNE! 1
Page 4 of 5
28
BRAZIL
MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
IN THE STATE OF PARANA
Table 1.3
POPULATION BELOW POVERTY LINE BY
METROPOLITAN REGION IN BRAZTL 1981/1985
Z of Total Population Under
Poverty Line
________________________________
Metropolitan                     (1)    (2)      Change
Regions                        1981   1985 ----------------
(2-1)   (211)
-------------------------------------------------------------
Belem                          32.3    43.9   11.6    1.4
Fortaleza                      38.4   41.7    3.3    1.1
Recife                         39.2   47.4    8.2    1.2
Salvador                       28.7   38.0    9.3    1.3
Belo Horizonte                 18.1   35.3    17.2    2.0
Rio de Janeiro                 15.4   36.1   20.7    2.3
Sao Paulo                      10.8   26.3   15.5    2.4
Curitiba                        6.0   21.6   15.6    3.6
Porto Alegre                    9.4   22.5   13.1    2.4
-------------------------------------------------------------
Source: Sonia Rocha, LINHAS DE POBREZA PARA AS REGIOES
METROPOLITANAS NA PRIMEIRA METADE DA DECADA DE 80,
IPEA/INPES, 1988.
Table 1.4
POPULATION BELOW POVERTY LINE IN METROPOLITAN REGIONS
OF CURITIBA AND PORTO ALEGRE 1981/1985
(000'8)
Change 81/85
Metropolitan                    1981   1985 ---------------
Regions                                        Abs.       Z
-------------------------------------------------------------
Curitiba                         78    410    332   426.2
Porto Alegre                    188     609    421  223.7
Sources:-Ibid.-(Popultion-est-m-tes:--B-E-----P--------------
Sources: Ibid. (Population estimates: IBGE - PNAD)



29                         ANNEX 1
Page 5 of 5
BRAZIL
MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
IN THE STATE OF PARANA
Table 1.5
MUNICIPALITIES OF PARANA AND THEIR
POPULATIONS BY SIZE GROUP 1985
(000',)
Total            Popu1ation 1985
Hunicie- ----____________________________
palities
Population Size                   Total                 Accum.
Groups (No.)            1985                    1             X
10,000 or less          113      623.4       7.3           7.3
10,001  -  20,000       105    1,464.5      17.2          24.5
20,001  -  40,000        61    1,690.4      19.8          44.4
40,001  -  70,000        21    1,100.8      12.9          57.3
70,001  - 100,000         8      652.6       7.7          64.9
100,001  - 150,000         5      561.8       6.6          71.5
150,001  - 200,000         2      352.2       4.1          75.7
200,001  - 250,000         2      434.1       5.1          80.8
250,001  - 500,000         1      354.9       4.2          84.9
Over 500,000               1    1,283.9      15.1         100.0
TOTAL:          318    8,518.4    100.0
Sources IPARDES, Curitiba, Parana.
Notes Estimates made through extrapolating 1970180 trends.



ANNEX 2
Page 1 of 9
30
BRAZIL - MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
IN THE STATE OF PARANA
State and MuniciDal Finances
Impact of the New Constitution  _
1.          The fiscal reform of the new Constitution reestablished fiscal
federalism in Brazil by both increased sharing of Federal revenues with the
states and municipalities and also granting them increased taxing powers,
including the transfer- of previously Federal taxes to them. The result is a
significant increase in the fiscal autonomy of states and municipalities. Table
2.1 summarizes which level of government -- federal, state or municipal -- will.
be responaible for the collection of different types of taxes following the
fiscal reform of the new Constitut3.,=n.1 The distributioD of the revenues by each
type of tax and the revenue sharing among the different levels of government
appears in Table 2.2.   Table 2.3 shows how the transfers to states and
municipalities will increase substantially over the 1989/1993 period, and that
a substantially increase comes within the first two years of the reform. For
example, the total amount of (Federal) Income and Industrial Production Taxes
shared will rise from 40.0? in 1988 to 46.5Z in 1989 (principally due to the
newly instigated Fund for Exporting States), and then by about one percentage
point per year to 51.02 in 1993. In terms of revenue, these two are the most
important federal taxes, whose collections together account for 8.02 of GDP, or
US$16.5 billion in 1987, 6.52 more of which (about US$1.1 billion) will be shared
with states and municipalities.2 Of course, these additional revenues will be
accompanied by greater responsibilities of municipalities *.to provide urban
infrastructure and services of the kind that will be included in the PEDU
project.
2.          This fiscal decentralization and the effort to control the public
sector deficit prompted the Federal Government to propose cuts of over US$5
billion for fiscal year 1989 though the "Operation Dismantle". However, Congress
did not approve these cuts entirely, and the general reductien of the fiscal
deficit is still being discussed at the time of writing.
3.          The total revenues of both states and municipalities will rise
significantly, but the municipalities will increase much more. Simulations show
that total revenues of the State of Parana will be 12.1Z higher in 1993 than in
1      'A Constituinte e a Reforma Tributaria", CONJUNTURA ECONOMICA, 15
de agosto de 1988, pp. 7-10. See also, Claudino Ramon Pito, A NOVA
CONSTITUINTE E 0 SISTEMA TRIBUTARIO, Instituto Brasileiro de
Economia, Fundacao Getulio Vargas, 1988.
2            In that year. Federal Income Tax revenues were equivalent to
3.3Z of GDP, while those of Industrial Products Tax were 4.72
of GDP.



ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 9
31
1985 due to an 11.1X increase in tax revenues and a 17.2? increase in funds from
Federal revenue sharing.3 The size of increases in total municipal revenues
available will vary from municipality to municipality according to its size and
type of economic activity, with increases in the range of 21.31 to 45.1Z over
the 1985/93 period.4 If the average increase of 31.22 calculated by Rezende and
Afonso prevails, the total increase in municipal revenues in the State of Parana
would be about US$130 million. Industrial municipalities tend to be concentrated
at the higher end of the range, and the dormitory suburbs of metropolitan areas
at the lower end.  However, the formula used for distribution among those
particular municipalities may still be changed in legislation that is pending.
Nevertheless, based upon the underlying constitutional precepts, it is still
expected that revenue gains by municipalities will indeed be dramatic. With the
revenue gaine will come greater responsibilities and the need for higher
expenditures. Improving the management of which will be central purpose of the
financial action plans (FAPs) prepared under the institutional development
packag3 of this project (see: Annex 3).
Debt Caiacitv
4.          Since most municipalities throughout Brazil (with the exception of
the capital cities of States) have in the past had little access to credit
programs, they have accumulated very little debt, and still have enormous scope
to  exploit  their  under-utilized  debt  capacity.    In  this  respect,  the
municipalities of the State of Parana represent an unusual case inasmuch as they
have been able to borrow in the past, including through the Bank supported Parana
Market Towns Project (Loan 2343-BR), and have therefore been able to build up
a debt portfolio.   Compared with their revenues, however, their level of
borrowing so far has been quite modest. Their consolidated debt as of December
31, 1988 was, excluding Curitiba, US$50.1 million (against revenues of the order
of US$413.3 million).
3.    Fernando Rezende and Jose Roberto R. Afonso,  A REFORMA FISCAL NO
PROCESSO DE ELABORACAO DA NOVA CONSTITUICAO, Textos para Discussao
Interna, No. 121, Novembro de 1987. These simulations are based on
proposal presented to the Constitutional Convention which were
adopted with some slight modifications. According to Rezende, the
total impact of these changes upon the results of the simulations
would be quite small. All simulations referred to here were based
ori current tax revenues for existing taxes and on other economic data
for the new taxes.
4      Rezende and AfonsQ, oy.cit.
5      Municipal borrowing in other states of Brazil, except for Sao Paulo,
has been negligible. Rio Grande do Sul municipalities, for example,
had a consolidated debt as of December 31, 1989 of only US$4.9
million.



ANNEX 2
Page 3 of 9
32
5.          To establish the limits of debt capacity which will be used to help
determine the eligibility of municipalities to participate in PEDU and take loans
from the Urban Development Fund - FDU, it was decided to apply criteria that had
been well tested in the Santa Catarina Small Towns Development Project (Loan
2623-BR) and were consistent with current Brazilian legislation.   Under the
latter, borrowing operation by States and Municipalities are subject to three
principal limits, which are established in Federal Resolution No. 62, October
28, 1975 and amended by Resolution No. 64 of July 11, 1985. Exceptions are
classified as *extra-limit and must be submitted to the Federal Senate via the
Central Bank for approval on a case by case basis. To qualify for any additional
borrowing, a municipality must meet the following three conditions:
-    (a)   Its total debt outstanding at any-one time must be less than 70Z of
the value of its total revenues  (both own taxation and also
transfers) of the previous fiscal year adjusted for inflation;
(b)   In addition, any additional debt acquired in any one fiscal year
shall not exceed 202 of its total revenues (both own taxation and
also transfers) .of the previous fiscal year adjusted for inflation,
and
(c)   Its total debt service in any one year shall not exceed 15Z of the
value (in that year's prices) its total revenues of the previous
fiscal year.
6.          Thus, the total debt capacity of the municipalities of the State of
Parana was estimated by the government using these criteria with the following
resultss
(a) Capacity now to assume additional debt of up to US$239.2 million
(70Z of total revenues minus existing debt): additional debt arising
through the PEDU project is not expected to exceed US$79 million_at
any one time during the disbursement period;
(b)   Up to US$82.7 million of additional debt can be contracted per annum
(20Z of total revenues): the PEDU project foresees the annual
increase in borrowing peaking to about US$20 million in the fourth
year of implementation, and
(c)   Capacity to pay an additional annual debt service of up to US$52.7
million (152 of total revenues minus existing debt service paym;nts):
At current lev2ls of interest, annual debt service on PEDU sub-loans
to municipalities is not expected to exceed US$19 million.
7.          As can been seen from the data of Tables 2.4 and 2.5, most of the
municipal debt capacity in Parana is in the hands of smaller municipalities.
Consequently, and in the very short run, these are expected to be active clients
of PEDU in seeking sub-loans from FDU. Other municipalities with constrained
debt capacity will be able to participate in the project's Institutional and
Human Resource Development component. The technical assistance provided for
them to improve their finances (increasing revenues, for example) can help them



ANNEX 2
Page 4 of 9
33
increase this capacity and hence be eligible for FDU funding of the
infrastructure components of PEDU.
8.          It was agreed that the verification of the debt capacity of the State
Government itself would be und3rtaken by the Federal Ministry of Planning
(SEPLAN).  This was found to be adequate.
Prolect Impact upon Municipal Finances
9.          The assessment -of municipal debt capacity on a case by case basis
will be undertaken to help determine the eligibility of a potential sub-borrower
to participate in the program.   But, at the same time, it will be a key
ingredient of the diagnostic of the municipality's overall fina-&clal health and
one  which  will  be  monitored  throughout  project  implementation.    Each
municipality's Financial Action Plan (PAP) will, among other things aim to
improve its debt capacity.  The project itself, while using up part of that
capacity through its own lending, will also work to increase it through providing
technical assistance and training to allow for increased revenues and a more
efficient allocation of resources. As part of the continuous monitoring of the
project during implementation, a key incentive will be given to making
improvements in a municipality's finances, since success on this score will be
a necessary pre-condition for continued participation for financing offered
through FDU under the project.



ANNEX 2
Page 5 of 9
34
BRAZIL
BRAZIL - MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PRWJECT
IN THE STATE OF PARANA
Table 2.1
RESPONSIBIL M ES FOR TAXATION
UNDER BRAZIL'S NEW CONSTITUTION
Level of Government Responsible for Collection:
F*dera I       stoto                          ~~~~~~~~~Municipal
I    Federal                   I    St.t.                      I     utt   
I*Incom. Tax (DR)              lVxlue Added Tax (ICMS)         lService Tax (ISS)        I
I                              I                               II
1Industrial Product.           llnheritance and                tUrban Land and Property
I Tax (IPI)                    I Gift Taxes (CMD)              I Tax (IPTU)
lIport Tax (II)               IMotor Vehicle Property         IRetall Sales Tax on
I                              I Tax (IPVA)                    I Fuel (IVVC)             I
lExport Tax (ZE)               I                               I                         I
I                              jTax on non-Wage Income         Transfer of Property
iRural Land Tax (ITR)          I                               I Tax (TIV)
I                      I~~~ I-                                                   I
Financial Operations Tax      |                               I
I  (IOF)                       I                               Il
I                              I                               I.I
IWealth Tax (IGF)
Note:*  Income and Industrial Product Taxes, the ones to be increasingly shared with
States and Municipalities, account for about 7SX of federal tax revenues.
Source: NOVA CONSTITUICAO BRASILEIRA, Sstema Journal do Brasil, Article VI,
*Da Tributacao * do Orcamento', pp. 67-78.



35                                      ANNM    2
Page 6 of 9
BRAZIL
MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
IN THE STATE OF PARANA
Table 2.2
SHARING OF TAX REVENUES UNDER
UNDER BRAZIL'S NEW CONSTITUTION
Proportion shared by respective level of gov.rnment (N)
Taxes shared:                  Total        Federal      States    Municipalities
FEDERAL
Income Tax (IR)                100.0           53.0        24.5 (a)           22.5
Industrial Products (IPI)      100.0           43.0        34.6 (b)           22.6
Import Tax (II)                100.0          100.0           -                  -
Export Tax (IE)                100.0          100.0           _                  _
Rural Land Tax (ITR)           100.0           60.0           -               60.0
Financial Operations (IOF)    100.0           100.0           -                  -
Wealth Tax (I¢F)               100.0          100.0           _                  _
STATES
Value Added Tax (ICMS)         100.0              -        76.0               25.0
Inheritance and
Gift Taxes (CUD)             100.0              -       1.0                    _
Motor Vehicle Property
Tax (IPVA)                   100.0              -        50.0               50.0
Tax on non-wage Income         100.0              -       100.0                  -
MUNICIPALITIES
Service Tax (ISS)              100.0              -           -              100.0
Urban Land and Property
Tax (IPTU)                   100.0              -           -              100.0
Retail Tax on Fuel (IVVC)      100.0              -           -              100.0
Transfer of. Property (TIV)    100.0              -           -              100.0
Source:NOVA CONSTITUICAO BRASILEIRA, Sistema Journal do Brasil, Article VI,
"Da Tributacao e do Orcamentow, pp. 67-78.
Notes:
(a) Includes 3% to finance programs to be administered by Development
Banks of the North-East, North and Center-West Regions.
(b) Includes (a) plus an additional 10% of IPI for exporting states to compensate
their losses of revenues from ICMS from which exports are exempt.



ARN  2
36                                Page 7 of 9
BRAZIL - MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
IN THE STATE OF PARANA
Table 2.3
STATE AND MUNICIPAL SHARING OF COMBINED FEDERAL
INCOME (IR) AND INDUSTRIAL PRODUCT (IPI) TAX
REVENUES UNDER BRAZIL'S NEW CONSTITUTION
Projections for 1987-1993 period
(X of combined IR and IPI revenues)(1)
1987   1988   1989   1990   1991   1992   1993
General Participation Funds:
State governments share           14.0   18.0   19.0   19.6   20.0   20.5   21.5
Municipal governments share       17.0   20.0   20.6   21.0   21.5   22.0   22.5
Sub-total                       81.0   38.0   39.6   40.5   41.6   42.5   44.0
Special Funds:
Fund for thi North, North-East
and Center .Vest Regions (2)      2.0    2.0    3.0    3.0    3.0    3.0    3.0
Fund for Exporting States (3)       0.0    0.0    4.0    4.0    4.0    4.0    4.0
Sub-total                        2.0    2.0    7.0    7.0    7.0    7.0    7.0
TOTAL                       38.0   40.0  46.6   47.6   48.5   49.6   51.0
S s=s= - =~~~===   =5==  t==z5s=
Source:  Banco Regional de Desenvolvimento do Extremo Sul, REFORMA TRIBUTARIA E FINANCAS
MUNICIPAIS, Porto Alegre, Outubro 1988.
Notes:
(1)   The absolute size of the shares involved can be appreciated from the level of
total collections of IR and IPI in 1988, estimated at about US316.6 billion
equivalent.
(2)   Special Fund for North, North-East and Center West Regions will administer
a share of 2-SX of total IR and IPI through Regional Development Banks In the
respective Regions' states and municipalities.
(8)   Special Fund for Exporting States will take a share of 10% of total IPI
collected and divide It among states according to their contributions to
exports of manufactures in order to compensate them for their lost Value Added
Tax (ICMS) from which exports are exempt. The share estimated hero has been
based upon the assumption that IPI collections will remain constant at 67X of IR
collections as last observed in preliminary results for 1989.



37                       ANNEX 2
Page 8 of 9
BRAZIL
MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
IN THE STATE OF PARANA
Table 2.4
ESTIMATE OF MUNICIPALITIES' TOTAL
DEBT CAPACITY FOR 1989
(in thousands of US dollars)
-----------------------------------------------------------------_
No. of Adjusted   Total   Total   Total
Munici- Revenues    Debt    Debt    Debt
palities                   Ceiling Capacity
1988  12131188    1989    1989
A       B        C        D
(A x 0.7) (C - B)
------------------------------------------------------------------
No. of inhabitants:
10,000 or less          105  47,445   5,865  33,211  27,346
10,001  -   20,000      105  80,827  11,610  56,579  44,969
20,001  -   40,000       61  85,126   8,846  59,588  50,742
40,001  -   70,000       21  61,219   8,538  42,853  34,315
70,001  -  100,000        8  36,487   3,873  25,541  21,668
100,001  -  150,000        5  24,436   1,441  17,105   15,664
150,001  -  200,000        2  17,843       118  12,490  12,372
200,001  -  250,000        2  22,054       229  15,438  15,209
250,001  -  500,000        1  37,844   9,561  26,491  16,930
TOTAL            310 413,281  50,082  289,297  239,215
Source: IPARDES, Curitiba, Parana.
Notes:  The municipalities of the metropolitan region of Curitiba
were not included in this analysis. Original data in. NCz$
values were converted to US$ at lzl parity.



38                        ANNEX 2
Page 9 of 9
BRAZIL
MUNICIPAL DEYELOPMENT PROJECT
IN THE STATE OF PARANA
Table 2.5
EST4ATE OF MUNICIPALITIES' TOTAL
DEBT SERVICE CAPACITY FOR 1989
(in thousands of US dollars)
No. of-   Adjusted    Total       Total    Total
Munici-   Revenues     Debt       Debt     Debt
palities             Service   Service  Service
Ceiling Capacity
1988     1988      1989     1989
A         B        C          D
-    (A x 0.15) (C - B)
10,000 or less           105      47,445    1,124     7,117    5,998
10,001  -    20,000      105      80,827    2,272    12,124    9,852
20,001  -    40,000       61      85,126    1,725    12,769   11,044
40.001  -    70,000       21      61,219    1,676     9,183    7,507
70,001  -   100,000        8      36,487      755     5,473    4,718
100,001  -   150,000         5     24,436      299     3,665    3,366
150,001  -   200,000         2     17,843       27     2,676    2,650
200,001  -   250,000        2      22,054       51     3,308    3,257
250,001  -   500,000         1     37,844    1,377     5,677    4,300
TOTAL             310    413,281    9,306    61,992   52,691
=                  _         =---    =8Z - --- --
Source: IPARDES, Curitiba, Parana.
Notes: The municipalities of the metropolitan region of Curitiba
were not included in this analysis. Original data in NCz$
values were converted to US$ at-1:1 parity.



ANNEX 3.1
Page 1 of 3
39
BRAZIL
MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
IN THE STATE OF PARANA
Institutional and Human Resource Development Component
Background
1.          Municipalities   in  Brazil  gained  considerable  new  powers,
responsibilities and resources under the new Constitution promulgated in October
5,  1988.    In Parana,  municipalities  thus  find themselves  shouldering a
constitutional responsibility for the delivery of such diverse services as
sanitation, water supply, education, local health care and even public transport;
all this in addition to statutory responsibilities for administration, land use
control, taxation and some aspects of local law and order. With the exception
of a small percentage, most municipalities lack an adequate number and the
quality of staff (mainly in management and mid-level posts). The financial
situation of municipalities could eventually reach a critical stage due to a lack
of modernization of the administrative machinery to suddenly undertake these
functions. The project objectives include the provision of institutional support
through technical assistance and the development of human resources to fill this
gap.
2.          On the other band many sector services were previously provided by
federal and state sector agencies, many of which have. since been abolished,
restructured, or generally- allowed to deteriorate as a consequence of the
--olonged economic crisis. Inflationary pressures have also led to a "brain
tin" of large numbers of experienced persons, out of the public sector . The
ite administrative machinery, however, will continue to function, albeit in
iodified manner, to assist and support municipal governments in their new role.
lining human resources employed by these agencies to adequately adapt to their
r role.is an urgent priority.
3.       - A number of key issues were identified during preparation of this
componentt
(a)   There has hitherto been no clear, consistent or coherent policy for
the development of human resources of municipal and state sector
agencies;
(b)   Training needs have not been identified in a manner that adequately
relates available training (supply driven) to demand in quantity,
operational requirements or the susceptibility of the target group
to being trained;
(c)   Training budgets have been early victims of budgetary cutbacks
(reflecting low priority); and
(d)   There is scope for a qualitative and quantitative improvement in the
supply of training (pedagogic skills, techniques, evaluation and
tracer studies, etc.) and need for strengthening a program for
'training of trainers".



ANNEX 3.1
Page 2 of 3
40
4.          The objectives of this component are to rectify present constraints
and aggressively support the decentralization program, through strengthening the
institutional framework and the development of human resources.
5.          The beneficiaries under this component would includes
(a) Municipalities: Technical assistance, training and equipment to
strengthen their financial management and overall administration. Financial
management would focus particularly upon the preparation of Financial Action
Plans (FAP), improving tax policy and administration, up-dating and maintaining
cadastres, (particularly through continuation of the CIATA program), financial
information systems, investment planning and credit man-agement, accounting
procedures and practices. Improving general administration would_include the
preparation of a "Plano Diretor (land use plan), preparation of administrative
reform pl-ans, and implementing these, and similar improvements.
(b) SEDU *(PCU), FAMEPAR, and selected sector agencies (COHAPAR,
SANEPAR,SUREHMA,SUCEAM,COMEC, amongst others): technical assistance, training
and equipment to improve their institutional capacity for project management,
including in the appraisal of sub-borrowers and sub-projects, project
programming, planning and budgeting,    overall  coordination,  and related
improvements in project supervision, operations and maintenance; and
(c) Training and Technical Assistance Agencies: (principally IPARDES)
strengthening of the institutional and technical capacity of selected training
agencies which provide technical assistance and. training in municipal
administration and urban management.
6.          It is estimated that this component would represent about 9.62
(US$17.9 million) of the base cost of PEDU, of which US$ 10.4 (5.7?) would be
the cost of technical assistance, and USS 3.2 million (1.8Z) training, for
municipalities. In addition, about US$ 2.7 million (1.52) is estimated as the
cost of technical assistance, and US$ 1.6 million (0.9?) training, for SEDU,
FANEPAR, and selected sector and training agencies, as noted in paragraphs 5(b)
and 5(c) above. Training unit costs (cost/participant/day) have been estimated
on the basis of ongoing programs and have been averaged out from aggregated
costs/day/event. These include rental of training rooms, training materials;
instructor's honoraria, travel and 'per-diem'; and participant's travel and 'per-
diem'. Technical assistance costs have been estimated on a range of US$2,500
to US$7,500 per staff month for locally based consultants (to eliminate
discrimination between local and foreign consultants doing the tame job). About
24 foreign consultant staff months for miscellaneous specialist inputs have been
budgeted at e -US$9,500/sm. In -addition *Fellowships" for national study tours
totalling about 360 work-months e US$1,500 and about 30 international study tours
I US$5,000 each are included under this component. The project would finance
the cost of courses, travel and subsistence, and teaching materials and
equipment. No civil works construction is to be financed under this component.
7.          The 'training' strategy for senior level officials would include
primarily policy orientation seminars. For mid-level officials and other
employees training would focus on knowledge enhancement and specific practical
skills training.Such training would be carried out through on-the job training,



ANNEX 3.1
Page 3 of 3
41
courses, seminars, etc.. To the extent possible, existing facilities, courses,
and curricula are to be utilized to initiate the programs. About 601 of the
estimated expenditures on technical assistance and training for the first year
of implementation will be based on the Manuals for preparing the Financial Action
Plans (YAP) and on the Operational Manuals of PEDU. Additional training materials
are also to be developed under this component.



42
ANNEX 3.2
BRAZIL
MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
IN THE STATE OF PARANA
Water and Sewerage Component
The water and sewerage component proposed by SANEPAR for financing through sub-
loans from the FDU, would consist of four programs: sewerage systems, extension
of network and connections for sewerage, extension and improvement of water
distribution systems, and basic water production investments, in small and
medium-sized communities. The first three programs would be implemented with
terms of 10-years from the FDU. The fourth program, water production, would be
implemented with terms ranging between 10 and 15-years. Details are provided
below:
1.    Sewerage systems.   US$6.5 million.   Complete systems,  comprised of
anaerobic reactor,  6,240 km of collection networks,  and 416 new sewerage
connections.  Each system or 'module" is self-contained, and provides service
to 2,500 inhabitants. The sub-project would build 25 such modules, increasing
sewerage coverage to about 62,500 inhabitants.
2.    Sewerage Network Extensions and Domestic Connections.  US$9.0 million.
Extension of sewerage collections networks and connections in areas where excess
treatment capacity exists.   This would involve construction of 8,400 km of
sewerage collection networks, and connection of 20,414 consumers, for increased
coverage of 122,484 inhabitants.
3.    Amplification and Improvement of Water Distribution Systems.   US$40.0
million.    Self-contained systems,  or, modules,  for the amplification and
improvement of reservation and distribution systems and connections of new
consumers in communities where excess production and treatment capacity exists.
Construction of 26,928 modules would provide 96,941 new connections and water
service to 517,020 inhabitants, mainly in low-income communities.
4.    Water Production.  US$13.9 million.  Water production systems, including
captation, stor&ge and treatment. Roughly 70Z of the investments would be made
in small towns and 302 in medium-sized cities, with about half of project costs
to be spent on subterranean systems (drilling of 59 wells, all in small towns)
and half on surface systems (involving 27 small rivers and basins). This program
would benefit approximately 60,000 peoplq, and would provide sufficient capacity
in the locations involved for further PEDU investments for water connections,
us_.ng 10-year funds.
Note: Program costs shown include price and physical contingencies.



43
ANEX 8.2.A
page I of 2
Municipal Developmnt Project In the State of Parana
water Ord Sewerage Component
Institutional Assessment
SANEPAR
Area                                    Aseeme_nt                                          Action
CGneral/            SANEPAR Is a corporation owned 781 by the State of Parana,            Non, required.
Inoltutlon3l        established with State Law  46804 of 1968. SANEPAR provides water
and swerage servies to about 66X of Parana Stat'e urban pop-
ulation. As of June, 1987, tariffs are set by the State. Xncome
tax Is paid to the Federal Government at a rate of 801 (FY89).
The company Director Is appointed by the Governor for a term of
four years. The Director choou-n sub-directors for doparteente.
An administrative and a fiscal couneil oversee approvals of
operations and invedtmnte, and budget and audit approval,
rspectively. This structure is common to most Brazilian state
water companliso
Financial/          SANEPAR's combined average water and seraoge tariff (sewerage
Management          charge  are 1681 of water tariffs) for 1988 was USIO.82/mS,
an increase of 1461 In real terms from 1986 levels. This rate
has enabled the company to meet the requirments of Its financial
recuperat'on plan (agred with the Coixo Economica Federal In
19'7), and for the first time this decade comply with the Nation-
al Tariff Law, which stipulated covorage of operating costs, dep-
reciation charge and debt service expense out of operating rev-
enu". SANEPAR's average tariff as of February, 1989, 1/ was
US19.27/mg.
Budgete arm done annually and expense control performd on a
monthly basls, and are computerized (see discussion of accounting
be low).
SANEPAR uses a double-entry accrual accounting system, following    Agree on timing for a
Brazilian corporate law (#6404), which Includes adjustmente for      study on asst revalua-
Inflation.  However, because of distortions In Indexes used for      tion, and Implamentation
adjustment it I.e likely that assets ar. undervalud.  Monthly        of findings by FY 1990.
financial reaults are available within 30 days; annual reports
*r- avallabl, within 9W d&ye of year-end. SANEPAR use the stan-
dard chart of accounts-and written procedure established for
state-owned water companie under the PLANASA sysiem. A com-
puterized management and-accounting systm was Installed In th.       Recommend that existing
company's promises early In 1989, to handle payroll, billing,        system be adjusted, or
accounting, budget and other Internal functions.  The linkage        a new system installed,
between commercial and accounting department Is non-functional,      which enables SANEPAR by
however, prevnting an adequate cut-off policy, and creating          end-1989 to link Its fin-
serious collection problem.  Overdu. accounts or. adjusted for       ancial and commercial
inflation.                                                           departments.



44
ANNEX 8.2.A
page 2 of 2
Area Ao                                 u       s  _et                                   Action
Project Planning   Planning for extension of water and ewevrage networks Is done        Advance receipt of
and Construction    In-house for smaller water and *sworago projects. Planning for      dhtai led designs for lox
major expanslons or spc;tIized Jobs Is done by external             of total project coots
consultants, and the construct;u. Is carreld out by private         prior to Neootiations.
cortractors.
Operations and      SAMEPAR hoe exces capacity In certain municipalities; this
Maintenance         copaciVy would utilised by the proposd project.
Lose" are equal to about 27r of total water production; this        Loose  would be mnitored
Ic slightly lower than the sector average for stats water          via Indlcotoro, to bP
copanies.                                                           agreed durlng Nsgotia-
tions.
Human Resource      SANEPAR'o total staf numbered about 6,e1e at the ed of  KtS, or
Development         about 271 connectlons par staff (1.l5 million connections).
Salaries levele are comprable to other Parans Stats copanies.
A training program Is boing Identified.                             To be furnished to the
Sank prior to Neootia-
ti ons.
1/ On January 15, 19O, the governamt announced Piano Verso, which among other
easures, estblished a n  currency (devalued by about 291).



ANNEX 3.3
Page 1 of 3
45
BRAZIL
MUNICIPAL DEVELOPHMENT PROJECT
IN THE STATE OF PARANA
Detailed Description of Pilot Housing Sub-Proiect
1.          Background.  Annual population growth in Brazil is currently about
2.3Z with the urban population growing at about 3.OZ annually. Until 1986, the
Banco National de Habitacao (BNH) was the primary source of finance for housing.
A multitude of state agencies (COHAB's) were involved in on-lending operations
from the BNH, and also in executing shelter sub-projects. In 1986, the Caisa
Economica Federal (CEF) assumed BNH's role after it was abolished. As with the
BNH, the CEF also relies on the compulsory FGTS (social security) contributions
from workers' salaries (workers receive on a 32 real interest on their savings)
to finance its opopular housing" program. It has long been a basic premise in
Brazil that high subsidies are required for low-income housing. As the cost of
housing increased, the upper limits of qualifying family income were raised from
a minimum of 3 (about US$150) to 10 minimum salaries (about US$500). Those who
received units were thus receiving larger subsidies at the expense of those who
did not get any. Because mortgage payments were indexed at a much lower rate than
actual inflation, a large unpaia balance remained at the end of each loan and
this, as well as bad debt amounts, was met out of the Federal budget. Thus
housing policy in Brazil has been plagued by huge implicit subsidies to a
relatively few families.   With recent stringency conditions imposed by the
Federal government, both the CEF and the state agencies have had to seriously
reduce their activities in the sub-sector as available funds became scarcer. In
fact,  in most states of Brazil   formal- housing delivery for low income
populations is virtually paralysed. On the other hand, in addition to the
existing deficit for the period 1985/90 estimated at 400,000 units, it is
estimated that a further 360,000 units will be required for the period 1990195
to accommodate incremental growth.   Of this total of existing deficit and
demographic demand of about 760,000 units, about 5O0 would be required by
families earning less than 5 minimum salaries, and the bulk of these units are
expected to be constructed by the informal sector.
2.          During preparation of this pr.oject, it was felt housing issues should
be addressed in a comprehensive manner under a separate project at the national,
state and local level. A successful long term policy for housing finance must
necessarily be linked to overall policy adjustments in the financial sector as
a whole. This issue is being studied by the Finance, Trade and Industry Division
(LAITI) of the Brazil Department.  The drastic cutback of available funding
however, and severe demand for affordable housing has placed a tremendous burden
on state and municipal governments to respond in some way. Some municipalities
have embarked on individual programs, sometimes without a full assessment of the
negative financial impacts of conventional housing solutions, on their finances.
On the other hand, new opportunities have emerged. Recent constitutional changes
legitimizing squatter's rights on land occupied over five years, encourage the
issuance of legal title nd hence access to secured house construction loans fir
households already in the 'favelas'. At the same time new settlements can be



ANNEX 3.3
Page 2 of 3
46
located in areas that do not constrain the future growth of the cities and towns.
The statutory requirements for each municipality with a population of 20,000 or
more, are for the preparation of a "Plano Diretor*(land use plan). These permit
local governments to plan ahead, and direct growth through incentives, such as
low-cost minimally serviced land and land titles. The cost of provision of
infrastructure will be met through sub-loans from the FDU to the host
municipalities. With titles to lots, individual households can in turn secure
mortgages directly from a financing institution (such as COHAPAR). Also some
target households already have title to small lots, are living in rented
temporary accommodation, but do not have access to credit, and could thus also
participate in the program.
3.          It was decided to include a pilot operation in order to work with
appropriate shelter agencies and municipalities to seek replicable solutions that
avoid som  of the main problems which . have historically plagued housing
investments in Brazil, e.g., decapitalization in a high-inflation environment,
high subsidies, mismatching of solutions and beneficiaries, etc.
4.          Component Cost and Description. This component is estimated to cost
about US$7.2 million equivalent for the construction of approximately 2,700 units
(25-50 m2)  self-hel2' for families earning 3-5 minimum salaries.  The state
will provide half of this cost with the Bank loan financing the other half.
Beneficiary contribution will be through the land they own and their self-help
in house construction (with technical assistance from COHAPAR, the State Housing
Company of Parana).
5.          COHAPAR will. be the implementing agency for this component. Its
implementation, administrative and financial performance were reviewed by the
mission and found to be satisfactory. COHAPAR has had about 24 year's experience
in mortgage lending. It currently has an active portfolio of about 55,318 loans
of a total of 73,281, and its delinquency rate at 16.7Z (3 months or more
overdue) is one of the lowest in Brazil for low income housing. Nevertheless,
this component will include-measures to improve this record even more. Further
details of COHAPAR are in the project files. COHAPAR will on-lend the proceeds
from the FDU to famillep for terms of 15 years at the same variable rate of
interest it is charged by the FDU. and will apply monetary correction as for
other FDU funds. COHAPAR's fees and charges are estimated at 7.51 of total
construction costs and the cost of interest during construction (also about 7.5X)
would both be capitalised into the sub-loan and be repaid over 15 years. This
translates into about US$500  for an average sized unit. COHAPAR'S services
would include preparation, certification, registration of title, obtainment of
permits, supervision of construction, legal fees and transfer of title on
completion.
6.          During appraisal the mission reviewed proposals by COHAPAR and the
state for implementation of this component. COHAPAR is in the process of
finalizing modified procedures and criteria for evaluation and selection of
beneficiaries in line with Bank requirements.   As a minimum,  these will
stipulate: (a) The target group will be up to 5 minimum salaries; (b) the maximum
size of unit to be financed will not exceed 50 m2; (c) monthly loan repayments
must not exceed 30 X of monthly household income; aid (d) beneficiaries must
already possess registered title, or receive a written commitment from the



ANNEX 3.3
Page 3 of 3
47
municipality that such title will be granted to the beneficiary upon completion
of construction. During Negotiations agreement was reached that expenditures
under a Sub-Loan to finance a housing subproject would be conditional to the
Bank's prior approval of a detailed social, technical and financial appraisal
(including a description of the intended beneficiaries) of such Sub-project
prepared by COHAPAR and approved- by the PCU.
7.           In addition COHAPAR's administrative,  financial and technical
capability would be strengthened through technical assistance and trailling for
key staff, and for the study of a long-term State strategy for addressing low
income housing needs. Terms of Reference for technical assistance in this
connection would be sent for prior review to the Bank.
8.          Because of the pilot nature of this component, COHAPAR has undertaken
to set up detailed indicators satisfactory to the Bank for monitoring policy
adherence to financial policy, physical and technical performance, and to submit
quarterly progress reports through the PCU consistent with Bank requirements
for the project. During Negotiations, it was agreed that under a Participation
Agreement, the- Borrower would require that COHAPAR carry out, or assist in
carrying out housing sub-projects and provide where necessary such social, legal
and technical assistance services to low income Families and groups or
organisations of low income families. In addition, it was also agreed that a mid-
term review and evaluation would be carried out, not later than September 30,
1991, on the execution performance under this pilot project, on the adequacy of
housing loans. their benefits and main problems, and the adequacy of the amounts
allocated to this sub-component and to sub-loans under the project. (see also
para. 3.12).



ANNEX 3.4
Page 1 of 4
48
BRAZIL
MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
IN THE STATE OF PARANA
Community Facilities Sub-Proiects
Day Care Centers (Child Care Centers)
1.          This sub-component is designed to address the needs for child care
in Parana, by implementing a pilot project of investments in day care (child
care) facilities in low income communities.   The project will finance the
construction and rehabilitation of child care centers, providing each
municipality with an opportunity to introduce reforms the current system of cost
sharing arrangements between the municipality and the state (and users). Demand
for these services is very high. According to official data only 11.32 of the
target age group (from 3 months to 6 years old) of the low-income families are
being attended in child care centers. The proposed institutional approach and
financing arrangements would resul'c in a significant improvement in the
provision of these services. The sub-component would finance a total of 51
units: 9 new day care centers and rehabilitation of 42 existing centers. It is
expected that the investments will provide attendance for about 2,400 children
of the target age group.
2.          The total base cost of the component is US$ 1.9 million including
US$  0.5  million  for  constructing  the  new  units,  US$  1.1  million  for
rehabilitation of the existing units, and US$0.3 million for equipment. These
costs will >ie funded as follows:
Percent           US$ million
FDU Sub-loan             452                 0.85
Municipal contribution  252                  0.50
State grant              302                 0.57
These costs do not include the acquisition of land for the new units, as sites
would be provided by the municipality.
3.          The total annual costs of operation and mainter-ance are estimated
at US$ 0.26 million for the new units and US$ 0.61 million for the rehabilitated
units. Sub-loans would be made directly to the municipality, as the municipality
would be offering the collateral guarantees and would assume all debt. It is
proposed that established local community organizations (NGOs) will play a
greater role in the operation and maintenance of the facilities, to ensure that
such facilities are well operated and fully utilized.
4.          The implementation of this component will be in accordance with the
implementation of PEDU, and will be completed in five years as follows:



ANNEX 3.4
Page 2 of 4
49
Number of units
Year 1   Year 2   Year 3   Year 4  Year 5   TOTAL
Construction      1       2        2         2        2        9
Rehabilitation    5       9         9        9       10       42
TOTAL             6      11       11        11       12       51
==__ _ *~~~~~-              -      ---      - -       ---
5.          PEDU and the State Secretariat of works  and Social Se.,vices
(Secretaria de Estado do TrabaItzo e Acao Social) would by negotiations, submit
the results of a survey currently underway, based on which, a plan will be
prepared acceptable to Bank, that will outline the institutional arrangements
for inclusion of the NGOs in the implementation, operation and maintenance of
the Day Care program.
6.          Participation in this component will be open only, to municipalities
receiving other loans from the PDU. The following selection criteria will be
used for determining priorities among sub-borrowers:
(a) Those municipalities with high number of seasonal farm workers (bo$as-
frias) and a high deficit in child-care centers;
(b) Receipt of Detailed Plan of operating costs, and that these are within
PEDU norms;
5C) Users of the Center are from low-income areas not already served by
another Center;
Id) the municipality has demonstrated adequate arrangements for operating
the facility (such as a convenio' with an NGO); and (d) The municipality
will retain title to any NGO operaced center financed by the municipality.
Health Centers
7.          The Health Center sub-component of PEDU is integrated with the
investment program of Sistema Unificado e Descentralizado de Saude (SUDS), the
State Government's program for the health sector. The project will improve the
network of basic health units and responds to the directives of the "Plano
Diretor de Investimentos no Setor Saude no Parana" (State Master Plan for the
Health Sector) calling for investments In basic and specialized service units
to help reduce the serious deficit in various regions of the State.
8.       - The total base cost of the component is US$ 6.2 million will be
funded as follows:   -



ANNEX 3.4
Page 3 of 4
50
Percent           US$ millicv
FDU Sub-loan            45X                 2.79
Municipal contribution  25?                 1.55
State grant             30?                 1.86
These costs do not include the acquisition of land for the new units, as sites
would be  provided bv  the municipality.    The project would  finance  the
construction and equipment costs of 47 health units, at an average of US$
150,000 each. Seven (7) units would be constructed in the newly created
municipalities uhich do not yet have basic health units, 37 in cities of from
20,000 to 60,000 inhabitants, and 3 units in cities with more than 60,000
inhabitants.
9.          The units will be operated under SUDS norms which specify a
municipal/state cost-sharing. Approximately 652 of the municipal share of
operating costs will be underwritten by SUDS. This corresponds to less than 1?
of-the SUDS 1989 budget. Special selection criteria have been agreed as follows
for participating municipalitieo:
(a) Must qualify as a Okey.citylin a health region (Cidade polo de Micro-
Regiao de Saude);
(b) Be a new municipality or meat the population criteria noted above;
.c) Have concluded a SUDS Agreement to finance training costs of personnel
chosen to work in the new units.
Schools
10.         This sub-component would expand the capacity of municipal primary
schools (grades 1 to 4) with additional claasrooms, sanitary facilities, and
equipment serving a target population of approximately 500,000 students, Most
grade schools in Parana are overcrowded; 20? hold three sessions a day of 3 to
3 1,2 hours, instead of two sessions of 4 to 4 1/2 hours (considered the minimum
basic requirement). Under the project a total of 654 new classrooms in existing
schools, including basic sanitary facilities and equipment, would be
constructed. The component would benefit about 45,780 students.
11.         The total base cost of the component iz US$ 11.23 million will be
funded as follows:
Percent           USS million
FDU Sub-loan            45?                 5.05
Municipal contribution  25?                 2.80
State grant             30?                 3.36
The incremental operating expenses to be paid by the municipality are very low,
equalling less.than 0.1? of the total budget of the municipality. The project
would be executed by the municipalities over a five-year period. FUNDEPAR - The
'Fundacao Educacional do Estado do Parana", a State agency with more than 15
years of experience in school design and construction, would assist in project
execution.



ANNEX 3.4
Page 4 of 4
51
12.         The following selection criteria will be used for determluing
priorities among sub-borrowerss
(a) The schools must be registered in the Secretary for Education's List
of Schools to be designated for conversion from a Three (3) to a Two (2)
Sessions/Day;
(b) The municipality (sub-borrower) must be a subscriber to the 'Ciclo
Basico" program of the State of Parara;
(c) The municipality must demonstrate that adequate provision has been
made for operation and maintenance of facilities.
Fire Stations
13.         This component will build 19 fire stations over a six-year period.
At present approximately 102 of all Parana municipalities operate fire stations.
Although it is a state function, the municipalities in Parana are entitled, by
their "Lei Organica", to share provision of the service with the state through
an agreement formalized in a 'convenio".  The municipalities are responsible for
investments and maintenance costs, and the state for personnel expenses. Apart
from state  funds,  the fire squad is supported by -FUNRBOM -  'Fundo de
Reequipamento de -Bombeiros', which is a fund collected by the municipality
through special levies. Additional reooveries may yield to the municipality a
significant reduction in fire insurance premiums (from 20Z to 601).
14.         The total cost of the component is USS 1.27 million will be funded
as follows:
Percent           US$ million
FDU Sub-loan             45Z                 0.57
Municipal contribution  25X  -               0.32
State grant              30?                0.38
Land costs would not be financed by the project, but would be provided by the
municipalities.  The new units would be equipped by the municipalities, by the
Fire Squad or by private entities as in the past.   In the first year the
municipality would pay all direct operating costs (which are principally modest
charges for water, energy and telephone), excluding personnel expenses
(customarily paid by the State). After the first year operating costs would be
paid by FUNREBOM.
15.         The following selection criteria will be used for determining
priorities among sub-borrowers:
(a) The municipality has passed a law founding a FUNREBOM unit;
(b) The municipality lacks a facility;
(c) The municipality demonstrates that it can adequately equip, operate
and maintain the fire station.
16.         During negotiations, agreement will be sought on the criteria for
the allocation of grant funds out of the PDU for eligible community services,
in connection with sub-loans for municipalities. as noted in Annex 5 and ln
para. 4.04.



A'NNEX 3.5
Page 1 of 2
52
BRAZIL
MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
IN THE STATE OF PARANA
Other Infrastructure Components
1.          In addition to the foregoing outlined in Annexes 3.1-3.4, the project
includes other sub-components, from which eligible municipalities w-ill select
eligible sub-projects, as described below:
(a) Paving (US$37.3 million). This sub-component includes local roads, minor
bridge reconstruction, sidewalks, and related civil works (such as retaining
walls, and road-related drainage works), where necessary.  Readily available
materials--asphalt in some cases and cobblestones for the remainder, depending
on the levels of traffic to be sustained and existing conditions--will be used.
In the municipalities where adequate technical capacity exists, the Municipal
Secretariat of Public Works (Secretaria Municipal de Obras Publicas), would be
responsible for the design and supervision of the works. In the remaining cases
the Roads Department of the State of Parana, would assist with the administration
of the works. with the assistance of consultants for engineering and construction
supervision. In all cases the works will be selected, financed, implemented and
maintained in accordance with the policies and procedures as pet out in the
Operation Manuals of PEDU (See Annex 8).
(b) Street Lighting (US$9.4 million). Under this sub-component, public lighting
would be extended in low-income neighborhoods. Because of the special technical
nature of the work, specialized contractors accredited to the State Power Company
(COPEL) will be used, but will nevertheless be selected through procurement
procedures consistent with those set out the SAR (Section 3, paragraphs 3.06-
3.08).
(c) Drainage and/or Erosion Control (US$9.9 million). This component would
include the construction and in some cases the rehabilitation, of drainage
networks and related civil works, particularly in low-income areas.   Lands
subject to flooding and/or very steep slopes routinely have been avoided by the
formal sector for residential or other development, because of the high costs
of site preparation; such land has, by default, become the first choice for low-
income settlement. Urban settlement has both (a) increased the area of
impermeable surface area and thus the volume of "run-off"; and (b) aggravated
this problem as a result of the accumulation of uncollected solid waste, and
other debris. Development on steep hillsides has also created severe erosion
problems, and will require the construction of drainage channels, retaining walls
and/or other slope stabilization measures. Similar conditions as noted above
led to the disaster in the Metropolitan Region of Rio following the severe rains
in February 1988, for which Bank Loan 2975-BR, Rio Reconstruction and Prevention
Project, was made.



ANNEX 3.5
Page 2 of 2
53
The coordination of this component will be through the Superintendencia do
Controle da Erosao e Saneamento Ambiental (SUCEAM), and implementation will be
by either municipal or state agencies, depending on their capacity, and will be
in accordance with the policies and procedures as set out in the Operation
Manuals of PEDU (See Annex 8).
(d) Solid Waste Management (US$15 million) This component would consist of the
construction of sanitary land-fill sites, and the construction and installation
of special facilities for the. collection and disposal of hazardous waste, in
various micro-regions of the State. it is estimated that about one third of urban
households burned, buried, or simply discarded their garbage in vacant lots or
in drainage systems. Inadequate attention is also given to the eavironmental
aspects of disposing of hospital and other hazardous wastes, including its
necessary separation from other waste.   With a few exceptions,  individual
municipalities do not have the financial and institutional resources to select
and assemble suitable sites, or construct, operate and maintain such facilities.
As such, the State has to coordinate such efforts and assume direct
responsibilities for certain functions. The Superintendencia do Recursos Hidricos
e Meio Ambiente (SUREHHA) would be responsible for implementing the Toxic Waste
sub-component and would provide technical support and coordinate the investments
by municipalities in solid waste management sub-projects.
2.          Prior to approving any investments in solid waste, SUREHMA viill
ensure that such investments are in conformity with a "Plano Diretor' (master
plan) for the specific micro-region in question, and that management of solid
waste services (policy, collection, transportation to disposal sit"s, cost
recovery, etc.,) by participating municipalities is adequate, and where it is
deficient, that, the respective management will be improved at the same time. The
cost for carrying out such studies and technical support, are included in the
Institutional Development component of PEDU.
3.          During Negotiations, agreement was reached that disbursement against
the toxic waste sub-components would be subject to prior Bank approval of a
detailed *technical, financial, instit',itional, economic and- environmental
appraisal of each sub-protect to be carried out by SUREHMA.
(e) Resettlement resultins from infrastructure investments. No disruption of
existing populations or familie6, was identified during appraisal, as a possible
consequence of the implementation of subprojects. However in the eventuality that
in isolated cases, that some resettlement may be necessary, it was agreed during
Negotiations, and as a Condition of Disbursement for expenditures under any Sub-
Loan to finance a Sub-project which entails relocation of families, that the
Bank will have communicated its prior approval of the respective resettlement
plan, and that the Sub-borrower has resumed a legally binding commitment to carry
out such a plan.



ANNEX 4
54
BRAZIL
MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
IN THE STATE OF PARANA
Selection Criteria for Eligible Sub-Borrowers
CRITERIA FOR MUNICIPAL PARTICIPATION IN PEDU
In order to participate in the program, municipalities must have
adequate debt absorption capacity measured by:
(i)   outstanding and proposed debt obligations being within reasonable
limits, so that total outstanding and proposed debt will not to
exceed 70? of total municipal revenues (less.-their borrowing), of the
previous year, duly adjusted for inflation (as per current Brazilian
legislation), and
(ii)  total debt s8.  'ce on total outstanding and proposed loans not
exceeding 152 ot total budgeted revenues for the previous year, duly
adjusted for inflation (as per current Brazilian legislation).
ELIGIBILITY OF SUB-BORROWERS
The main conditions for receiving Sub-loans by each Sub-borrower
under PEDU were agreed as follows:
(a)   a demonstrated capacity to service the proposed debt and also to be able
to operate and maintain the new investments:
(i)   for municipalities and municipal water companies, this will be based
on the submission of a Financial Action Program (FAP), a program for
Institutional Development, and an Investment Plan, all satisfactory
to FAMEPAR (and the Bank);
(ii)  for SANEPAR, the submission of an Investment Plan and  maintenance
of a prQgressive tariff structure covering all costs, including debt
service, satisfactory to the PFCU (and the Bank), and submission-by
SANEPAR of formal evidence of compliance with the Financial
Recuperation Plan for Fiscal 1988.
(b)   the acceptance by each Sub-borrowers of the financial terms and conditions
as specified in the sub-loan agreements with the FDU through the PCU and
FAMEPAR, and
(c)   agreement  by  each  Sub-borrower  to  comply with  the  guidelines  and
procedures, including procurement, accounting, monitoring,. reporting, etc.
set out in the Operation Manuals of PEDU.



ANNEX 5
Page 1 of 2
55
BRAZIL
MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
IN THE STATE OF PARANA
Selection Criteria for Eligible Sub-Proiects
The list of Sub-projects eligible for financing under PEDU ares
A. INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT
(a) Technical Assistances FAMEPAR and selected state agencies; (b)
Technical Assistance for Municipalities; (c) Training program for FAMEPAR
and selected state sector agencies; (d) Training program for municipalities
(see: Annex 3.1 for details).
B. INFRASTRUCTURE
!.1   Municipal Infrastructure
(a) Paving; (b) Street Lighting; (c) Community Facilities (School
Extensions, Health Centers, Day-Care Centets and Fire Stations);  (d)
Markets; (e) Bus Terminals.
B.2   Sanitation and Environment
(a) Water Supply; (b) Sewerage; (c) Solid Waste Management; (d) Toxic Waste
Management; (e) Drainage and Erosion Control; (f) Slaughter Houses.
B.3   Housing
(a) Housing Construction Loans -
For Sub-Proiects in Part A:
(a)   For Trainini, the first year's program, will have previously been
reviewed by the-Bank, and found satisfactory;
(b)   For Technical Assistance, Model Terms of Reference will have been
previously reviewed by the Bank, and found satisfactory.
For Sub-Projects under Part Bs
Each sub-project will:
(a)   be designed to primarily benefit low income beneficiaries;
(b)   demonstrate  its  technical  feasibility  through  an  appropriate
technical evaluation approved by FAMEPAR;



ANNE( 5
Page 2 of 2
56
(c)   demonstrate a satisfactory economic and financial performance as
approved by FANEPAR;
(d)   have a positive environmental impact.
Special Criteria For PARTIALLY GRANT-FUNDED Comtunity Facilities
Because of the high demand for grant-financing and the limited
resources available, and the need to ensure that the new facilities can be
adequately operated and maintained, the following additional criteria will be
applied for determining priorities among such eligible sub-projects:
(1) School Extensions
(a)   The schools must be registered in the Secretary for Education's List
of Schools to be designated for conversion from a Three (3) to a Two
(2) Sessions/Day;
(b).  The municipality (sub-borrower) must be a subscriber to the 'Ciclo
Basico' program of the State of Parana;
(c) The municipality must demonstrate that adequate provision has been
made for operating and maintenance of facilities.
(2) Health Centers
(a)   Must qualify as a "key citynin a health region (Cidade polo de Micro-
Regiao de Saude);
(b) Have a SUDS Agreement to finance training costs of personnel chosen
to work in the new unit2.
(3) Day-Care Centers
(a)   Receipt of Detailed Plan of operating  costs, and that these are
within PEDU norms;
(b)   Users of the Center are to be from low-income areas not already
served by another Center;
(c) The municipality has demonstrated adequate arrangements for operating
the facility (such as a Oconvenio' with an NGO); and
(d) The municipality will retain title to any NGO operated center
financed by the municipality.
(4) Fire-Stations
(a) The municipality must have passed a law founding a FUNREBOM unit;
(b)   The municipality must lack an existmng facility;
(c) The municipality must demonstrate that it can adequately equip,
-operate and maintain the fire station.



57                             ANNEX 6
BRAZIL - MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
IN THE STATE OF PARANA
Project Costs and Financing Plan
(US$ million)
PROJECT COSTS:                                                          2 of
Base
A. INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT                       .17.9                 9.62
- Technical Assistance                            13.1                 7.02
-.Training                                         4.8                 2.62
B. INFRASTRUCTURE                                  169.3                90.42
B.1 Municipal Infrastructure                       74.8                39.92
- Paving                                          37.3                19.92
- Street lighting                                  9.4                 5.02
- Health Posts                                     6.2                 3.32
- Day Care Centers                                 1.9                 1.02
- Schools                                         11.2                 6.02
- Fire station                                     1.2                 0.62
- Slaughterhouses                                  2.4                 1.32
- Markets                                          2.5                 1.32
- Terminals                                        2.8                 1.52
B.2 Environmental Health Infrastructure            87.3                46.62
- 'ater (SANEPAR)                                 48.5                25.9Z
- Sewerage (SANEPAR)                              13.9                 7.42
- Drainage works (erosion)                         9.9                 5.32
- Solid waste collectionltreatment                15.0                 8.02
B.3 Housing Construction Loans                      7.2                 3.82
- Housing Construction Loans                       7.2                 3.82
BASE COST:                               187.2               100.02
Physical Contingencies                   18.7                10.02
Price Contingencies                      21.0                11.22
TOTAL PROJECT COST:                      226.9               121.22
FINANCING PLAN
Proposed IBRD Loan                                 100.0                44.12
State of Parana                                     67.4                29.72
Sub-Borrowers                                       59.5                26.22
TOTAL:                                   226.9               100.02
NOTE: All project costs are shown including direct taxes, which amount to
about 9.82. Interest during construction would be approximately
US$13.0 million equivalent, and financed by the sub-borrowers.



ANNEX 7
Page 1 of 3
58
BRAZIL
MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
IN THE STATE OF PARANA
Implementation Arrangements
1.          The primary responsibility for Qveratl project coordination and
mauagement of the FDU will remain with the Secretariat of Urban Development
(SEDU) through a special project coordination unit (PCU). General project
execution will rest with FAMEPAR, the Parana State agency responsible for
overseeing municipal development. FAMEPAR is located within SEDU. BANESTADO
will administer the PDU under the direction of the PCU. The institutional
arrangements agreed are as followss
2.          SEDUIPCU - Because of the special nature of PEDU and the importance
that the state government place on its satisfactory performance, the PCU woulds
(i) monitor the overall performance of the project; (ii) ensure overall
compliance with project objectives; (iii) msanage and monitor the performance
of the FDU (administered on behalf of the state government by BANESTADO).
including, that timely and adequate budgetary   appropriations are made and
transferred to the FDU; (iv) appraise the financial and institutional capacity
of SANEPAR, COHAPAR and other non-municipal Sub-borrowers (through the use of
Consultants as necessary); (v) maintain high level contact with key officials
as necessary, for dealing with any special problems that may arise from time
to time; and (vi) perform the functions of a technical secretariat for PEDU
including responsibility for all reporting requirements to the Bank.
3.          FAMEPAR - The project's implementation (for municipal sub-borrowers)
will be carried out by FAMEPAR through the restructuring of its central offices
located in the state capital, Curitiba, and 16 regional centers. The Central
ProJect Office (CPO) will be reorganized tos (a) carry out detailed monitoring
of the project; (b) carry out the financial and institutional appraisal of each
sub-borrower according to pre-agreed criteria (FAMEPAR will be assisted by
IPARDES for carrying out the Institutional Appraisal); (c) carry out appraisal
of sub-projects for those municipalities within the administrative regional
jurisdiction ofthe CPO; and Id) provide general administration and support
services for the regional offices.
Within the CPO three key divisions are of particular importance:
(a) Division for Sub-Borrower Appraisals - this division will be
responsible for: (i) appraising the debt capacity of sub-borrowers and the
evaluation of their Financial Action Plans (FAP's) for strengthening
financial  management  and  fiscal  performance;  (ii)  evaluating  the
institutional  and  technical  capacity  of  sub-borrowers  and  their
requirements for training and technical assistance; and (iii) evaluating
the performance of sub-borrowers within the pre-agreed Ftnancial Action
Plans. The special need for staffing this unit with experienced public



ANNEX 7
Page 2 of 3
59
finance experts (if necessary, through use of consultants) was emphasized
and agreed.
(b) Division for Sub-project Appraisal - this division would: ti) evaluate
sub-projects after the satisfactory appraisal of sub-borrowers was
completed by Division (a) above. Experienced technical staff (engineers,
architects, sociologists) staff would be assigned to appraise sector sub-
projects; (ii) review compliance with procurement procedures; (iii)
supervise the construction of civil works to completion although day to
day supervision would be the responsibility of the state's regional sector
agencies. However FAMEPAR would in addition, carry out regular periodic
supervision, (through the use of consultants where necessary), to ensure
'quality-control' of supervision activities,. and-adherence to technical
guidelines as set out in the Operation Manuals.
(c} Division for-Monitoring and Evaluation - this division which should
report directly to the President FA4MEPAR, will be responsible (i) carrying
out overall monitoring and evaluation of municipal performance; and (ii)
compliance by support agencies with the objectives and modus-operandi of
the project as set out in the Operation Manual.
4.          BANESTADO - will act as the Financial Agent for the Borrower. Its
services will include: (i) the administration of the FDU; it would handle both
World Bank disbursements and state counterpart funds and the on-lending of these
funds to eligible sub-borrowers and also the repayment of the sub loans made;
(.ii) preparation and execution of sub-contracts; (iii) review of contracts,
procurement documents, and other such tasks normally related to on-lending
operations.
5.          REGIONAL PROJECT OFFICES (WPOs) - these centers would be primarily
responsible for carrying out sub-project appraisals (pee paragraph 2(b) above)
in accordance with pre-agreed criteria, and for coordinating implementation of
the project in the regions.
6.          During Negotiations agreement was reached that the PCU and FAMEPAR
will be adequately staffed and provided with functions and other resources, to
carry out its tasks in a manner satisfactory to the Bank. In this connection,
the Bank emphasized the necessity of not increasing excessively the size of the
staff force, but instead, through a greater reliance on the efficient re-
deployment of existing staff of SEDU and reassignment of experienced staff from
other state government agencies, and through the extensive use of specialist
consultant skills. It was also agreed that by October 31, of each year, the PCU
and FAMEPAR will carry out jointly with the Bank a yearly review of: (i) the
borrowing capacity and creditworthiness of the municipalities, SANEPAR, COHAPAR
and other Eligible Sub-borrowers; (ii) resource allocation, including grants and
sub-loans, under PEDU by region, type of municipalities, and nature of
investments-for the current and forthcoming calendar years; (iii) indicators of
fiscal, financial and cost recovery performance of the Sub-borrowers; and (iv)
the status of the Institutional Development Component.  The will also be an
annual-review of the monitoring and evaluation program (para. 3.12);



ANNEX 7
Page 3 of 3
60
SUMMARY OF KEY STEPS FOR LAUNCHING PEDU
7.          The PEDU project is to be formally launched as soon as possible to
enable all participating municipalities to prepare their budgetary projections
for calendar year 1990, utilizing procedures designed under PEDU. Key steps are
as folloW8s 
Step 1.     Start of advance promotion (First seminar with all newly elected
mayors was held in January 1989).
Step 2.     Commencement of orientation program for project implementation staff.
Release of promotional material including information on key dates
for the release of documents.
Step 3.     Start of full-scale promotion.
Step 4.     First Participation Agreements with FAMEPAR signed.
Municipalities receive Operational Manuals and FAP Manuals.
Full-scale "Orientation Seminars" launched (one per week) throughout
state.
Step 5.     Then the following PROCESS is started by each municipalitys
(a)   Municipality assembles data for FAP.
(b) It receives technical assistance from FAMEPAR or it appoints its own
consultants (FAMEPAR will have standard Terms of Reference for this
task). Municipal counterpart staff work jointly with consultants in
preparation of FAP, (and/or with FAMEPAR/IPARDES/etc.).
(c)   The PAP and a request for a sub-loan is received by FAMEPAR.
(d)   FAMEPAR (assisted by IPARDES for Institutional Appraisal) completes
the financial and institutional evaluation of the municipality, and
recommends   specific   conditions   for   sub-loans   (operational
improvements, financial targets, training, technical assistance
requirements, etc.), and recommends municipality to BANESTADO as
eligible for a sub-loan and the limit thereof.
(e)   Municipal Sub-projects are evaluated by FAMEPAR
(f)   BANESTADO prepares and executes Sub-Loan Agreement with municipality.
(g)   Sub-loans installment payments are released in stages based on
satisfactory execution of works
(h) On completion of civil works, BANESTADO releases final payment and
Municipality assumes responsibility for operation and maintenance
(i)............. PROCESS RESTARTS FOR YEAR TWO.



61                        ANNEX 8
BRAZIL
MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
IN THE STATE OF PARANA
Operation Manuals
The Operation Manuals are a crucial element in the execution of the
project. They will set out the operating rules and proceedures (including the
terms and conditions governing Sub-loans) for implementing PEDU.
The Manuals will be referenced in the Legal Agreements, and provision
will be made for their amendment from time to-time, if so required by practical
considerations, and then, only by prior agreement between the Borrower and the
Bank.
The Manuals (including the Technical Annexes) will cover the
following:
(a)   Glossary of Terms
Cb)  Project objectives and description of PEDU
(c)   Organisational structure for project implementation
id)   Step by Step proceedures for participating in program
Ce)   Criteria for participating in PEDU
(g)  Criteria for selection of Sub-Borrowers
(h)   Criteria for selection of Eligible Sub-projects
(i)   Institutional and Financial Appraisal for Sub-Borrowers
(j)   Model Participation Agreement
(k)   Terms and Conditions for Sub-Loans
(1)   Model Sub-Loan Agreement (with to Technical Annex)
(m)   Policy and Recommendations for Cost Recovery
(n)   Criteria for Sub-Project selection
(o)   Procurement Guidelines (with Technical Annex)
(p)   Accounting, Auditing and Reporting Requirements
(q)   Monitoring Indicators (Agency, Key Indicators and Frequency)
(r)   Index (Quick Reference Guide) names, addresses and
telephone/telex/Fax contact for project information in SEDU,
FAMEPAR, the Central Project Office (CPO) and each Regional Project
Office (RPO).
Technical Annexes:
(1)   Diagonoptic Manuals (Financial Action Plan and Institutional)
(2)   Procurement ( Model Bidding Documents, Model Terms of Reference for
Consulting services for Institutional Development Component, etc)
(3)   Model Standard Contracts for Civil Works
(4)   Check List (supporting documents required for sub-loan
assumption in compliance with local laws)..
(5)   Check List and Questionaire for sub-projects appraisal
(6)   Accounting  and  Disbursement  (Certification  of  Expenditures,
supporting documentation etc.); Reporting Requirements.



62
ANNEX C
page 1 of 2
BRAZIL
Municipal Development Project in the State of Parana
Monitoring Indicators
Indkstor                        '1i      1990     1991     3992      1998
Central and Regional Project
Organizations (CPO A RPO&)
No. Perticipating Mu-iiepe./State Total
No. Sub-loan Applice. Received
No. Appies. Evaluated/Applics. Received
No. Applies. Approved/Applics. Evaluated
Average Sub-bor. Appraisal Time (days)
Total Sub-loan Processing Time (days)
Average Sub-loan Size (USS equtv)
Municipalities      -
Financial (USS *quiv.)
Cur.-Acet. Surplus with Grants (Savings)
Cur.Acc.Surp. without Grants (Own Savings)
Own Savings/Total Revenues
Tax Revenues/Total Revenues
Debt Service/Total Revenues
Personnel Expenditures/Total Expenditures
Operational/Institutional
No. Participating Institutions
No. Proposals Received
Proposal Preparation Time (days)
No. Applics. Submitted/No. Proposals
Average Application Size
BANESTADO as Operator of FDU
No. Dis.b Requests Rele-ived/Month
Disbursement Procesvi.g Time (days)
No. Defaulting Sub-borrowers
No. Sub-borrowers with Overdue Payments
Average Period of Dilinquent Payments
Training Agencies
No. Participating Institutions
No. Participating Muncipalities
No. of Persons Trained
No. of Events
Average Cost Per Person Per Course
Average Participants In Each Program



63
ANNEX 9
page 2 of 2
BRAZIL
Uunicip;l Development Projoet In th- State of Paeana
Uonitoring Indicators
Indlcatwe                      1989     1990     1991      1992     1993
SANEPAR
Financial
Operating Expenees/Opereting Revenues          0.79      1.79     0.70     6.76     0.77
Dobt/(Debt jlue Equity)                        0.70      0.66     0.68     B.88     0.67
(Op. Aceta. Receivable tims 3866)/Op. Revs.      66       as        66       58      so
Operational/Institutional
No. Consumers/No. Employees                      276      283      291     386       866
Unaccounted-For Water/Production (X)              27X      26X      26X      28X      22X
Water Coverage (1)  -                             82W      823      82X      83%      83%
Sewerage Coverage (X)                             28S      28%      29X      29%      29X
NOTE: Specific indicators are indicative, and do not represent the final choice of monitoring indicators.
Final choice of monitoring Indicators, and agreement on levels would
be made before September 80, 1989; all monitoring indicators would subsequently
be Incorporated into the Participation Agreements between tae Sub-borrowers
and BANESTADO.



ANNEA 10
Page 1 of 9
64
BRAZIL - MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
IN TEE STATE OF PARANA
Urban Development Fund - FDU
Key Features of FDU
1.          A key feature which distinguishes this project from previous urban
municipal development loans supported by the Bank in Brazil is the emphasis given
to a newly created Urban Development Fund (FDU) and its institutionalization in
Parana, designed to provide municipalities and other state agencies with an
annual source of investment funds for municipal development projects after the
Bank loan disburses. Simulations indicate that FDU could continue its lending
after the year 5 at an ayerage rate similar to the first 5 yeara including an
appropriation of up to 40? of net earnings for grants of 10? of project costs.
It could thus become a permanent instrument for financing municipal development
in the State. During the Bank loan disbursement period the FDU is funded from
three sourcess
(a)   Annual State appropriations as a permanent contribution to the
capital-of the FDU.
(b)   Re-deployment of sub-loan, cash flow during the five-year Bank grace
period.
(c)   Reinvestment  of  602 of net  income  of  the  FDU,  assuming  an
appropriation of 402 of net income to finance FDU grants.
2.          Financial projections of FDU have been made using a simulation model
developed on a Lotus 123 spreadsheet format specifically for the purposes of the
analysis of FDU. -It has been installed on micro-computers in the State of Parana
and has been used by the PEDU team in undertaking alternative simulations for
the performance of the Fund. The model was, therefore, a key instrument in
project design, particularly in pointing out the heavy financial cost in the long
run of excessive grant financing under these programs.   The model's user
friendliness has ensured its ready use by the Parana authorities. The results
of the simulations of FDU under the conditions foresoen by the project are
provided at the end of this annex. The main feature they demonstrate is that,
even taking into -account. amortizing the World Bank loan, FDU will be able to
provide sufficient funds after Bank disbursements have ceased to finance an
annual program on a similar scale in the long run.
The Managers and Users of FDU
3.          A five member Governing Council (Conselho de Administracao) appointed
by the Governor of Parana will be responsible for approving the annual investment
program, and reviewing its operating conditions.



ANNEX 10
Page 2 of 9
65
4.          Financing from FDU would be provided in accordance with the con-
ditions and procedures established by the PEDU Operation Manual. FDU credit
terms and conditions will be approved by the FDU, legally constituted in December
1988 by (Law No. 8917-PR) which specifically authorized the state Government to
implement the PEDU program. FDU basic policies decreed by the Governor in March
1989 together with  the first operating procedures issued by'the Governing
Council, approved by the Bank, and consistent with PEDU principles, will provide
for prudent financial FDU performance. FAMEPAR will be ultimately responsible
for approving the eligibility of sub-borrowers to take sub-loans and also
authorize the eligibility of the sub-projects proposed for financing. BANESTADO,
the State Commercial Bank would operate FDU upon instruction from FAMEPAR-CPO
through the accounts held by it. BANESTADO will maintain individual computerized
loan records, calculate and collect interest and capital payments, withhold state
and municipal entitlement, and turn all proceeds over to the account of the FDU
for a fee of .5Z of amounts collected.
5.  ..      All municipalit4es in Parana and sector agencies of the State
Government will be able to apply to FAMEPAR to participate in- funding from-FDU.
To become eligible for such funding, they will have -to demonstrate the soundness
of their financial planning (through their Financial Action Plans) and their
commitment to the objectives of the PEDU Program as laid aid in its Operation
Manual (details of the eligibility of sub-borrowers are given in Annex 4)
OperatinR Princioles of FDU
6.          The PEDU Operation Manual will also indicate explicitly the kind of
sub-projects that can be financed through FDU and the conditions under which
lending will be provided. Key on-lending terms and conditions will include the
following:
(a)   All lending conditions (notably interest rate and grace periods) will
be the same for all FDU lending and all sub-borrowers, except for
maturities (see below) which are differentiated, but only according
to sub-project, not according to sub-borrower;
(b)   The FDU.vill offer three. credit lines of 5, 10 and 15 years including
a one year grace period starting from the date of the first
withdrawal; -
(c)   All loans will be payable in monthly installments that include
interest and equal payments of capital with the latter adjusted for
inflation by the maximum index authorized by law (a precise
definition regarding which index will await Negotiations by which
time the inflation parameters should be clearer in Brazil);
(d)   The interest rate on all loans will be no less than 3 points above
the FDU cost of borrowing, adjustable every six months. The initial
interest rate will be 112 or 3.352 above the estimated 7.65Z starting
Bank interest rate.



ANNEX 10
Page 3 of 9
66
(e)   All borrowers will guarantee their loans by authorizirng the state
bank BANESTADO to withhold municipal entitlement and state agency
user fees;
(f)   Any loan not complying with these terms must be  specifically
authorized by the governing council, the governor of the state and,
until the Bank loan is repaid, by the Bank;
7.           The PEDU Operation Manual details which lines of credit will -be
availale (5, 10, or 15 years) whose maturities are based upon the principle of
shorter ones for sub-projects with more rapid cost recovery. In elaborating the
proposals for the operating conditions of FDU, consideration was given to the
possibility of charging different interest rates to different sub-borrowers (and
also for different sub-projects) on equity grounds. This was explicitly ruled
out, however, since it would provide considerable scope for arbitrary decision
making and uncertainty regarding the award of the would-be subsidies. The issue
of how to benefit weaker or poorer municipalities with the resources of FDU is
however, addressed through the project's Institutional and Human Resource
Developmeat package (see details in Annex 3.1) which is designed to create
conditions for those municipalities to be able to compete with others for FDU
funding on a-more nearly equal footing.
8.          Other key operating principles stipulated the PEDU operating manual,
the Governor's enabling Decree and the Governing Council's first resolution
include:
(a)   All sub-borrower repayments to FDU will be redeployed in the PEDU
project during the Bank loan disbursement period.
(b)   Relending after the Bank disbursement period will be in accordance
with FDU standard operating policies acceptable to the Bank.
(c)   FDU grants in any year will be limited to 40S of net income of the
FDU as determined by generally accepted accounting principles applied
in Brazil.
(d) At least 402 of proposed loans must be awarded to municipalities.
(e) No municipality may be awarded more than 101 of the total loan
program nor more than 502 of a program component, and
(f)   All outstanding loan amounts will be adjusted for inflation using
the IPC index.



67                                           ANNEX 10
IICIP&AL DEVELOPMT FMW IN THE STATE OF PARANA                   Page 1 of 9
PART I- WORLD MM AND UF PRORAM (US dollare)
S year      U9 yer        15 y"er      2 year
total        total        total         t13tI
A. World Bank lon for UPF-
1. Disbu rsment pro UIiS                         low          13            16           13
am     m                   WIN          Ga
2. Loen,     1S yer..    5 yer grace   n2,1,666    92,141,           61,866,6    62,l".m
A. inter.et rate                                7. .         7.65          7.65         7.65
4. Comitment fet                  4.75    1,4650,575    1,45,55    1,466,576       1,456,675
-- _---_- _
5. Annual payment                           9,2U1,_     *, ,1         9,2U,,M      .,2m.
6. State exchange rat fee, 6.53 of loan      607,196    2,163,925    8,884,075    8,467,766
-                          m 
B. Project parameter.
1. Project coats, sour" of tunds-
State governmnt:
Grant                  .83           7.96,6    7,614, 7,066,666                ,1,
SDF funding (loan)    21.23         seS,U,        53e ss,36,6   6s,866,      568m,m
51.9X        66,766,066   66,70,6    46,76,111   66.766,616
MunicipalIty              24.63       65,643,537   56,648,537   56,648,587   60,0w4,587
World Bank (loan)-        44.1X        92,0,iM       92,10 1,66   92,160,666   92 ,66
* 61.63 o UDF loans        1663       206,643,587  208,648,58?  2108,848,57  28,348,587
2. Project coat., municipal vew-
Own funds                 24.63        60,643,587   56,043,587   56,648,537   56,648,S58
State grant                8.83         7,1066,606    7,066,666    7,96,in    7,966,.66
UDF loan (m a below)    72.33x        16,s06,o       160,906,666  i5,9,"   156u,9s666
16a        268,648,537  208,348,587  206,843,57  206,848,537
8. UDF loane by type of loan, 1 yer gra c-
Rol   X
Type     Yr. Grace  nt. mt. tot a
Type 1     S   1  11.006  42X 86.83   63,78,91   U,378,000   63,37u,           68,378,0
Type 2    10   1  11.663 546 89.01  61,466,666   S1,406,          81,4U6,      g1,498,0
Type 3    1s   1  11.66   4X 2.sx   o,3,1            .,mO,M        O,080,m    *,"4,0m
1lO  72.83  161,960,666   166,9M,    168,g66,in   160,sw,6
4. UDF I ntereet rat.s by type of lo n
UOF          UDF          UDF           UDF
W Bank                         tnt.          Int.         tnt.          tnt.
tnt.    Margin               rate          rate         rat.          rate
Type 1         7.65s      8.853             11.663       11.WX         11.O6X       11.663
Type 2         7.65       8.853             11.01        11.           11.6 5       11.WX
Type 8         7.653      8.83              11.*.         11.603       11.66        11.01X
5. UDF comitment fe oen me loans                6.66x        6.6e3         6.6          6.6



68                                         ANNEX 10
IMCPAL DEVULIP   AM IN THE STATE OF PARA                      PaRe 5 of 9
C. World Bank progrm cash *lo
5 year      I9 y"er      1 year        2 ye"r
1. World Sank loan principal                 total        total         total        total
Salne  beginning of year
Dlibursed during year        92,1,gM       92,10,M      m2,100,m      92,100,m
Repald during yer                     9   (46,U9,m)  (02,169,m)  (92, 111U   )
BClanco end of yeor                 92,100,0 UU                                      9
2. World bank finance ehrge_-
Comit.ent te                         1,4CO,675    1,456,675    1,459,57      1,41,575
Interest at 7.60                    1,9,         43,10,74    652,187,10U    2,187,8U1
Total                        13.269,15    44,7?1,3      53,566,3      58,56,8
8. UDf capital contribution
Annual
Accumlated                             ",M6,66       68,3gm       5',36,M   5*,w,M
4. SDF loan portfolio principal
Balance beginning of year                       9            O                          O
DilburiW  during year              160,900,00    166,9M,w   16O,90,EI   160,,,M
Repid during year                  (26,342,329) (119,84,4) (149,560,457) (1910,111)
Balance end of yer                    124,557,171    1,U59,657     1,326,543            a
5. UDF finance ehage
NM loan fe,. O         of no loans           *     * 
Intrest at 11.96                    36,628,439   76,766,35     33,561,787   33,324,590
Total                        89,823,486   78,706,358    63,661,737   33,624,59f
6. UDF expenne, start at 460.0W0,
annual Increcs of 2.60 par yer
D. Additional progrm freo relodinog             5 yoer      10 ynar       15 year      20 yar
UDf cash flow surplus                        total        total         total        total
1. UDf relending (Sectlon NS)             43,648,e1   169,162,M68   834,025,9oe   56,396,1
2. Nw projects from UDF relending
State- 
Gront                         1X   0,622,09   27,740,432   51,389,462   36,569,366
UDF relending (DI above)       06S   43,648,100  186,352,110   334,025,eoo  656,3396,1W0
Total                         751  49,676,769  2098,09,462  865,413,462  641,335,335
Municipality                     25X  16,656,323   69,366,154  126,471,154  218,093,462
166X  66,227,6092  277,464,616  518,684,615  655,933,346
iM            _                      a_



69                                      ANNEX 10
WIICIPAL DEV!PUI R IND IN   STATI O P ARM                   Page 6 of 9
D. Additional proga  from rlding
UDF eah flow surplus (continued)
S. lIDF loans by typ  of loan
grac peorod 1 yor
Rol   X          yar       Iyfwr        1 year       2yer
Type     Yr. Grace lr  t. wt. total       total        total         totaI        total
Typ 1      5   1  11.   423 27.35  £e,0,16f   75,747,64   146,29,56   233,666,321
Type 2    13   1  11.60  54 35.15  21,246,924   *7,100,1  186,373,56   866,453,64
Type a    15   1  11.lM3  45 2.011   1,721,026    7,214,1        111,SelfU    22,2,6U6
- - -    --=
16  65.35  43,048,11   180,52,$        34,026,25 16   6,306,010
4. UDF Interet rates by type of loan-
UDF          WfD           UDF          UOF
I Bank                         lnt.          lot.        - lnt.         lot.
lot.    Margin               rate          rate         rate          rate
TYp 1          7.653      3.UJI             11.01111     11.           11. II.Off
Type 2         7.653      3.3W              ll.OOI        1.01         11.0         11.00%
Type           7.66X      $.36              11.3         11..#.I       11.81         UI.
5 year      U yer         16 yer       26 yar
total        total        total         total
6. Net state fund required from ULF
reloading of casb flow eurplus
Grant, OX5 of project costa, 02 above    6,622,769   27,746,462   51,383,462   65,599,83
Less, UDF grant free own cash flow,
appears so a cah dividend of
485 ot prior yeare net Inece         (4,716,M01)  (26,268,393)  (U,436,2U3)  (89,345,167)
UDf 'divided0 (over) under grant        1,907,376     1,477,469   (2,646,792)   (8*745,782)
Average per yer                           381,476      147,747      (136,453)    (187,269)
6. UDF loan portfolio principal
Balance beginning of year
Olsbursed during yer                43,648,666   180,362,600  334,26,Wo666 556,396,06
Repaid during yer                   (1,128,836)  (68,499,159) (161,598,416) (342,940,272)
Balance end of year                    41,919,664  123,852,641   162,426,564   213,455,728
7. UOF finance charges-
Nw loan fee, C.O   of now loans              a            O             0            6
Interet at 11.60                     5,807,642    3,600,445  131,432,548   231,214,494
Total                         5,807,042   53,366,445  131,432,648  231,214,494
m_ _         mom _ _m                 u    m



70                                       ANNEX 10
UNCIPAL DEVELOWNT FUND IN THE STATE OF PARM                  Page I of 9
PART II- CONDESED FINANCIAL STATEENTS (US OOLLARS)
En of         End Of        End of       End of
E. Condensd balarn  sh*et                      5 year.       19 yearo      15 yner      29 yars
Cash                                      389,426       e7.,909      5192,56       696,242
Losn portfolio, World oank progrm      124,567,171   31,559,67?    1,58,6543             I
Loan portfollo, UOF  eloending         41,919,664   123,02,341   152,426,54   213,455,728
166,367,282  166,134,467  154,155,638   214,153,976
Llabilities, World Bank loan              92,100,0J   4,060,0                 o             6
Not worths                                                --
Capital, World Sank program             6,86,6e 6    5C8,000       56,6,69  S6,11,es
Retained earnings-                  --                                 --
Accuulated prior yenre                       o             9                          O
Dividend paid to Ota  government    (4,715,391)  (26,266,990)  (C5,435,261)  (69,845,167)
Current year' earnings              29,622,653    77,503,469   140,79068S3    244,699,187
15,907,262    51,284,467   95,365,633   156,358,970
7'  p7,262  119,094,467   154,155,63    214,163,976
166,807,262  15,064,467  154,165,6S3  214,156,976
F. Condensed lncom  statement                    _             _in
Incomes
Interest from UF portfol1o-
World Sank prorm                     36,628,488    76,7906,31   63,501,737    68,924,9s0
ISF relending                         5,37,642    53,61,445   131,432,548   231,214,434
42,135,469   130,560,76   214,9N4,sc  315,039,444
UDF no loan fe e-                                                 --
World Senk program                           *             *             6            o
UDF relonding                                0             *             *            6
9            6               
Total Income                         42,135,480  139,56,706  214,904,235   315,989,444
Costa and xpense:                                                       --
Interest expense, World Bank            16,909,569   43,836,746   62,137,810   52,137,910
Ceomitment foe, World Sank              1,451,575    1,450,576    1,4S0,575    1,450,675
State exchange rink f" at 06.6            967,165    2,693,s2s    3,8e4,675    3,467,710
ANESTADO f*, 06.5  of colletions          183,691    1,146,266    2,812,972    3,625,274
UDF expense                             2,631,616    4,379,666    6,917,867    9,716,948
Total expense                        21,512,827   538,88,6a  60,208,399   76,846,897
Net inome (lose) for the yer              26,622,658   77,598,469  146,791,886  244,699,137
Rotained earnings, beginning of year               O             a             9            O
Dividend paid to state government      (4,716,891)  (26,266,998)  (65,436,253)  (89,845,167)
Retalned earnings, end of yer              15,907,202   51,2U4,467  905,865,e8   155,839,970



71
ANNEX 10
MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT P1W IN TE STATE OF PARA                 Paqe 8 of 9
6 ysa.      lyear         1S year       20 y  r
total        total         total         total
C. Statement of source and use of funds
Source.-
Incom  (Iosa) 7ro. operations           20,622,658    77,650,468  149,790,086   244,69,18?
Reclved from World Bank loan           02,100,80  92,16,00O   0,110,000   92,10,00,
State funding of UDf capital            58,800.000   68,80,006   58,800,e9W    Ss,8O,M
Repayment municipal 'oans-
World Bank program                   2S,842,829  119,840,848  149,568,457   160,90,10,
UDF relending                         1,128,886    68,499,159   181,598,416  842,940,272
27,471,164  175,809,5602  881,161,874  49840,272
Total sources                       198,003,817  404,242,902  60,852,760  8809,489,409
Uses-
UDF now municipal loans-
World Sank program                  160,900,000  150,900,066  150,0W,000  15C,0J0,000
ULF relending                        48,048,000  180,862,000   884,026,000   566,806,000
1P,948,010  381,262,00   484,926,000   77,206,M
Repaymont World Bank loan                       0   46,605,90f    92,110,000    92,200,009
Dividend to state governmet              4,716,891   26,268,900    68,435,258   89,845,167
Total _use                          1098,668,891  408,670,900    680,480,268  888,741,167
Incrase (decrease) In cash during year        830,426      671,096       892,06D       698,242
Cash balance, beginning of year                    O             O             O            O
Cash balance, end of year                     830,426      671,969       392,600       609,242
._=



72                     AMMN 10
Page 9 of 9
URBAN DEVELOPMENT FUND
NEW LENDING BY YEAR
Millions
60
60
40
30
20
10
0
1 2 3 4 5 8 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 16 16 17 18 19 20
YEAR OF OPERATION
FIN. BY WORLD BANK  M  UDF RELENDING
URBA DEVELOPMENT FUND                     URBAN DEVELOPMENT FUND
CASH FLOW COMPONENTS                  OUTSTANDING LOANS END OF YEAR
40~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
YEM aF OPERATION                     A' 4      , 6   1  6
t *   4 X 6 r * .  sona* 4 w t Ir 0 as to
OCur            mo                             YEAR OF OPERATION
- FM by wo.D    UUp RELSi



73
BRAZIL                                      Annox 11
ItNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PARANA
Elilible Sub-Project. end Cost Recovory PolIcy
(MAXIMUM)              (MINIIMJM)
SUBI-PROJECTS          SIZE    ONLENDING TERMS         COST RECOVERY    MECHANISMS
I Percent IPercent Term   Grace  1Percent Percent I
Eligible             I of      ISP-COST (yr.) Period  ISUBLOAN SP-COST I   Capital Operating
Sub-Project(SP)       I Project IFinanced              IRecov'd Recov'd I     Cost    Coa  Notes
INST. DEVELOPMENT:   I    9.6 I                        I               I
____- -__             I-___-_I                         I               I
DIRECT REVENUE EARNINGI a.6    I                       I               126 percent
Technical Assistnce  I    8.6 1    76  n.n. n.e.   I n.e.   n.s.  ICost Shrng.  n.s.
INDIRECT.REV. EARNING I 6.0    I                       I               I
Training                   2.6 I   100  n.s. n.e.   I n.a.   n.a.    n.a.             n.a.
Technical Assintnce         .4 1   110   n.n. n.a.       n.a.   n.t.    n.a..         n.n.
DNFRASTRUCTURE:      I   90.4 1                        I               1
= = = = _ _ = _ _ _ _ _ _ _   I  ___   _  I  I            I
DIRECT REVENUE EARNINGI 45.4    1                      1               1
Water Supply         1   24.0 1    76   10           1 1    e16    160 ITariffs    Tariffs       /1
Sewerroe             I    9.8 1    75   10           1 I   l0e    100 ITariffs    T*riffs
SW Sanit. Land Fills  I    5.0 1    75   11 1 I   100               75 ICoat Shrng.  User Fees
Toxic Waste Treatment I    8.0      45   10         1 I   10W      76 [Cost Shrng.  User Faee  /2
Slaughterhouss        I    1.8 1    76   10          1 1   100    100 iCost Shrng.  User Fees
Morkets(w's le/retail)I    1.8 B     75   10         1 1   10     100 lMarket Rents /User Fae
Transprt Terminals    I    1.6 1    75   10          1 I   100    160 IMarkt Rents /User Fees
INDILRECT REV. EARNING I 80.2    1                     1               1
Road Paving/sidewalks I   19.9 1    76    6          1 I   100    100 IBettsrm_nt Property    /8
Drainage              I    8.8       75    5         1 1   100    100 Levies        Taxes and
Erosion Control      l    2.0        45    6        1 I    100    le   I                       /2
Street Lighting       I    6.0 I    76    5          1 I    100   le I             Gen.Revenues
MORTGAGES            18.8      I                       1               1
Housing Loans         I     8.8            i 60   15  0 1   106     60 IMonthly Repsymsnts(P+I)
NON-REVENUE EARNING   I 10.9    |                      1               |
School Extensions          6.0 l    45   10          1 I   100  n.e.  ICost Shrng. None
Day Care Centers           2.2 l    45   10          1 I   1W0  n..  ICost Shrng. None           /4
H  1th Centers        I    2.1 l    45   10          1 1   100  n.e.  ICost Shrng. None
Fire Statlons        I    0.0 1    46  l           1 1   100  n.e.  lCost Shrng. None
NOTES:
/1     See Annex 8.2.A Up to 20 X for water supply a drainage (max US14 n.)
may be made with repaymnts between 10 and 15 yars.
/2     Up to 80 state grants for environment Improvement sub-projects.
/8     IPTU and General Revenue
/4     Up to 80X state grants for Community facilties



74
MM  - MUNICWAL D            tIVE N  PRJCT         AMJX 12
IN Tn  STATE OF PARM
Or"nzation C
AL iisrtvoCZat I                      I IA
ISAlt;OlriotAts
bIu'e.rl'p        I       A~1trt1n         _
Cobo                                 mmipin  lloreI
r tnal        icorpora"
AuditSor                            Pl mi w 
Eas}t netag             Administation
Di-onoe   _"rsh;p in Diretopei.



75                 ANNEX 13
Page 1 of 2
Municipal Development Project In the state of Parana
Banco do Estado do Parana (hI ESTADO)
Incom Statements
(US$ illions)
1986       1967
Operating Revenues                       352.8    2,728.1
Credit Operations                      256.9    1,561.4
Bonds & Marketable Securities           37.4      667.8
Banking Services                        12.4       21.4
Other                                   46.0      477.4
Operating Expenses                       327.8    2,652.7
Operating Income                      24.9       75.4
Not Non-Operating Incomei(Ezpenses)        4.2        3.6
let Inflation Adjustment                 (15.6)     (32.5)
Net Income 'efore Tax                 13.5       46.5
2ncome Tax                             4.8       22.0
Not Incomel(Loss)                      8.7       24.5
Operating Ratio                           0.93       0.97
Rate of Return on L-T Assets               4.OZ      12.3Z



76                  AN=  13
Page 2 of 2
Municipal Development Project in the State of Parana
Banco do Estado do Parana (BANESTADO)
Balance Shoets
(USS millions as of December 31)
1986       1987
ASSETS                                 1,937.1    2,264.8
Current Assets                         1,247.4    1,572.0
Liquid Assets                          129.1      104.1
Credit Operations                      552.6      641.1
Loans                                359.2      396.1
Refinancings, Discounted Loans       105.6      211.3
Others                                87.9       33.8
Other Operations                       565.7      826.9
Long.%T4    Assets                       617.6      615.4
Credit Operations                      578.6      599.3
Other                                   39.0       16.1
Pezuanent Assets                          72.1       77.3
LZ&BLTlIZS & EQITTY                    1,937.1    2,264.8
=--=--           a
Current Liabilities                    1.376.9    1,617.7
Public Deposits                        832.9      641.2
Open Market Operations                   0.0      656.1
Public and Private Financing           122.8      188.5
Other                                  421.1      131.9
Long,-Ter  Liabilities                   466.4      532.9
financing                              455.0      484.2
Local Currency                       417.4      462.2
Foreign Exchange                      37.5       22.0
other                                   11.5       48.7
Equity                                    93.8      114.1
Current Ratio                             0.91       0.97
Debt/Equity Ratio                         0.83       0.82



A . ± 1.A
77                            Page I of 3
lmaitpatl Do.wl.pmeat Projec to the ft.1. of Prs
Compeabie de bomse.a1. de Psims (AIWI)
Plows floe
165   1U      1067   1163   116    106    10      16    1198
TOTAL SOUW1S                2.?  312.5   64.7   76.4  12.2  11S.?  123.2  19.6  11.1
Int.ai Searees             15.?   (5.5)  19.7   34.3 U5.6    W.7   47.2   5.4   6.0
Not Ie.m (Low) sft*r taOx  16.5    8.7  (84.4)  1U.2    3.4    5.3   19.    12.4   16.0
Derecatolee               7.1    0.1    W.?   12.6  1U.6   13.2   17.6   16.4  21.6
Net Meatary Ceroution   (14.7) (26.1)  25.3    .9    9.0    6.6   9.6    9.6    0.0
Pimi_ial Cx40n            6.6    7.0    9.01   11.3   18.    16.3   19.5   11.6   24.9
DIIe. NoR-cash Chars"     9.9    6.9    0.6    9.0    6.9    9.9    5.6    9.0    9.0
Exbtrsl S"e                37.6   U.S   64.0   44.1  *0.6   *9.    76.9   67.2   60.2
Total  bt                  W J.3   31.4   3.3   30.1   54.5   46.0   41.7   47.8   34.1
CEP                       6.9    9.6    9.9    6.9  U3.9   24.9   16.9   26.9    6.6
PAl                       6.9    9.9   s9.9    9.6    6.9    9.6    9.9    6.6    6.9
31                        6.9    9.9    9.*    6.9    6.9   14.4   15.2  1.6   15.6
FOU                       6.6    9.9    9.9    9.6   16.5   i6.5   19.5   1.1   19.$5
Totl Eguity                 6.7    6.7   21.1    4.9   J5.1   31.1   U4.    19.9   U.1
Stat of Papenr           09.     6.9    9.0    0.9  13.1   25.3   23.5   14.1   20.3
Mu'ieip.lities            9.9    9.0    6.6    6.9    5.9    5.6    5.6    S.$    5.3
Otbe Incr tat               .      9.9    9.9    9.9    9.9    6.9    9.9    9.       .9
TOTAL APPUCATIONSt         52.6   44.8   $2.6   9J.1  125.7  119.0  124.9  121.2  113.5
Capital Expmndltures       32.9   31.$   34.9   79.1  10.2   05.    02.5  11.0  901.9
Em  Project               9.9    9.0    *.6    9.9   23.5   29.1   81.5   86.3   $7.1
Other Inve.tt            2".2   26.4   31.5   64.1   76.8   57.1   46.4   37.4   39.6
lnt r    Ct Droing Contruet    .5    1.1    9.0    9.6    2.6    3.4    4.2    5.9    6.6
Admlnistrative-Ceuts      2.3    2.3    2.5    5.1    3.6   .6.4    7.4    3.2    6.2
(tnc)/Dec In Working Capita   o.6    6.0    0.0    .0    3.F   (1t.)   6.0    0.7    1.0
(tnc)/DOc In Othor,        0.0    6.9    6.9   9.o    9.9    6.o    6.0    0.0    U.6
Debt Service               20.0  1S.0  1.6   20.0   22.0   26.7    a.7   33.6   37.6
Interest                 o.o    o.o    9.o    o.o   13.6   16.3   19.5   21.6   24.0
Am.eizati.n               o.o    o.o    o.9    6.9    3.4   10.4   11.2   12.0   13.6
Increas  In Cosh                                       (9.6)  (8.2)  (6.0)  (1.6)  (6.3)
C"ah S  yr                                            *.4    4.0    7.2    6.6    0.6
C   en and yr                                  8.4    4.6   -7.2    6.      9.6   16.4



Hu°  ~~~~I 1   Il3.    l    Sis 3 !I.....W"!1 
]t~ ~~~~~~~,  .66eI. 41                         .4e* ,tl8:113    W2n .3        a°
X!~ ~~~~                 ~~ I1-i1..I ,111 ;a1           1    ;l°
V4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                      4
|4X   Z} 11a1~ U W                   '4W WgXg   3   }l"  * 6659!     00
§   iit0    I  *§'I- 'I i        fy    i  i      - 1'         !
Of ~ ~ ~   ~   ~    S *55 5 U * W@.                      W
Is  Si ~ ~ ~ ~  ~e   toW'so
to~~~~11i
#4  .4~~~~~t



ANNEX 13.A
79                         Page 3 of 3
letgal1 Owe.1po._t Pojet to o "tu of Fasen
Ceapashi de Imamst. de PFosam (SMR)
touricurntVI  Ule.
low    i11  1iU   iU    1i110       low   son    19im  son   TOtal
TOTAL SUtC1I              52.?   82.5   4.?   76.4  385.2  116.7  123.2  110.0  186.1   ¢ .4.6
Intownal ISireas          1S.?  (5.5)  16.7   $4.3   3.0   3.?   47.2    2.4   0,0  2312.6
Nat (Sa    s) atfer tax  10.5    S.7  (34.4)  19.2    6.4    5.3   19.1   12.4   16.9    U.1
D"elsti.n                7.1   9.1   19.?   12.6   13.0   15.2  U7.6   13.4   2.0   64.6
Mat Moneary Coearitlon   (14.7) (26.1)  25.3   6.9    *.6    9.6   6.1   6.9   6.9    6.0
PFnaeatel bpex_e         6.9    7.6    9.1  11.   13.4   15.3   10.5   21:.   24.4   95.6
Other Non-Cash Cherm     9.6    9.9    9.9    9.6    9.9    6.6    6.9    9.9    0.6    0.0
* Steeal kur aa           37.9   11.1   54-   44.1   n9.6   U.9  76.6  07.2   60.2   M2.
==   i- -              _      ----                                                     -        
ta"l 0ebt                 3.$  nuS   $2.6   30.2   54.5   44.0   41.7  47.3   34.1  228.5
:         CUP                      6.9 .   6 .    .o    *.9   42.5   33.0   2.7   27.3   15.1   130.4
FM                       *.6    0.0    6.9   9.6   12.9   0.6    .0    5.6    4.6    U.3
9U                       *.9   9.9    9.0    0.6    *.J    7.1   15.9   15.9   1.9   52.1
Total qIuty                6.?   6.7   21.1    4.9   36.1   31.1   34.8  10.0    .1   153.$
State of po*"            6.0    6.0   6.9    9.0   ".1   25.3   26.5  14.1   20.3  127.3
nlscipalitia             9.9    9.6    9.9    6.6    *.6    5.6   6.0    5.6   5.6   23.2
Other Incs...               .9     . 6.6 9.     .9    6.9    9.6    6.6    6.9    6.6    6.6
TOTAL APPUCATIONS:        52.6   44.0   52.0    .1  125.7  110.0  124.   121.2  139.5  621.3
capital Eupaitare,        22.0   U.11.6  34.9  76.1  10.2    o.0.  92.5   3.0   91.0  464.5
PDU ProJet               9.6    *.9    9.9   6.9    6.6    9.5   26.0   26.9   29.    ".65
Other tnveat.ats        20.2   26.4  11.5   64.2  90.6   76.7  .62.3   U.9   56.9  342.4
Intereat During Conatret   0.5    1.1    6.9   *.0    2.6    3.4   4.2    5.9   6.3   22.6
Adatsistrative Cos       2.8    2.3    2.5   5.1    7.6   5.4    0.9   0.6    6.2   32.6
(Inc)/Doe in Working Capita   9.6    0.9    0.0   *.9    3.5  (1.6)   6.0    6.7   1.9    4.2
(Inc)/Oce in Others        .9    6.6    6.9   6.9   9.6    6.6    6.6   g.e    g.0    4.e:
Dabt Serwica              29.0   13.0  17.6   20.6   22.0   20.7    9.?   33.6  37.6  156.6
Interest                 9.6    6.9   9.0  .4.9   13.0   16.3   19.5   21.6   24.9   96.0
Aaortizatioe             6.6    9.9    6.9   6.6    6.4  1U.4   11.2   12.0   13.6   55.6
Increase in Cash                                      (6.0)  (3.2)  (9.6)  (1.0)  (9.3)   (7.0)
Cash mng yr                                          8.4    4.0    7.2    0.6   9.6   32.2
Cash end ye                                   5.4    4.9    7.2   0.9    0.6   19.4   30.2



60
AM=15 14
Pga 1 of 3
RZIL
MUCIPAL D              PROCT
IN THE STATE OF PARhN
MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECTS IN BRAZIL
Ezpressed in millions of US dollars
Description        Midsize   Recife  Par Hkt  Sta Cat  Sal Hot   ParanA
No, yr. effective 1720-80  2170-82  2343-84  2623-S6  2681-87  XXXX-89
Source of fundst
Federal              $70.0    $52.2                        $30.0
state                 40.0    137.1   '$97.5    $43.5       66.0    $73.7
Municipal funds       20.0      34.8                                  48.9
World sank            70.0    123.9      52.7      24.5     55.0    100.0
$200.0   S348.0   $150.2    $70.0   $151.0   S224.6
Municipal finance plant
Grant               $140.0   $261.0    $97.5    $45.5    S62.3    $30.4
Loan                  40.0     52.2      52.7      24.5     88.7    146.2
Municipal funds       20.0      34.8      0.0       0.0      0.0      48.9
$200.0   $346.0   $150.2    $;o.o   $151.0   $225.5
Midsize   Recife  Par Nkt  Sta Cat  Sal Met   ParanA
1720-80  2170-82  2343-84  2623-S6  2681-67  sXXS-89
S o dprossed as a percentage
source of funds:               ------____
Federal                 35S       15S      O0        o0       202       O0
State                   20S      392       65?       65?      44Z       332
Muicipal funds          10?       10      o        O0        OS       22S
World sank              35S       36?      35?       35?      36S       452
100?     100?      lOOS     100?      100?     100?
-  -   -   m  - 
Municipal finance plan:
Grant                   70S       73S      65S       65S      412       13S
Loan                    20?       15?      35S       35?      59S       65?
Municipal funds         10?       lO      O0        O0       O0        22?
Midsize   Recife  Par Mkt  Sta Cat  Sal Met  Parana
1720-80  2170-82  2343-84  2623-86  2681-87  XX-89
Bank loans by region through                                            Total
1988 (USS uillons)t-
Northeast            $25.8   $123.9                        $55.0   $204.7
South                 17.5              $52.7    $24.5                94.7
Southeast             26.7                                           26.7
$70.0   $123.9    $52.7    $24.5    S55.0   $326.1
Number            Project name
1720-BR          Medium Size Cities
2170-BR          Recife Metropolitan Region
2343-BR           Paranh Market Towns Improvement Project
2623-BR           Santa Catarina Small Cities Project
2681-BR           Salvador Metropolitan



81                          A=14
Pag 2 of 3
BRAZIL
MUNICPAL D     O       PROJECT
IN THE STATE OF PARANA
RAZL- LMUIPAL DEVELOPMNrT PROJECTS        RAZ- MCPL DEVELOPMENT PROJECTS
Sal-ORRWER FINANCE PLAN      a     _     3-S0MWER FINANCE PLAN BY %
11610nw  MMn     U~  AMM               mm  m  HA  MD YU SW   pW=MI
rInT NAM AND YEA UFmlVE                   FRIY  NAND YEAR FFEcrwE
BRAZIL- MUNICPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECTS    SRAZL- MUNICPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECTS
SOURCE OF FUNDS AT APPRAISAL                SOURCE OF FUNDS BY S
PSJCT NAME AND YEREFFECTiVE              POECT NAME AND YEAR EFFECTiV.'
mu... O  . _           m 0 _            9X     w.  0_m   _ 



82
BRAZIL                          ANNEX 14
MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT               Page 3 of 3
IN THE STATE OF PARANA
BRAZIL- MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECTS
BANK LENDING BY REGION 1080-1988
NORTHEAST (63%)
204.7 
w  j;SOUTHEAST (8%)
SOUTH (29%)
94.7
Midgize   Recife  Par Mkt  Sta Cat  Sal Met   Paran&
1720-80  2170-82  2343-84  2623-86  2681-87  XXX=T-89
Bank loans by regicn through                                                Total
1988 (USS millions):
Northeast             $25.8   $123.9                          $55.0   $204.7
South                  17.5               $52.7    $24.5                  94.7
Southeast              26.7                                               26.7
$70.0   S123.9    $52.7    $24.5    $5 0   $326,.1
Number             Project nam
1720-3R           Medium Size Cities
2170-BR            Recife Metropolitan Region
2343-BR            Paran& Market Towns Improvement Project
2623-BR            Santa Catarina Small Cities Project
2681-BR            Salvador Metropolitan



83
pae I of 2
iU        DUViLI     PROJECT in Tim S       OF PfLANA
PROJECS JUS TANCATIO  -D  JCODCHIC ANALYSIS
1.    Th  justification for the proposed project wvs based on (g) an economic
anlysis of project components with benefits vbich are readly quatified through
user fes or other proxies (i.e. water and swerage, drainage, paving and street
lighting), representing abaot 604 of the total projects and (b) the obsorvation
that projects with lose quantifiable benefits (i.e. day care conters. school
Additions, fire station)), rpresenting About 36S of total project, result in
sigaficant mprovemeto In social, educational, eaniroAcntal, equity and
quality-of life co.dition.
Ecnmc   1 alvus 
2.    Economic costs include capital expenditures, not of all taxes and duties
(About 10-132 of total costs), and recurrn -ex pIsitur_ Ctiat.4 to be about
2-3.51 of annual capital expendituroes. Water and Seerag capital costs include
works and equipont for vater and sewerag distribution lines and conections
in area  where surplus production or trsat nt capacity exists   Thus, a largo
portion of investment costs in this case have been eonsidered as  sunk costs.
The proposod project would optialas use of theso ezlsting facilities.
3.   Inrcrental revenues from tariffs and connection fees were used as proxies
for economlc benefits In the coat-benefit calculation in the case of water and
sewerag inestmsts. Tariff leels were assumod constant at current levels over
the period. n the cast of paving, drainage and streCt lighting, the Increased
land values resulting from the mprovements were capitalized over 15 years and
treated as the net econoiLc benefit stram. Estimates of land values were made
on the basis of the experince of similar impropvemnts made on land values in
the PUN Project.
Rate of Rtur and Sensitivity Analysis
4.   As summarised below, the Internal rate of return using the above paraseters
was estimted to be about 17 12 (base case). Sensltiwity analysis was undertaken
on the basis of possible licreastd costs  (due to overruns,  inflationary
increases, etc.) and possible decreased benefits (due to lower than expected
tariff levels, connections, land values, etc.). A 202 increase in costs lowers
the weighted average Internal rate of return to 13.0S. A decrease in benefits
of 201 reduces the return to 12.51.
latmma Rtes of Ratu
,,,,,.>.................. _ o f
Cmpomt3                       sase pls act lose l01   TOtl
Case   costs benft.t   Cost
....
Wateg nd Sawagage             18.4    1.31   13.31   33.31
P1aS  u Da                     MX.71    12.11X   1.73   15.21
stint LI$tuSa                 15.72   12.11S   1.7s    5.01
Weisgte AverageItotal         17.12   13.02   12.32    .1s



84
Annex 15
page 2 of 2
MCIPAL DEVELOPHENi PROJEC? IN THE STATS OF PA
3counic Analyst*
(Constant US$ thousands)
.--TA M&U .......                                  .....--'----  --U- U.    L ------------.
Inest      Op.  Tfol                  Nbt            ianvet      Op.   Total               not
Y"r    coat      cot    Coot beefits S_m Uits                 Cot    cost    cost onofito 305fito
.... ..... ..... _ .._____.............  -------     ------- . ----   -------     - ------- ---- .......    .......... __,______-___----_______
1t"  4,941.6   115.0  5,114.7           (5,114.7)          1,529.0    46.5  1,575.5          (1.$75.5)
1991  ,256.5   23U4.5  5*534.5  1,190.6 (7,55S.)           2,215.0    77.5  2,292.5   319.2 (1,973.S)
1992  ,25s.5   2S4.5  5,52U4.5  3,51.2 (6,143.5)           2,215.0    77.5 2,292.3   636.4 (1.65.)
19   6,256.5  23U6.5  S.24.5  5,571.6 (41,53.7)            2,215.0    77.5  2,292.5    957.C (1,554.)
1t"  5,394.5    2U.5  ,5s53.6  4,76.4  1,179.6               69o..)   77.5   96 U5 1,076.6   513.5
1995            280.5   266.5  5,s55.0  5,6.7                          77.5    77.5  1,596.0  1,518.5
1956            266.5   2U.3  5,953.0  5,884.7                         77.5    77.5  1,5f95.0  1,516.5
1997            266.5   2U*.5  5,955.0 5,64.7                          77.5    77.5  1,59f.0  1,516.5
1996            266.3   286.5  5,955.0 5,884.7                        77.5    77.5  1,5ff.0  l.51u.5
1999           2I8,5 U    6.   5,955.0  5,664.7                       77.5    77.5  1,595.0  1,518.5
2000            268.S   28.5  5,953.0  5,84.7                         77.5    77.5  1,596.0  1,518.5
2001            26.5    25.5  5,935.0 5,884.7                         77.5    77.5 1,595.0  1,516.5
3002            280.5   266.5  5,953.0  5,S84.7                       77.5    77.5  1,596.0  1,516.5
3005            292.5   236.3  5,955.0  $,884.7                       77.5    77.5  1,396.0  1,516.5
5004            286.5   2MJ.5  5,955.0  5,84.7                        77.5    77.5  1,596.0  1,518.5
2005            295.5   266.3 5,955.0  5,6S4.7                        77.5    77.5  1,595.0  1,518.5
2006            2U5.5   266.3  5,95S.0  5,664.7                       77.5    77.5  1,596.0  1,510.5
2007            286.3   266.5  5,955.0  5,884.7                       77.5    77.5  1,596.0  1,516.5
a0              266.5   268.5  5,35S.0  5,44.?                        77.5    77.5  1,596.0  1,518.5
2009            268.5   268.5  5,953.0 5,664.7                        77.5    77.5  1,595.0  1,516.5
3010            288.5   286.5  5,953.0 5,64.7.                        77.5    77.5  1,fSf.0  1,516.5
2011            2U8.3   2U6.5  4,72.4  4,474.1                        77.5    77.5  1,276.8  1,199.3
2012            28.5   26.5  5,571.6  5,283.5                         77.5    77.    957.6   U50.1
M01s            268.5   266.5  2,581.2 2,092.9                        77n.     77.5   638.4   560.9
3014            26.5   2U8.5  1,190.6   9D2.5                         77.5    77.5   $19.2   241.7
" tom"l Rate of &etai                           15.7S                                                15.72
('gts plus 20.02                                12.12                                                12.11
UgmefIto Ion 20.0    *                          11.73                                                11.72
Invest     Op.   i tol   V a a Commet.    eta          MEt
TOMt    Cost    Coot    Coot Charo.    span tlows.   lona  Ifto
... .. ;;.O  .... _______  -------    -------    -------    -------    ------  .................. . ..__
1990 17,559.0   547.2 17,706.2           5,212.0  5,t2.0 (14,494.2)
1991 17,954.0   557.5 18,221.5  2,714.5  4,616.0  7,530.5 (10,691.0)
1992 17,864.0   $57.5 18,221.3  5,428.5  4,816.0 10,244.5  (7,976.6)
1995 17,559.0   547.2 17,706.2  6,142.8  5,211.0 11,353.6  (6.552.4)
1994            347.2   347.2 10,857.0           10,657.0 10,509.8
1995            347.2   347.2 10,857.0           10,657.0  10,509.8
1996            347.2   347.2 10,657.0           10,857.0 10,509.0
1997            347.2   347.2 10,657.0           10,867.0 10,309.8
199             547.2   347.2 10.657-0           10,657.0  10,509.6
1999            347.2    347.2 10,657.0          10,657.0 10,509.
2000            347.2   347.2 10,857.0           10,657.0  10,50.6
2001            547.2   347.2 10,657.0           10,657.0 10,509.6
2002            347.2   347.2 10,65.0           10,657.0  10,509.6
2003            547.2   347.2 10,653             10,657.0  10,509.6
2004            347.2   347.2 10,657.0           10,657.0 10,S09.6
2005            347.2   347.2 10,657.0           10,657.0 10,509.6
2006            347.2   347.2 10,857.0           10.157.0 10,509.6
2007            347.2   347.2 10,657.0'          10,857.0 10309.6
2008            347.2   347.2 10,657.0           10,657.0  10,509.6
2009            347.2   347.2 10,657.0           10,857.0 10,509.8
2010            347.2   347.2 10,657.0           10,657.0 10,509.
2011            347.2   347.2 10,657.0           10,857.0 10,509.6
2012            347.2   347.2  6,142.6            6,142.6  7,795.6
2013            347.2   347.2  5,428.5            5,428.5  5,061.5
2014            347.2    347.2 2,714.3            2,714.5   2,567.1
latmal rUate of Roturu                                            16.4S
Coots plus 20.02                                                  13.62
_o fits lose 20.02                                                13.2U



85
ANNEX 16
BRAZIL                    Page I of S
MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
IN THE STATE OF PARANA
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Proiect File
Relatorio Geral do PEDU - Elementos Basicos (Revisado). Secretaria de
Desenvolvimento Urbano e do Meio Ambiente (SEDU). Abril 1989.
Relatorio Geral do PEDU - Anexo 5. SEDU. Abril 1989.
Relatorio Geral do PEDU - Anexo 6 e 7. SEDU. Abril 1989
Relatorio Geral do PEDU - Anexo 8 a 7. SEDU. Abril 1989.
Manual de Monitoracao do PEDU. SEDU. Abril 1989
Consideracoes sobre a Criacao de um Fundo Estadual para o Desenvolvimento
Urbano. FDU. Abril 1989.
Pesquisa das Entidades nao Governamentais (ONG's). Secretaria de Estado da
Justica, do Trabalho e da Acao Social. Abril 1989.
Plano de Acao Financeira e Institucional - PAFI. Abril 1989.
Projeto de Saude PEDU-Banco Mundial. Fundacao de Saude. Feb. 1989.
Decreto -. Reulamenta o Fundo Estadual de Desenvolvimento Urbano - FDU e da
outras providencias. Abril 1989.
Corpo de Bombeiros - Projeto Descritivo.. 1989.
Relacao de Funcionarios. Fundacao Assoc. aos Municipios do Parana FAMEPAR.
Estrutura Organizacional. FAMEPAR.
Subprograma Desenvolvimento Institucional - Componentes Administracao
Municipal.  FAMEPAR.
Subprograma Desenvolvimento Institucional - Componentet Desenvolvimento
Institucional. FAMEPAR.
Lei da Criacao e Decreto do Estatuto da Fundacao de Assistencia aos
Municipios do Estado do Parana. FAMEPAR.
Doc. Geral - SANEPAR. Fev. 15, 1989.
Cadastro de Entidades - Norma Geral e Instrucoes. SANEPAR.



86                     ANNEX 16
Page 2 of 3
Tabela de Precos Unitarios Compostos. SANEPAR. Nov. 1988.
Manual de Obras de Saneamento. SANEPAR.
Modelo Convite - Condicoes Gerais. SANEPAR.
Aviso de Licitacao - Tomada de Precos - SANEPAR. SANEPAR.
Aviso de Licitacao - Tomada de Precos - Prefeitura. SANLPAR.
Aviso de Licitacao - Concorrencia Publica Nacional. SANEPAR.
Aviso de Licitacao - Concorrencia Publica Internacional. SANEPAR.
Saneamento e Meio Ambiente. Superintendencia dos Recursos Hidricos e Meio
Ambiente.
Questionario de Avaliacao do Impacto do Programa de Acao Municipal - PRAM
no Municipio. Secretaria de Estado do Desenvolvimento Urbano e do Meio-
Ambiente.
Documento de Discussao. SDU.
Manual Geral do Programa Estadual de Desenvolvimento Urbano - PEDU.
2117189.
Relatorio Geral do Programa Estadual de Desenyvolimento Urbano-PEDU -
Elementos Basicos. Secretaria de Desenvolvimento Urbano e do Meio Ambiente
SDU.
Anezo 7 - Manual de Orientacao III - Execucao Fisica do PEDU. SDU.
Centro de Saude - Projeto Padrao. SEDUICOMEC.
Balanco da COMEC Exercicio de 1987. SEDU.
Fundo Estadual de Desenvolvimento Urbano. SEDU.
Politica Estadual de Desenvolvimento Urbano. SEDU.
Anteprojeto de Lei - Fundo Estadual de Desenvolvimento Urbano FDU.
Capacidade de Endividamento Municipal. SEDU.
Prjoeto de Capacitacao Financeira dos Municipios. Secretaria da Fazenda.
Oct. 1988.
Perfil Financeiro do Setor Publico do Parana. Secretaria de Estado da
Fazenda. Jul. 1988.



87                     ANNEX 16
Page 3 of 3
Projeto CIATA - Plano de Gerencia da Arrecadacao Municipal e Sua
Metodologia. Secretaria de Estado da Fazenda.
Projeto: Adequacao da Oferta Publica de Educacao. SEED -
PR/FUNDEPAR/CETEPAR.
Programa de Creches. Secretaria de Estado do Trabalho e da Acao Social.
Iluminscao Publica. Companhia Paranaense de Energia COPEL.
Feiras/Mercados. Centrais de Abastecimento do Parana S.A. CEASA.
Matadouro Municipal - Projeto de Orientacao - Memorial Descritivo.
Secretaria de Estado da Agricultura o do Abastecimento do Parana SEAB
Terminais. Departamento de Estradas de Rodagem D.E.R.
Projetos padrao. Superintendencia do Controle da Erosao e Saneamento
Ambiental SUCEAM.
Projetos padrao - Anexo I: Projeto Tipo Rede de Galerias de Aguas
Pluviais. SUCEAM.
Planilhas de Servicos - Centro de Saude VI. Empresa de Obras Publicas de
Parana EMOPAR.
Fluxograms Operacional do PEDU.
Modelo - Termo de Contrato de fornecimento de materiais.
Anexo "A entre o Governo do Estado do Parana e o Banco Internacional para
Reconstrucao e Desenvolvimento - BIRD.
Resolucao 1069 - Registro no Cadastro de Licitantes do Estado. 17/07187.
Proposta de Monitoramento para o Programs Estadual de Desenvolvimento
Urbano. Dez. 1988.
Organigramas
Quadros de Detalhamento de Despesa. Secretaria de Estado do Planejamento.
02101189.
Copias de varios Decretos - Diario Oficial.
Programs de Acao Municipal PRAM - Tabela Resumo.
Tabela Orcamento de 1989 - Em CZ$ Milloes - recolhimento centralizado.
Secretaria de Estado da Fazenda.
Tabela - Financas do Estado - Secretaria de Estado das Financas.



SAO       PAULO
STATE OF DA          i4    _
REGIONS AND A)M    S1 RAI IVE C                                                                                              A    Region Centers
A Region Offices
(FAMEPAR)
Region aoundaries
E)  State Capital
MATO  GRAOSSO                                                       t     \     /   OT   )G OSA                ,/. 
Municipal Boundaries
ood    ~ ~~~~~~~~~- --State Boundaries
DO   SUL           Fimm   International Boundar
FaXt | N~~I-J                  UMU RAPA XA/- 
ARGENTINA
NSA flC,CAgA 0NN
I #                       FAcamAY [7
WN   n  et             .           I                                                                                              ,,
~AdAS         I                                                 SANTA            CATARINA
_sa |    aNt~           tv., 
- a TA. OtiS Baa - N ~~~~~~~                                     ~         ~        ~        iC[C
sIAW T05 CANsIA ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~      ~     ~      ~     ~     ~     ~     ~    ~     A



