Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 3100 BR
(Parana Municipal Development Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
COMPANHIA DE SANEAMENTO DO PARANA-SANEPAR
Dated August 14, 1989
LOAN NUMBER 3100 BR
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated August 14, 1989, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and COMPANHIA DE SANEAMENTO DO PARANA-SANEPAR (SANEPAR).
WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between the State of 
Parana (the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make  available to the 
Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to one  hundred million dollars 
($100,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only 
on  ondition that SANEPAR agree to undertake such obligations toward the Bank as are 
set forth in this Agreement;
(B)
by Sub-loan Agreements to be entered into between the Borrower and 
SANEPAR proceeds of the loan provided for under the Loan Agreement will be made 
available to SANEPAR on the terms and conditions set forth in said  Sub-loan 
Agreements for purpose of carrying out Eligible Sub-projects (as such term is defined 
in the Loan Agreement); and
Page  2
WHEREAS SANEPAR, in consideration of the Bank's entering into the Loan Agreement 
with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and the  General Conditions (as 
so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. SANEPAR declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project 
as set forth in Section 3.01 of the Loan Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out 
Eligible Sub-projects under the Project with due  diligence and efficiency and in 
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering, ecological and 
public utility practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as 
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project. 
Section 2.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the  provisions of Schedule 5 to the 
Loan Agreement.
Section 2.03. SANEPAR shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 
9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions  (relating to 
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules,  records and reports, 
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) as  provided in the Loan Agreement.
Section 2.04. SANEPAR shall duly perform all its obligations under the 
Participation Agreement, entered into with the Borrower and each Sub-loan Agreement 
entered into with a Financial Agent. Except as the Bank shall  otherwise agree, 
SANEPAR shall not take or concur in any action which would have the effect of 
amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving such Participation Agreement and Sub-loan 
Agreements or any provision thereof.
Section 2.05. (a) SANEPAR shall, at the request of the Bank, exchange views with 
the Bank with regard to progress of the Eligible Sub-project,  the performance of its 
obligations under this Agreement and under the Participation and Sub-loan Agreements 
and other matters relating to the purposes of the Loan.
(b)
SANEPAR shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition which interferes 
or threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the 
purposes of Loan, or the performance by SANEPAR of its obligations under this 
Agreement and under the Participation and Sub-loan Agreements.
(c)
SANEPAR shall: (i) not later than October 31 each year, starting not 
later than October 31, 1989, prepare and furnish to the Bank through PCU  a general 
financial projection (as required under Article IV of this  Agreement) for the 
following five years, including a specific projection of  cash generation as 
percentage of total investments and a detailed investment plan (including but not 
limited to investments under the Project) for the following calendar year; (ii) 
prepare and furnish to the Bank through PCU not later than September 30 and March 30 
of each year, starting not later than September 30, 1989, a report of such scope and 
in such detail as the  Bank shall reasonably request (including the monitoring 
indicators referred to in Section 3.04 (c) of the Loan Agreement) on the execution of 
the  Project and the compliance by SANEPAR of its obligations under this Agreement, 
the Participation Agreement and each Sub-loan Agreement.
(d)
SANEPAR shall carry out each investment plan referred to in paragraph (c) 
Page  3
(i) of this Section with due diligence and efficiency and, until the Closing Date, 
shall not amend any such plan or any part thereof  by more than 10%, without prior 
consultation with the Bank.
Section 2.06. The SANEPAR shall: (a) not later than December 31, 1989, carry out 
a study on its tariff structure and the long-run marginal cost of  its water supply 
and sewerage services, under terms of reference and a timetable, satisfactory to the 
Bank; (b) promptly upon its completion, furnish to the Bank a copy of the findings and 
recommendations of such  study; (c) allow the Bank a reasonable opportunity to comment 
on such findings and recommendations; and (d) put into effect such recommendations 
which are acceptable to the Bank and SANEPAR.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of SANEPAR
Section 3.01. SANEPAR shall carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in 
accordance with sound administrative, financial, engineering, ecological and public 
utility practices under the supervision of qualified  and experienced management 
assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers.
Section 3.02. SANEPAR shall at all times operate and maintain its plant, 
machinery, equipment and other property, and from time to time,  promptly as needed, 
make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound 
engineering, financial and public utility practices.
Section 3.03. SANEPAR shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or 
make other provision satisfactory to the Bank for, insurance  against such risks and 
in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) SANEPAR shall maintain records and accounts adequate to 
reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices its operations and financial 
condition, including separate accounts to reflect all resources  and expenditures in 
respect of the Project.
(b)
SANEPAR shall:
 
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, 
statements of income and expenses and related 
statements) for each fiscal year 
audited, in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles consistently 
applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank through PCU as soon as available, but in any 
case not 
later than five months after the end of each such 
year: (A) certified copies 
of its financial statements for such 
year as so audited; and (B) the report of 
such audit by said 
auditors of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall 
have 
reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank through PCU such other information concerning 
said 
records, accounts and financial statements as well  as the 
audit thereof, as 
the Bank or FAMEPAR shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
Section 4.02. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, SANEPAR shall 
produce for each of its fiscal years after its fiscal year ending on December 31, 
1989, total revenues equivalent to not less than the sum of  its (i) total operating 
expenses; (ii) provision for depreciation on a   Straight-line based on the useful 
lives of SANEPAR's depreciable assets in operation (quotas de depreciacao), or other 
basis acceptable to the Bank; (iii) dividends; and (iv) debt services.
(b)
Before October 31 in each of its fiscal years, SANEPAR shall, on  the 
Page  4
basis of forecasts prepared by SANEPAR and satisfactory to the Bank,  review whether 
it would meet the requirements set forth in paragraph (a) in respect of such year and 
the next following fiscal year and shall furnish to the Bank the results of such 
review upon its completion.
(c)
If any such review shows that SANEPAR would not meet the requirements set 
forth in paragraph (a) for SANEPAR's fiscal years covered by such review, SANEPAR 
shall take all necessary measures (including, inter alia, adjustments of the structure 
or levels of its rates) in order to meet such requirements.
(d)
For purposes of this Section:
 
(i)
The term "total revenues" means the sum of total operating 
revenues and net 
non-operating income.
 
(ii)
The term "total operating revenues" means revenues from all 
sources related to 
operations.
 
(iii)  The term "net non-operating income" means the difference between:
(A)
revenues from all sources other than those related to 
operations; and
(B)
expenses, including taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, 
incurred in 
the generation of revenues in (A) above.
 
(iv)
The term "total operating expenses" means all expenses related to 
operations 
(despesas de exploracao), including administration, adequate 
maintenance, 
taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, provision for 
bad debts (provisao para 
devedores duvidosos) and amortization of 
capitalized operating costs 
(amortizacoes de despesas), but 
excluding interest and other charges on debt.
(v)
The term "debt service requirements" means the aggregate amount of 
repayments 
(including sinking fund payments, if any) of, and interest 
(other than 
capitalized interest) and other charges on, debt.
 
(vi)
Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall be necessary to 
value, in 
terms of the currency of the Guarantor, debt payable in 
another currency, such 
valuation shall be made on the basis of the 
prevailing lawful rate of exchange 
at which such other currency is, 
at the time of such valuation, obtainable for 
the purposes of servicing 
such debt, or, in the absence of such rate, on the 
basis of a rate of 
exchange acceptable to the Bank.
Section 4.03. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, SANEPAR shall not 
incur any debt, if after the incurrence of such debt the ratio of debt to equity shall 
be greater than 70 to 30.
(b)
For purposes of this Section:
 
(i)
The term "debt" means any indebtedness of SANEPAR maturing by its 
terms more 
than one year after the date on which it is originally 
incurred.
(ii)
Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under a loan contract or 
agreement or 
other instrument providing for such debt or for the 
modification of its terms 
of payment, on the date of such contract, 
agreement or instrument; and (B) 
under a guarantee agreement, on 
the date the agreement providing for such 
guarantee has been 
entered into.
(iii)
The term "equity" means the sum of the total unimpaired paid-up 
capital, 
retained earnings and reserves of SANEPAR not 
allocated to cover specific 
liabilities.
 
(iv)
Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall be necessary to 
Page  5
value, in 
terms of the currency of the Guarantor, debt payable in 
another currency, such 
valuation shall be made on the basis of the 
prevailing lawful rate of exchange 
at which such other currency is, 
at the time of such valuation, obtainable for 
the purposes of servicing 
such debt, or, in the absence of such rate, on the 
basis of a rate of 
exchange acceptable to the Bank.
Section 4.04. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, SANEPAR 
shall 
not incur any debt unless a reasonable forecast of the revenues and expenditures of 
SANEPAR shows that the estimated net revenues of SANEPAR for each fiscal year during 
the term of the debt to be incurred shall be at least 1.5 times the estimated debt 
service requirements of SANEPAR in such year on all debt of SANEPAR including the debt 
to be incurred.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section:
 
(i)
The term "debt" means any indebtedness of SANEPAR maturing by its 
terms more 
than one year after the date on which it is originally 
incurred.
(ii)
Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under a loan contract or 
agreement or 
other instrument providing for such debt or for the 
modification of its terms 
of payment on the date of such contract, 
agreement or instrument; and (B) 
under a guarantee agreement, on 
the date the agreement providing for such 
guarantee has been 
entered into.
(iii)
The term "net revenues" means the difference between:
 
(A)
the sum of revenues from all sources related to operations 
and net 
non-operating income; and
 
(B)
the sum of all expenses related to operations including 
administration, 
adequate maintenance, taxes and payments in 
lieu of taxes, but 
excluding provision for depreciation, 
other non-cash operating charges 
and interest and other charges on 
debt.
(iv)
The term "net non-operating income" means the difference between:
 
(A)
revenues from all sources other than those related to 
operations; and
(B)
expenses, including taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, 
incurred in 
the generation of revenues in (A) above.
 
(v)
The term "debt service requirements" means the aggregate of 
repayments 
(including sinking fund payments, if any) of, and 
interest (other than 
capitalized interest) and other charges 
on, debt.
(vi)
The term "reasonable forecast" means a forecast prepared by 
SANEPAR not 
earlier than twelve months prior to the incurrence of 
the debt in question, 
which both the Bank and SANEPAR accept as 
reasonable and as to which the Bank 
has notified SANEPAR of its 
acceptability, provided that no event has occurred 
since such 
notification which has, or may reasonably be expected in the future 
to have, a material adverse effect on the financial condition Or future 
operating results of SANEPAR.
(vii)
Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall be necessary to 
value, in 
terms of the currency of the Guarantor, debt payable in 
another currency, such 
valuation shall be made on the basis of the 
prevailing lawful rate of exchange 
at which such other currency is, 
at the time of such valuation, obtainable for 
the purposes of servicing 
such debt, or, in the absence of such rate, on the 
basis of a rate of 
exchange acceptable to the Bank.
Page  6
Section 4.05. (a) Not later than June 30, 1990, SANEPAR shall carry out, under 
terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, a study on the  amount and fiscal 
implications of a fixed asset revaluation based on  current replacement costs and 
useful asset life.
(b)
Not later than three years after the completion of the study referred to 
in paragraph (a) of this Section and every three years thereafter, SANEPAR shall carry 
out similar studies under terms of reference, satisfactory to the Bank.
(c)
During its fiscal year ending on December 31, 1990 SANEPAR shall revalue, 
and every three fiscal years thereafter SANEPAR shall update the value of, its fixed 
assets in accordance with the methods of valuation  recommended by the studies carried 
out pursuant to paragraphs (a) and (b) hereof, such methods to be consistently applied 
in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and of SANEPAR 
thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Loan Agreement shall terminate in 
accordance with its terms, and the Bank shall promptly notify SANEPAR thereof.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered  by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INTBAFRAD
440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA) or
 64145 (WUI)
For SANEPAR:
Companhia de Saneamento do Parana - SANEPAR
Rua Engenheiro Reboucas, 1376
Curitiba
Parana
Brasil
Page  7
Telex:
(41) 5913
(41) 7401
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of SANEPAR may be 
taken or executed by the President of SANEPAR or  such other person or persons as the 
President of SANEPAR shall designate in writing, and SANEPAR shall furnish to the Bank 
sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each 
such person.
The Bank and SANEPAR agree that copies of the correspondence between the parties 
will be sent to PCU.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts,  each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their  respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as  of the day and year first 
above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ S. Shahid Husian
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
COMPANHIA DE SANEAMENTO DO
   PARANA-SANEPAR
By /s/ Alvaro Fernandes Dias
Authorized Representative
