Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
3 3
Report No. 9201-IND
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
INDONESIA
IRRIGATION SUBSECTOR II (O&M) PROJECT
MAY 1, 1991
re Operations Division
Department V
ion
D restricted distfibution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of September 1990)
Currency unit = Rupiah (Rp)
$1.00        = Rp 1.845
Rp 1 million = $542.01
GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 kilometer (km)         = 0.62 miles
1 square kilometer (km2) = 100 ha = 0.39 sq miles
1 hectare (ha)            = 2.47 acres
1 kilogram (kg)           = 2.2 pounds
1 metric ton (t)         = 2,205 pounds
1 cubic meter (m3)        = 35.3 cubic feet
ABBREVIATIONS, ACRONYMS AND INDONESIAN TERMINOLOGY
L            -  Environmental Impact Assessments
- Advanced Operating Unit
- Central Government Budget
- Annual Work Program
S IPAIR      -  ISF Consultative Committee
EDA          -  Provincial Development Planning Agency
ENAS         -  National Development Planning Agency
- Financial and Development Supervisory Board
ng Dinas     -  Irrigation Section or district
A            -  Directorate General of Food Crops Agriculture
ajak         -  Directorate General of Taxes
OD           -  Directorate General of Public Administration and Regional
Autonomy (within MOH)
D            -  Directorate General of Water Resources Development
- Daerah Irrigasi/irrigation scheme
- Routine budget allocation
- Provincial Public Works Department
nda          -  Provincial and local government offices for regional
revenue
- Efficient Operations and Maintenance
- Irrigation Committee
I           -  Irrigation Subsector I Project (Ln. 2880-IND)
Pengairan   -  Irrigation overseer
paten        - Administrative district
matan        - Administrative subdistrict
- Ministry of Agriculture
- Ministry of Finance
- Ministry of Home Affairs
- Ministry of Public Works
- Needs Based Budgets
- Land and Building Tax
- Preliminary Environmental Evaluations
amat         -  Irrigation Inspector, head of section (ranting dinas)
Plan of Operation and Maintenance
- Provincial Water Resources Service
- Public Works
ing dinas    -  Irrigation subdistrict
lita         -  National Five-Year Development Plan (also called "Pelita")
- Reference Operating Model
- Special Maintenance
- Water Users Association



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INDONESIA
IRRIGATION SUBSECTOR II (O&M) PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:              Republic of Indonesia
Beneficiaries:         Farmers, Central and Provincial Governments
Amount:                $225 million equivalent
Lending Terms:         The proposed loan would be made at the Bank's standard
variable interest rate for a term of 20 years including
5 years of grace
Project Description:  The project would be the second phase (4 years) of a
long-term (10-15 years) program aimed at supporting the
basic goals outlined in Government's Policy Statement
for the irrigation subsector as well as Government's
policies on decentralization. The project would
support: (a) the collection of the Irrigation Service
Fee (ISF) over about 700,000 ha and turnover of small
public irrigation schemes covering about 130,000 ha to
Water Users Associations (WUAs); (b) institutional
strengthening by providing project and construction
quality control, improving system design and operating
procedures, establishing basin-focused water operations
on a pilot basis, supporting WUA establishment and
strengthening activities of training and community
organization, instituting a programming and monitoring
(of scheme performance and of benefits) system and
improving environmental assessment capabilities; and
(c) minor works on the irrigation (about 815,000 ha) and
swamps (45,000 ha) schemes where only deferred
maintenance and minor systems modification is needed; to
allow introduction of efficient and sustained levels of
O&M funding, procedures and related activities so that
by the end of the project period, 1.7 million ha of
irrigated land and 170,000 ha of swamps schemes would be
under the Bank-supported program; and completion of
selected activities commenced under the Irrigation
Subsector I Project (Ln. 2880-IND) (ISSP I), including
monitoring of small river mouths, groundwater
development and completion of one ongoing swamps scheme.
Benefits:              The major benefits expected include:  (a) improved
funding of O&M and cost recovery; (b) improved resource
utilization leading to enhanced returns from existing
facilities on a sustained basis; (c) increased
participation of the beneficiaries in owning, managing,
operating and maintaining small irrigation schemes; and
This document has a rest, icted distributio. and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- iv -
Il?WONESIA
IRRIGATION SUBSECTOR !I (O&M) PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.  PROJECT AND SECTOR BACKGROUND . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    1
A. Project Background . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    1
B. The Agriculture Sector .. . ..... .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  2
- Background  ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   ..  2
-    Objectives    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  2
- Performance ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   . .. . ..  .  2
C. The Irrigation Subsector ... .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   ....  3
- Surface Irrigation  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    3
- Swamps.  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    4
- Rivers and River Basins ... .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   ..  5
- Groundwater Development ... .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   ..  6
D. Institutional Framework  ... .  .  .  .  .  .   .. .           7
- Irrigation Services for O&M . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    7
-  WTater Users Associations &nd Beneficiary Participation     8
- O&M Procedures and Management Practices . . . . . . . . .   10
- Training and Technical Assistance . . . . . . . . . . . .   11
E. O&M Funding and Cost Recovery  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   12
F. Government's Sectoral Objectives, Strategies and Investment
Programs  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  14
II.  BANK INVOLVEMENT AND LESSONS LEARNED  . . . . . . . . . . . . .   16
- Bank Involvement in the Sector  . . . . . . . . . . . . .   16
- Issues and Lessons Learned in Irrigation Development
in Indonesia  . . .   ........ . .. .  .  .  .  .  .   .    16
- Proposed Strategy and Rationale for Future Bank
Involvement . . . . . .........                          21
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission to Indonesia in
September/October 1990. The mission ccnsisted of Mrs. S. Ganguly, (task
manager), Messrs. A. Raza, H.D. Frederikven, D.J.W. Berkoff (Bank staff) and
R.D. Crooks (consultant); Peer reviewers were: Messrs. B. Albinson (technical
aspects), A. Bruestle (environmental aspects), V. Thakor (water resource
mangement aspects); and S. Whitehead (policy and institutional aspects).
Messrs. Russell J. Cheetham, Director (AS5DR) and Antony P. Cole, Division
Chief (ASSAG) have endorsed the project.



III. THE FROJECT ....................... . . .   23
A. The Project Concept and Objectives .     . . . . . . . . . . . .   23
B. Brief Project Descr-ption  ... .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .   23
C. Detailed Project Description ... .  .  .  .  .   ..... .  .   .   25
Policy Components . . . .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   25
- Irrigation Service Fee  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   25
- Turnover of Small Public Schemes to WUAs  . . . . . . .   25
- Rural PBB Tax Valuation and Land Reclassification   . .   27
Institutional Strengthening Component . . . . . . . . . .   27
- Increased Provincial Responsibility . . . . . . . . . .   27
- Strengthened Quality Control   . . . .   . . .  . . .  . . .   28
- Improved Inventory and Basin Water Management . . . . .   28
- Improved Operating Procedures . . . . . . . . . . . . .   28
- WUA Establishment and Strengthening . . . . . . . . . .   29
- Management Information System . . . . . . . . . . . . .   29
- Programming and Monitoring System . . . . . . . . . . .   29
- Monitoring and Evaluation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   30
- Technical Assistance and Training . . . . . . . . . . .   30
Physical Components . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   31
- Special Maintenance ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .    31
- Efficient Operations and Maintenance  . . .   . .   . . . .   32
- Completion of Ongoing Activities--Swamps Scheme,
Groundwater Development and Monitoring of
River Mouths  ....  .   ... . . .  .  .  .  .  .     .  32
IV.  PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   34
- Project Costs ....  .  .  .  .  .  .   .. ...  .  .  .  .  .   .    34
- Financing ....  .  .  .     . . . . . . . . . .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .    35
- Preparation Status and Implementation Schedule .   . . . .   36
- Procurement ....  .  .   .   . .. .  .  .   . . . . . .  .   .    37
- Disbursements . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  .  .  .   . . .  .   .    41
- Accounts and Audits ....   ...... .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .   43
V.  ORGANIZATION, MANAGEMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION . . . . . . . . . .   45
- National-Level Organization and Management  . . . . . . .   45
- Provincial- and Field-Level Organization and Management .   45
VI.  PROJECT IMPACT  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   47
- Cropping Patterns, Yields and Production  . . . . . . . .   47
- Prices and Cost Recovery  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   48
- Benefits and Economic Justification . . . . . . . . . . .   49
-    Role  of  Women   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  51
-   Environment   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  52
- Risks and Uncertainties . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   52
VII.  AGREEMENTS TO BE SOUGHT AND RECOMMENDATION  . . . . . . . . . .   54



TABLES IN TEXT
1.1   Buda,et Allocations for Recurrent and Incremental O&.             13
2.1   Irrigation Subsector - Project Completion and
Performance Audit Reports .   .   .   .   . . . . . . . . . . .    17
3.1   Turnover Program  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    26
4.1   Project Cost Summary .    .    .    .    . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    35
4.2   Project Financing Plan .    .    .    .    . . . . . . . . . . . . .    36
4.3   Procurement Plan  ... ...       .  .  .  .  .    .......  .  . .  40
4.4   Disbursement Schedule .   .   .   .   . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    42
6.1   Changes in Cropping Intensity of Dry Season Rice Crops  .    47
6.2 Cost Recovery Indices   ....                                        48
6.3   Economic Rates of Return .    .    .    .    . . . . . . . . . . . .    50
ANNEXES
Annex 1   Government's Statement of Policy for Irrigation O&M
Annex 2   Action Plan
Annex 3   Table 1 - Project Costs
Table 2 - Government's Financing Plan
Annex 4   Definition of Key Project Concepts
Annex 5   ISF - Implementation Procedures
Annex 6   The Turnover Program
Annex 7   Implementation of Special Maintenance Works on Irrigation Systems
Annex 8   Sequencing of Special Maintenance and Efficient O&H Activities
Annex 9   Annual Work Program
Annex 10  Consultancy Services
Annex 11  Economic Prices for Major Inputs and Outputs
Annex 12  Environmental Aspects
Annex 13  Project Supervision Requirements
Annex 14  Selected Documents and Data available in Files
Chart I   - Typical Organization Chart of the Provincial Water Resource
Services
Chart II  - Sources of O&M Funding



INDONESIA
IRRIGATION SUBSECTOR II (O&M) PROJECT
I. PROJECT AND SECTOR BACKGROUND
A. Project Background
1.1       Irrigation has absorbed a major part of Bank lending for Indonesian
agriculture over the past two decades, with loans/credits of some $1.6 billion
for 24 operations. In the early years, this contributed to a large expansion
of irrigation infrastructure which assisted Indonesia to become self-
sufficient in rice, at higher levels of per capita consumption than in the
1950s/60s. Due to inadequate attention to operations and maintenance (O&M) of
the constructed physical facilities, public irrigation schemes have
experienced a shortfall in performance. Increasing recognition of the
importance of O&M, and reduced returns to new investments due to higher costs
and lower world rice prices, is now leading Government to redirect its
priorities towards efficient O&M and to the completion of viable high-priority
ongoing projects, particularly those with substantial sunk investments. In
1987, Government established new policies and formulated an action program on
subsector-wide O&M funding, institutional strengthening, and cost recovery,
_nitiating a long-term (10-15 year) program of reforms which is supported by
the Bank. A first-phase Irrigation Subsector Project (TSSP, Loan 2880-IND;
$234 r-illion) became effective in January 1988 and is being implemented over a
three-year period, with the loan scheduled to close on March 31, 1991, and now
extended to July 31, 1991. This project has, to date, been successful in
supporting a change in Government's priorities towards O&M, initiating key
policies related to cost recovery and the privatization of small public
irrigation schemes, and helping commence redefinition of the roles of central
and provincial agencies, in the context of the O&M phase of development.
1.2       The proposed project would be the second phase (four years) of a
program in support of the basic goals outlined in Government's 1987 Policy
Statement for irrigation, as well as its policies on decentralization of O&M-
related activities. Bank support for both policy and institutional reforms
and appropriate levels of expenditures would be geared towards sustaining
irrigation systems into the future, and improving the efficiency of water
resources management. The preparation mission, which visited Indonesia in
September 1989, agreed with Government on key project elements and on the
actions and progress needed under the ongoing Irrigation Subsector Project
(Loan 2880-IND) prior to the appraisal of the proposed project. Following a
second preparation mission in March 1990, a preappraisal in June 1990, and an
appraisal mission in September 1990, broad agreement was reached with
Government on the project scope as well as the four-year Action Plan, which
wr'uld provide the underpinnings for the second phase of the program. Loan
neg :iations were held from March 18 to 22, 1991.



- 2 -
B. The Agriculture Sector
Background
1.3       Agriculture remains a key sector of the Indonesian economy,
contributing 21 percent of GDP (in constant terms), providing employment to
55 percent of the labor force, and generating 56 percent of the non-oil
exports in 1988. Of some 24.0 million ha under cultivation, about
16.0 million ha is under annual crops, of which approximately 5.5 million ha
is irrigated. With the exception of estate crops, nearly all agricultural
production is undertaken oy the 18 millior. smallholders, a majority of whom
farm less than 1 ha. Farm incomes are increasingly being supplemented by off-
farm employment, which can contribute 30 percent or more of net farm incomes.
A notable feature of Indonesia's robust economic growth and macroeconomic
stability has been a significant reduction in the incidence of poverty,
particularly rural. It is estimated that presently 16 percent of the rural
population (about 20 million) live below the poverty line, compared to
20 percent of the urban population and 17 percent of the total.
1.4       Food crops account for 52 percent of agricultural GDP.  Rice, the
staple food and dominant crop, accounts for 62 percent of the harvested area
of all food crops, and for 21 percent of agricultural GDP. Corn (17 percent
of the foodcrop area), *.assava (8 percent), and soybeans (6 percent), are also
important subsidiary food crops. Indonesia has a strong comparative advantage
in corn exports, and in the production of rice for the domestic market.
Objectives
1.5       The Government's major objectives for the agriculture sector during
the Repelita V period (1989/90 to 1993/94) include: accelerated growth and
reduction in rural poverty, a greater focus on efficiency, increased
productive employment opportunities in rural areas, and a more balanced
regional distribution of growth.
Performance
1.6       Growth in agricultural production was 4.3 percent in 1988 and
4.4 percent in 1989, returning to the level of about 4 percent achieved during
the 1975-85 decade following a drop in 1986 and 1987 to 2.5 percent and
2.2 percent respectively. Rice production grew by 5.5 percent in 1989, the
robust growth reflecting good prices and rainfall which resulted in a
3 percent increase in area planted and a 2.3 percent increase in yield. The
area increase was partly due to the Government's decision to allow 40,000-
50,000 ha of previously designated sugarcane area to revert to rice land, and
partly to higher relative profitability of rice which induced the farmers to
shift out of corn and soybeans.
1.7       Over the last two decades, rice has been the engine of growth in the
sector. The large expansion in irrigation infrastructure has made a major
contribution to the achievement of rice self-sufficiency while allowing per
capita consumption to increase from 100 kg per annum in 1976 to almost 140 kg
at present. Paddy production of 41.6 million tons in 1988 is more than double
the level in 1970, with the increase coming mainly from hither yields on
existing irrigated area. Paddy yields on Java are now 4.5-5 t/ha, being among



- 3 -
the highest in Asia. Yields tend to be lower on the Outer Islands but are
still in the der of 3.5-4 t/ha. Although increased yield accounted for
perhaps 75 percent of the increase in output since 1970, harvested area also
rose by more than 30 percent. Paddy yields under irrigated conditions are
4.2 t/ha, and under rainfed conditions in the order of 1.7 t/ha. Though
precision is impcssible, irrigation investment has contributed significantly
to the rapid increase in rice production--of the order of 20-30 percent of the
growth in production according to available studies,--through a combination of
improved water availability and the application of fertilizer to modern
varieties, on both existing and new areas.
1.8       The Bank price projections indicate declining real rice prices and
increasing fertilizer prices well into the next century. This, accompanied by
leveling of yields and no major breakthrough in rice research on the near
horizon, could make the objective of sustained rice self-sufficiency somewhat
fragile. On the other hand, experience of other countries indicates that high
growth in the economy is generally accompanied by a changing demand pattern
leading to a decline in rice demand at least for the higher income groups.
Thus, rice self-sufficiency could be maintained in Indonesia, although at
somewhat lower levels of supply and demand. Recent estimates indicate that
about 2 percent per annum growth in rice production is likely to be needed to
meet the domestic demand for rice. This will require greater economic
efficiency and intensification, and a less interventionist role of Government
in setting cropping targets, pricing, marketing and trade.
C. The Irrigation Subsector
Surface Irrigation
1.9       The gross potential irrigated area in Indonesia under public sector
management is 4.4 million ha, of which 3.8 million ha are preser-tly developed
as irrigated sawah. Government plans to develop most of the remaining area in
Repelita V (FY89/9C - FY93/94), through projects supported by ADB, IBRD
(proposed Provincial Irrigated Agriculture Development Project-PIADP), OECF
and other bilateral donors. Because of the run-of-the-river nature of most of
the schemes, the intensity of cropping I/ and actual service area may vary
over the years. Of the public irrigated area, 2.5 million ha is classified as
technical,2/ 1.2 million ha as semi-technical and 0.7 million ha as simple
irrigated area. In addition, there are approximately 1.1 million ha of
1/   The average annual service area utilization (about 95 percent) and
intensity of cropping (over 200 percent) are very high in Java provinces
and Bali, which comprise about 65 percent of the total public irrigated
land in Indonesia.
2/   The technical areas have permanent canals, control structures and
measuring devices, and Government controls water distribution up to the
tertiary canals. The semi-technical areas have permanent canals but few
2ontrols or measuring devices, and the Government controls only the
source and the main canal. The simple or non-technical areas have few
permanent control and distribution structures, and are usually farmer-
managed.



- 4 -
village-operated irrigation schemes, mainly in Java and Sumatra, whose extent
and locations are yet to be precisely determined.
1.10      The public irrigated area is reported to consist of 6,731 irrigation
systems (DIs), of which 86 percent (5,784 systems) are less than 1,000 ha in
area, ;2 percent are between 1,000-5,000 ha size, and only 2 percent (133
systems) are larger than 5,000 ha. The preponderance of small-size systems
and small and fralmented land holdings are the characteristics of Indonesian
irrigation. The .985 Public WVrks inventory recorded nationwide that there
are 2,304 Public Works-assisted schemes of 150 ha or less covering 185,300 ha
or 4.3 percent of the publicly-operated area. About 70 percent of all schemes
are below 500 ha, covering 1 million ha or 23 percent of the total area.
Government intends to give first priority during Repelita V to turning over
schemes of less than 150 ha to the farmer groups. Its longer-term policy is
to turn over all systems up to 500 ha, retaining O&M responsibility only for
schemes greater than 500 ha. Many existing larger systems are in practice
conglomerations of smaller schemes. Government intends to subdivide these
into their constituent elements so that the area to be turned over to the
farmers may be significantly greater than indicated by the 1985 inventory.
Most smaller systems are simple or semi-technical while the larger systems
that will remain a public responsibility are technical.
1.11      Rehabilitation, modernization (e.g., conversion to technical
systems) and expansion accounted for the majority of irrigation investment
during the first three Repelitas (para. 1.54). Maintenance of t2e existing
capital stock tended to be neglected.  Recognizing this, Government has in
recent years reordered its expenditure priorities, giving greater emphasis to
the efficient operation and maintenance (EOM) of existing systems and to
ensuring that their physical and operating performance, and the resultant
increase in agricultural production, can be sustained. This reordering of
priorities was set out in the 1987 Policy Statement (para. 1.2) and has been
supported by the first Irr _ation Subsector Project (ISSP I) and by the ADB-
assisted Third Irrigation Sector Project.
1.12      Expenditures on surface systems financed under ISSP I have fallen
into two categories (see definitions in Annex 4): Special Maintenance (SM) to
remedy problems that have accumulated due to poor construction and deferred
maintenance, and Efficient O&M (EOM) to sustain performance into the future.
SM was initiated on 440,000 ha and by end FY90/91 some 988,000 ha will be
receiving EOM. Experience in implementing this program is discussed in paras.
2.14 and 2.15. Twenty-six ongoing new irrigation projects were also taken up
for completion under ISSP I. These activities will now be financed under a
separate operation, the proposed PIADP.
Swamps
1.13      Indonesia has an estimated 35 million ha of inland and coastal
swamps, mostly with complex (deep peats and potential acid sulphate) soils.
Of this total, about 5.3 million ha in Sumatra, Kalimantan and Irian Jaya are
considered potentially productive, although conservation of primary forests
and other environmental considerations are likely to constrain the area that



- 5 -
can be developed. Since the 1970s, about 850,000 ha 3/ have been reclaimed
through Government-sponsored schemes, using low-cost/low-technology approaches
for settlement of transmigrants, and another 2.5 million ha have been
developed spontaneously by farmers, usually on favorable soils. Agricultural
development on a majority of these schemes has been limited by relatively low
first-phase investment in the basic infrastructure, inadequate agricultural
support services to the farmers, neglect of O&M of these schemes, until
recently, and land clearance problems. However, considerable improvements
appear possible through upgrading of the drainage infrastructure, EOM and
better provision of agricultural support services to farmers. Under Repelita
V, Government has no program for reclamation and settlement of new swamp areas
and, presently, a comprehensive second-stage Integrated Swamps Development
Proj ct (ISDP) is under preparation with the Bank support.
1.14      In principle, O&M of the main drainage systems was to be done by
Provincial Water Resources Service (PRIS), and that of the tertiary system by
farmers, through Water Users Associations (WUAs). In practice, little is done
since O&M of main and secondary drainage systems has yet to be formally
transferred (except in West Kalimantan, Riau, Jambi and Lampung) from the
center to the PRIS. Furthermore, prior to 1984, swamp schemes did not receive
regular allocation for O&M funds. Swamps schemes in five provinces were
included in the ISSP I for SM and EOM. SM was started on 94,840 ha, of which
47,550 ha have been fully completed. EOM was introduced on a total area of
148,860 ha. Three ongoing projects were also taken up for completion. About
180 field-level PRIS and staff were trained in O&M procedures developed under
ISSP I.
Rivers and River Basins
1.15      Rivers in Indonesia are grouped into 90 river territories.  These
territories were established through a Ministerial Decree in April 1989, with
the objective of reinforcing the planning, development and management of water
resources through a river basin approach. A total of 15 river territories
cover more than a single province. There are 5,886 small and large rivers in
these river territories, many under 50 km in length. The bulk of supplemental
irrigation water is obtained from surface water through run-of-river
structures. Use of groundwater resources for irrigation is limited. Although
the quantity of municipal and industrial use from surface water is small, it
represents an important demand, and in maay river basins has to compete with
agricultural use. Aquaculture demands are expanding rapidly. In a number of
river basins in Java and Sumatra, water availability and deteriorating water
quality are becoming major constraints to development.
1.16      River basin planning and development is the responsibility of DGWRD
in the Ministry of Public Works. Only in six or seven major river basins has
water resource planning and development followed a coordinated riv.r basin
approach, in which development of irrigation is accompanied by flood control,
river improvement, upper watershed erosion control, sediment control and river
training. With no accepted overall river basin plan, separate approaches by
3/   Including under the two Bank-supported projects:  the completed Swamps I
(Loan 1958-IND) and the ongoing Swamps II (Loan 2431-IND).



- 6 -
different agencies leads to an inefficient use of tha river basin water
resources and contention among users, especially during low-flow periods.
1.17      Management of the river systems both dur!ng low and flood flows is
important for efficient operation of the irrigation infrastructure and other
water facilities and protection of the service area. Attention is currently
centered on providing urgently needed but limited flood protection to human
settlements. Management of water resources in a river basin, for different
uses at different locations in the basin, has tended to re.nain a concept of
discussion, with most emphasis placed on water management within individual
schemes. O&M programs for overall river systems ax.e virtually absent.
1.18      In the long term, the River Basin Water Management must be initiated
encompassing comprehensive multi-purpose water resource .ianagement covering
the complete river basin and directed by a single Government institution under
the appropriate regulatory guidelines. Current proposals envisage assigning
each class A river basin (as defined in the Draft River Basin Decree) to a
Central Government-directed agency and each class B river basin to a
Provincial Government. Although the responsibility for management ce;.ld lie
within such institutions, the activities involved in water resource management
could be decentralized through co-management concept as stated in the l)raft
River Basin Decree.
1.19      ISSP I did not focus on river basin planning and management.  It
included limited flood protection works under the completion of the ongoing
projects component, and the protection of small river mouths to test on pilot
basis, the suitability of low cost design to eliminate the need for frequent
maintenance dredging of river mouths.
Groundwater Development
1.20      Public sector groundwater activities have been concentrated in East
Java. During the 1970s, the private sector in East and Central Java developed
low-cost shallow tubewells in the shallow water table areas of fluvio-volcanic
aquifer systems, but this technology has failed to spread elsewhere. Of an
identified potential area of 175,000 ha for groundwater irrigation, only
25,000 ha have been developed, about 15,000 ha by public sector and 10,000 ha
by privately financed shallow wells in East and Central Java. Public
groundwater development has focused on areas which are relatively less
developed, and which have inadequate availability of surface water supply for
agricultural development. The ISSP I included a groundwater development
component. In view of the ample groundwater development potential, Government
has expressed interest to the Bank in a separate. free-standing groundwater
project; this is now under preparation with Bank assistance. Future
groundwater development activities will need to consider inter-sectoral
conflicts and allocations of groundwater, preferably in the context of
conjunctive surface-groundwater utilization. Groundwater contamination issues
will also need to be focused on.



D. Institutional Framework
Irrigation Services for O&M
1.21      Agencies at ths Central Level.  DGWRD, in the Ministry of Public
Works (MPW), is responsible for the overall planning, development and
management of water resources in Indonesia. Responsibility for O&M (a focal
point in ISSP I) of the irrigation network has been "decentralized" (by
PP 23/1982) to the provincial governments. The administrative and technical
involvement of the central DGWRD offices in irrigation O&M is essentially
confined to technical advice and guidance. The responsibility for O&M aspects
of rivers and swamps still rests with the central government, and if delegated
to the provinces it is by way of "co-administration." Since 1982, regional
offices (kantor wilayah) of the MPW have been established in each provincial
capital. As a direct (vertical) extension of the ministry, these "kanwil PU"
are mainly engaged with execution of MPW-funded projects, besides having a
liaison function in technical matters between the central government and the
provincial public works agencies.
1.22      The Ministry of Home Affairs (MOH), through its Directorate General
for Public Administration and Regional Autonomy (DGPUOD) and the Directorate
of Regional Finance (Keuangan Daerah) is responsible for the Irrigation
Service Fee (ISF) component of the ISSP and thus, from a cost recovery point
of view, involved in irrigation O&M. The MOH also provides functional
guidance and budget support to the Regional government.
1.23      The Ministry of Agriculture (MOA), particularly through its
Directorate General of Food Crops, Agriculture (DGFCA), BIMAS program and
regional offices, is involved in irrigated agriculture mainly through research
and development, production intensification and agricultural support services.
The ministry is more directly involved in the ISSP I through the Water Users
Associations Strengthening Project (WUASP) which is carried out by the
Directorate of Agricultural Area Development (DAAD). Overlap with other water
user components has led Government to exclude WUASP from the scope of the
proposed project.
1.24      In the Ministry of Finance (MOF), the Directorate General for
Taxation (DG Pajak) through its Directorate of Property Tax is responsible for
the reclassification and valuation program in connection with PBB (land and
building tax), one of the sources for funding irrigation O&M. The collection
of this tax is, however, entrusted to the Dipenda (provincial and district
level) local government offices for regional revenue.
1.25      Agencies at the Regional and Subregional Levels.  O&M of irrigation
systems are the explicit responsibilities of the PRIS of the provincial public
works department (DPUP), administratively answerable to the Governor. Chart I
shows the typical pattern of organization for the PRIS, from the DPUP down to
the irrigation subdistrict (ranting dinas).
1.26      At an intermediate level of the provincial public works
administration, the larger irrigation provinces have auxiliary offices, the
KPKD (kantor pembantu kepala dinas) to assist the head DPUP in the execution
of his duties and to coordinate activities in several districts. At the
district level, most ISSP I provinces have a separate irrigation office
I



- 8 -
(Cabang Dinas PU Pengairan). In four provinces, a composite cabang dinas
"umum" tekes care of all public works components. The cabang dinas pengairan
is directly involved in irrigation matters such as water allocation and
distribution, and management and supervision of maintenance works. Through
the medium of the District (Kabupaten) Irrigation Committee, the head of the
cabang dinas liaises with other regional government departments, notably the
agricultural service, that have an interest in adequate and timely supply of
irrigation water.
1.27      At the irrigation subdistrict (ranting) level, a Pengamat (head of
ranting office) is in charge of an irrigation (command) area of up to
5,000 ha. Subordinate to the head of cabang, these heads of ranting supervise
a number of inspectorates of some 1,000 ha each, headed by a juru pengairan
who, in turn, supervises the actual grassroots-level irrigation operation by
gate operators, and maintenance by foremen and labor gangs or through a small
local contractor. In addition to their regular technical tasks, juru
pengairan in certain areas (in small systems selected for turnover and in
systems under the irrigation service fee-ISF) are being prepared for increased
interaction with water users and their associations.
1.28      Genieral Provincial Organization.  Some basic features of the general
administrative organization are also relevant. The Governor, as chief of the
province, is assisted by a number of provincial support agencies (dinas),
headed by kepala dinas who are fully and directly answerable to the Governor.
One of these dinas is the DPUP. Staff bureaus within the governor's office
include the provincial planning o"reau, BAPPEDA I, which has an important role
in interagency coordination in ISSP, and represents Home Affairs (PUOD) as
chairman of the provincial steering committee for ISF.
1.29      At the district level (tingkat II), the Bupati assists the Governor
in the execution of his tasks. The already strong tids between the Bupati
(Home Affairs, local government tingkat II) and head of cabang dinas pengairan
(tingkat I) are being further strengthened through the ISF program which
requires close working relationships between the two sides. The Bupati is
responsible for the formation and strengthening of WUAs, and chairs the
Kabupaten Irrigation Committee and, in ISF districts, the ISF Consultative
committee (BAMUS IPAIR). It is on these interagency platforms that water
management is discussed. The Irrigation Committee (IC) is the most prominent
horizontal linkage within the irrigation O&M institutional framework. The IC,
in particular the Kabupaten IC, is now widely recognized as a valuable asset
by government officials, farmers and other water users, although this
institution is not always put to effective use.
1.30      The provincial agricultural service (PRAS) is organized according to
the bou,idaries of the civil administration and has offices at the provincial,
subprovincial (wilayah), kabupaten and kecamatan (subdistrict) levels. Its
responsibilities include participation in the planning ot cropping pattern and
water allocation and cooperating with other agencies in the delivery of the
BIMAS package (credit, inputs, technical advice) to farmers.
Water Users Associations (WUAs) and Beneficiary Participation
1.31      Background.  Farmers sharing the same water course have organized in
various ways to handle their common interests in equitable distribution of the



water available, in management and upkQt: if their system and to solve
problems as and when they arise. Fsuch traditional and often quite informal
farmer groupings are found in all irrigation provinces. Though most have
remained inconspicuous, a few such as the subak of Bali/Lombok have gained
wider attention. Over the past decade, however, it has increasingly been
recognized that more formalized organizations are required.   Viable and
effective WUAs will be a key to success in irrigation system management and
improved agricultural performance in the years to come. Moreover, it is
imperative that the ever-increasing cost of Government involvement in
irrigation system O&M has to be reduced, requiring the active participation in
O&M of water users, including in cost recovery.
1.32      Legal Basis.  Government regulations PP 23/1982, Inpres 2/1984 and
PP 14/1987 provide the legal basis of the WUA organization.  In the
presidential instruction, the role of the various agencies involved in the
guidance of WUAs are described although the legal status of the WUAs as such
remains ambiguous. It is generally recognized, however, that they should be
granted the explicit status of legal bodies to enable them to open bank
accounts (an ISF requirement), receive government assets (as under the
turnover program), make contracts, enforce agreements in court, have access to
commercial bank credit, have legitimate control over members, etc. The
Government is aware of this and plans to speed up the legalization process and
procedures. Routinization of WUA registration, now already gaining momentum
(e.g., in the turnover and ISF areas) is a first step in this direction and it
will continue to be supported under the proposed project.
1.33      System-Based WUAs.  WUAs need to be based on hydrological, rather
than administrative (mainly village) boundaries, with managerial control over
the hydraulic network of their immediate system. This will be the case in
small schemes after turnover, and in larger schemes under both EOM and ISF
which are both explicitly system-based programs. Where exclusively village-
based WUAs persist (as the HIPPA in East Java), efforts should be made to
gradually adjust the situation to the general principle of tertiary unit-based
organization.
1.34      WUA Representation.  Legal arrangements, policy and practice should
increasingly reflect that WUAs not only have administrative responsibilities
(for tertiary O&M, discipline in water distribution and rotation, paying
service fees, etc.), but also have the right to representation in decision-
making bodies, initially perhaps in an advisory capacity. In large systems,
WUA federations will be needed to effectively represent the water users above
the tertiary level. Under the ISF pilot schemes (ISSP I), such federations
have been established, which is an important initial step towards user
participation in the main system and intersystem management. Formal farmer
water user representation must also be considered on the irrigation
committees.
1.35      Catalysts for WUA Development.  Experience with the ongoing small
systems turnover program shows that user involvement in planning, design and
construction activities aimed at system improvement is a strong motivating
factor in WUA development and strengthening. During ISSP I, 20,000 ha were
turned over to WUAs by end-March 1991. A similarly effective catalyst in
getting WUAs and even WUA federations started and functioning, is being
provided by the service-oriented ISF concept. Rather than involvement in



- 10 -
physical upgrading works, the impetus in ISF is the awareness of users that by
organizing themselves they gain influence to receive a better and reliable
irrig.t.ion service.
O&M Procedures and Management Practices
1.36      O&M procedures in Indonesia vary in response to local conditions.
Nevertheless, standard guidelines for a "Reference Operating Model" (ROM) have
been prepared for use in "technical" schemes. These evolved over a number of
years, notably under the East Java Irrigation Project (Loan 2119-IND) and its
predecessors, being extended to other provinces in the context of "Advanced
Operating Units" (AOUs or pilot areas) under the Central and West Java
Irrigation Project (Loan 2649-IND) and ISSP I. Under the ROM, a System
Planning Note is prepared for each scheme as a basis for design. A Daerah
Irrigasi (DI) Data Book (giving a listing of physical facilities and, in some
instances, as-built drawings) and an O&M Manual are subsequently prepared, the
latter applying the ROM guidelines to the particular scheme. Under the
proposed project, these documents are to be expanded and the initial details
of procedures and instructions developed, including overall O&M programming
together with other elements comprising a Plan of Operations and Maintenance
(POM).4/ Also instructions for Needs-Based Budgets (NBBs) on annual and
five-year O&M programs would be prepared as a part of this (Annex 4).
1.37      Operations.  The ROM approach evolved as a basic guide for
scheduling and delivering irrigation water. In principle, it results in a
high standard of irrigation service, being a continuous flow, "arranged
demand" system under which deliveries to the tertiary outlet are controlled to
meet the requirements of sanctioned crop areas. Shortfalls in river supplies
are shared equitably among authorized recipients. irrigation staff working
with the farmers must in principle control both the sanctioned area and
variable flow to the tertiary outlet. Standard forms and procedures have been
evolved to assist them in this process. A detailed description of this
approach is given in the IIMI (1987) report (para. 2.4).
1.38      The physical infrastructure that has evolved in association with
this system also requires a high degree of discipline in design and
management. Control solutions are often complex with a combination of over-
shot and under-shot gates -nd orifices and offtakes at different levels in the
system along the same canal, even at the same structure. Even if design and
construction are implemented correctly, accurate settings are required each
time gates are adjusted--usually ever) 10-15 days--so that varying hydraulic
chacacteristics do not result in unintended discharges. This infrastructure
complements the operational approach in that both require detailed control and
management and assume that these will be forthcoming in practice. However,
they do not necessarily go together--the general planning and operations
inherent in the operational approach could be retained while modifying or
simplifying the physical infrastructure and vice versa.
1.39      Theoretically, these procedures can significantly improve the match
between planned and actual deliveries. Nevertheless, they are difficult and
in many situations impossible to sustain in practice. Not only must crop
4/   Defined in Annex 4.



- 11 -
areas and stages of growth be known in detail but measurement of river and
canal flows must be accurate, return flows from adjacent systems and losses
known, and gate settings correct. Even if this is achieved, errors will still
be significant since rivers fluctuate within a 10-15 day period, rainfall is
scattered, catchments are broken and small with limited regulation, and reuse
is pervasive. Furthermore, staff and farmers may have motives for incorrect
implementation--if water is abundant there is little point, if water is scarce
farmers may intervene to serve their own interests. Finally, hydraulic
instability of the infrastructure may compound errors encouraging further
farmer intervention. Studies by IIMI in association with DGWRD (1989) have
shown that, even if the procedures are ostensibly followed, planned and actual
discharges often differ considerably in practice.
1.40      The standard procedures are appropriate under certain circumstances.
Nevertheless, in other circumstances they may be less appropriate and/or
cannot be sustained in practice. What may be suited to a compact, water short
system in Java may be less suited to a large system, or to a series of inter-
connected small schemes. They are marginally appropriate, if needed at all,
on water abundant projects or during water abundant periods. It is,
therefore, proposed that operating alternatives should be tested under the
project with the aim of evolving simplified approaches and their supporting
infrastructure, and developing a typology of conditions under which different
approaches might be appropriate in the future (para. 3.16).
1.41      Maintenance.  A standardized general approach to maintenance
planning and reporting has also evolved. As in the case of the operations,
the manual describes how this approach is to be applied in general terms but
is often limited in the context of a particular scheme. Routine maintenance
tasks (greasing of gates, grass cutting, maintenance of canal banks, removal
of silt etc.) are normally undertaken by PRIS staff or force account
(swakeloka). Significant structural or lining work and emergency tasks are
normally contracted out.
1.42      Institutionalizing maintenance-related procedures can be even more
problematic than in the case of operations. Not only is systematic
programming and reporting difficult to institute, but there is often a long
gap between the time a maintenance task is identified in the field and the
time at which the repair is actually carried out. This reflects both budget
constraints and the long time used to plan and finalize budget requests and
allocations. Simplification of the long-drawn out budgetary process should be
a high priority.   Clearly maintenance implementation also must become
icreasingly "needs based". Progress has been made under ISSP I and needs
ad budgets (NBBs) are to be routinely prepared under the proposed project.
Training and Technical Assistance
1.43      Substantial support has been provided by the Bank and other donors
over a number of years for training of irrigation O&M staff in provinces
including a comprehensive training of 621 DGWRD staff in classical O&M
courses, 174 PRIS staff in planning and programming, and on-the-job training
of 4,705 PRIS --aff in construction supervision and O&M, during ISSP I. Under
the Water UseLs' Tr ining Project (supported under ISSP I), about 20,400
farmers, trainers an_ local government staff, and 1,540 staff under the Water
Users Associatiirn Strengthening Project (also supported under ISSP I) have



- 12 -
been trained. Another 316 farmers and 27 instructors received training under
the turnover program. About 180 staff were trained in the O&M procedures for
the swamps schemes. The course contents, training materials and modules have
already been prepared which can be used for further training of additional
field staff.
1.44      Technical assistance provided by various donors to the central and
provincial agencies engaged in irrigation has been extensive. Under the
ISSP I, $45 million was provided for consultancy services for capacity
building, policy development and project implementation support. In the case
of activities which need to be carried out on a continuing basis beyond a
project implementation period, the consultancy services need to be phased out.
The programs which are in an initial development phase and have yet to be
routinely established will continue to require some technical assistance.
There is scope for improvement in Government's management and coordination of
consultancies. Likewise, there is a need to assign specific Government
counterpart staff to consultants so that an adequate transfer of knowledge can
take place. A number of these elements have been taken into account in the
design and scope of the technical assistance under the proposed project.
1.45      Training and technical assistance efforts have in the past not
always been fully effective. In themselves they are only a part of what is
required for institutional strengthening and it is other aspects (the
tailoring of organizational arrangements, rules and regulations, the
managerial and technical capacity of entities to accomplish basic O&M goals)
which have sometimes been given inadequate emphasis. Under the project,
greater attention will be given to these aspects and to ensuring the training
and technical assistance complement such measures, including the
decentralization of responsibilities and facilities to the provinces.
E. O&M Funding and Cost Recovery
O&M Funding
1.46      The three main sources of funding for O&M are as shown in Chart II.
(a) APBD - Inpres Dati I. This is a subsidy from the Central Government, made
available under the development budget and channeled through the Ministry of
Home Affairs via the Provincial Government (DIPDA) to the PRIS, to meet
incentive payments, overtime, transport, subsistence, equipment and materials
and construction expenditures; (b) APBN - DGWRD. This is a development budget
allocated through the Ministry of Public Works, via DGWRD to the PRIS, and is
used for the same purpose as the APBD funds; and (c) Routine Salary Payments
(DIK). Each provincial government allocates funds from its own revenue for
payment of salaries to province-based permanent staff. The payments are made
through DIK (Daftar Isian Kegiatan). In most provinces, the money is
allocated to each Dinas. For this purpose, all three Public Works services
fall under one Dinas and, therefore, it is difficult to obtain exact figures
for the PRIS. The APBD funds are further augmented by (small) contributions
from PBB (Ministry of Finance) land and property tax collections and from PAD,
miscellaneous local taxes to meet local needs.
1.47      From 1984/85-88/89, central Government allocations for O&M (APBN'
were confined to specific areas that had been rehabilitated (in Java, Lampung
and South Sulawesi) with APBD funds allocated to other areas. Since 1989/90,



- 13 -
under the terms of the ISSP I, APBD funds have met the cost of O&M on non-EOM
areas (areas receiving inadequate levels of recurrent O&M) whereas APBN and
Bank funds have met those of EOM areas (areas receiving adequate levels needed
to sustain performance in future--see Annex 4).
1.48      Prior to ISSP I, Government budgetary allocations for O&M (excluding
regular salaries--DIK) totalled only about Rp 7,700 per ha, a level
insufficient to sustain the irrigation network. A major ISSP objective was
therefore to support increasing allocations over time on a needs based basis.
The ISSP I Loan Agreement specified that, for non-EOM areas, Government would
maintain allocations in real terms. For EOM areas, full requirements would be
met (estimated to average Rp 25,000/ha) with Bank assistance meeting
incremental amounts on a declining basis. For each DI/scheme, the Bank's
contribution is 100 percent of incremental requirements in the first year,
declining by 20 percent in each subsequent year, with the actual percentage
funded by the Bank in any one fiscal year calculated as a uniform rate for all
EOM areas so as to simplify the DIP calculations. Budget allocations have
broadly met the ob,ectives set under the project and are summarized in Table
1.1.
Table 1.1: BUDGET ALLOCATIONS FOR RECURRENT AND INCREMENTAL OSM
Incrementol O&M (ISSP I areas)
Recurrent O&M         Indexes                              Government share
FY     Rp/ho   Total      Allocation Inflation    Rp/ha     Total    of incremental
(Rp billion)                                (Rp billion)  (Rp billion)
198B/87   7,700   40.0         100.0     100.0     13,200     2.8
1989/90  10,098   64.6         136.2     127.0     16,400    14.6            2.9
1990/91  10,793   69.1         147.8     133.0     17,025    19.6            6.6
Source: BAPPENAS and DGWRD.
Cost Recovery
1.49      PBB.  The property tax system, PBB, introduced in 1985 to replace
Land Tax (IPEDA), is intended as a revenue source for local governments. This
tax is not an irrigation fee, and of the revenues generated a small portion
(8-10 percent) was allocated towards O&M of irrigation systems, which covered
only a part of these costs. Government's objective as stipulated in the
Statement of Policies (Annex 1) is to expedite the conversion of Land Tax
(IPEDA) to the PPB system through reclassification of the market value of
rural properties, and to ensure that the system is implemented effectively and
yields the expected revenues. Within the framework of ISSP these activities
are supported and, to date, have succeeded in remapping and reclassifying
390,000 ha (a total of 1.7 million ha have been remapped under the various
Bank-supported projects, and these are being included in the tax rolls) and
generating an increase in average PBB tax levels from Rp 13,500/ha to
Rp 20,000/ha for the irrigated lands, and an increase from Rp 5,000/ha to
Rp 9,700/ha for the uplands.



- 14 -
1.50      Irrigation Service Fee.  This fee is expected to improve resource
allocation and gradually reduce the need for Government funding subsidies and
become the main source to meet efficient O&M budget for the primary irrigation
systems. During the ISSP I, ISF was introduced in four pilot areas (Nganjuk
in East Java, Subang in Jatiluhur, Sukoharjo in Central Java and Sidrap in
South Sulawesi), and is expected to cover a total area of about 50,000 ha,
resulting in ISF revenues of Rp 15,000/ha (on an annual basis), with
collection costs of Rp 3,000/ha, and 80 percent collection efficiency.
1.51      ISF and PBB.  While both the ISF and PBB are cost recovery
mechanisms, they are fundamentally different in nature Rnd concept. ISF is a
fee, a payment for (irrigation) service; the service being extended by the
irrigation authority and the payment made by water users as the service
beneficiaries. PBB is a public tax based on property and land values and
levied on property/land owners who have, unlike the ISF payeec, no control on
ultimate use of the funds. Collection, implementation and fund administration
of ISF and PBB will need to be kept separate.
F. Government's Subsectoral Objectives, Strategies and Investment Programs
1.52      Government Objectives and Strategy.  Government objectives for rice-
based farming systems in irrigated lowlands are to: maintain food security,
facilitate crop diversification during second crop season, alleviate rural
poverty and support regional development. Government's 1987 Policy Statement
(Annex 1) laid a basis for irrigation subsector priorities. These are:
(a) introduce appropriate O&M practices/procedures and levels of funding so
that irrigation systems can be sustained into the future; (b) increase local
revenue generation and cost recovery from beneficiaries; (c) turnover
(privatize) smaller public irrigation schemes, which are now operated and
maintained by Government, to farmers, groups; (d) rationalize planning,
programming and budgeting procedures; and (e) complete viable high-priority
projects, particularly those with large sunk investments. In carrying out the
latter, Government has more recently also expressed its intention of focusing
increasingly on the completion and integration of agricultural development
activities along with the physical irrigation infrastructure so as to realize
fully and more quickly the potential agricultural benefits.
1.53      Investment Programs.  Over the last two decades, irrigation
expenditures have amounted to some Rp 13 trillion (1988 prices) equivalent to
over $7 billion, of which about one-half comprised external assistance from
bilateral and multilateral sources. In addition to the Bank (with loans of
some $1.6 billion for a total of 24 operations), several other external donor
agencies are engaged in supporting irrigation development in Indonesia. These
include ADB, OECF and bilaterals (USAID, Australia, CIDA, Netherlands, Italy).
The coordination between the agencies, whether it entails parallel financing/
cofinancing, or a support for future subsector strategies, has been good.
1.54      Physical progress over the five-year plans covered 1.6 million ha of
development during Repelita I (FY69/70-73/74), 1.4 million ha in Repelita II,
and 1.5 million ha in Repelita III. The target of 2 million ha of irrigated
area development for Repelita IV was subsequently reduced to 1.5 million ha,
in vi w of budgetary constraints.  The Repelita V (FY89/90-93/94) plan for the
irrigation subsector includes development of about 1.5 million ha, including
334,000 ha of rehabilitation and upgrading; 500,000 ha of irrigation



- 15 -
expansion; 450,000 ha of river and flood control; and 444,000 ha of swamp
scheme rehabilitation and upgrading. Investment expenditures are budgeted at
Rp 8.5 trillion ($4.8 billion), of which 47 percent would be from external
sources. In addition to placing priority on O&M and utilization of existing
irrigation and drainage systems to increase efficiency particularly in Java
where the potential for expansion is now limited, Repelita V also provides for
expansion of irrigation area (particularly in transmigration areas) in Outer
Islands and river and flood control. The irrigation expansion targets relate
to the Government strategy of completion of viable, high-priority schemes, as
such to be supported under the proposed PIADP (para. 1.9). There are,
however, issues related to the overall pace of expansion, and the ambitious
targets for river and flood control in view of inadequate river basin planning
and management. The ADB through its ongoing Food Policy Sector Loan has asked
Government to revisit a few of its Pepelita V targets. The Bank's economic
report, "Foundations for Sustained Growth" (dated May 4, 1990), had also
raised questions about the envisaged pace of irrigation expansion, and the
river and flood control targets. Under the proposed project, the Bank had, as
part of the 4-year Action Plan (Annex 2), agreed with Government on the need
to improve rationalization and prioritization of its investment program.
Annual Government budgetary allocations for O&M, as required, would also be a
condition of annual loan disbursements (para. 4.4).



- 16 -
II. BANK INVOLVEMENT AND LESSONS LEARNED
Bank Involvement in the Sector
2.1       Experience with irrigation development, not only in Indonesia but in
many other countries as well, demonstrates that the subsector is facing a
number of technical, financial, institutional and human resource challenges.
The Annual Review of Evaluation Results for 1989 by OED 1/ suggested that
successful irrigation projects have yielded important lonC-term benefits,
particularly in supplementing national food supplies and raising income, which
were also the major thrusts of Indonesian Government investment programs for
irrigation, due to critical shortages and large imports of rice in the 1970s.
The review also found that overall operational performance has in general been
poorer than anticipated at project appraisal and completion. The physical
infrastructure has o.ten deteriorated leading in some cases to long-term
declines in production and low efficiency in water use. Inadequate O&M
funding and institutional and organizational problems have contributed to this
shortfall in performance. The review suggested that the Borrowers concerned
have often disengaged too early from projects, leaving irrigation and drainage
systems incomplete and land development unfinished. For many projects,
complementary services (e.g., extension, research, marketing) associated with
the productivity of irrigation development have been inadequate or seriously
delayed.
2.2       These shortcomings are also present in Indonesia.  Many problems, in
particular technical problems, are project specific. However, others are
generic subsector issues extending beyond the boundaries of individual
projects, relating to such aspects as public finance, human resource policy
and institutional organization and development. The major issues facing the
irrigation subsector in Indonesia, and the lessons learned under Bank
projects, are described below.  It is, however, worth noting that irrigation
development has played a critical role in Indonesia achieving rice self-
sufficiency, and rice has provided a major impetus to growth in the
agriculture sector.
Issues and Lessons Learned in Irrigation Development in Indonesia
2.3       As noted earlier (para. 1.1), irrigation has absorbed a major part
of Bank lending for Indonesian agriculture over the past two decades with
loans/credits of some $1.6 billion for 24 operations (Table 2.1). During the
decade of the 1970s, the Bank supported: (a) rehabilitation/modernization of
irrigation and drainage systems, construction of new irrigation and drainage
systems, a multi-purpose dam, and construction of tertiaries;
(b) institutional strengthening and manpower development, although with a
limited impact; and (c) policies aimed at increasing generation of
land/property tax revenues, through land reclassification and valuation. More
recently, especially in the context of ISSP I, the increased focus of Bank
lending has been on improved O&M of existing systems; support for poliries
entailing turnover of small public schemes to farmers' groups; and the
1/   Annual Review of Evaluation Results for 198), Agriculture and Rural
Development Sector Working Paper, OED, Augus't 29, 1990.



- 17 -
introduction of an irrigation service fee. These policies are aimed at
increasing efficiency and sustainability of investments by reducing dependence
on central government budgets for O&M funding, improving resource allocation
and increasing beneficiary participation.
2.4             Of the 19 Bank loans closed to date, 14 have been evaluated by the
Bank's Operation Evaluation Department (OED) as summarized in Table 2.1.
Toe 2 1:  IRRICATION SUBSCCTOR - PROJECT COMPLETION AND PERFORKACE AUDIT REPORTS
(S million)
Credit/Loan   Ef te                                                  Original         PPA                   PCR
Ref.     No.        ffectiv-  Clo-*7            Project                     Loan      Report No.  Nt.  Roport No.    Data
1   Credit 0127    1969       1976   Irri:ation Rehabilitation I             6.0        2047     May-78
2   Cred;t 0190    1070        1978   Irriga tio Rehbilitation II            19.0       3269     Dec-80
3   Credit 0220    1971        1978   Irrigation Rehabi litation III         16.0       3269      Dec-80
4   Credit 0289    1972       1979   Irrigtion Rehabilitation IV            12.6        3269     Dec-80
5   Credit 0514    1974        1982   Jati uhur Irriation Extension         30.0        5183      Jun-87
6   Credit 0995    1980       1987   Irrigation V                           45.0        7956      Jun-8Q
7     L-oan 1100    1975       1985   Irrigation VI                         66 0        6864      Jun-87
8     Loan 1268    1Q76        1983   Irriation VII                         33.0        6881      Oet-85
9     Loan 1434    1977       1985   Irrigation VIII                        63.0        6864      Jun-87
10     Loan 1435    1977       1984   Irrigation IX                          35.0        6864     Jun-87
11     Loan 1578    1978       1986   Irrigation X                          140.0        7956     Jun-89
12     Loan 1579    1978       1984   Irrigation XI                          31.0        6864     Jun-87
13     Loan 1645    1981       1986   Irrigation XII                         77.0        7313     Jun-87
14     Loan 1691    1981       1985   Lower Cimanuk Flood Control (XIII)     50.0        6864     Jun-87
15     Loon 1811    1980       1987   Irrigation XIV                        116.0        7956     Jun-89
16     Loan 1908    1981       1987   Swamp Reclamation I                    22.0                            7930      Jun-89
17     Loan 2118    1982       1988   Irrigation XVI                         37.0                            8199     Nov-8O
18     Loan 2119    1982       1989   Irrigation XVII                        70.0
19     Loan 2375    1984       1988   Second Provincial Irrigation           89.0                            8336      Jan-90
20     Loan 2431    1984      .1992   Swamp Reclamation II                   65.0            * ongo;ng
21     Loan 2543    1985      :1991   Multipurpose Dam & Irrigation         156.0            a ongoing
22     Loan 2560    1985      *1991   Vest Tarum Canal Improvement           43.4            * ongoing
23     Loon 2649    1986       .1992   Central & Weat Java Provincial       166.0            * ongoing
24     Loan 2880    1988      *1991   Irrigation Subaeetor                  234.0            * ongoing
al                                 1620
a indicate. ongoing projects.
The most recent and relevant audit reports are Reports Nos. 6864 2/ and
7956.3/ In addition, there have been two Project Completion Reports
(PCRs)4/ relevant to recent performance that have not yet been audited by
OED and a report by the International Irrigation Management Institute (IIMI)
on Indonesia irrigation dcvelopment.5/ The issues and lessons from these
reports are discussed below.
2.5            Major Lessons in Indonesia's Irrigation fall into four broad
categories--technical, institutional, financial and environmental--and
include, inter alia: (a) quality control; (b) Government's priority for non-
construction and O&M activities; (c) institutions and human resource
2/   PPAR, Irrigation Projects VI, VIII, IX, XI and XII, (Loan Nos. 1100,
1434, 1435, 1579 and 1691-IND), June 30, 1987, Report N o. 6864.
3/   PPAR, Irrigation Projects X, XIV and XV (Loan Nos. 1578, 1811 and Credit
No. 995-IND); June 30, 1989, Report No. 7956.
4/   PCRs, Irrigation XVI Project (Loan No. 2118-IND), November 27, 1989,
Report No. 8199 and Second Provincial Irrigation Development Project
(Loan No. 2375-IND), January 26, 1990, Report No. 8336.
5/   Efficient Irrigation Management and System Turnover, IIMI, Colombo, Sri
Lanka, December 1989, Report No. TA 937-IND-ind.



- 18 -
constraints; (d) coordination of the irrigation-agriculture programs,
particularly in the Outer Islands; (e) monitoring and evaluation of irrigation
system performance and the impact of irrigation on agricultural production;
(f) local funding constraints, use of available funds and cost recovery
mechanisms; (g) beneficiary participation in formalized water user
organizations; and (h) environmental impact.
2.6       Technical Constraints.  Insufficient physical resource data
(hydrology and soils), at the time of project preparation or evaluation of tht.
technical feasibility of many irrigation projects, has resulted in flaws in
planning and design. These combined with deficiencies in construction have
caused huge periodic reconstruction expenditures that are often treated as
O&M. Priorities are not geared to improving operations, but on the degree of
correcting physical disrepair. Maintenance activities are generally
uncoordinated and do not often relate to efficiency or operational objectives.
An underlying problem is that many schemes, particularly in the Outer Islands,
have never been fully completed and thus the irrigation systems are generally
inadequate to achieve full benefits of irrigation. Because there is little
accountability for how or whether existing schemes function as planned and
designed, inefficient irrigation management has developed. The O&M procedures
and management practices, which are a primary focus of the proposed project,
are discussed in greater detail in paras. 1.36-1.42. Government and the Bank
are addressing these O&M related issues including institutionalizing processes
whereby plans for O&M are in place, operational procedures are simplified and
schemes are verified and certified that they operate as designed, before they
are handed over to the provincial O&M authorities. For future projects, whose
preparation is supported by the Bank, a concerted effort is in place to ensure
adequate physical resource data.
2.7       Institutional and Human Resource Constraints.  The developmental
impact of the irrigation subsector depends on effective coordination and
cooperation between the Ministries of Public Works, Agriculture,
Transmigration, Home Affairs and the Provincial authorities. On the Outer
Islands, in particular, the coordination is not effective. Each agency
follows its own budget provision (which for development activities is directed
by parent agencies in Jakarta), program and priorities and functions as if
each project activity was self-contained. In addition, no agency involved in
irrigated agricultural development undertakes a regular evaluation of either
its own performance or its contribution to the overall benefits from irrigated
agriculture.
2.8       The planned central approach, followed until recently, of most
ministries/agencies involved in irrigation development tendr to be non-
participatory. As a result, an inability to provide adequate staff
incentives, limited career prospects and insufficient resources, contribute to
the staffing problems. These are compounded by unclear accountability and
Government's heavy dependence on consultants who substitute for shorteges of
technical skills within the public services (para. 1.44). The impact of
training, supported by various donors, is also unclear (paia. 1.45). In this
respect, the Bank is now supporting improved monitoring arn, coordination of
consultancies by Government and the assignment of suitable gover1iment staff to
work with consultants to facilitate transfer of knowledge.



- 19 -
2.9       It is generally not possible to evaluate with any certainty the
effectiveness of project or institutional management because of lack of
reliable data, reporting and monitoring. Most reporting records progress of
schemes, construction or individual contracts, and monitor budget allocations
and expenditures with little useful data cn quality of completed schemes, and
performance of investments. As a consequence, there is a general lack of
diagnostic analysis on performance of both irrigation service and the related
agricultural impact.
2.10      There has been inadequate participation of the beneficiaries and the
local communities. While informal farmer groups are found in irrigated areas
in all the provinces, more formalized organizations are required. Specific
issues related to the legal basis of WUA organizations, and the need for
effective catalysts in getting such organizations started and functioning, are
discussed in detail in paras. 1.31-1.35. In this respect, the Bank is
supporting under ISSP I, the establishment and strengthening of WUAs so that
they can operate, maintain, manage and own small schemes previously under
public sector management. In addition, the Government has put in place the
legal and administrative procedures needed to facilitate the turnover of small
public schemes to farmer groups.
2.11      Financial Constraints.  Insufficient and unpredictable local funding
for key activities has been an important constraint, particularly for land
acquisition, settlement and agricultural development, which are not usually
supported by donors under projects. The generic funding problems have
consisted of two parts, namely availability of funds and the budgetary
process.  In general, few schemes have full and secure financing commitments
when they are started.
2.12      Until recently, the only cost recovery mechanism was through the
land tax (IPEDA/PBB, para. 1.49), of which only a small percentage was
allocated for O&M of irrigation and drainage systems. There had been some
initiatives towards collecting irrigation service fees in a few areas. More
recently, Government changed its position and the service fee is now being
collected in pilot schemes under the Bank supported ISSP I. This is expected
to reduce dependence of provincial and local governments on financial
transfers from the central government. It will be linked to actual financial
requirements for O&M in specific irrigation schemes and encouragement of water
users to take greater responsibility for their systems. The Bank is strongly
supporting these recent efforts by Government.
2.13      Fnvironmental Constraints.  There has been limited consideration of
the environmental impact of irrigated agricultural development, primarily
because irrigation projects have been generally planned, designed and
implemented as civil works rather than developmental operations. As a result,
nominal attention has been given to the effect of irrigation development on
the surrounding area, or to the long term environmental impact. Consequently,
the need is becoming acute, particularly in Java, to protect and conserve
natural resources and catchment areas. In addition, the growing competition
for water between various users has increased the problems associated with
water quality and management of river basin water resources includir.g
groundwater, and their allocation (see paras. 1.15-1.19 for details).
Finally, involuntary resettlement activities are not always planned and



- 20 -
implemented with a thorough analysis of viability, sustainability, and
sensitivity to the needs of the population adversely affected.
2.14      Major Lessons Learned from ISSP I.  Recognizing many of the problems
identified earlier, Government and the Bank agreed on the Policy Statement on
a significantly new set of priorities represented by ISSP I. Experience in
implementing the SM and EOM program (para. 1.12), suppocted under ISSP I,
demonstrated a weak Government implementation capacity, in particular in the
Outer Islands; incorrect sequencing of SM and EOM activities so essential to
the smooth build-up of appropriate O&M activities; and variable construction
quality, in particular in the Outer Islands, due to poor contractor capacity
and deficiencies in construction supervision. Physical implementation has
been better in Java where the bulk of ISSP activities are located and where
provincial O&M organizations are well established. Incorrect sequencing of
activities reflected in part an attempt by some provinces to achieve annual
Repelita targets for EOM. This led to its premature introductien on some
systems before they were in a suitable condition for proper EOM. About
130,000 ha (12 percent of total EOM area) is estimated to fall into this
category and will be excluded from the proposed project. Another problem
related to the financial provision for SM (average of $100 per ha) which was
generally adequate in Java, where the majority of systems are in relatively
good condition, but in some cases fell short, in particular in the Outer
Islands. For these systems, additional SM, entailing only essential
improvements, will be required before EOM can be introduced.
2.15      Notwithstanding the above, a better understanding of the sequencing
and programming of various ISSP activities has developed during ISSP I.
Actions have commenced on institutional reforms and related objectives of
decentralizing O&M responsibilities to provinces. A large number (about
4,800) of PRIS staff at various levels have been trained in planning/
programming, O&M and construction supervision (para.1.43). The overall O&M
funding at the national level has increased significantly in real terms since
FY86/87 (para. 1.48). Improved operating procedures at the scheme level are
being developed through Advanced Operating Units (AOUs) supported under ISSP
and other Bank-supported projects. Observations made during ISSP I have shown
that in some schemes simplified operating procedures are called for, and
greater effort needs to be made to reflect these in the SM designs
(para. 1.40). These will be addressed under the proposed project, and the
positive achievements and the lessons learned during ISSP I have been
extremely critical to improving the project design, programming and the
requisite conditionalities for its implementation.
2.16      Determinants of Sustainability.  Resolution of the above issues and
lessons learned are pre-requisites for sustainable development in the
subsector in Indonesia. As expressed in OED's Annual Review for 1989, to
achieve sustainability requires attaining a balance across all forms of
capital participating in irrigation development. Based on the lessons learnt
and the underlying causes of the problems, the Government, with the Bank's
participation, has identified a strategy to deal with these issues. The Bank
is supporting the Government in addressing these issues.



- 21 -
Proposed Strategy and Rationale for Future Bank Involvement
2.17      Bank Strategy.   The Bank fully supports Government's objectives in
the agriculture sector: a sustained growth and reduction in rural poverty,
increased productive employment Lpportunities in rural areas, a more balanced
regional distribution of gro.  h, and food security.  Irrigated agriculture
will continue to be important to achieve these objectives, although the
emphasis will continue to shift towards achieving growth through greater
efficiency in water use, and more diverse patterns of production. Even in the
rice-based farming systems in irrigated lowlands, there is a scope for crop
diversification in the second crop season; in the third season crops a-re
already non-rice. This will become increasingly important to meet ti future
consumption requirements.
2.18      The Bank strategy is to support Government's strong focus on:
(a) ensuring efficiency and sustainability of past irrigation investments,
particularly in Java, where the expansion potential is somewhat limited;
(b) improving management and allocation of water in view of competing demands
on water resources, already emerging in Java; and (c) assessing the potential
for and supporting the expansion of irrigated areas, particularly in the Outer
Islands, as needed to sustain growth in production of food grains required to
meet the growing and changing consumption demand. The Bank would focus most
in areas of institutional structure, organizational strengthening and human
resource development, particularly in the context of multipurpose management
of water on Java, and in the Outer Islands where the provincial capacities are
limited. Private sector involvement in irrigation would be fostered through
privatization of snwall public irrigation schenes and private development of
groundwater resoutces in areas with shallow aquifers. Specific, area-targeted
interventions wouic; be supported to promote objectives of regional equity and
poverty alleviat<.on,.
2.19      The Bark o:trategy would be pursued through a coordinated lending
program with each cprration focused on important and complementary objectives:
(a' the proposed project would focus, primarily in Java, on efficiency and
sustainability of eaisting infrastructure th.ough support for O&M. cost
recovery and streng;'ening of O&M related institutions, and on improved
management and allo:awion of water both at the scheme level, and on a pilot
basis in a river basi- context. Inter-sectoral water allocations and related
institutional aspects a.re also being investigated under various studies
supported by Urban Dbe'&opment Projects as well as those being carried out by
thie Bank; (b) the proposed Provincial Irrigated Agriculture Development
Praject (PIADP), with focus on the development of Outer Islands, would support
the integrated development and completion of schemes and institutional
procedures for irrigated agriculture, with emphasis on planning and design of
irrigation works, land development and related agricultural aspects; and
(c) two operations under preparation (integrated swamps, and groundwater
development) would exploit resources in less developed regions, promoting
specifically the objectives of regional equity and poverty alleviation. A
propose,d sector review would benefit the longer-term investment strategy, so
as to decide if any major expansion in irrigated area or additional reservoirs
are rneeded in future, in addition to the consolidation and completion of
existing investments.



- 22 -
2.20      Rationale for Bank Involvement.  The proposed project would
reinforce the emphasis on O&M, cost recovery, and privatization of small
public irrigation systems, initiated under ISSP I. It would reflect lessons
learned during the first phase, including the need to simplify scheme
operations; develop scheme-specific O&M plans; schedule expenditures on the
basis of needs-ba.ied budgeting; bring schemes under efficient O&M only when
design and construction deficiencies have been corrected; and introduce a
river basin approach to focus attention on the coordination of project
activities and management and inter-sectoral allocation of water resources.
Continued Bank support in a phased manner is required given the complex policy
and institutional adjustments envisaged in the subsector approach, and the
role the Bank can play in coordinating external donor support for the
irrigation subsector. Given the far reaching objectives related to cost
recovery, privatization, efficient water management and system maintenance,
and decentralization, the Bank needs to continue to provide support so as to
sustain Government commitment, as evidenced in the four-year Action Plan
(Annex 2). The Bank support would foster an improved and efficient
utilization and management of the existing irrigation systems and water
z.sources, which in turn would prevent a long-term decline in agricultural
production and save the economy enormous rehabilitation expenses in the
future.



- 23 -
III. THE PROJECT
A. Project Concept and Objectives
3.1       The proposed project would be the second phase (four years) of a
long-term (10-15 year) program aimed at supporting the basic goals outlined in
Government's Policy Statement for the irrigation subsector as well as
Government's policies on decentralization of O&M-related activities. The
major objectives of the proposed project would be to continue:
(a) strengthening cost recovery from irrigation beneficiaries in direct
support of O&M expenditures and encouraging efficient use of water
resources, and supporting the turnover of small public irrigation
schemes to Water User Associations (WUAs) to decrease the
dependence on government budgets for O&M, and increase beneficiary
participation;
(b) supporting institutional development entailing improved water
resources management, public expenditure prioritization, and
decentralization effort through strengthening the roles and
responsibilities of PRIS, Irrigation Committees and WUAs; and
(c) improving the physical, programming, budgeting and institutional
aspects of O&M, so that the effectiveness of existing systems can
be sustained.
Detailed processes and targets have been formulated for each of these goals.
The requisite monitorable actions are detailed in Annex 2.
B. Brief Proiect Description
3.2       To support the above objectives, the project, to be implemented
over the four-year period from April 1, 1991 to March 31, 1995, would consist
of the following components:
(a) support for Government's policy reforms in the subsector,
entailing: (i) an extension of ISF to systems adjoining the
present ISF pilot systems, and additional areas covering a total of
at least 700,000 ha; (ii) an expansion of the program entailing
turnover of small public irrigation schemes, covering at least
130,000 ha, to WUAs; and (iii) consolidation of rural PBB
activities to augment provincial/local revenues, in lieu of
continued central government budgetary support for O&M;
(b) support for institutional strengthening encompassing measures to:
(i) increase responsibility, accountability and capability of PRIS
staff for planning, managing and executing O&M-related activities;
(ii) provide project and construction quality control on the works
carried out under the proposed project; (iii) improve inventory of
irrigation and other water uses in a river basin context, and
support basin water management on a pilot basis in two basins to
help evolve institutional arrangements and procedures for efficient



- 24 -
water resources management; (iv) develop improved scheme-specific
operating procedures adapted to their conditions, in particular
where these simplify the procedures, and reflect these in the
system designs; (v) integrate WUA establishment and strengthening
activities; (vi) institute improved system performance indicators
and the monitoring of benefits into the monitoring and evaluation
(M&E) system; (vii) initiate a programming and monitoring system to
provide orderly execution of linked components and improved
sequencing within each component; and (viii) provide technical
assistance primarily for institutional capacity-building and policy
aspects, and training with emphasis on WUA establishment/
strengthening, environmental assessment, and some training of
trainers and lower-level PRIS staff, to allow phasing out of
technical assistance in respect of activities to be continued
beyond the project implementation period. The detailed Action Plan
related to institutional development is available in the Project
Files, and the key elements of this Plan are included in Annex 2;
and
(c) support for physical works related to:
(i) completion of SM works on irrigated areas brought under
ISSP I, covering about 200,000 ha, and SM in new areas cove-.ng
about 550,000 ha. Additional SM in areas already brought
directly under EOM under the ISSP I, covering about 65,000 ha,
to be financed by Government out of its own resources. Areas
requiring Preparation for O&M (PROM) activities prior to the
initiation of EOM would be about 250,000 ha. In the case of
swamps schemes, SM on about 45,000 ha would be completed;
(ii) extension of EOM so that by the end of ISSP II about
1.7 million ha of irrigated land and 170,000 ha of swamps
schemes would be under the Bank-supported program, aimed at
providing planned service to the user and maintaining the
system into the future. This would include: effective
implementation of sch>;ne-specific POMs; annual and long-term
O&M programming; comprehensive 'needs-based budgeting"; and the
institutionalization of all needed routine O&M activities; and
(iii) completion of selected activities commenced under ISSP I which
would encompass (i) monitoring of five small river mouths to
test the suitability of low-cost design to eliminate the need
for frequent maintenance dredging of river mouths;
(ii) groundwater development intended as a bridging component
providing continuity until a separate groundwater project can
be prepared; and (iii) completion of one ongoing swamps scheme,
covering 20,000 ha. Subject to the Bank's review and approval,
water management activities in the Seluna river basin in C.
Java, and some urgent repairs in the Rentang scheme in W. Java
would be supported in a limited way.
surances were obtained during negotiations that the project would be
plemented in accordance with the Policy Statement and the Action Plan
viewed and agreed with the Bank [para. 7.1 (a)].



- 25 -
C. Detailed Project Description
Policy Components
(a) Irrigation Service Fee
3.3       The design and proposals for extension of ISF are largely based on
experiences gained under ISSP I. The ISF implementation procedures are
described in Annex 5.
3.4       Under the proposed project, ISF will be introduced and implemented
in systems that adjoin the present ISF pilot areas and in systems in
additional provinces. Some modifications 1/ could be made to the approach
used in the pilot program (Annex 5). The farmer participatory approach, with
close functional links to the providers of service, particularly at the local
leve_ would be supported. Systems with area under 500 ha will not be included
in the ISF program, but instead be included subsequently in the turnover
program. ISF will be introduced for the first time in the provinces of W.
Sumat.ra, Lampung, Yogyakarta, and W. Java outside Jatiluhur. It will also be
expanded in Jatiluhur and the provinces of C. Java, E. Java and S. Sulawesi
where ISF was introduced under ISSP I, by adding additional Kabupatens.
Government plans to expand ISF coverage by at least 700,000 ha, and has a
strong desire to cover a substantially larger area during the proposed
project. A list of selected areas/schemes (by provinces) for ISF
introduction/extension, during the first year of project implementation, was
reviewed during loan negotiations. Subsequently, the ISF areas would be
selected by Government, by January 1 each year, and submitted to the Bank for
its review, as a part of the Annual Work Program. Assurances to this effect
were obtained during negotiations [para. 7.1 (b)]. The project would finance
the services of consultants (Annex 10), and the operational costs of
materials, travel and per diems of trainers and motivators.
(b) Turnover of Small Public Schemes to WUAs
3.5       The turnover program started in 1987 with pilot activities in West
Java and West Sumatra provinces, and was expanded during the following year to
Central Java and Yogyakarta. In the third year, starting 1989/90, activities
were expanded to East Java, West Nusa Tenggara (NTB) and South Sulawesi. The
concept of system turnover is described in Annex 6.
3.6       The project would finance the costs of inventory and profiling of
systems, WUA formation and development, training, and system improvements as
well as consuitancy services. The turnover program would cover at least
130,000 ha in 8 provinces and Jatiluhur.
1/   These include:  (a) more effective use of PRIS staff in lieu of separate
O&M engineers in the ISF consultancy team; (b) gradual phase down of
community motivators as the Government field staff including Jurus
become trained; (c) scaled-down version of system walk-through with
WUAs; and (d) retention of revenues at the system level.



- 26 -
Table 3.1: TURNOVER PROGRAM, 1991-94
Province                                     ha
West Sumatra                              24,000
West Java                                 24,000
Central Java                              36,000
DI Yogyakarta                              4,000
East Java                                 30,200
South Sulawesi                             2,800
Subtotal (ISSP -I provinces)          121,000
South Sumatra                              1,000
Lampung                                    2,000
Subtotal (Additional provinces)         3,000
Jatiluhur (POJ)                              6,000
Total                                 130,000
3.7       The expansion of the program will be concentrated in the major
irrigation provinces. This would be consistent with the Government adopted
policy, supported by the Bank, of a concerted development approach whereby all
components of the proposed project would reinforce and complement one another.
Ideally, system turnover within a contiguous area should proceed irrespective
of system size. For practical reasons, as a first priority, primary attention
would continue to be paid to the schemes below 150 ha in size. Gradually, the
emphasis will shift to larger schemes up to 500 ha and a number of areas
between 150 and 500 ha would also be included under the project. Assurances
were obtained during negotiations that about 40 schemes larger than 150 ha,
particularly those adjoining ISF areas, would also be turned over to WUAs
(para. 7.1 (c)]. The need to require farmer equity contribution (in cash or
kind) towards the cost of SM works on these schemes was also agreed during
negotiations. This equity would foster farmer participation and help contain
investment costs. An understanding was reached that Government would monitor
on an annual basis, the levels of farmer equity contribution; and Government
may in future determine the minimum levels, as deemed necessary.
3.8       While some small systems may require improved diversions, and a few
others may require new permanent structures, the majority of systems would
require neither. The SM construction costs, for budgeting purposes, would be
estimated at Rp 175,000/ha (at 1990 prices) with a ceiling of Rp 250,000/ha
for a scheme. This is considered adequate for appropriate construction
activity in all systems with operational, maintenance or productivity
constraints. Typically, SM work would be necessary to assure functional
reliability, rectify instances of dangerous deterioration, and possibly modify
some structures to improve or simplify water operations. Works to expand
service area or increase consumptive use, perhaps to the detriment of



- 27 -
downstream users, would not be included under the proposed project. Any
scheme (to be turned over) requiring SM funds in excess of the ceiling, would
need the Bank's prior approval before it would be included under the proposed
project. The Bank would need to be provided with: (a) the proposed SM
designs; (b) information on the adequacy of water availability to ensure that
there are no adverse effects on downstream users; and (c) economic
justification for the proposed investment in terms of crop production.
Assurances to this effect were obtained during negotiations [para. 7.1 (c)].
Rural PBB Tax Valuation and Land Reclassification
3.9       The PBB activities under the proposed project will be focused
mainly on the consolidation of the activities carried out to date. This means
a further concentration on the improvement of the existing databases for
mapping, land classification and valuation, and tax administration, through
automation and the related updating process.
3.10      The proposed program will include:  (a) Database Maintenance.  Due
to the strong need for automated data handling, all data obtained during the
execution of the earlier mapping projects would be incorporated into the
standard software package. New data or modifications of older data would be
brought into the system on a regular basis; (b) Identification and
Registration of the upland area mapping in existing reclassification areas,
covering 60,000 ha per year over a three-year period would be carried out; and
(c) Digitizing and Automation of about 400,000 ha would require procurement of
a few plotters and digitizers.
3.11      The expected results would be:  an increased level of taxation and
revenues, and a cost reduction through higher efficiency obtained during the
process stretching from data inventory to valuation and improved land
administration. These results would be monitored by PBB (Annex 2). Of the
tax revenues, 19 percent will be retained for the Central Government and the
tax collection fee, while the remaining 81 percent will be used by Local
Government Tingkat I and II (provincial and district governments), a part of
which will be allocated for O&M.
Institutional Strengthening Component
3.12      The over-riding actions required to institute a sound O&M program
are institutional. Functions to be performed should be clarified, primary
responsibilities assigned and organizational modifications introduced. The
procedures and capabilities required must be established and the necessary
means provided to carry out the assignments. A detailed Action Plan related
to the proposed implementation of the recommendations of the Institutional
Strengthening Study (supported under ISSP I), is included in the Project Files
and the key elements of this Plan are included in Annex 2. Under the proposed
project, the institutional strengthening aspects would inter alia relate to
the following.
3.13      Increased Provincial Responsibility.  Increased responsibility (and
accountability) would be assigned to PRIS staff for planning, managing and
executing O&M-related activities. This would entail transfer of staff between
center and provinces, on-the-job training, and assignment of full-time staff
to facilitate transfer of knowledge from consultants. The Cabang Dinas



- 28 -
Pengarian (para. 1.26) would also be given wider tasks and responsibilities
for O&M, particularly in respect of SM/EOM, ISF and turnover-related
activities.
3.14      Strengthened Quality Control.  Measures would be instituted to
strengthen project quality control. The primary step for the project-wide
effort would be the recruitment of two project engineering advisors, one
foreign and one local consultant (for a period of 36 months), reporting
directly to the Director, DOI-1. A Government counterpart engineer
experienced in design and construction would be assigned to participate and
ultimately continue this activity. The objective of this function would be to
examine the project and construction work, report findings, identify any
deficiencies, determine the causes and recommend remedial measures. It would
also clarify the specific responsibilities and authority of units as they
relate to tasks within each project component and outline the procedures to
document all key actions that may affect the quality of a task or feature.
Contract content and contracting procedures for SM designs, construction work
and EOM routine work would be examined and modifications to improve quality
would be considered for action.
3.15      Improved Inventory and Basin Water Management.  Improved inventory
of irrigation and other water uses in a river basin context would be
undertaken. This is critical in view of the existing discrepancies in the
Buku Pintar data (on both public-supported and farmer-managed schemes) and the
actual irrigated area and the total water used by all demands as observed in
the field. In this context, it is also important that the present farmer-
managed schemes are not transferred to the PU Buku Pintar. In addition, a
basin water management component on a pilot basis in two basins (Opak in
Yogyakarta and Cisanggarung in W. & C. Java) would be supported. This would
help evolve the institutional/organizational arrangements at the provincial
level with regard to basin water management. The primary objective would be
to help PRIS formulate organizational arrangements and specific procedures for
effective allocation and real-time routings of basin flows to equitably and
efficiently serve the various water users--irrigation, aquaculture, villages
and others. As a part of this, PRIS would assure coordinated operation of
storage facilities and diversion works when delivering supplies and during
flood operations. Additionally, it would formulate and test flood forecasting
and operating procedures appropriate to the river systems. Conceptualization
of a water service fee structure for all users would evolve from this pilot
component. The proposed project would finance costs of equipment, training,
data collection relating to monitoring and inventory of water allocation,
withdrawal and discharge, and water quality assessment.
3.16      Improved Operating Procedures.  Improved operating procedures would
be developed at the scheme level through continued support for, and
modifications to, the Advanced Operating Units (AOUs) established under ISSP I
and other Bank-supported projects. Emphasis would be placed on (i) developing
and testing a range of simplifi d operating procedures, i.e., alternatives to
the Reference Operating Model (para. 1.36); (ii) exploring the implications of
such alternatives for system SM design; and (iii) improving guidelines for
system planning and the preparation of Plans of O&M and needs-based budgets.
However, the introduction of simplified designs and procedures would not await
the outcome of the AOU program. Appropriate approaches would be adopted in
the context of system-wide, scheme-specific POMs which are to be developed



- 29 -
under the proposed project. To this end, the guidelines and TORs for the
preparation of SM designs would be reviewed to ensure that the inter-
relationships between design and operations are more clearly taken into
account and to encourage the adoption of straight-forward physical solutions
that facilitate ease of operations. Government would complete a review of the
future role and functions of AOUs, prepare plans for individual AOUs, and
revise the guidelines and TORs for SM design consultants. These were reviewed
by the Bank at negotiations. The project would finance consultancy services
(Annex 10) and the costs associated with the preparation of POMs, NBBs and
syetem SM designs.
3.17      WUA Establishment and Strengthening.  WUA establishment and
strengthening would be integrated fully within the responsibilities of the
provincial agencies directly involved. Activities under the Water User
Training Program (WUTP) would be transferred to the PRIS to provide technical
support and training on tertiary-level O&M to WUAs. Where possible, these
activities would complement implementation of SM in a particular scheme, with
local Government registering WUAs in a coordinated and comprehensive basis.
Such an approach is already adopted in the context of the ISF program which,
in addition, provides a strong rationale for sustaining WUAs given their
involvement in ISF collection. The PRIS role in the ISF program would be
strengthened, with technical support to WUAs complementing WUA formation and
creation of WUA federations. Similarly, in the turnover program, the present
approach would be continued with--in this case--improved coordination with the
Hinistry of Home Affairs and local Government on organizational matters
relating to WUA formation and activation. The impact of WUTP training
undertaken to date, was reviewed at negotiations and the need for sound
evaluation indicators such as establishment and activation of WUAs, was
emphasized. The proposed project would finance trainers' fees and per diems,
equipment, supplies and materials and local travel.
3.18      Management Information System.  A Management Information system
(MIS) to provide physical and financial implementation monitoring information
was introduced under ISSP I. This focussed primarily on the admini--^.tion of
the contracts. The Bank-supported Institutional Development and Training
Project (IDTP) (Ln. 3112-IND) is to evaluate the Ministry's MIS and recommend
technical and management measures to make the systems used in various
departments compatible and more efficient. In the light of the
recommendations of the IDTP project, and the experience gained to date, the
details of the MIS formulation and implementation would be finalized before
the end of the calendar year, 1991. The function of MIS would be to collect,
process and disseminate information required by decision makers at different
levels of management. Particular attention would be given to information
flows and information requirements. A limited support for training and
equipment would be provided to MIS, under the proposed project.
3.19      Programming and Monitoring System.  A programming and monitoring
system (CPM type) to provide orderly execution of the linked components, and
improved sequencing within each component, would be tested in two provinces in
Java. One of the various software programs would be selected and installed
with training provided by an experienced O&M/construction specialist. The
details of implementation of this system would be finalized as a part of the
MIS.



- 30 -
3.20      Monitoring and Evaluation.  The monitoring and evaluation (M&E)
system introduced under ISSP I and in earlier projects, has not been
effective. It is to be reviewed by consultants under ADB technical
assistance. The proposed indicators for monitoring scheme performance (a
comparison of planned with the actual delivery of service) and incremental
benefits of SM and EOM would be instituted into the present M&E system.
3.21      Technical Assistance.  Total consultancy services for the project
would be 490 foreign and 1,815 local person months. The consultancy services
have been scaled down compared to ISSP I, and the foreign consultancy support
would be phased out in the fourth year of the proposed project for all
activities to be carried out on a continuing basis beyond the project
implementation period. Consultancy services--126 foreign and 990 local person
months--would be supported under the project to implement the policy component
(ISF, Turnover and PBB). To support institutional capacity-building (related
to overall coordination, water resources O&M and environmental aspects),
particularly at the PRIS and lower levels, 349 foreign and 774 local person
months of consultancy services would be provided under the project. In
addition, the consultancy for project implementation support, for the
groundwater component (15 foreign and 51 local person months) and for the SM
designs (costing about $13 million for local consultancy services) would be
provided under the project. Of the total consultancy services, costing $30.4
million, about $21.0 million would be for local consultancy support. It
should be further noted that of the local consultancy, nearly $13.0 million
would be for preparation of engineering designs. Government's policy is to
contract out design work to local consulting industry. The details of the
proposed technical assistance are included in Annex 10. All consultant
proposals are expected to be received by Government, by May 1991. The list of
selected firms with evaluations are expected to be sent to the Bank by July
15, 1991. All consultant selections would be approved by August 15, 1991 and
the consultants employed by this date, except for the O&M and the ISF
consultants who would be employed by October 31, 1991. Assurances to this
effect were obtained during negotiations [para. 7.1 (d)].
3.22      Training.  In addition to the refresher courses, the project would
support the cost of training about 95 staff in planning and programming, 5,000
staff in O&M procedures, and 150 staff in construction supervision, in 10
provinces. The training facilities and staff would be decentralized to the
provinces under the responsibility of the PRIS. Each PRIS would designate a
training coordinator. Training wiould be conducted by the existing trainers in
the provinces using the training materials and modules developed under ISSP I.
In addition, the proposed project would support WUA training in the larger
schemes as well as the schemes to be turned over with the objective of helping
establish formal WUA organizations. Overseas training related to river basin
management and O&M would be supported, subject to the Bank's review and
approval. The details of training are contained in Project Files.
3.23      Environmental Training.  The project would support ongoing
technical training of environmental specialists within DGWRD. Technical
assistance will be provided to undertake a case study of cumulative
environmental effects of various rural land uses within a river basin in
Lampung and to provide technical training on wetland ecology through an
appropriate agency, as identified by Government, and agreed with the Bank
(Annex 12).



- 31 -
Physical Components
Special Maintenance
3.24      Surface Irrigation Systems.  SM works (Annex 4) comprise minor
works and essential repairs/improvements so that systems can thereafter be
efficiently operated and maintained. The project would complete SM works
started under ISSP I covering about 200,000 ha and SM works on selected new
areas covering about 550,000 ha. Additional SM in areas inappropriately
brought under direct EOM during ISSP I, covering 65,000 ha, would be financed
by Government out of its own resources. The SM works would be carried out in
10 provinces (Annex 7).
3.25      Selection criteria governing physical aspects of schemes qualifying
for SM would be in accordance witb the critezia/definitions as agreed (see
Annex 4 for these criteria). These include: (a) the schemes must not require
rehabilitation/upgrading; (b) the schemes must be fully completed and
functional; (c) the schemes must not entail extension of fvnctional areas or
conversion from semi-technical to technical systems; and (d) canal lining, if
proposed under SM, should have clear justification, for instance, in terms of
seepage losses.
3.26      The SM would include preparation of scheme-specific plans of
operation and maintenance (POMs), including all maps, plans, as-built
drawings, manuals, staffing, and equipment and other support facilities
required for efficient O&M. Upon completion of SM, all facilities and
supporting equipment should be in sound condition, fully meeting high
standards of construction. DGWRD would certify to the Bank for its review, as
a part of the annual work program that (a) the SM, proposed by PRIS, comprises
only minor works and repairs/improvements as agreed with the Bank; and
(b) the SM works, including preparation and implementation of POMs and NBBs
(defined in Annex 4) and other steps are completed by PRIS and the schemes are
ready for EOM. Assurances to this effect were obtained during negotiations
(para. 7.1 (e)].
3.27      Provincial averages for SM works, for budgeting purposes would be
Rp 270,000/ha (at 1990 prices), with an absolute ceiling of Rp 350,000/ha for
a scheme. Those schemes which require works costing amounts in excess of the
ceiling would be excluded from the proposed project and taken up under an
appropriate rehabilitation program.
3.28      Swamps Systems.  The project would assist in completing the SM on
about 45,000 ha, already started under ISSP I (on six schemes--four in West
Sumatra and two in South Sumatra). The SM works would be of a minor nature
and would be completed in the first two years of the project, based on the
existing designs. Only areas with pronounced drainage and/or flooding would
classify as areas requiring SM.



- 32 -
Efficient Operations and Maintenance
3.29      Surface Irrigation Systems.  EOM (Annex 4) involves the effective
utilization of irrigation and drainage infrastructure to ensure adequate and
equitable water supply to all parts of the system as planned and to maintain
the system in a suitable condition to perform the functions for which it was
designed, so that further rehabilitation should no longer be necessary
(para. 6.11). The project would systematically extend EOM, so that by the end
of ISSP II, about 1.7 million ha would be under the Bank-supported program.
The annual programs for introduction of EOM would be subject to Bank's review
based on the schemes' readiness for this (para. 3.26). The areas covered
satisfactorily under SM each year under the project would be included under
EOM in the subsequent year. Also, some areas (total 365,000 ha) currently
being rehabilitated under ongoing Bank, ADB and other Government or donor-
financed projects would be included, if they meet the criteria of direct EOM.
For this, under certain conditions where not all preparatory works are
completed (preparation of POM, NBB, staff training and plans for equipment
needs), preparation activities prior to instituting O&M (PROM as in Annex 4)
may be funded by the project. Such areas are estimated to cover about
250,000 ha. Key sequencing activities and procedures to be followed are
outlined in Annex 8.
3.30      Swamps Systems.  The EOM introduced on 148,860 ha during ISSP I
would continue to be supported under the project. The O&M systems and
procedures, recently established under ISSP I, and upgrading of O&M staff
would be further refined and improved. By the end of the project, about
170,000 ha of swamp schemes would be receiving EOM. In accordance with the
Action Plan, DGWRD will complete formal procedures to hand over O&M
responsibility to PRIS: (i) 11 schemes in FY91/92 (three in North Sumatra,
seven in South Kalimantan, and one in South Sumat-a), where SM is complete;
and (ii) all other schemes in the year following i.he completion of the
remaining SM and ongoing project works. This would be an essential
requirement for continuing EOM under the project.
3.31      Equipment for EOM.  A considerable amount of irrigation O&M
equipment, including laboratory equipment to test construction materials and
standards, has been provided to the provinces under ISSP I. Additional needs
for the expanded EOM program ana for some replacement of previously procured
equipment would be met under the project, including: 903 motor cycles, 93
light vehicles, and 59 light dump trucks (through reserve procurement), and
118 hand vibrators, 118 water pumps, and 3,600 portable grass cutters. This
essential equipment would facilitate mobility of the O&M staff and materials
on schemes, and provide necessary tools for undertaking routine maintenance of
the irrigation and swamps systems. Equipment procurement would be completed
in year 2 of the project.
Completion of Ongoing Activities
3.32      Swamps Scheme.  The project would support completion of the ongoing
Mesuji/Tulang Bawang (20,000 ha) scheme in Lampung, where the main drainage
system has been completed under ISSP I. Government would finance the costs of
land development and drinking water supply needed on this scheme from its own
resources (para. 4.4).



- 33 -
3.33      Groundwater Development.  The focus in S. Sulawesi (where
agricultural utilization is lagging) would be on the completion of 20
distribution systems (160 ha) around wells already drilled under ISSP I, and
formation/strengthening of WUAs, training in O&M water management and
agricultural sxtension. In C. Sulawesi, where aquifers have proven generally
satisfactory, the project would support drilling of 10 intermediate tubewells
(ITWs) and completion of 10 distribution systems (70 ha) around wells drilled
under ISSP I. In E. Java, 23 deep tubewells (DTWs) and 30 ITWs would be
drilled, and 71 distribution systems (874 ha including 634 ha around wells
drilled under ISSP I) would be completed. Ten wells would be drilled and 16
distribution systems (240 ha) would be completed in Lombok. The project would
finance procurement of materials and equipment for the first year of a
separate program for 23 distribution systems (DTW systems) in E. Java and 10
ITWs in C. Sulawesi. As a condition of loan disbursements against the
equipment category for groundwater systems, the Government would make
satisfactory arrangements for the availability of financing for installation
of materials and equipment to be procured for these 23 distribution systems in
East Java and 10 in C. Sulawesi [para. 7.2(a)].
3.34      Monitoring of River Mouths.  The O&M features and costs of dredging
for the five river mouths, before the training walls were built under ISSP I
for these river mouths, would be compared with the outlet structures
constructed under ISSP I. The requisite O&M costs for the completed works
would be borne by Government. Good quality topographic maps would be used to
monitor changes in the coastline.
3.35      Subject to the Bank's review and approval, water management
activities in the Seluna river basin in C. Java, and some urgent repairs in
the Rentang scheme in W. Java would be supported in a limited way. The
Government is expected to provid.e to the Bank, by July 15, 1991, a detailed
scope and cost breakdown of works proposed for the Rentang scheme, and
justification thereof.



- 34 -
IV. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
Project Costs
4.1       Total project cost is estimated at about $463.3 million (Rp 854.8
billion) with a foreign exchange component of $150.5 million (Rp 277.6
billion) or 32 percent. The cost estimate is based on December 1990 prices
and includes taxes and duties estimated at $31.5 million (Rp 58.1 billion).
Baseline project costs (excluding physical and price contingencies) are
estimated at $397.0 million (Rp 732.4 billion) and derived from the costs of
each component as estimated in the project preparation report and reviewed and
adjusted during the appraisal. Physical contingencies (to allow for possible
design variations) have been assessed at 10 percent of the cost of civil
works, and of equipment and vehicles, and 5 percent of the cost of consultancy
s,irvices. Price contingency estimates assume increases in local currency
costs of 6.5 percent in calendar year 1991 and 6 percent per annum thereafter,
and increases in foreign exchange costs of 3.6 percent per annum throughout.
4.2       The cost of new SM works for irrigation systems are based on an
average of Rp 270,000/ha (1990 prices), some 17 percent higher than that of SM
works completed under ISSP T. The detailed designs of about 160,000 ha on
such systems have been completed or nearing completion. Some of these designs
would be further reviewed by DGWRD since they include works that do not
qualify for SM. The final selection of systems and costs would be reviewed by
the Bank as a part of the Annual Work Program. The costs required to complete
the SM construction, carried over from ISSP I, are derived from detailed
proposals/ estimates prepared by PRIS and as reviewed and amended by DGWRD, at
the suggestion of the Bank appraisal mission. The costs for swamps scheme and
groundwater component are based on detailed designs. Incremental EOM costs
have been derived from review of actual expenditures on schemes under ISSP I
implementation and sample needs based budgets of 28 schemes, which indicate
that the average funding level established for ISSP I, adjusted for inflation,
would be adequate. Equipment and vehicles cost estimates are based on price
quotations from suppliers and cross checked with the prices of comparable
units recently purchased under ISSP I. Consultancy costs are based on
experiences with recent contracts in Indonesia.
4.3       Project cost estimates are summarized in Table 4.1 below and
detailed in Annex 3, Table 1.



- 35 -
Table 4.1: PROJECT COST SUMMARY
Local     Foreign    Total
------ ($ million) ------
Policy Support
ISF, Turnover Program                           17.2         5.5       22.7
and Land Valuation
Institutional Development
Basin water management, environment,            13.5        10.4       23.9
training, technical assistance etc.
Physical Components
Special Maintenance                             78.9        38.0      116.9
Incremental efficient 0&M                       39.7        22.4       62.1
Preparation for O&M activities                   6.6         0.3        6.9
Recurrent 0&M /a                               102.7        54.9      157.6
Corpletion of selected ongoing                   5.4         1.5        6.9
activities
Base Costs /b                            264.0       133.0     397.0
Physical contingencies                            12.8         7.0       19.8
Price contingencies                               36.0        10.5       46.5
Total Costs                              312.8       150.5     463.3
ia  Present (1990/91) level of 0&M expenditures on public irrigated areas.
Also includes proper levels of O&M funding needed on ISSP I areas going
out of the Bank-supported program.
lb Inclusive of taxes and duties in the amount of $31.5 millimn equivalent
and reserve procurement (of vehicles) of $3.0 million.
Financing
4.4       The proposed Bank loan of $225 million would finance 63 percent of
the foreign exchange costs and 41 percent of the local currency costs of the
project. This represents 52 percent of total project :osts, exclusive of
taxes ($31.5 million) and reserve procurement of vehicles ($3.0 million), and
about 70 percent of project costs, exclusive of recurrent O&H. It is expected
that the Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund (OECF) of Japan will provide about
$45.0 million, the Government of The Netherlands about $7.0 million, and the
Ford Foundation $325,000. This would be confirmed during the first year of
project implementation.  Government of Indonesia would finance the balance of
$186.0 million, or $238.3 million if the amounts expected to be cofinanced are
not forthcoming (or a net contribution of $206.8 million after taxes and
duties). This contribution would inter alia require Government tos
(a) maintain the 1990/91 level of recurrent O&M fundinj in real terms for all
government controlled schemes, amounting to $129.6 million ever the 4-year
project period; (b) maintain the proper level of 0&M funding, in line with the
needs-based budgets, on EOM areas going out of the IBRD-supported program



- 36 -
after five years, amounting to $28.5 million over the project period.
Government would also finance a progressively larger share of incremental O&M
expenditures in project areas, increasing from about 40 percent in year 1 to
70 percent in year 4. This contribution of Government would amount to $31.5
million. Government's requisite annual provisions for total O&M financing
would be a condition of annual loan disbursements against the civil works
categories related to SM and EOM (para. 7.2 (b)]. Costs of SM on areas
incorrectly brought under EOM during ISSP I, the O&M costs of small river
mouths, repair costs of the Rentang scheme, and costs of land development and
drinking water supplies in the swamp schemes, administration costs and taxes,
and costs of vehicles would be financed by Government. The financing plan was
agreed during negotiations. The project financing plan is set out in Table
4.2 below. and the phasing of GOI contributions is contained in Annex 3, Table
2.
Table 4.2: PROJECT FINANCING PLAN
t$ million)
Total
project
Funding Source                           Local    Foreign    cost      Percent
Government and Cofinanciers              183.3      55.0      238.3/a    51
Bank                                     129.5     95.5       225.0      49/b
Total                                 312.8    150.5       463.3
/a  It is expected that the OECF, Japan will provide about $45.0 million, the
Government of The Netherlands about $7.0 million, and the Ford Foundation
$0.3 million, with the balance of $186.0 million financed by the
Government of Indonesia.
/b 52 percent of project costs, excluding taxes and reserve procurement of
vehicles; and about 70 percent of costs excluding recurrent O&M funding.
Preparation Status and Implementation Schedule
4.5       The project has been prepared by DGWRD with assistance given by
Lavalin International and their Associates Sir M. Macdonald and Partners and
Indec. The project preparation is based on data, information and design of
project features provided by project agencies responsible for various
components and their consultants. Designs of SM covering about 200,000 ha for
additional SM in ISSP I areas are available, and for about 150,000 ha for new
areas would be ready before the start of the project. The detailed designs
and tender documents for the other SM works would be carried out by local
consultants (para. 3.21). Design and tender documents for the annual
maintenance works would be prepared by the PRIS staff. Sufficient designs are
available to implement the first year's completion of SM works. The regional
consultants would assist PRIS in review of the project designs and related
tender documents. The annual implementation schedule for irrigation works is
included in Annex 7.



- 37 -
4.6       The detailed designs for the completion of swamps SM and ongoing
project works are available. These would be verified by the international
consultants who would also assist the executing agency, on supervision of
construction and assurance of quality control for swamps works. These works
would be completed in Year 2 of the project.
4.7       The Annual Work Program (AWP), which would cover all project
components, would be a key project implementation mechanism and is described
in Annex 9. Project implementing agencies would prepare the AWP for their
components which would be collated at the central level by the Coordinating
Unit within DGWRD. The draft AWP for the first year of implementation was
reviewed at negotiations. AWPs for fiscal year 1992/93 onwards would be
submitted to the Bank by January 1 each year, for review, to cover the ensuing
Government's fiscal year beginning April 1. The criteria upon which the
Bank's review and concurrence of the AWP would be based are as follows:
(a) the adequacy of such programs for implementing project objectives
consistent with the requirements of the Loan Agreement, particularly
its adherence with the agreed Action Program (Annex 2); and
(b) the adequacy of such programs in providing physical, financial and
manpower resources to implement and sustain the targets set for the
ensuing project year.
Assurances were obtained during negotiations that these arrangements are
acceptable and would be followed by Government [para. 7.1 (f)].
Procurement
4.8       Civil Works.  Civil works for SM are estimated to cost about $121.1
million (including contingencies and excluding taxes). These works are
numerous, small and simple in nature, and are highly labor intensive and
widely dispersed over nine provinces and would have to be implemented so as to
cause minimum disruption to in-season irrigation. They are unlikely to
attract foreign competition, and would be procured in accordance with local
competitive bidding (LCB) procedures acceptable to the Bank, with foreign
firms eligible to participate. These works would be grouped into series of
contract packages in excess of Rp 200 million, except where such packaging is
not possible because of geographical or administrative reasons. Works on a
single scheme will not be split into more than one contract, except in special
cases for which Bank's approval will be necessary. Subject to the Bank's
approval, the works on irrigation systems (larger than 5,000 ha), will be
packaged so that contracts with large headwork and main canal are executed in
one large contract. About 140 contract packages (costing about $80 million)
would be larger than Rp 500 million each, of which about 20 packages (costing
about $25 million) would exceed $1.0 million in value. The latter would be
tendered as two year contracts. Any civil works contract costing more than
$3.0 million will be awarded following International Competitive Bidding (ICB)
procedures, in accordance with Bank's Guidelines for Procurment. SM works for
schemes to be turned over ($15.3 million) and EOM works ($65.6 million), also
numerous and simple in nature and requiring close interaction with farmers
both as beneficiaries and labor, would be largely tendered on the basis of
Government LCB procedures acceptable to the Bank and in some cases would be
undertaken by force account ($10.0 million). These would be tendered and



- 38 -
implemented as single year contracts, except for two large EOM packages each
in E. Java, C. Java, W. Java and Jatiluhur which may be let out on multi-year
unit rate contracts. Civil works for the completion of groundwater and swamps
component costing approximately $2.8 million equivalent would be procured
through LCB using Government LCB procedures acceptable to the Bank. Well
drilling would be undertaken by local contractors, with DGWRD providing
drilling rigs, materials and skilled supervisory staff. Foreign contractors
would most likely not be interested in such drilling works, in view of the
small size of contracts. Mapping work ($2.1 million) fcr PBB is spread over
fragmented areas and consists of land reclassification and registration in the
field, which can be undertaken more efficiently by local firms. The mapping
contracts would, therefore, be tendered in accordance with the LCB procedures,
acceptable to the Bank.
4.9       Equipment and Materials.  Equipment and materials totalling about
$2.0 million would be grouped into appropriate bid packages of $200,000 or
more and procured by ICB in accordance with the Bank guidelines for
procurement of goods. In bid comparison, locally manufactured equipment
would be allowed a 15 percent margin of preference or the applicable customs
duty, whichever is lower. Equipment which can not be suitably bulked and
other packages of small items costing less than $200,000 equivalent, but
totaling no more than $1.2 million, may be procured through Government LCB
procedures, acceptable to the Bank. Irrigation O&M equipment will be packaged
into two ICB contracts and procured by year 2 of the project. The Government
would provide vehicles ($3.1 million), which because of restrictions on the
import of foreign vehicles must be classified as reserved procurement.  This
has been excluded in estimating the Bank share of financing.  An understanding
was reached during negotiations that Government would procure the vehicles for
the project, in accordance with a plan and timetable acceptable to the Bank.
4.10      Consultancy Services.  Consultancy services ($30.4 million--
para. 3.21), with the exception of those needed for detailed design of SM
works, social and institutional consultancy for the turnover program, would be
procured internationally in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines on the Use
of Consultants. The Government envisages use of joint ventures between
foreign and local firms for this purpose under arrangements acceptable to the
Bank. The detailed designs of SM works and the social and institutional
consultancy for the turnover program could be carried out through local
firms/NGOs to be selected and engaged in accordance with the Government
procedures, acceptable to the Bank. The international consultancy services
would be packaged for procurement as follows: (a) one package for general
coordination advisory services; (b) one package for irrigation O&M and
turno%?r program consisting of a central team and five regional teams; (c) one
packagc for swamps systems; (d) two packages for groundwater component, one
for E. Java and Sulawesi and the other for Lombok; (e) one package for land
reclassification/revaluation; (f) two packages for water resources including
rivers; and (g) one package for irrigation service fees.   The Quality Control
and the Environmental experts may be appointed on individual consultancy
contracts.
4.11      Review of Procurement.  LCB procedures would be used for all civil
works, using standard prequalification and tender documents acceptable to the
Bank. Internal review of all SM and EOM contracts is made by the PRIS, and
larger contracts (Rp 500 million and above) are reviewed by DGWRD. Clearances



- 39 -
must also be obtained from Coordinating Ministry for Economy. Finance and
Industry (EKUIN) for contracts exceeding Rp 3 billion. It is expected that
about three civil works contracts and two consultancy packages would be
reviewed by EKUIN. For civil works contracts, the Bank would review prior to
tendering and award about 30 contracts ($35 million), each over $750,000,
covering in aggregate about 15 percent of the total value of civil works. The
remaining civil works contracts would be reviewed by the Bank on a post award
sample basis. Equipment contracts to be procured through ICB ($2.0 million)
would be reviewed by the Bank prior to tendering and award; and small
equipment contracts not exceeding $200,000 (with an aggregate value of $1.2
million) would be monitored by Government procurement units, and reviewed by
the Bank on a random basis after award. All international consultant
invitation documents, proposed aw-ards and contracts would be reviewed by the
Bank. Procurement arrangements are summarized in Table 4.3 below.



- 40 -
Table 4.3: PROCUREMENT PLAN
(S million)
)roject components                          Procurement method              Total
and elements                        ICB       LCB     Other    N/A/a       cost
:ivil Works
- Special Maintenance                       121.1                          121.1
(119.3)                        (119.3)
- Incremental  fficient O&M                  60.9       4.7/b               65.6
(34.0)     (2.7)               (36.7)
- Recurrent O&M /c                                     49.0      115.1    164.1
(0)       (0)       (0)
- Turnover program                           10.0       5.3/b               15.3
(10.0)     (5.1)               (15.1)
- Completion of ongoing
activities (groundwater and              2.8                            2.8
a swamps scheme)            (2.7)                          (2.7)
rquipment                             2.0      1.2                            3.2
(1.9)    (1.1)                          (3.0)
,onsultants - Foreign                                     9.3                 9.3
(9.0)               (9.0)
-  Local                                    21.1                 21.1
(15.9)              (15.9)
rraining including materials                              5.5                 5.5
and travel                                              (5.4)               (5.4)
lapping, surveys, preparation
for O&M, and related operational              2.1                 16.6      18.7
expenses                                     (2.0)               (15.9)   (17.9)
,and clearing, drinking water
supplies /d                                                        2.0       2.0
(0)      (0)
taxes and duties                                                    31.5     31.5
(0)      (0)
'ehicles /e                                               3.1                 3.1
(0)                 (0)
Total                              2.0    198.1       98.0      165.2    463.3
(1.9)  (169.1)    (38.1)    (15.9)  (225.0)
a Not applicable because no procurement is involved for items listed in this
column.
b As per Government procedures which might involve works carried out on a
force account basis.
c Present level of O&M expenditures. About 30 percent ($49 million) would
be for civil works and the balance for staff salaries.
d Applicable to completion of an ongoing swamps project, to be procured by
Government funds and as per Government procedures.
e Government provision (through reserve procurement) of vehicles. This has
been excluded in estimating the Bank share of financing.
Dte: Figures in parentheses indicate expected disbursements from the
proposed Bank loan; figures include contingencies.



- 41 -
Disbursements
4.12      Disbursements of the Bank Loan will be made as follows:
Category                             Disbursement Rate (C)
(a)  Civil works for incremental          On a declining scale as follows:
efficient O&M ($25.7 million)        60? of expenditures against
contracts signed in GOI FY91/92,
5OZ in FY92/93, 40Z in FY93/94,
30Z in FY94/95.
(b)  Other civil works [except (a)        91? of expenditures.
above] - $115.1 million
(c)  Equipment ($3.0 million)             1ooZ of foreign expenditures for
directly imported equipment.
lOOZ of local expenditures (ex-
factory prices) for locally
manufactured equipment. 652 of
local expenditures for locally
procured off-the-shelf items.
(d)  Consultancy services                 100? of expenditures.
(27.9 million)
(e)  Training including materials         91? of expenditures.
($5.9 million)
(f)  Mapping, surveys, preparation        91? of expenditures.
for O&M and related
operational expenses
($17.9 million).
(g) Unallocated ($29.5 million).
4.13      Disbursements will be made against S.atements of Expenditure (SOEs)
for small civil works and equipment valued at less than $200,000, the works
executed on a force account basis, local design consultancy contracts valued
at less than $125,000, and the cost of training, mapping, surveys, travel etc.
The operational expenses ($3.0 mill'on) would relate to costs of local travel
for supervision, workshops, per diems, and dissemination programs for ISF,
turnover and WUA establishment and strengthening. Disbursement for other
expenditures would be on the basis of full documentation. In the case of EOM,
the Bank Loan disbursement would be for the civil works, materials and
equipment. Documentation for SOE expenditures would not be submitted for
review but would be retained by project implementing agencies and DG Budget of
MOF and made available for inspection by the Bank during the course of project
supervision. Total disbursement against SOE would amount to $50 million or
22 percent of the Bank Loan amount. W4hile the disbursement profiles of the
past investment projects in the irrigation subsector in Indonesia has
stretched up to about 8 years, it is not applicable to the proposed project,
which constitutes a 4-year time slice of a longer term O&M program and entails



- 42 -
minor works. The schedule of disbursements for the project compared with the
profile of disbursements for ISSP I (Loan 2880-IND) is estimated as followss
Table 4.4: DISBURSEMENT SCHEDULE
($ million)
Bank FY                                 FY92       FY93      FY94       FY95
Annual                                30.0       60.0      70.0       65.0
Cumulative                            30.0       90.0     160.0      225.0
Cumulative Z                          13.3       40.0      71.1      100.0
(12.8)    (40.0)    (73.0)   (100.0)
Note:  Figures in parentheses show ISSP I disbursement profile in the four FYs
starting from FY88.
As conditions of Loan disbursements (para. 7.2) against the equipment for
groundwater systems and against civil works related to SM and EOM, the
Government would take the following actions:
(a)  make arrangements to ensure the availability of financing for
installation of materials and equipment for groundwater tubewells
systems to be procured for 23 distribution systems in E. Java and 10
in C. Sulawesi (para. 3.33); and
(b)  make annual budgetary allocations (and furnish evidence that the
budgeted funds were expended in the previous year), for fiscal years
91/92, 92193, 93194, 94/95 which at least maintain the 1990/91 level
of total country-wide irrigation O&M financing for all government-
controlled schemes in real terms, maintain the proper level of O&M
funding for fiscal years 92/93, 93/94 and 94/95 to sustain EOM on
EOM areas going out of the IBRD-supported program, and provide a
progressively larger share of incremental financing for areas on
which EOM is introduced in each of the fiscal years (91/92 to 94/95)
(para. 4.4)
4.14      The above disbursement schedule is justified because the
disbursement period is one year longer than that for ISSP I; the project is
less complex than ISSP I (excludes a major component related to the completion
of ongoing irrigation and river projects) and preparation works and designs
are more advanced; and the implementing agencies are now well experienced and
stronger on implementation of the program. Government is also strongly
committed to implement turnover of small systems and to expand collection of
ISF, as a matter of policy. The other project targets are relatively modest
in scope and realistic to achieve in the project period. Loan closing date is
expected by July 31, 1995.
4.15      In order to facilitate disbursements, a Special Account would be
opened in Bank Indonesia for the purpose of the project by the Ministry of



- 43 -
Finance (DG Budget). The use of the Special Account would be for withdrawals,
in all categories, relating to all foreign and local currency expenditures as
long as the withdrawals do not substantially deplete the balance in the
Special Account. The account would be maintained in US dollars and an initial
deposit of $15 million (equivalent to expected average eligible disbursements
during a four-month period) would be made. At the initiative of the
Government,replenishments of the Special Account would be made quarterly or
whenever the balance reaches 50 percent of the initial deposit amount,
whichever occurs first. Disbursements against expenditures in respect of
contracts involving foreign-currency payments would be made following IBRD
direct payment withdrawals and special commitment procedures, but they are
subject to a minimum of $50,000 equivalent per application.
Accounts and Audits
4.16      Separate detailed accounts are kept by DGWRD, PBB Directorate,
DGPUOD and each PRIS for each budget item by project and budget year. Project
accounts are subject to two audits by: (a) the Inspector General of concerned
Ministries; and (b) the Financial and Development Supervisory Board (BPKP).
The work of both auditors has been generally found satisfactory on Bank-
assisted irrigation projects. However, because of increasing work load of the
BPKP staff and particularly due to delays in preparation and submission of
financial statements by some project agencies, there had been recent instances
of delays in timely completion of audits. This weakness can be improved by
strengthening of accounting staff/system in PRIS, especially outside the Java
province, and close guidance and monitoring by the DGWRD Financial Department
in consultation with BPKP. Accounting procedures currently in use and
institutional capabilities of the implementing agencies are adequate to
support SOE applications.
4.17      Assurances were obtained from Government that:
(a) the implementing agencies and directorates participating in the
project would establish and maintain adequate and separate accounts
from the beginning of project implementation and that such accounts
would be maintained in accordance with the sound and generally
recognized accounting principles and practices satisfactory to the
Bank, so as to enable these agencies to provide annual financial
statements to reflect the financial performance and status of
project components;
(b) all project related contracts, documents related to the SOEs, and
orders and receipts would be kept for at least one year after the
Bank has received the audit report for the fiscal year in which the
last withdrawal from the loan account was made;
(c) Special Account, including records and documentation of receipts and
withdrawals, would be maintained as deemed satisfactory by the Bank
and a consolidated audit report for the Special Account would be
submitted to the Bank within 9 months of the close of each
Government fiscal year; and
(d) independent audits by BPKP of each year's project accounts,
including the consolidated audits of SOEs, would be submitted to the



- 44 -
Bank within nine months of the close of each Government fiscal year
[para. 7.1 (g)]. As part of the reporting requirements for the
project, it was agreed that the unaudited accounts would be
submitted as soon as available but not later than six months of the
close of each fiscal year. and the audit of project accounts would
be consolidated if and as possible.
4.18      The budgeting/accounting advisors in the Project Coordinating Unit
would assist DGWRD Finance Department in establishing/monitoring the
consolidated project accounting systems--including financial statements with
balance sheets, income statements in accordance with the Government
regulations and procedures.



- 45 -
V. ORGANIZATION, MANAGEMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION
National-level Organization and Management
5.1       The project would be implemented in 12 provinces and Jatiluhur.  The
overall organization of the project would be broadly similar to that for the
ISSP I, although there would be some changes in the organization of the
various consultancies, and the roles and responsibilities of the provincial
and local government agencies would be reinforced.
5.2       DGWRD, through its directorates, would be responsible for project
implementation, supervision and coordination/planning. In the Ministry of
Home Affairs, the DGPUOD would continue to be responsible for the
implementation of the ISF program. The ISF implementation unit within DGPUOD
as well as the provincial and local level governments would need to be
strengthened, as the ISF program expands under the project. In the Ministry
of Finance, the DG of Taxation through its Directorate of Property Tax would
be responsible for the classification and revaluation program related to the
PBB tax collection. The Project Steering Committee, chaired by BAPPENAS, and
comprising representatives from the concerned Ministries, which was formed for
ISSP I, would continue to provide overall policy guidance and coordination.
The secretariat to the project Steering Committee and the Working Groups for
Institutional Strengthening, O&M Programming and Budgeting, and the Turnover
Program would continue to function as before, at least during the initial
stages of the project. The role of these functional working groups could be
reviewed and modified subsequently, if deemed necessary. Procurement
activities associated with the ISF and PBB programs would be the
responsibility of DGPUOD and DG of Taxation, respectively. Procurement of all
other consultancy services, and equipment (to be procured by ICB) would be
undertaken by DGWRD. However, the procurement of civil works and consultancy
services needed for detailed design of SM works would be a provincial
responsibility (PRIS).
5.3       Overall coordination and review of project implementation would be
provided by the Project Coordinating Unit led by the Director, DPP (Bina
Program). The Director and his staff would be assisted by a small team of
consultants (Annex 10), who will serve as advisors to the Coordinating Unit.
A Deputy Project Coordinator would be assigned in the Unit to work full-time
on the proposed project and the similar ADB-supported projects. The TORs for
the consultancy services would reflect the requiremen: for liaising with the
ADB-supported projects and consultancies. The Directorates of DGWRD,
particularly DOI-I, would designate staff to work with DPP and the project
coordination team.
Provincial and Field-Level Organization and Management
5.4       The project is primarily a provincial or regional project and, in
line with Government policy of decentralization, most of the implementation
activities would be undertaken in the provinces using the existing provincial
institutions. Project management and implementation would continue to be
undertaken by the PRIS, with qualified personnel in adequate numbers,
including a Project Manager who will be the PRIS chief. The BAPPEDAs would
continue to coordinate project implementation monitoring and progress.



- 46 -
5.5       In order to strengthen the involvement of the provinces in the
project, the consultancy services for the irrigation component would be
organized, to some extent, in a different way than under ISSP I. Regional
teams of consultants would be established who would deal with all aspects of
the water services O&M. A small consultancy tea-. would also be provided at
the center to give special advice on irrigation O&M to DOI-I and help them to
supervise and coordinate technically the work done in the provinces by the
regional teams.
5.6       The primary responsibility for the implementation of the irrigation
SM and EOM works, including the turnover program, would remain with the PRIS,
particularly vested in its field sections (cabang dinas Pengairan) and lower
levels (ranting dinas and sub-ranting). In the case of swamps schemes, an
intermediate agency under the Head of the Regional Office of Public Works,
would be responsible for SM and EOM works until such time that these can be
taken over by the Provincial Water Resources Subdivision.
5.7       While the monitoring of small river mouths would be undertaken by
the Directorate of Rivers within DGWRD (assisted by the provincial PPS units),
the Opak basin water management pilot project would be implemented by the PPS
office in Yogyakarta, and the Cisanggarung pilot project would be implemented
by the Cimanuk River Basin Development Project in Cirebon. The small
groundwater component would continue to be executed by the P2AT offices
located in Surabaya (E. Java), Ujang Padang (Sulawesi) and Mataram (Lombok).
5.8       The ISF would continue to be a provincial program implemented at the
district level. In each province where ISP is introduced, a provincial 1SF
team would be established. This team, chaired by the Governor, comprises the
head of PRIS as executive secretary and member, and senior representatives of
other ISF related provincial departments. A district ISF implementation team,
in composition similar to the provincial team, would continue to function
during the introduction stage. Dipenda, the revenue agency would continue to
administer and imlplement ISF collection and fund allocation, until the WUAs
can be trained to carry out this collection task independently. The PRIS
(including its field section., cabang dinas) would continue to be the provider
of the irrigation service.
5.9       These organizational arrangements for project implementation at
national, provincial and district levels are already well in place.
Assurances were obtained at negotiations that these arrangements would be
maintained [para. 7.1 (h)]. DGWRD, as the key project implementing agency,
would be responsible for preparing semi-annual project progress reports (June
30 and December 31, each year), annual M&E reports (December 31) and a project
completion report within six months of the loan closing. DGWRD and the other
agencies involved would also undertake a mid-term review (in June 1993) of the
project. The Bank supervision plan for the proposed project is included in
Annex 13.



- 47 -
VI. PROJECT IMPACT
Cropping Patterns, Yields and Production
6.1       The project's primary impact would be to restore and sustain the
economic life of investments as envisioned at the start-up of these
investments. An attempt is made in this section to quantify the impact,
although limited, on crop production. Present and future cropped areas would
be the same under surface irrigation (and swamps), as no additional irrigated
areas would result from SM or EOM. No yield increases are assumed for
irrigated areas. The estimated impact of SM and EOM on crop production is
based only on changes in cropping intensity ef the second dry season rice
crop. This is a very conservative estimate. The assumptions are contained in
the following table:
Table 6.1: CHANGES IN CROPPING INTENSITY OF DRY SEASON RICE CROPS
Without SM and EOM                   With SM and EOM
Java               Decline from 0.8 to 0.7              Increase from 0.8 to 1.0
(over a 30-year period)
Outer Islands      Decline from 0.7 to 0.6              Increase from 0.7 to 1.0
(over a 15 year period)
Decline in yield by 500 kg/ha
(in year 10) /a
/a Competition for water (and poor distribution) likely to become more
intense in year 10, when cropping intensity declines to 0.6.
6.2       Completion of one swamps scheme, included under the project, just
through land development activity (since flat fields are important when high
water tables restrict drainage) is likely to increase production by 0.5 t/ha
(0.3 t due to increase in harvested area and 0.2 t due to increase in yield).
6.3       In the case of completion of groundwater development activities, the
experience in E. Java has been used as a basis for estimates of yields and
cropping intensities. Since groundwater development is expensive to install
and operate, it requires much higher cropping intensities and yields to make
it a viable investment than is the case for surface irrigation. It is
generally a worthwhile investment in water scarce areas with low cropping
intensities. The assumptions on area and yields for the groundwater
development are included in Project Files.
6.4       Based on the above assumptions, the annual incremental production
from the project can be roughly estimated to be around 500,000 tons in paddy,
and some minor increases in other secondary food crops.



- 48 -
Prices and Cost Recovery
6.5       Economic prices for major agricultural inputs and outputs are
presented in Annex 11. Farm inputs and outputs have been valued in constant
1990 prices. For the economic analysis, with the exception of some
construction costs (where conversion factors of 0.8 and 0.9 have been used),
all inputs and outputs are priced as tradeables based on their border
equivalent values, with adjustments for quality differentials and
transportation as appropriate.
6.6       Cost recovery indices are estimated to indicate the extent to which
an irrigation service fee (starting from Rp 15,000/ha in year 1 to
Rp 35,000/ha in year 6 and thereafter) would recover the costs of EOM, and an
index showing the extent to which this minimum service fee plus any reasonable
allocation of PBB for O&M expenditures would recover the cost of EOM and the
investment cost of SM. The relevant data are given below.
Table 6.2: COST RECOVERY INDICES /a
Costs and charges                                                 Rp '000/ha
Costs for efficient O&M                                                   270
Project Charges - Service Fee                                             283
Direct cost recovery index (Z)                                            105
Costs for special maintenance and efficient O&M                           490
Project Charges - Service Fee                                             283
- PBB share allocation                                    29
Total                                           312
Direct cost recovery index (Z)                                             64
la Based on discounted (10 percent) per ha values over project life.
6.7       In addition to the recovery of O&M costs for the primary and
secondary systems (for schemes larger than 500 ha) from the ultimate
beneficiaries via the irrigation service fee, it should be noted that
Government's long-term policy is to turn over (privatize) all schemes less
than 500 ha to the WUAs, who will then own, manage, operate and maintain these
systems. Under the Basin Water Management component, a conceptualization of a
more general water service fee structure for all users would also be supported
under the project.



- 49 -
Benefits and Economic Justification
6.8       Benefits and Beneficiaries.  The major benefits expected from the
project include: (a) improved funding of O&M and cost recovery; (b) improved
resource utilization leading to enhanced returns from existing facilities on
a sustained basis; (c) increased participation of beneficiaries in owning,
managing, operating and maintaining smaller irrigation schemes; and
(d) strengthened institutions at the central, provincial and local levels. In
general, the project will contribute to Government's long-term objectives of
food security, and improved water resources management. Indirect benefits
would include favorable effects on revenue generation, human resources and
regional development and the environment. About 2.0 million farm families
would directly benefit from the project, about 15 percent of whom are likely
to have current incomes below the absolute poverty line.
6.9       Performance monitoring indicators for the project would inter alia
include: (a) agreed levels of annual budgetary allocations for O&M
(para. 4.4); (b) actual turnover of small systems covering at least
130,000 ha, and turnover of about 40 systems larger than 150 ha (paras. 3.6
and 3.7); (c) introduction of ISF on at least 700,000 ha (para. 3.4);
(d) increased annual revenues and cost reductions through efficiency
improvements associated with PBB (para. 3.11); (e) implementation of
recommendations on legal framework, organization, manpower, training, MIS/M&E
(Annex II); (f) timely preparation of AWPs, and completion of POMs and NBBs
(paras. 3.29 and 4.7); and (g) preparation of environmental design guidelines
for irrigation and swamp developments (para. 6.27). Interim indicators are
also detailed in Annex II. Scheme-specific monitoring indicators would
include a comparison of planned with actual delivery of service, and the
incremental benefits of SM and EOM.
6.10      Economic Justification.  A large part of the project pertaining to
fundamental policy reforms and institutional strengthening, with far-reaching
impact, is not amenable to a conventional economic analysis. The program for
implementation of SM and EOM also comprises a large number of proposals for
many schemes in nine provinces and Jatiluhur, and it is not feasible to
analyze these individually. The absolute cost ceiling (Rp 350,000/ha) on a
scheme basis has , therefore, been proposed for SM works and this ceiling has
its basis in the economic evaluation of the investments. But it should be
noted that an evaluation of SM and EOM is difficult because both activities
cost so little that the incremental benefits required to justify them are
often smaller than inter-annual variations in harvested yield or intensity.
These are statistically difficult to detect, at least in the short term.
6.11      The benefits of EOM may include higher cropping intensities and
yields, but at the very least should avoid the high costs (and negative
benefits) associated with the rapid deterioration or irrigation systems which
are poorly operated and maintained. A comparison of two discounted cost
streams: (a) annual EOM costs aimed at sustaining the syscems in future; and
(b) inadequate levels of annual O&M costs requiring major rehabilitation in
year 10, indicates that the savings to the economy would be around Rp 4.0
trillion (in 1990 prices), if the entire public irrigated area is brought
under EOM. This, combined with any other benefits, indicates the potential
value of EOM.



- 50 -
6.12      Unlike EOM, the funds invested in SM can only be justified by an
improvement in the performance of the system which results in increases in
either yields or cropping intensities. On most schemes, an increase in
cropping intensity of the second rice crop is the most likely result
(Table 6.1). In the wet season, the majority of schemes have sufficient
water, even where they are inefficient, and no benefits arising from SM have
been assigned to the first rice crop.
6.13      In the case of swamps schemes, only areas with specific drainage
and/or flooding problems would be included under SM works. The SM investments
on swamps schemes are economically viable with the increase in cropping
intensity of about 30 percent at low yields (2.5 t/ha) or 12 percent at high
yields (4 t/ha).
6.14      The costs of rehabilitation for the swamps schemes are lower than
for the irrigation schemes, and also once the dikes and drains are stabilized,
they are somewhat less vulnerable to poor maintenance. The operation function
of EOM is, however, extremely important. EOM is worthwhile on schemes where
there is danger of saline intrusion or toxification of the soil through poor
water management, and also on other schemes in view of the critical nature of
water table management, particularly during the very early stages of crop
development. It is, however, important that the shortcomings in extension
services, input supplies and markets do not hinder the improved operating
regime.
6.15      Other relatively small components of the project, completion of
groundwater activities and one swamps scheme, are amenable to economic
analysis. Sunk costs have been taken into account, as appropriate.
6.16      The economic rates of return for various project components are
shown in the following Table:
Table 6.3: ECONOMIC RATE OF RETURN (ERR)
Percent of project
Component                                     ERR (Z)            costs (Z)
Special Mainte-.Lance and
Efficient O&M                                                         87
Java                                      18                    63
Outer Islands /a                          15-16                 24
Completion of swamps scheme                    15                      1
Completion of groundwater development                                0.5
E. Java                                   14                   0.4
Sulawesi                                  10                   0.1
/a The difference in ERR compared to Java is due to a slight decline in yield
in the 'without project" situation in the Outer Islands, and the
difference in shadow wage rates.



- 51 -
6.17      An estimation of switching values (percentage change which reduces
NPV to zero) was not considered essential, since the justification of the
major activities (SM and EOM) is that they are likely to generate rates of
return of over 10 percent (opportunity cost of capital) even when very
conservative assumptions are used to calculate them. As indicated in
para. 6.11, EOM can be justified by its maintenance function alone, and the
intensity increases required to justify SM are also very small (often less
than 10 percent in one rice crop).
6.18      The justification of the groundwater component is that it is a
bridging operation from ISSP I to a new project. Serious disruption to the
program and substantial shut down/start up costs will be incurred if funds
are not made available. Economic analysis for the Sulawesi program is not
sufficiently reliable to justify its exclusion for one year, after which it
will be subjected to a far more rignrous evaluation.
6.19      The weighted average ERR for the project is estimated to be
17 percent.
Role of Women
6.20      In most regions of Indonesia, women play a prominent part in
irrigated agriculture. There are large regional variations in the jobs women
do as a result of diverse social customs. However, wherever rice is grown,
the farm activities such as transplanting of rice seedlings, weeding and
hoeing are almost exclusively done by women. Harvesting of paddy was also
mainly done by women in many parts of Indonesia, although this is changing
somewhat as the traditional methods of harvesting are being replaced by gangs
of mainly male contract harvesters. Women also play a large part in the
marketing of crops and are involved, to some extent, in farm management
decisions about what should be grown, what should be sold for cash and what
should be kept for home consumption or as reserves.
6.21      The project would, in a limited manner, support a more active
participation of women in the WUAs and in the irrigation committees. The
training component would focus on upgrading the skills of women as well,
particularly in the O&M procedures and guidelines. The evaluation of training
and workshops would, under the proposed project, include information on the
number of participants, disaggregated by gender. Similarly, the data
collection and analyses for the purposes of monitoring and evaluation (M&E)
would include information on differentials between women and men in formal
education, wage levels and other income. To date the M&E, in general, has not
been too effective. But with the ADB's ongoing technical assistance, the
performance indicators are likely to be improved and better instituted.
6.22      A socio-economic study is required to identify the present role of
women in irrigated agriculture and to assess their potential role. The study
could formulate ways and means to promote a more active and effective
participation of women in all aspects of irrigation O&M. Consideration should
be given by the Government to encourage a bilateral or a non-goveranmental aid
agency to support such a study. During the project implementation period,
Government should explore sources of grant funding for such a study.



- 52 -
Environment
6.23      The project has only a limited environmental impact due to the
nature of physical works proposed within the definition of SM; the fact that
there would be no significant change in aggregate functional area; and the
generally small size of schemes involved. This was further confirmed by the
environmental screening of all areas and schemes to be included under the
project. The screening was completed by Government as a part of the project
preparation, and reviewed by the Bank mission. The proiect would not involve
an increase in the use of agro-chemicals, and the Government has eliminated
pesticide subsidy, promoted integrated pest management approach and taken
steps to minimize the use of broad-spectrum pesticides.
6.24      Prior to the appraisal of the project, the Government prepared three
Preliminary Environmental Evaluations (PELs) for the Sei Kualuh swamps scheme,
Air Tabuhanan scheme, and for the irrigation developments in the Citarum river
basin. These were selected through the environmental screening process. A
review of these PELs is contained in Annex 12.
6.25      The MPW has instituted Environmental Impact Assessment (AMDAL)
procedures in accordance with relevant policy directives of the Government and
is progressively developing and refining these procedures to address the
particular issues raised by the types of developments which it undertakes,
including irrigation and swamps developments. The department has appointed
environmental specialists within its staff to administer the AMDAL process.
6.26      At present, the AMDAL process for the prediction and evaluation of
environmental impacts focuses primarily on the evaluation of individual
projects of comparatively large scale. However, it is recognized that
numerous small scale land development projects (as many irrigation projects
are) have the potential for cumulative environmental effects which may go
undetected in the AMDAL process. DGWRD also recognizes that a fundamental
strategy for reducing adverse environmental effects of developments which it
undertakes is to incorporate environmental considerations into the project
design.
6.27      Although the proposed project would have negligible environmental
impact, as a subsector operation it would help develop EIA capability within
DGWRD and assist in the preparation of environmental design guidelines for
irrigation and swamp developments (Annex 12).
Risks and Uncertainties
6.28      The major risks include possible delays and unsatisfactory quality
due to continuing need for Government officials and local consultants to gain
on-the-job experience; a possible weakening of Government's commitment to
implement difficult policy decisions, notably related to O&M funding, cost
recovery and privatization; institutional weaknesses, given requisite changes
which in some ways are fundamental in nature; and unrealistic farmer
expectations regarding the improved delivery of service in return for the
payment of ISF. In add'tion, a large-scale extension of ISF collection will
be a difficult objective and will entail some risks.



- 53 -
6.29      These risks would be addressed through a more effective use of
technical assistance particularly for support to policy reforms and
institutional capacity-building, specific measures included in the project
with respect to both processes and targets, as stipulated in the Action Plan
and the legal documents, and strengthened institutional arrangements
especially in the provinces. The experience of the first Irrigation Subsector
project and the lessons learned from this project have been extremely useful
in designing the proposed project, and thereby mitigating some of the risks.



- 54 -
VII. AGREEMENTS TO BE SOUGHT AND RECOMMENDATION
7.1       Assurances were obtained at negotiations from Government that:
(a) the project would be implemented in accordance with the Policy
Statement and the Action Plan reviewed and agreed with the Bank
(para. 3.2);
(b)  the ISF areas would be selected by Government, by January 1 each
year and submitted to the Bank for its review, as a part of the
Annual Work program (para. 3.4);
(c) about 40 schemes larger than 150 ha, particularly those adjoining
ISF areas, would be turned over to WUAs, some farmer equity
contribution would be required under the turnover program, and any
scheme (to be turned over) requiring SM funds in excess of the
agreed ceiling would require justification and the Bank's prior
approval (paras. 3.7 and 3.8);
(d) all consultant selections would be approved by August 15, 1991 and
the consultants employed by this date, except for the O&K and the
ISF consultants who would be employed by October 31, 1991
(para. 3.21);
(e) DGWRD would certify to the Bank for its review as a part of the
Annual Work Program that (i) the SM, proposed by PRIS, comprises
only minor works and repairs/improvements, as agreed with the Bank;
and (ii) the SM works, including preparation and implementation of
POMs and NBBs and other steps are completed by PRIS and the schemes
are ready for EOM (para. 3.26);
(f) the draft Annual Work Programs would be submitted to the Bank by
January 1, each year for its review and comments (para. 4.7);
(g) independent audits of project accounts, including the audits of SOEs
and the Special Account would be submitted to the Bank within 9
months of the close of each Government fiscal year (para. 4.17); and
(h) existing organizational arrangements for project implementation at
national, provincial and district levels would be maintained (para.
5.9).
7.2       As conditions of loan disbursements against the equipment category
for groundwater systems, and against the civil works categories related to SM
and EOM, Government would take the following actions:
(a) make arrangements to ensure the availability of financing for
installation of materials and equipment for groundwater tubewell
systems to be procured for 23 distribution systems in E. Java and 10
in C. Sulawesi (para. 3.33); and
(b) make annual budgetary allocations (and furnish evidence that the
budgeted funds were expended in the previous year), for fiscal years



- 55 -
91/92, 92/93, 93/94, 94/95 which at least maintain the 1990/91 level
of total country-wide irrigation O&M financing for all governnent-
controlled schemes in real terms, maintain the proper level of O&M
funding for fiscal years 92/93, 93/94 and 94/95 to sustain EOM on
EOM areas going out of the IBRD-supported program, and provide a
progressively larger share of incremental financing for areas on
which EOM is introduced in each of the fiscal years (91/92 to 94/95)
(para. 4.4)
7.3       With the above agreements and assurances, the project would be
suitable for a Bank loan of $225 million with a 20-year maturity at the Bank's
standard variable rate, including a grace period of 5 years. The Borrower
would be the Republic of Indonesia.



- 56 -                              ANNEX 1
Page 1
INDONESIA
IRRIGATION SUBSECTOR II (O&M) PROJECT
GOVERNMENT OF INDONESIA
Statement of Policies 1/ for Irrigation Operation and Maintenance
A. Background
1.        Rice is the staple diet of the Indonesian population, and a large
propcrtion of the country's production of rice comes from irrigated sawah
areas. With a population growth rate of 2 percent per annum and increasing
per capita incomes, the demand for rice as a primary food crop is expected to
rise in the future.
2.        Concerted efforts have been made on a continuous basis from the
beginning of the first five year plan (Pelita I) to meet the increasing
national requirements of food. Since 1985, these efforts have decreased the
dependency on food crop imports, especially rice.
The nation's production of rice comes from 5 million hectares of
irrigated fields, which grow two crops per year on average, and from 2 million
hectares of rainfed land, on which rice is generally planted once each year.
The increase in production has been achieved as a result of
investments in agriculture such as the adoption of modern varieties; use of
fertilizers; weed and pest control; adoption of appropriate cropping
calendars; and investments in irrigation such as rehabilitation of existing
irrigation systems and construction of new schemes.
3.        Water resources development by the Government, especially in the
field of irrigation, both new construction and rehabilitation, within the
context of increasing food production, has already been carried out with
satisfactory results. Such investments have primarily been financed from the
Government's rupiah budget and foreign assistance.
The completion of construction is followed by the next stage of
management and care of the irrigation systems through what is commonly known
as operation and maintenance (O&M).
Operation consists of activities to optimize the utilization of the
irrigation infrastructure.
Maintenance consists of activities to care for the infrastructure,
so that it can function as designed, thereby sustaining the effectiveness of
the irrigation systems.
1/   Issued in 1987.



ANNEX 1
- 57 -                          Page 2
Both activities should be carried out continuously, and supported by
an adequate budget, skilled personnel, appropriate procedures for planning and
implementation and proper facilities for their efficient implementation, as
well as to aim for increased quality of intensified agricultural food
production.
Irrigation development during Pelitas I to IV concentrated on
rehabilitation (repairs and improvements) of existing systems and construction
of new schemes.
During this latter part of Pelita IV and approaching the beginning
of Repelita V, the time has come to give greater emphasis to O&M activities.
4.        According to Water Law No. 11/1974, Section 12 and Government
Regulation (PP) No. 23/1982, Section 35, para. (2), the budget for O&M of
irrigation networks and related structures and facilities should be borne by
the Provincial Government. These laws also set out the intention of asking
beneficiary farmers to participate in O&M for main systems and have overall
responsibility for tertiary systems.
Recognizing that Provincial Governments were still unable to provide
the required budget for O&M, the Central Government has, since the fiscal year
1974/75 provided subsidies for irrigation O&M through INPRES DATI I (APBD);
since 1984/85 such subsidies have been increased through project funding for
O&M (APBN). Maintenance of O&M budget levels in the last two years, despite
major cuts in total investment expenditures, reflects the Government's new
policy -npproach and recognition of the importance of O&M, and its commitment
to increased expenditures on efficient and adequate levels of O&M in the
future. Nevertheless, the average allocation per annum is well below actual
requirements.
The inadequate O&M Budget, personnel, equipment and facilities will
lead to rapid deterioration of the condition of the irrigation systems and
affect their performance thus reducing food production, especially rice, and
this is of increasing concern to the Government.
5.        The problem which is now encountered is how to provide an adequate
O&M budget in accordance with actual needs of each irrigation system; this
will necessitate an increase in the budget to be provided for O&M.
It is necessary to mobilize new sources other than the present
Central Government allocation, in the efforts to increase the O&M budget and
eventually to reduce dependence upon Central Government budgetary support,
namely:
5.1  From Land and Building Tax (PBB).  This may not be a dependable
source, because the revenues from PBB are required for regional and
local development, especially in Daerah Tingkat II (level of
Kabupaten).
5.2  From the beneficiaries of irrigation development in the form of an
"Irrigation Service Fee," which should be related to the quality of
service provided. The imposition of such a fee is in keeping with



ANNEX 1
- 58 -                           Page 3
Water Law No. 11/1974, Section 12 And Government Regulation No.
23/1982, Section 35. para. (3). This is a more appropriate and
dependable source since it will be collected solely for meeting the
O&M budget.
6.        Besides mobilizing the sources mentioned in Section 5 above,
especially for smaller systems with an area of less than 500 ha, the
responsibility for O&M will be entrusted to the Water User's Association.
This is possible, because there are already a large number of such
schemes managed by the villagers, designated as village irrigation or communal
irrigation systems (INPRES 1/1969). In this way, the responsibility assumed
by the beneficiaries can be further developed, while reducing the number of
schemes managed by the Government and more attention can be paid to large and
medium scale systems which cannot be managed by the beneficiaries.
7.        The Government has formulated a set of policies which address six
fundamental issues related to the financing of O&M and other expenditure in
the irrigation subsector, under the following topics:
1.   Funding of Operation and Maintenance
2.   Cost Recovery
3.   Irrigation Service Fee
4.   Institutional Development
5.   Programming and Budgeting for O&M
6.   Rationalization of Investment Expenditure
B. Statement of Policies
Policy 1: Funding of Operation and Maintenance
After completing irrigation systems, Government recognizes that in
order to realize the full potential of irrigation systems and to maximize the
contribution of existing investments to agricultural production goals, future
poli,:y should ensure expenditure on O&M that should be applied in line with
the actual needs of irrigation systems.
Objectives
1.1  To provide adequate and timely funding of O&M on all government
controlled schemes throughout Indonesia at a level sufficient to
ensure efficient O&M. and the introduction of efficient operation
and maintenance on the entire Public Works irrigation system within
about 15 years. In order to accomplish this, the Central Government
will initiate a gradual increase in O&M funding through more
allocation from the INPRES and DGWRD development budget. This
increase in funding is required during the early years but will
decline as Provincial Government revenues and irrigation service
fees assume a larger percentage of the total O&M costs.



ANNEX 1
- 59-                            Page 4
1.2  To establish an agreed mechanism for ensuring that Provincial
Governments take a gradually increasing financial responsibility for
the O&M budget of main irrigation systems from their own revenues.
1.3  To ensure that adequate funding is applied in line with the actual
needs of the systems in areas which have already been upgraded and
efficient O&M has been introduced, an increase of the present levels
of O&M funding would be required. Also, that funds currently
expended on areas on which efficient O&M has not been introduced
will have their present allocations at least maintained in real
terms.
1.4  To give Water Users Association (WUAs) maximum responsibilities for
O&M, subject to the constraints imposed by their institutional
capacities and the technical characteristics, size and
administrative boundaries in which irrigation systems are located.
1.5  Within about 15 years, to gradually turn over the Government
irrigation systems of less than 500 ha each to the WUAs. As a first
step, over the period of Repelita V, most of the Government
irrigation systems less than 150 ha in size would be turned over to
WUAs. This figure is in line with the size of tertiary units which,
according to Government Regulation No. 23/1982, is now legally the
responsibility of the WUAs.
Policy 2: Cost Recovery for Irrigation O&H
The Government policy is that the beneficiaries will eventually
finance O&M costs of main irrigation systems.
Objectives
2.1  To implement a cost recovery system which will eventually finance
all costs of efficient O&M of irrigation systems through increased
contributions from irrigation beneficiaries.
2.2  To improve indirect cost recovery and increase local government
revenue generation and their capacity for O&M funding, through a
long-term program to raise PBB revenues on irrigated areas in all
provinces.
2.3  To expedite the conversion of the Land Tax (IPEDA) system to the new
PBB system through reclassification and reassessment of the market
value of irrigated properties, and to ensure that the system is
implemented effectively and yields the expected revenues.
Policy 3: Irrigation Service Fees
In order to directly recover the O&M costs from irrigation
beneficiaries in relation to the benefits they receive from a regular and
assured supply of water, Government will extend the collection of irrigation
service fees from the beneficiaries in other areas after the Pilot Scheme
period. Since PBB may not be a dependable source, the implementation of



- 60 -                           ANNEX 1
Page 5
direct cost recovery system, which eventually finances all costs of efficient
O&M of irrigation systems, should apply irrigation service fee. These fees
are expected to gradually reduce the need for Government funding subsidies and
become the main source of efficient O&M budget for main irrigation systems.
Objectives
3.1 Starting from fiscal year 1988/89, to introduce an irrigation
service fee (ISF) related to cropping patterns/systems in several
selected pilot scheme areas being taken up for efficient O&M. The
implementation of the pilot scheme will also enable the
establishment and refinement of the necessary administrative and
judicial arrangements as well as institutional aspects, collection
mechanism and level of fees to be collected.
3.2 Based on the results of the pilot scheme, to gradually extend ISP to
all provinces for irrigation systems where efficient O&M has already
been introduced.
Policy 4: Institutional Development
Government recognizes the critical importance of effectively
carrying out irrigation O&M, and will implement effective measures and reforms
to strengthen O&M institutions at all levels. This will be done to create
adequate institutional capacity for improving the performance of the existing
irrigation infrastructure and efficient utilization of increased O&M
allocations, in order to continue to provide adequate irrigation service and
reliable water supplies to farmers.
Objectives
4.1 To strengthen and where necessary to restructure the organizational
set-up of Provincial Irrigation Services (PRIS) dealing with O&M of
irrigation systems, down to Ranting Dinas for uniformity, efficiency
and effectiveness.
4.2 To clarify the roles and responsibilities of institutions dealing
with O&M by the end of fiscal year 1988/89. This would include the
redefinition of roles of DGWRD and PRIS in planning, organization,
directing and controlling O&M activities, and defining the
organizational structure and staffing needs at various levels.
4.3 To design and implement a manrower development and training program
for provincial O&M staff and other agencies' staff at various levels
involved in implementing O&M policies and programs. It is
anticipated that this activity will be implemented by the end of
fiscal year 1989/90.
4.4 To strengthen the function of PRIS with regard to the management of
O&M through improved personnel management, and the development of
appropriate management information systems (MIS) and monitoring and
evaluation (M&E) systems.



ANNEX 1
- 61 -                           Page 6
4.5   To further develc? and execute an integrated policy for the
functioning and strengthening of WUAs following guidelines
established in INPRES No. 2/1984, and functioning of Irrigation
Committees in line with PP. No. 23/1982.
Policy 5: Budgeting and Programming for O&M
Government will simplify and rationalize the present budget
mechanisms for O&M funding by reducing the number of funding channels and
improving O&M budget planning administration.
Obiectives
5.1 To introduce improved systems and procedures for O&M programming,
monitoring and budget planning, by simplifying the present system of
allocations through both INPRES DATI I and DGWRD development budget,
changing to a needs-based system of allocation of O&M funds.
5.2 To establish sound criteria and procedures for allocation and
monitoring of funds to meet the actual needs for O&M of each
irrigation system, starting at each Ranting Dinas level.
Policy 6: Rationalization of Investment Expenditures
Government will rationalize expenditure programs in the irrigation
subsector, and formulate and implement a more realistic irrigation investment
strategy for Repelita V.
Obiectives
6.1 To improve project selection criteria to be used and review the
technical and economic viability, in the assessment of the total
existing and proposed irrigation investment programs, wi'i.' d view to
rationalize investments.
6.2 To improve the formulation of priorities for irrigation investments
and finalize preparation of a more realistic irrigation subsector
strategy and investment program for Repelita V by the end of fiscal
year 1988/89, taking into account the likely availability of funds
from different sources as well as implementation capacity.



nw1~
IRRICSTICN  5 1   II (4>  PROJECT ~ ~ ~ ~   ~     ~     ~      ~    ~     ~    MNIC-
hetion Plan
Police 1  F..ndine d Oeratinn and  ainte c
Policy amr                    Id;u_-ters, objeeti e                   Action proponed                  By                   K.y *tnp-               Timetble           Honitoring ..dicators
(1)                               (2)                                  (3)                        (4)                     (5)                     (6)                      (7)
(a) Future policy to esuro    1.1 E1 ure the funding of 034    1.1.1 intain 1990/91 level of             9APP84AS   Provisions  ade for 0UN funding in        91/92      Annual budgetary allocatione for
adt nate funding for          ec *11 Cwvernent con-                recurrent 034 funding in roat    11A. 1W    annual budgets                            onwards    1991/92 through 1994/95 nd funds
efficient 0a4 ir lire          trolled scheme_ at a euf-           tarm  for all governmnt              HOF                                                          eapended in the previous year.
with the nctual Deed. of        ficient leel in line with          control tod schewm  from                                                                          I9/91 to 1993/94.
irrigation system.             actual Amd  for efficient           natioal budget and provein-
034.                               cis revenu.
1.1.2 Increaa  the level of 034        BAPPEOAS   Provinion  made for 0CA funding in        91/92      Annual budgetary allecatieon  for
funding from the natioal         MfIA, *W   annual budgeta                           onward*    1991/92 through 1994/95 and fund
budget. provincial r.venuea         HOF                                                         *epended in the pr;vicue year.
and irrigatieo  Service fen                                                                      1990/91 to 1993/94.
for are  on which efficient
0UN i; pregreaeively intro-
duced.
1.1.3 lbintain the proper level, of   BAPPE4AS   Prov;ieian  mde for 03  funding in         92/93      Annual budgetary allocations for
034 funding to austain EON on    IWI. PW   annual budgets                            onwards    1991/92 throush 1994/95 and fund.
EON area  going out of the          HOf                                                          espended in the previoua years
llR-supported progrm  after                                                                      1990/91 to 1993/94.
5 years.
(b) Turnover of m_1 ey-        1.2 Gradually turnover m_l        1.2.1 Inventory. profiling and             Ita     Inventory at least 150,000 ha.           1991/92    Areas of ;nventory and profiling
teo to Water Use                irrigation .yotem  le"             registration of smIt irriga-         MW      Profiling end registration 140.000       1M/93    cooplet d.
Amauciation, (l10m).            tha  S0W he to lMlt.              tion system  with a service                  ha (c(00 ha) end WA..                    1993/94
Turnover irrigam.on eye-            area <00 ha.                                                                         1994/95
tem merving les than                                                            Identify system  for turning oveor.
150 ha asa  first priority   1.2.2 Select system, for turning           MM      Prepar& annual progr  for Turnover    1991/92    Syte, *elueted
to WUAs within Rfpolite V.         over Covering at lesat              9W       and atart registration of WAs.           1992/93
130.000 ha in category                                                               1993/94
(se0 ha preferably in the                                                            1994/95
same gegraphical area a.
ISF.
1.2.3 Carry out special mintenance        MM       Program and ieccuto  peocial oint-    1991/92    No. of system  and area  coepletd.
work, c  appropriate on these       Iw       nan"e.                                  1092/93
ystem  and involve farmers'                                                          1993/94
quity contribution.                                                                  1994/95
1.2.4 Train TP4 and strengthe"  A.  10A            I pluu-mt TP4 training and              1991/92    No. of TP4 trained.
1W      strengthen VA.                         to 1994/95
1.2.5 Actual turnowor of *m,_11         Mo  WV   Turnovor selected stytam.                 1991/92    No. of eystem and arm  turned
system  of at lInt               SAPPEIIS                                           to 1994/95  oer.
130.002 ha.                         IDF
1.2.6 Nonitor nd evaluate leona                   Nitor and evaluste 04 perfor-            1992/93    Evaluation reorts.
learned from the sche_*                     mence in *ytme turned over.
turned over (inC. ISSP I
chemh).



Pblicv 2,  ;at r      -v,,  for Ir;rlst.on GUI
Po;icy ares                   I'diue-tere objectives                    Action propoed                   By                   Key stpa                 Timetable          Monitoring indicators
(1)                                (2)                                   (3)                        (4)                     (6)                      (6)                      (7)
(a) SnFeici;ries .111 even-   2.1 Estblish indirect cest          2.1.1 Increas  provincial revenue        MOF. H      Raise POD reenues  and review             91/92      R#venues and the allocation thereof
tually finance all cost.        recovery system to                   oseration thraogh contribu-          1W       am-nemmnt ratio. and tax rates.           92/93      for OaI.
of GMI of min irriga-           ;rcrease local revenue               tions from beneficiaries.                                                               93/94
tion systame.                   generation through Pm.
2.2 Consolidate activities        2.2.1 Improve revenue performence          NW       Reclassification and reasaeseant           91/92      Increased annual revenus from PM.
relnt-d to recles;fica-             of POO thrugh reclsaii-ica-          mHm      of asout 180,000 ha.                      92/92
tMan and resaaesamt of              t;on and reassessent ot                                                                 93/94
nre", covered under                 rural areas,  and inclusieon of
preioua projects,                   them  in tax rills.
2.2.2 Improve tU  administration           HOF      lIplemnt improved proedure  and           91/92      Higher efficiency or cost redc-
ni tan collection system for        M1%      closely monitor in selected areas.         92/93      tions for dota collection and
rur l areas thrugh compte-                                                              93/94     processing, revenue collection  and
ri;ation  end better proce-                                                                        administration.
dares.
2.2.3 Coordinate PMS coll ction         MOF, MM   Regular coordination with ISF               91/92
with ISP progra.                     PWI     prgram.                                   onwards
Policy 3:  Irristim Service FPi
(a) Diret recovery of OAK       8.1 Introduce irrigation          3.1.I Refine the procsdures and    HHA 1WW    Issue   lCIES IV91/92                                          F   is sud.
cots frm  irrigation            service fee for G"                   mechanism  on a nation-aide       MOA HOF
benficieries threo              fending in selected *reao.           basis, and institutionalise       SAPPI'DAS
irrigation  erwip fes                                               th    to lay the basis for          S'N_
*l graull           c                                                roplicability and sstain-
the nee  for gOvrAnnt                                                ability.
fending subsidies an
fin lly *iII become tri                                       3.1.2 Eatend the lealp  from k           M PA  PW   Issue F A (Regional government            1992/93    PERA issued.
min source of efficient                                              allowing ISF introduction in      HOA MIF   regulation)
CAN budget for min                                                   *l cted provinces.                bAPP84AS
irrigation sytatns.
3.1.3 Strengthen organizational          MM MPW   Assign appropriate responsibilities        1991/92    Related agencies function effec-
structure to reach community.  "OA  EWAN  of IS5 program to related agencies           onerds    tialy.
and ISF dietrict torgets, em      bAPPBtS   at regional level (PRIS, DIPENAS.
geal as overall proincial                   l(BNAN,M SAPPEDA) and 'AAs.
targets.
3.1.4 Augment I15 contribution with    Mib  W    Make budgstary ollocation  and              Annual      Annual budgetary allocation in
081 budget, in initial yers.       HMOF      provision in annual GA" bdget                         APON/APBD and release no Cabang
as determined by neds-based                   (APUD) with ISF  ource as a                         Dinas/PRIS for us  in system.
budgets.                                     separate category.
8.1.8 Introduce ISF on a systm           NM HPW    Select are  and imple_nt ISP              191/92    Fee collected and service
basis and in same geographi-        MIIA     program and coordinate with SM/ME          up to      performnce.
cal arm  as Turnover nd                      program.                                  1994/95
certainly in pilot river
begins, on at leat
700,000 ha.



ng- 
Poliy 4* Institutional Devaloement
Policy area                     edium-term objectives                    Action proposed                   By                   Key steps                 Timetable          tonitoring indicators
(1)                                 (2)                                   (3)                         (4)                     (5)                       (6)                      (7)
3.2 Gradually entend the lSF       3.2.1 Extend 1SF on a country-wide        M4A MPt    Implement ISF in slt provinc ..           1995/96    Implemntation pegram. Reduced
to irr;gated *rea. in all            be*;i by and of Polita YII          t40A H4OF                                          onwards up   government contribution to CAM
provinces, and cone.-                (2003/04).                                                                             to 2003/04   budget.
quantly reduce central and
provncinal governaent         3.2.2 lRatablish legal fraework in         t*HA MP     Isaue PSEDA for *1l DI*.                 1995/96    PERDA i-seed.
funding for 0)1.                     ,.her provinces.                  Prov. Covt
Strengthening ea"                a. Elaborate reeponsibil;ty of   1. leplemnt recomendation on                   tPY      1.3 Finalize various Cov,oneent
Inatitutions at all levels          institution dealing with           legal fraemwork.                         tA6k          rgulationa Rivers and Swamps.
to improve usage of water    OlFt between DO     and PRIS                                                      SETKAB
resourcee infrastructure  nd        (and their link with MM                                                 Pror. Gov't  1.4 I-suc and oinisterial decree           92/92      Regulation ;isu*d.
efficient utilization of OAK        end 1kA).                                                                                 on Class & B rivers.
roeurcea.
b. Strengthening orgniza-                                                                1.6 Prepsretion of Implementation         91/92      Regulation ie ued.
tional set up at PRIS at                                                                  guidelines of (Ft No. 22/82 in
all levels dealing with  AtM                                                              order to reconetitute Cobang
of eater ruources aystem.                                                                 Di,,aw boundaries to confora to
hydrological boundaries.
1.6 Prepare regulation on *stab-         91/92      Regulation issued.
lisheent of Provinc;al epd
Kabupaten Water Resources
Management Comeittae
c. Claoify policies and            2. Implement recomeendetion on              tpft      2.2 Determine defin;te toak              91/92-      Liet task of description ieued.
develop and implement UN           organization.                            M'A           description of DOMRD organiza-        92/93
plans  end procedures;                                                     lEOAN          tion at national level and
determine need  and procure                                             Prow. Co  t       provincial level.
staff. euipment. housing                                                                                                                                                           0'
NAd office.                                                                           2.7 Continue reaching consensus on        93/94      Dines Pengairan established
*                                                                                                 aeparation of * rvice et DPJP                    (already establ;shed in 3
(Pengairan, Bine lterga, Cipta                  provinces).
Kerya).
d. Iplement mopomer develop-   3. Implement policies end proce-                tPW       3.2 Prepare detailed instruetiona         91/92      Completion of 5-year and ann.al
mnt and training program           dures and *ecure pereonnel             t AN            for every level of governmen-                    programs, end annual needs based
for GMK tatff at all               requ;red, equipment and office           MfA           tel units preparing program                      budgets at designated levels in
levels,                           need.                                 Pro I. Gov't      statements and budgeting.                        government.
3.4 Prepare maintenance program.          91/92      Program and procedure. in place.
5-year and annual and proce-
durn end means of e*ecution.
3.5 Determin  OlAM facilities,                       Facilities. supplies and  quipment
supplies end equipment nbeda                    procured.
end procure.
3.6 Assea  ataff requirement              91/93      Required mtaff in quantity, quality
(quantity, quality and timing)                  assigned.
following PI's..
3.7 Prepare long-term Manpower            91/93      Manpower planning and work plan
planning and workplan.                           ;*sued.
4. Implemntation recommendation on          MPW       4.1 Prepared description of each          92/93      Job description prepared.
Nenpewmr.                              MEWAN           job in DIlRD organixation
t*1k         central and provincial level.
Proa. Cov t
PRIS      4.4 Transfer selected staff of            92/93      Staff tranaferred
completed ontoing and turnover
projects
Note For full detaile sae Institutional Development Detailed Action Plan



.42
Policy 4*  Institution l D eloent (cont'd)
Policy area                    Medium-ters  bjtetisves                   Action proposed                   By                    Key step                 Timetable           lonitoring ;ndicatora
(1)                                 (2)                                   (3)                         (4)                     (5)                       (6)                       (7)
S. Implement recommendation on          M1W. MHA   5.5 Continue updating of central          June A Dec   Pro-ncial report ir ued.
Training.                            Prov. Gov't       data base and pro,;ncial            each year
MDA          dissemination of  u_mry of
PRIS          available modules.
S.6 Dim"emination of training          June & Dec   Provincial report issued.
information to all training        each yeor
u.its.
o.9 I plIemnt training on Planning        91/92      Staff trained.
*nd Managemnt for Kepals
Cabang Dina& and for PRIS
staff, particularly on legal
drafting.
6. Iplemnt recommendation on             BAPPB4AS  .          ee policy 1.
finance.                               MiA. H1W
MlP
7. Impleaent recosmandation on          IMP, IECAN  HIS                                         1991       List$ prepared.
IS/MO/CPM                             MIA, PRIS   7.1 List management, administra-
tive operational and mainte-
nance decisions to be taken at
.eery organizational lel--
includino basic DAM,
personnel. progr'   'g and
budgeting activities.
7.4 Def;ne data collection                91/92      Syste.. proceadures, software. etc..
processing and dis;aination                      defined.
system including procedures, .
software, hardware. comuniec-                                                           Vl
tione and personnel and the
organizational interface of
HIS personnel.
H.E.
7.9 Review the HAE system under           91/93      M.E. in place.
ADS'S TA and finalize and
ip lament.
C PM
7.12 Identify organizational              1991       Levels and offices described.
levelIs whre. sanagoer or
staff may provide inputs or
ue- resulting information in
carrying out their duties and
frequency of needs.
7.14 Select  oftwars, hardware            1991       Systems. software and hardware plan
comunication links and                          and CPM functioning as part of
staffing needs and organiza-                   management operations.
tional interface and
imoplsent.
8.1  Se ections proposed under
S. Finalize institutional back up           mm             policy I (funding of opera-
for turning over of completed            HPW            tion and maintenance)
systema to Proginc;al Government
or lJAs.
9. Introduce Water Managemnt at             MtW       9.1  Prepare a detailed implesen-         1991       TOR completed. Consultant-
8asin  level.                                           tation plan for each pilot                      asiegned.
basin and for broader gui-
dance to selected PRIS units.
9.2  Foreulate institutional and          1991       Studies completed
ooerational procedures t               -
augment present arrangemnt           1992
in basins.



PlI;r. 5 bdoetin- Promram_inr for LA
Policy ares                   Naiumteret   objectives                   Action proped                    By                   Key steps                Timetable          Monitoring indicators
(1)                                (2)                                   (3)                        (4)                     (5)                      (6)                      (7)
(a) Simplification sd           5.1 Ibintain improved system      5.1.1 Implemnt masurs  aimed at          BAPPEN4AS   Arrange for regular coordination         1991/92    Agreed action.
rationalization of              and procedures for OAK              rationalizing different            MHA. MOP  through ISSP National Strsring            1992/93
sechanism for am                progrming. monitoring               channels of funding. *sp*dit-        1w       Comitte  among concerned agencies.    1993/94
funding. progroming and         and budget pl nning.                 ing release  of funda, and                   Isplesntation of agreed action.           1994/95
budgat planing.                 changing to *a ned-based            conforming to needs-based
system of allocations,              allocations.
Chang  over DAM funding of    Etl        1992/93    Area transferred eac  year.
going out from IWEI-supported EON        1993/94
to full APE  funding.                    1994/95
Seperate allocationa in INPES            1992/93     UES  imsud.
specifically for OM  (Pengairan)         1993/94
5.2 Establish soud criteria       5.2.1 Complte PROM activities in         MA 1W   Budgeting provision for PROM                 1991/92     W. of DIl for which PROM completed
and proed ures for alloca-          ech_*as to be handed over for        HDA      activities and deignation of CM          1992/93    on annual basis prior to
tion. utilization snd               01M to  eurs  _ch.me are             HOF      Enginer in Project/Csbang Dinas in    1993/94        introducing EDN.
monitoring of futd  to              functional and operational        BAPP84AS   cnarge of PROM activities.                1994/95
met actual _need  for DA            before they are handed to
of irrigation and  eamp             province for D".
5.2.2 Completed preocedures for          MHA  P    Prepare P1Db. maintenance sork            1991/92    PDn comepleted, aintenance
preparation of fork program.        MOf      program  and budgets.                     IM/93       registera. and budgetary
noed-baoed budgets and PONa.       APPeAS                                              1993/94    al locations.
1994/95
5.2.3 Institute programing and           MHt 19W   Prepare consolidated procedures.          1992/93    Procedure established and DIPDA.    a
budgeting procedures for            HOF      Allocate IS' revenue to Cabang            193/94
utilization of MSS.                APP84AS   Dints budget (DIPDA/DjIIDA).              1994/95
Policy 6: Rationslistion of Insm ant Fesenditure.
Rationalization of *epeei-    6.1 Establishment investmnt         6.1.1 facilitate completion of           BAPPENS   Review and finalize program for            Mar 91      Ravie oed program
ture progrm  and iWpl_en-           priorities and implement a           schemes (inc. tertinry and        MOF 19W   Repl its V.                                 991/92    No. of schees _mde functional each
tasion of a realistic               realistic strategy  n                lnd developmnt) with large          MOA      Plan and implemnt completion of           1992/93    year.
imnvstmant strategy for             invtment progras for                munk investment costs and                     scheme  up to funct;onal stage.           1993/94
Repelite V.                         Raplita V.                           achieve potential agricul-                                                             1994/95
tural benefits.
6.1 Improve the proj et mele^-  6.2.1 Revise of invetment needs            BAPPEAS   Revie of economic and technical            1991/92    Rview reports.
tion ad priority r(A"ing            for ongoing scheme  and              19W      viability of high priority invest-       1909293
criteria and revise imple-          priority ranking for                          ments.                                   1993/94
oentation schedules for             completion.                                                                            1994/95
ongoing projeca3.
6.2.2 Select high priority, viable      SAPPBEAS   Carry out hydrological and mail           1991/92    Appraisal reports.
new investmnts.                     1P       surveys, prior to ansuing sny na"         1992/93
i nv*etents.                             1993/94
1994/95
6.2.S Investmnt selection criteria   r w           Adaquate staff  nd ski l ls b  mde        1991/92    No. of staff assigned and  ADL
ahould reflect environmental/                available for analyses of environ-        1992/93    reports.
land use considerations.                     mntel impacts/land uee.                  1993/94
1994/95



AU4EX 3
Table, I
lNWONESIA
IRICATION SUBSECTOR I1 WNOU) PROJECT
Project Cost Smmar
(Rp ctllion)                        (3 000)               X Foroign    X Total
Local     Foreign     Total       Local     Foreign      Total    Exchange   Bass Costs
lnvestment Cos
A. Civil Works
Civil works for incremental EON    68,748.8   86,785.8  105,609.6   87,259.6   19,927.3   67,186.8       85           14
Other civil works                 146,483.6   78,ss6.3  225,320.0   79,384.1   42,740.6  122,124.7       35           31
Subtotal Civil Works           216,207.4  115.622.1  8s0.s29.5  116.643.6   62,687.8  179.311.4       36           45
11 EqLgp!" and Materil$l
Equipmnt and Maitrias               1,388.7    4,131.0    5,514.7       749.9    2,239.0    2,989.0      75            1
Vehicles                            8,68.l    1,971.1    5,867.6    1,997.9    1,068.5    3,066.4        3S            1
Subtotal Equipmnt A Materials    6,069.s    6,102.5   11.172.2    2.747.8    3,s07.6    6.056.4       S6            2
C. Consltilas Services
Foreiga                             3,823.0   1a,288.9   16,6e1.9    1,601.1    7,175.5    8,976.6       80            2
Lca l                              83,223.0    2,445.8   86,0e8.7   18,007.0    1,325.6   19,332.6        7            5
Sutoal ConsuIting Services      38.504.0   15.e64.?   52.230.0   19.S08.1    8.C01.2   28.309.3       so            7
D. Training (al, smaterials A travl)   6,507.6    8,480.4    9,987.9    8,527.1    1,686.4    5,413.6        35            1
E. MWing, Survey, Prepration for
081, & Related Optl. Expense       30,199.5    2,854.1   33,063.6   16,368.3    1,546.9   17,915.2        9            6
F. Lan DOevlopmnt                       2,220.         -       2,220.6    1,203.6        -       1,203.0      -            0
0. Drinling Water Spply                   609.8        -         e09.6      330.5        -         380.6      -            0
H. Adinistratiave Coste                   551.1       60.8       611.9      296.7       83.0       381.7     10            0
I. Recurrent DIM                      190,080.9  101,659.8  291,740.7  103,024.9   66,100.1  168,126.0    38              40
Total Bseline Costs               486.992.8  24s,484.2  782,466.s  263.962.6  133.042.9  398e995.6       34          loo
Physical continncies               23,670.7   12,858.1   36,628.8   12,829.7    6,989.2   19,796.8    38               S
Price contingencies                66,498.8   19,324.7   85,821.0   38,041.8   10,474.1   40,615.4       23           12
Total ProJect Cost                577.159.6  277,647.1  864,806.7  312.823.6  160.486.2  4638,09.8       32          117



- 68 -
ANNEX 3
Table 2
INDONESIA
IRIGATION SUBSECTOR II (O&M) PROJECT
GOI's Financing Plan
($ million)
Expenditure Items                         91/92   92/93   93/94   94/95   Total
Recurrent O&M ja                          30.0    41.1    42.7    44.3    158.3
Incremental efficient O&M                  5.7     7.2     8.6    10.0      31.5
Additional SM on ISSP I (EOM) areas        9.0      -        -       -       9.0
Repairs to Rentang scheme                  0.5     1.0     1.0      0.9      3.4
Vehicles                                   1.5     1.5       -       -       3.0
Land Development                           0.2     1.0      -        -       1.2
Drinking Water Supply, O&M costs
of river mouths, and Adminis-
trative Costs                           0.2      0.3     0.1       -       0.6
Taxes and Duties                           6.6     8.2     8.2      8.5     31.5
Total                                 53.7    60.3    60.6    63.7    238.3
/a 1990/91 levels of country-wide irrigation O&M expenditures to be
maintained in real terms, and proper levels of funding needed to sustain
EOM on areas going out of the IBRD-supported program after five years.



- 69 -
ANNEX 4
Page 1
INDONESIA
IRRIGATION SUBSECTOR II (O&M) PROJECT
Definition of Key Project Concepts
1.        Special Maintenance (SM) consists of maintenance needs that have
accumulated in a system that has recently been fully rehabilitated and that
otherwise contains the essential structures required in the systems to be
turned over to WUAs. SM would include: painting, silt removal, limited canal
shaping, localized remedy of canal erosion and limited lining and structure
repair. Minor additions such as the construction of a limited number of
measuring devices may be included. It also entails preparation of a
comprehensive plan of Operation and Maintenance (POM) specific to the system
including all maps, plans, as-built drawings, manuals, staffing plan,
equipment, communication and other support required for proper O&M of a
system. It does not include system extension, major new lining,
reconstruction of large structures and like work. Upon completion of SM, all
facilities and supporting equipment should be completed and in a sound
condition fully meeting high standards of construction.
2.        Efficient Operation and Maintenance (EOM) consists of those
operations activities of a routine nature carried out by the O&M organization
necessary to provide the planned service to water users and to fully maintain
the system (without separate rehabilitation or upgrading programs) in a
condition to function as planned, on into the future. Maintenance activities
would include: ongoing painting, lubrication of equipment, silt removal,
channel maintenance, lining and structure repairs, weed clearance, embankment
and road maintenance and replacement of equipment. Operation activities would
include coordination with water users, scheduling services, operation of
facilities, collection of fees, as appropriate, and the public accounting of
service and costs. It also includes regular inspection and reporting on the
condition of facilities and appropriateness of operation under the direct
administration of irrigators.
3.        Needs based budget (NBB) comprises a detailed budget to adequately
cover all EOM, as defined, for each specific system. It is not to be a fund
request for whatever may be desired in staffing, equipments and works. It
should reflect the respective Plan of Operation and Maintenance and the staff,
equipment and actions required to provide the defined service and fully
maintain each feature (including replacement) and the system's overall
integrity, permanently on into the future. The NBB should show a breakdown of
staff, equipment (fixed and mobile), supplies, materials, utilities and other
items used in government accounting standards. These should be aggregated
from details of tasks and/or work to be carried out. Private contract work
should also be fully identified according to feature and items of work
(earthwork, masonry, etc.). It is usual that the annual NBB provides greater
detail, building upon a five-year NBB that reflects appropriate sequencing of
'scheduled maintenance' items. The five-year NBB permits scheduling major
efforts with canal operations and available staff while avoiding excessive



- 70 -
ANNEX 4
Page 2
variations in the year-to-year annual budgets. All SM activities should be
budgeted separately.
4.        Plan of Operation and Maintenance (POM) consists of a set of
documents, varying in extent and detail depending on the size and nature of
the specific project. The POM should be initiated before design or
modifications commence so that the resulting facilities are tailored to that
system's adopted scheme of operation. A POM should be fully tompleted before
EOM and NBB can be effectively applied. The POM will present the operating
concept for the system and the procedure for all operations actions from the
diversion supply and coordination with WUAs setting seasonal schedules, to
instruction for operating structures and equipment. Likewise maintenance
procedures, schedules and records would be set forth. Maps, plans, drawings
and design/construction data would be included. Staffing levels and
qualifications, responsibilities and authority, and training are some of the
key personnel matters presented. Of course, reference to standard provincial
manuals would be made as appropriate.



- 71 -
ANNEX 5
Page 1
INDONESIA
IRRIGATION SUBSECTOR II (O&M) PROJECT
ISF - Implementation Procedures
During the ISF introduction phase, the following activities would be
supported: (a) Review of Preconditions. ISF is to be understood as a service
fee with inherent requirements and expectations that must be accepted by the
users as service recipients, by the PRIS (cabang dinas) as the service
provider and by the local government as the service overseer; (b) Legal
Framework. For the ISSP I/ISF pilot kabupatens, a ministerial decree (Kepmen)
was issued (no. 63/1989) accompanied by instructions and technical guidelines.
Subsequently, similar decrees by provincial governors (SK Gubernur) and bupati
(SK Bupati) were promulgated. Together, this is considered to provide
sufficient legal basis. Prior to introduction of ISF in new kabupatens under
ISSP II, similar legal arrangements will be required; and (c) Socio-Hydro
Mapping. A significant part of the area inventory is to obtain a clear
picture of the land tenure situation in the ISF area, i.e., from an irrigation
and thus ISF point of view. For ISF assessment and collection, it is
necessary to know the number and location of tertiary gates and other
diversion structures, the length of canal between gates, the number of water
users per tertiary turnout, their relationship to the plot owners, the size of
their holding, their participation in WUAs, etc.
The pre-implementation activities would include: (a) System Walk-
Through. The main idea behind a walk-through is that the service supplier, PU
Pengairan (represented by the canal supervisor or mantri pengairan), and the
service recipient, the water users (represented by the chairman of the P3A or
Gabungan P3A) jointly determine what needs to be done in terms of repairs and
maintenance of the irrigation main system to ensure adequate water delivery to
users during the following agricultural/cropping cycle; (b) Plan of Operation
and Maintenance. Following the system walk-through, the annual work plan for
the system's O&M is to be prepared; (c) Needs-Based Budget. Once the O&M plan
has been defined, it has to be costed in sufficient detail to reflect the
actual needs for O&M as have been agreed upon during the system walk-through;
(d) Service Agreement. In the 'service agreement,' the acceptance of the
system plan for O&M and the needs-based budget by all parties concerned will
be recorded so as to provide the formal basis for the irrigation services to
be rendered and the fees to be paid. To be included in the document are the
factors for ISF tariff calculation, viz. the service levels (for irrigation,
drainage and tertiary development) which have been decided upon for the system
concerned, the intended results of the irrigation service as expressed in
cropping intensity per tertiary unit or block, the introduction factor and the
water security factor; and (e) GOI Commitment. It is recognized that the
overall cost of system O&M cannot for some time be recovered from ISF alone.
Maximum ISF collection will not be reached until the sixth year upon
introduction. The part of the cost which cannot (yet) be collected through
ISF will have to be met by the Government (through APBD or APBN).



- 72 -
ANNEX 5
Page 2
The implementation of ISF entails the following: (a) List of
Planted Area. After planting has been completed in the irrigation scheme
(typically covering a period of 4-6 weeks), an inventory of the planted area
is made; lb) Payment Advice. The information obtained on the Planted Area is
the basis of what is termed the ISF Payment Advice (or request)--a preliminary
estimation of the total amount of ISF to be expected from the tertiary unit or
block concerned. The advice is to be served by the Dipenda II to the WUA.
During the season, the service is monitored by users and irrigation officials;
(c) List of Harvested Area. Each season some weeks before harvesting time
(covering a period of 4-6 weeks), the area to be harvested will be recorded.
The resultant List of Harvested Area will, together with the List of Planted
Area served by irrigation, constitute the basis for final ISF assessment; (d)
Final Assessment Bill. Each successive season, the Dipenda II will prepare
the ISF Final Assessment Bills and serve them to the respective WTAs with
copies to Cabang Dinas PU Pengairan, Bank Rakyat Indonesia (BRI) and, in
summary form, to the Badan Musyawarah IPAIR (BAMUS); and (e) Fee Collection.
Each season's ISF activities are concluded with fee collection and depositing.
Whereas some details with regard to collection mechanism, procedures and
scheduling need some further testing in the ongoing ISF pilot areas, the
highlights of this final phase are as follows: (i) shortly after harvesting,
the WUAs having been served with the ISF assessment bill by Dipenda II, start
billing their members; (ii) Dipenda II will, for the time being, supervise all
collection activities; (iii) collection should be completed one month after
first notice has been given to WUAs; and (iv) collected fees are deposited
into ISF-specific accounts with the local BRI branch(es) in the name of each
WUA, only to be released at the discretion of the Bupati/Chairman of the
BAMUS. Funds may be put at the disposal of the Cabang Dinas PU Pengiaran to
meet subsequent expenditure on O&M of the system concerned. Funds must be
dedicated solely for O&M, and their application certified by Cabang Dinas and
the Bupati.
Final assessment includes an evaluation of: (a) service and
collection performance; (b) cost accounting; and (c) fund release and fund
use. The key to the ISF concept is that funds collected in a system are to be
utilized within that system only and then exclusively for system O&M purposes.



- 73 -
ANNEX 6
Page 1
INDONESIA
IRRIGATIONL SUBSECTOR II (O&M) PROJECT
The Turnover Program
1.        Turnover activities can be distinguished in seven successive phases:
(a) System Inventory: (i) collecting basic data on suitable PRIS systems
from the Buku Pintar; (ii) categorizing systems for future treatment
in the turnover process; and (iii) selecting schemes for profiling.
(b)  Profiling:  (i) collecting in-depth information on social a,sd
technical aspects relevant to eventual turnover; and (ii) compiling
a list of system improvements proposed by farmers; and
(iii) resolving the nature and extent of farmer equity involvement.
(c)  WUA Establishment/Development.  An ongoing activity starting at the
profiling phase and continuing several months after turnover;
formalizing the WUA and getting it registered and legalized by
decree of Bupati.
(d) Design and Construction: (i) bringing the system in good working
condition before turnover to farmer groups; and (ii) providing an
activity for farmers' participation and an impetus for WUA
development.
(e) O&M Training for Farmers. This follows the completion of system
improvements.
(f) Preparation for Turnover. Preparation of administrative documents
necessary for turnover. WUA registration through a decree by the
Bupati should be completed at this time.
(g) Actual Turnover. Formal transfer to WUA of system assets and
management, through Bupati.
2.        The key elements requisite for the success of the turnover program
are:
(a) Farmer Participation in Turnover. Prior to selecting a scheme for
turnover assistance, the farmers concerned would be made aware of
what is involved. They will be told what the government investment
ceiling will be and what will be expected from them. Under
turnover, the SM assistance would be used as a symbol of what the
relationship between WUAs and PRIS will be after turnover, where
there is a joint investment, where both sides must economize, and
where the agency assist farmers only in problems which are beyond
their capabilities of resolving by themselves. In order to identify
the real needs for system improvement, the turnover officer and
representatives of the farming community, preferably the WUA(a) will



- 74 -
ANNEX 6
Page 2
conduct a system walk-through. This joint on-site inspection tour,
provides a sound basis for consensus between PRIS and system users
on the work plan for system O&M and the corresponding Needs-Based
Budget (NBB) that will be required for successful turnover projects.
(b) Planning and Design. Simple or traditional structures used by
farmers would be designed and constructed where appropriate. Design
criteria and guidelines have been prepared. These would help
expedite administrative/contractual preparation for design and
construction, improve supervision, and help ensure that structures
are not oversized or too difficult for farmers to operate and
maintain after turnover.
(c)  Constrt/tion.  The question whether construction is to be done by
hired contractors, by force account (swakelola) or by WUAs will
largely depend on local conditions: availability of qualified and
reliable contractors, capacity (total workload and staff strength)
of the government agency concerned, the volume and nature of work to
be covered in the turnover program, etc. The PRIS will however have
to perform the all-important tasks of daily on-site supervision,
quick transfer of information on field problems to the turnover
coordinator at the cabang level, quick follow-up action from the
cabang, and be flexible within budget limitations. PRIS would
encourage contractors to use farmer labor for unskilled tasks where
and whenever possible. Similarly, farmers should be given
subcontracts for procurement of local materials where these
materials can be easily located and the quantity and quality can be
easily assured. For a number of reasons, some farmer investment in
system repairs would be strongly encouraged, the most important one
being that the need for farmer equity would be fulfilled.
3.        PRIS Involvement After Turnover.  It needs to be stressed that,
after system turnover to farmers has taken effect, the WUAs will not be
totally abandoned and left on their own. It will be made quite clear to them
that whenever they need guidance, advice or technical assistance, they can
seek it from PRIS (juru, ranting, cabang). Even though routine O&M will be
the farmers' responsibility, there may be a need for emergency repairs, which
are beyond their means. This may be the case after flash floods or other
natural disasters. It is understood that the responsibility of Public Works
(as the principal water resources authority) for system headworks (weirs,
dams, big diversion structures, etc.) will not entirely cease at turnover.
Importantly, continued follow-up and routine irrigation extension services and
counseling of WUAs on the turned-over small systems will, explicitly, find
expression in the regional budget (APBD). The PU involvement after turnover
is regulated in ministerial regulation (Permen) no. 42/PRT/1989.



ANNEX 7
INDONESIA
IRRIGATION SUBSECTOR II (OEM) PROJECT
Implementation of Special Maintenance /a Works on Irrigation Systems
(Areas in Hectare)
FY 1991/92 /b        FY 1992/93         FY 1993/94         FY 1994/95       Project (Total)
Design   Constr.  Design   Constr.  Design   Constr.  Design   Constr.  Design   Constr.
1. C. Java           21,000   46,000   12,600   35,000   30,000   32,000   15,000   32,000   78,500  145,000
2. C. Sulawesi       10,314         -    3,345   10,314    4,801    3,345    4,000    4,801   22,460   18,460
3. E. Java           22,000   81,945/b 31,500   42,000   30,000   42,000   15,000   38,000   98,500  203,945
4. Jatiluhur (POJ)  22,000   12,050   26,000   26,000   25,000   26,000   13,000   25,000   86,000   89,050
5. Lampung            2,410   12,794    8,121    7,410    8,319    8,121    8,000    8,319   26,850   36,644
6. S. Sulawesi            0   22,843   15,000   18,000   16,000   17,000   10,000   15,000   41,000   72,843
7. S. Sumatra         1,835   10,620    4,167        834         0    1,835    3,000    4,167    9,002   17,456
8. W. Java           20,000   51,646   30,000   28,400   28,400   33,000   15,000   31,500   93,400  144,146
9. W. Sumatra         2,705   21,683    7,215    6,667    5,369    7,215    5,000    5,369   20,289   40,934
10. Yogyakarta         2,000   14,053    8,000    7,000    6,000    8,000    2,000    6,000   18,000   35,053
Total            104,264  273,634  145,848  181,225  153,889  178,516   90,000  170,156  494,001  803,531
/a  The figures are preliminary estimates to be reviewed/finalized in each year's Annual Work Program.
/b  Construction in FY 1991/92 to be confined to additional SM works (about 190,000 ha in old SM areas and
64,000 ha in areas brought under direct EOM) plus 20,000 ha new SM works in E. Java; all SM works from FY
1992193 onwards would be in the new areas.



ANNEX 8
INDONESIA
IRRIGATION SUBSECTOR lI (0)M) PROJECT
S.quencing of Special Maintenance and Efficinet 01M Activifies for a Typical DI /a
Duration              FY I                       FY 2                         FY 3
Activities                            (days)     A M                        A J  A           O J F M AMJJASO JF  A M J J A S O N D J F M
Special Maintenance for DI                 115
xxxxxxxx
- System Planning including POM             95         xxxxxxxx
- Design Drawings and Cost Estimates        46              xxxxxxx
- Prepare Tender Documents
xxxxxx
- Invite Tenders                            45                      xxxxxx
- Evaluate Tender                           21                        xxxxxxx xx
- Approval/Award lb                         75                                  xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
- Construction Works Lc                    270
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
- Establish WJAs                           240                                 xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
- Procure Equipment                       250
- SM Works Substantially Complete                                                               xxxx
- Maintenance Period                        90                                                  xxxxxxxx
- Prepare As-Built Drawings                 75                                                  xxxxxxxx
Preparation/Cortification for EOM
- Finalize POM, Schematics                  60                                               xxxxxx
- Establish OUU Budget                      60                                        xxxxxx
- Complete/Recruitment and
Training of Staff                       90                                               xxxxxxxxx
- Enter EOM Program                                                                                      xxxx>
/a This is typical for small to medium DIs (say less than 5,000 ha) where SM works can be completed in a single year.  For larger
works the SM may take up to two years and EOM will be included in the beginning of year 4, i.o., three years after the start
of design works.
/b The approval period of 75 days could be too tight for larger contracts unless rules/thresholds on price review by Central
government are relaxed.
/c For additional SM and new SM, where designs are already available, the constructions activities may start in year 1 of ISSP II
within the implementation capacities in the provinces. The PRIS should issue tenders for such schemes (specially for
dditional SM works) in January 1991.



- 77 -
ANNEX 9
Page 1
INDONESIA
IRRIGATION SUBSECTOR II (O&M) PROJECT
Annual Work Program
1.        Arnual Work Program (AWP) would be submitted by project
implementing agencies--PRIS, DGWRD, DGPUOD and Directorate of PBB, and
collated after review by Central Coordination Unit, and would cover all
project components. Each AWP would provide documentation, satisfactory to the
Bank, with respect to the following:
(a) a description of works to be undertaken, including the objective of
the work plan for the ensuing fiscal year commencing each April 1,
the schedule of activities, staffing requirements and distribution
of responsibilities for each component included in AWP;
(b) a budget for the period setting forth: (i) the proposed
investment/development expenditure including that for efficient
O&M; (ii) proposed recurrtnt expenditures on the rnational
irrigation O&M; (iii) a comparison of the proposed APBN and APBD
budget allocations and actual expenditures of th' previous year;
(iv) a list of proposed expenditures for consulting services,
studies and training;
(c) a financing plan and sources of funds, including the GOI
contribution to the Project Financing.
2.        Each AWP would be supported by the following information as may be
relevant:
(a) a list of systems to be included in the SM and EOM programs and
their preparatory conditions for such implementation in conformity
wit1. the project concept (Annex 4) and their estimated costs based
on actual designs (for SM) and "needs based budget" (for EOM);
(b) a list of major contract packages--civil works exceeding $750,000
in value and ICB for goods, to be reviewed by the Bank during the
year;
(c) for turnover of small schemes, the list of the schemes which have
been turned ovcr in the previous year and the schemes to be turned
over in the ensuing year, including summary information on SM
design, cost estimate and economic justification for systems
costing more than Rp 250,000/ha for SM works;
(d) for Irrigation Service Fees, progress on introduction of ISF in the
previous year including details on the scale of fees issued and
collection rates in the previous year and the proposals for the
ensuing year with the estimated ISF revenues;



- 78 -
ANNEX 9
Page 2
(e) Training Program, as completed and proposed, and its evaluation
which would include information on the number of participants,
disaggregated by gender.
3.        A detailed review of the following items which impinge on project
implementation:
(a) progress of actions on the agreed Detailed Action Program;
(b) status of the SM construction for proposed systems including
completion of designs and tender documer,*s;
(c) status of systems to be included in the EOH program which inter
alia would require: satisfactory completion of SM construction in
the previous year, or satisfactory physical condition for system to
be brought under direct EOM; availability of acceptable POH, NBB,
staff and organization and equipment/facilities to carry out
efficient EOM;
(d) evidence that the small systems for which SM has been completed
have actually been turned over to WUAs within six months of the
completion of SM, and economic justification of SM costing beyond
Rp 250,000/ha for turnover schemes.
4.        The criteria upon which the Bank's review of the proposed AWP would
be based on:
(a) the adequacy of such program for implementing project objectives
consistent with the requirements of the Loan Agreement,
particularly its adherence with the agreed Detailed Action Program
(Annex 2); and
(b) the adequacy of such programs in providing physical, financial and
manpower resources to implement and sustain the targets set for
ensuing project year.



- 79 -
ANNEX 10
Page 1 of 2
INDONESIA
IRRIGATION SUBSECTOR II (OU*) PROJECT
Consultency Sorvices
(In person-monUh*7
_  Forelgn                 Local
Number  Pirson-month   Ru g;r   PFrson-montho
A. Institutional Can*citr Building
*. General coordination Advisors
Team Loader/Programing Specialist              1            24            -             -
Budgeting, Accounts Specialist                 -             -            1            U6
Institutional Advisor                          1            12            1            12
iT. &ua11ty Assurance
Quality Assurance Specialist                   1            36            1            as
III. Irr;gstion O&Mi
Central Consultants
Team Leader/Irrigation Specialist              1            s6            -             -
Senior O&  Specialist                         -             -            1            42
Operations/AOU Advisor                         1            12            -             -
Systems Analyst/Inventory Specialist           -             -            1            12
O0M Training Engineer                          -             -            1            24
W1UA Extension Specialist                      -             -            1            42
Regional Consultants
Regional Leader/Irrigation Specialist          5           120            -             -
Senior O&M Engineer                           2            24            -             -
0*M Engineor                                   -             -           10           SOc
Operations AOU Advisor                         -             -            4            72
Basin Water Managment Advisor                  1            18            -             -
Water Quality Expert/Engineer                  1             2            1             2
River O&U Expert                               1             5            1             2
Water Management Expert/Engineer               2            14            8            42
IV. S pSm1  0^4
Ti aL idir/Swomps Specialist                   1            24            -             -
Construction Advisors                          -             -            2            24
0*1 Advisors/Training Engineers                1            12            2            48
V.  Environmental Component
Environmenta  Expert/Specialist                1            10            1            20
8. Poltcl Suoort
1.  U      n nenst
CrliTConiultants
Tea. Leader                                    1            42            -             -
Co-team Leader/Institutional Specialist        -             -            1            42
Finance Specialist                             -             -            1            24
Computer Programmer/MIS                        1             6            1            12
Accounting Specialist                          1             p            -             -
Service Engineer                               1            24            -             -
Audio Visual Specialist                        -             -            1             6
Institutional Specialist                       1            24            -             -
Rogional Consultants
Sociologist*                                   -             -            7           294
Training Specialists                           1            24            1            86



- 80 -
ANNEX 10
Page 2 of 2
Forelgn                    Local
Numbe Person-months   Number   Person-months
II.  Turnover of Small Public Schemes /a
Institutional Specialist                      -            -            1           42
Training Specialist/Sociologist               -            -            1           42
Turnovor Engineer                             -            -            6           ISO
Provincial Institutional Specialist           -            -            9          276
III. Pe8 Component
PB8  pecialist/Supervisors                    -            -            3            36
C. Project Implementation Support
Groundwater Component
East Java/Sulawesi
Team Leader                                   -            -            1            12
Hydrologist                                   1            7            1             8
Irrigation Design Engineer                    -            -            2           10
Agriculture/Water Management Expert           1            6            -             -
Lombok - NT8
Team Leader/Agronomist                        -            -            1            10
Irrigation Design Engineer                    -            -            1            4
Mechanical/Electrical Engineer                1            a            1            6
Drilling Engineer                             -            -            I             3
TOTAL                                               29          490           70         1.816
La This will be combined with the Irrigation O&M package for consultancy procurement purposes.



- 81 -
ANNEX 11
INDONESIA
IRRIGATION LSUBSECTOR II (O&M) PROJECT
Economic Prices for Major Inputs and Outputs
(at farmgate; in constant 1990 prices)
1990      1995    2000         Basis
-------- Rp/kg -------
Outputs
Rice (dry unhusked grain)        241      210     224      (Average -
{ X&M parity /a
Soybeans                         530      519     440     M parity
Groundnuts (shelled)             804      766     744      (Average -
( X&M parity
Maize (grain)                    165      160     177      (Average -
( X&M parity
Inputs
Urea                             465      452     424     X parity
TSP                              460      499     519     M parity
KCL                              330      328     335     M parity
ZA                               300      285     280     Based in price of urea
Insecticide (per liter)       13,000
Rodenticide (per kg)           4,000
Labor
- Sumatra (per day)            2,000
- Sulawesi (per day)           2,200
- Java (per day)               1,040
/a X denotes Export and M denotes Import.



- 82 -
ANNEX 12
Page 1
INDONESIA
IRRIGATION SUBSECTOR II (O&M) PROJECT
Environmental Aspects
Introduction
1.        Following the pre-appraisal mission of June 1990, it was concluded
that the project has only limited environmental impact potential due to the
nature of the physical works proposed within the definition of Special
Maintenance (SM), the fact that there will be no significant change in
aggregate functional area and the generally small size of the schemes
involved. These conclusions have not changed as a result of the additional
information provided in the Project Preparation Report or the field
inspections undertaken during the Appraisal Mission.
2.        The Pre-appraisal Mission  Aide Memoire included a series of
requested actions relating to the environmental aspects of the project
including:
*    preparation of Preliminary Environmental Evaluation (PEL) for Sei
Kualuh Swamps scheme;
-    preparation of PEL for Air Tabuhanan scheme;
-    preparation of a PEL relating to irrigation developments in the
Citarum River Basin in West Java;
a    review of proposal contained in the draft Project Preparation Report
(PPR) relating to a proposed Technical Assistance concerning
environmental activities within DGWRD:
*    preparation of TOR for a case study relating to the regional effects
of various land use developments and associated training activities.
3.        All of these requested activities were completed prior to the
appraisal of the project.
Review of PELS
4.        Sei Kualuh Scheme.  During the course of the Appraisal Mission, this
swamp scheme was excluded from the project for other than environmental
reasons. In general, the report provided the information requested and
confirmed that the proposed works, in themselves, had limited potential for
adverse environmental effect. The report identified several matters of
environmental/social interest which appear to be common to many swamp
developments, and these would be reflected in the proposed case study.
5.        Air Tabuhanan Scheme.  The main issue of interest in this project
related to a report arising out of the GOI's previous screening of ISSP-II



- 83 -
ANNEX 12
Page 2
projects suggesting that developments proposed under the project may in some
way impinge on elephant habitat within the vicinity of the scheme. The
investigations undertaken indicated that the proposed works would be confined
within the limits of the existing scheme and there would not be any
unfavorable impact of the scheme.
6.        Citarum River Basin Development.  A comprehensive evaluation of
existing conditions within the Citarum River Basin was undertaken and provided
to the Mission. The purpose of the report was to determine whether this river
basin would be suitable to undertake a water quality moni'oring program under
ISSP-II to evaluate the effects of intensive irrigation developments and other
land use activities on water quality.
7.        Due to the distribution of land uses within the catchment and the
complexity of the drainage network in the downstream parts, it would be
difficult to collate water quality monitoring results witn activities within
the catchment without an extensive monitoring network and a resulting project
complexity out of line with the simple exercise envisaged following the pre-
appraisal mission. Consequently, a proposal to proceed with a monitoring
program in this river basin could not be supported under the project. This
may have to be taken up under another program supported by Government or
another donor agency.
Proposal for Technical Assistance
8.        In accordance with the request of the Pre-Appraisal Mission, the PPR
contained a proposal for Technical Assistance to improve EA capability within
DGWRD which was built around a case study approach with training that focused
on the external or regional effects of land use developments. The TOR were
reviewed and a number of revisions were suggested. The revised TOR are
attached.
9.        The draft TOR for the Technical Assistance UDevelopment of
Environmental Guidelines' have been reviewed by DGWRD and an indication
already given of their concurrence. Consultant procurement should proceed in
line with wider consultant procurement program with a view to the Technical
Assistance commencing in July 1991 subject to loan approval.



- 84 -
ANNEX 12
Page 3
ATTACHMENT
DRAFT TERMS OF REFERENCE
CONSULTANCY SERVICES FOR DEVELOPMENT OF
EIA AND ENVIRONMENTAL DESIGN GUIDELINES
FOR IRRIGATION AND SWAMP SECTOR DEVELOPMENTS
1.        Introduction
The DGWRD proposes to support the ongoing development of
Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) and environmental design capability of
its key staff as part of the Irrigation Subsector II (O&M) Project (ISSP-II).
Accordingly, it will require certain consultancy services to assist in this
regard.
2.        Objectives of Services
The objectives of the services to be provided are as follows:
*    to assist relevant DGWRD Tim Kerja staff in the design and
supervision/execution of a case study which illustrates the
cumulative environmental effects of various existing and proposed
future land use developments within a selected river basin system
and to carry out the collection of data relevant to the study from
existing data sources and from reconnaissance field survey as
required. The purpose of case study is to highlight the potential
cumulative effects of various land uses and identify data collection
and analysis procedures which could be adopted on a routine basis
for the environmental assessment of irrigation and swamp sector
developments;
*    to assist in the professional development of relevant DGWRD staff
through various technical training activities defined in these TOR;
*    to promote contact between relevant DGWRD staff and other land use
management agencies within the GOI and with other sources of
relevant expertise and information such as Universities,
Environmental Study Centers and NGOs as required;
*    to introduce DGWRD staff to the purpose and functions of the AMDAL
process, and how to implement it;
*    to explain the importance of people's participation in the AMDAL
process, and how to effectively carry it out;
*    to assist in the development and promotion within DGWRD of
environmental design guidelines for swamp and irrigation sector
developments;
*    to provide an advisory role for Tim Kerja staff in the execution of
their existing day to day responsivilities; and



- 85 -
ANNEX 12
Page 4
*    to make recommendations regarding facilities and equipment which
could usefully be acquired to improve the effectiveness of
environmental specialists within DGWRD.
It is also intended that for the duration of the project, close consultation
should be maintained with other relevant government agencies such as the
Ministries of Agriculture and Forestry and the State Ministry of Population
and the Environment to ensure that they are informed about the progress and
direction of the project and provided with opportunities to contribute as they
may from time to time require.
3.        Scope of Services
(a) Case Study
The subject area selected for the case study is the Mesuji/Tulang
Bawan/Pedada river basin complex in Lampung Province on the island of Sumatra.
This river basin complex is subject of a variety of land uses including upland
agriculture, swamp development, production forestry and nature conservation
and there are existing plans for further land use development within it.
Collection and collation of data will be undertaken mainly by Indonesian
consultants with the design of the collection program and the interpretation
of the data being undertaken jointly by Tim Kerja staff and the study manager,
who will be a Foreign Consultant. Tim Kerja staff will also be required to
undertake at least two field visits to familiarize themselves with conditions
in the region and become familiar with the issues. These visits will be
organized by the data collection team and provision will need to be made in
the proposal for Tim Kerja travel, accommodation and subsistence costs as
required.
The data collection program will provide a basis for identifying
practical procedures for incorporating assessment of cumulative environmental
effects of irrigation and swamp sector developments into routine AMDAL
processes. The emphasis in data collection should be in the use of existing
data sources from relevant government agencies with supplementary field work.
The sources, categories and types of data to be collected will be determined
by the consultant. Sources of data are likely to include existing air
photographs and/or satellite images, existing land use/land capability maps,
readily accessible maps/plans held by relevant government land management
agencies, published technical reports and field surveys.
The types of information to be collated could include:
*    existing and potential future locations and areas of the principal
land uses including; urban developments, dryland, irrigated and
swamp agriculture developments, production forests, informal
commercial uses, conservation areas and water uses;
*    information on existing environmental quality (e.g., water quality
data, soil erosion assessments);
*    information on the conservation requirements of significant
flora/fauna within the region, the degree to which these are being



- 86 -
ANNEX 12
Page 5
met at present and what the prospects are for the future given
existing information on future land use trends.
The data will be analyzed to assess the likely significance of known
future land use changes on conservation values within the region, to identify
existing and potential land use conflicts and possible location/design
strategies which could be adopted in irrigation and swamp development projects
within the river basin complex to mitigate identified potential conflicts.
The results of the case study will also be used to formulate
guidelines for the incorporation of regional environmental considerations into
the assessment of irrigation and swamp sector developments in general and as a
component in the formulation of practical environmental design guidelines for
such developments. These guidelines must also reflect the social issues
involved.
(b) Professional Development
As part of the proposed program, technical training will be provided
in one particular aspect of environmental management, namely, wetland
conservation.
The training program will be undertaken only if an appropriate
agency/firm (agreed with the Bank) with the relevant experience can be
identified. The program will be fosmulated to meet the particular needs of
environmental and project design specialists within the DGWRD. The proposals
will need to make provision for meeting the course development and
presentation costs of the agency concerned, and travel, subsistence and other
costs likely to be incurred by attendees. The final definition of the course
will be determined subsequently but desirable inclusions are:
*    a specialist training component for two people; one from Tim Kerja
and one from a project design group within the Directorate of
Swamps, covering aspects of wetland survey and management;
*    a broader training component for a larger number of people within
Indonesia including aspects such as: overview of wetland ecosystems
in Indonesia and their environmental significance within national
and international contexts; basic wetland ecology; conservation
issues and requirements with particular emphasis on Sumatran swamp
systems; elements of environmental design for developments in
wetland environments; current wetlands research activities within
Indonesia and sources of specialist knowledge; purpose and functions
of the AMDAL process and how to properly implement it; importance of
people's participation in the AMDAL process and how to effectively
carry it out; and importance of social issues. The course would
desirably include an extended field excursion to representative
wetland areas, possibly extending to participation in one of the
ongoing research projects. The duration and scheduling of the
course would be determined subsequently but practical considerations
would suggest an overall duration of no less than one week and no
more than four weeks.



- 87 -
ANNEX 12
Page 6
Participants will be made available on a full time basis for participation in
both the theoretical and practical aspects of the course.
(c) Environmental Design Guidelines and Extension
Based on the progress of the case study, reviews of literature and
other sources of relevant information, a series of simple and practical
environmental design guidelines will be prepared for swamp and irrigation
sector developments for use by project development staff within DGWRD when
planning new developments.
The scope of issues to be covered in the design guidelines would
need to be determined during the course of the project but factors likely to
be considered include:
*    the need for site soil and topographical surveys to ensure that
proposed developments are confined to areas of suitable capability;
-    the need for analysis and interpretation of stream flow data to
ensure that the availability of water is consistent with the area of
land proposed to be irrigated;
*    the need for streamside and coastal buffer zones and how the
dimensions of such buffer zones can be determined;
*    the need to determine the existing land use status of a proposed
development site and to ensure that developments do not intrude into
areas (e.g., production forest, protection forest) intended for
othpr uses;
*    potential for indirect effects of developments on surrounding land
uses, particularly conservation-related land uses, and ways and
means for reducing such potential;
*    the use of ecological specialists in the design process and how to
determine when they should be involved;
*    evaluation of the potential effects of developments on downstream
water resourcs users;
*    procedures for assuring that resource recovery is maximized during
land clearance;
*    how to identify soil erosion risks and reduce erosion potential
during construction and operation.
The completed guidelines will form the subject of a one to two day
workshop presentation to be presented >iintly by the consultants and Tim Kerja
staff. For the purposes of the consultancy proposal, provision should be made
for presentation of workshops in Jakarta, and the Provincial capitals of
Lampung, South Sumatra, Bengkulu, Jambi and Riau Provinces. Participants in
the workshops will mainly be provincial staff of DGWRD but may also extend to
include representatives of other organizations having an interest in



- 88 -
ANNEX 12
Page 7
irrigation and swamp sector developments such as Bappeda, Ministry of
Forestry, Ministry of Agriculture.
(d) Advice on Future Needs
At the conclusion of the project, recommendations will be made on
further training and facilities requirements considered necessary to
strengthen DGWRD's capabilities as required.
4.        Project Management
Since the project is being undertaken as part of ISSP-II, the
consultant team leader will report to the General Coordination Team Leader on
financial and contractual matters. For the technical execution of the
consultancy, the consultant will work in close association with DGWRD Tim
Kerja staff and appropriate office space and facilities will be provided
within DGWRD offices in Jakarta for this purpose.
5.        Timing and Reporting
The program will have a duration of no more than 18 months
commencing in July 1991. The case study project is expected to extend
intermittently over a period of 12 to 18 months. The wetlands training
program, if undertaken, will be timed to fit in with the availability of
relevant training specialists but desirably would be undertaken within 12
months of the commencement of the project.
The reporting requirements are:
*    brief Inception Report at the end of the first project month
providing a firm project schedule including a program for physical
deliverables;
*    case study report and recommendations;
*    wetlands management training course notes;
*    environmental design guidelines for irrigation and swamp sector
developments;
*    Final Report.
6.        Personnel Requirements
(a) International Expertise
Team Leader
An experience ecologist/land use management specialist with
particular knowledge and experience of tropical ecology (with particular
reference to Indonesia), a working knowledge of irrigation land/or swamp
sector developments in Indonesia and a knowledge and understanding of the
AMDAL process in general and the particular application of the process within



- 89 -
ANNEX 12
Page 8
the Department of Public Works. He/she should have no less than 10 years'
relevant post-graduate experience, at least three of which has been in
Indonesia. Spoken and, preferably written, fluency in Bahasa Indonesia would
be highly desirable.
The particular responsibilities of the team leader will bet
*    overall project coordination in consultation with DGWRD Tim Kerja
personnel;
*    design and operational management of the case study in close
consultation with Tim Kerja personnel;
*    coordination of and participation in training and extension programs
as required;
*    responsibility for compilation of all project reports.
(b) Indonesian Consultants
Locally based consultants will be required to undertake basic data
compilation and collection of reconnaissance field data for the case study and
to assist in the organization of and participate in the design guidelines
workshops.
It is anticipated that up to four individuals will be requireds
-    a biologist with particular background and expertise in natural
resource management and conservation;
-    a forester and/or agricultural scientist;
-    an engineer/environmental specialist with particular knowledge of
irrigation and swamp sector developments; and
*    a mapping/geographical information systems specialist.
(c) Person-Month Allowances
Estimated consultant person months required for execution of the
project are as follows:
International Team Leader - 10 months
Indonesian      Biologist - 6 months
Forester/Agriculturalist - 6 months
Engineer/environmentalist - 6 months
Mapping specialist - 2 months.
7.        Study Costs
Budgeted resources for the study will be required under the
following categories:



- 9o -
ANNEX 12
Page 9
1. Consulting services - International
- Indonesian
2. Training             - out of country travel/accommodation
- in country travel/accommodation
- supply of presentational materials
- course presentation costs
3. Management           - DGWRD Tim Kerja staff.
Total budgetary requirements for the study are estimated to be no more than
$350,000.



- 91 -
ANNEX 13
INDONESIA
IRiIGATION SUBSECTOR II (O&M) PROJECT
Project Supervision Requirements
1.        Project Supervision.  The Bank staff resources to supervise the
project would be about 15 staff weeks per year, which are less than the
resources utilized for the ISSP I. The supervision arrangements for the
proposed project would, however, continue to be complex for both Government
and the Bank because of the geographical spread, the number of schemes, and
the range of policies and institutional reforms being supported. In this
respect, an important function of the consultant services would be to guide
and assist Government in project supervision and to strengthen the capability
of the agencies involved to monitor and evaluate project performance.
2.        Supervision Arrangements.  The preferred arrangement (after the
first supervision mission) would be for the Bank to supervise the project
through the resident mission staff with the task manager based in Jakarta.
The first supervision mission should, scheduling pe2 itted, include
headquarters staff who have been involved in the prcject preparation and those
who took part in the appraisal mission.
3.        There would be two supervision missions each year.  The timing of
these missions would depend on the critical stages of project implementation,
and, therefore, be determined by the task manager. These critical stages are
likely to constitute: (a) verification by DGWRD that SM is completed in line
with the criteria agreed with the Bank, and the schemes are ready for EOM.
The Bank missions may want to visit such schemes on a sample basis;
(b) assistance to the agencies involved, with the preparation of the draft
AWP; (c) pre- and post-implementation phase of policies, particularly the ISF
and turnover programs; and (d) timely guidance to the Government and the
consultancy teams, with regard to the institutional strengthening component.
Between the two supervision missions, the day-to-day supervision would be
undertaken by RSI staff based in Jakarta. The composition of the mission must
include an irrigation engineer, with a few missions staffed by an Economist,
Institutional and Environmental Experts, and an Agriculturist.



- 92 -
ANNEX 14
INDONESIA
IRRIGATION SUBSECTOR II (O&M) PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in Files
1.   Project Preparation Report, Ministry of Public Works, DGWRD,315 assisted
by Lavalin International Inc. in association with Euroconsult,
Sir M. MacDonald & Partners, Indec & Associates Ltd.--three volumes,
dated August 1990.
(a) Final Report;
(b) Appendices; and
(c) Irrigation Data Volume.
2.   Institutional Strengthening Study, Irrigation Subsector Project,
BAPPENAS, assisted by DHV Consultants et. al.--in two volumes, dated
November 1989.
3.   Detailed  Action Plan related to Institutional Development.
4.   Implementation Schedules for selected components including for
procurement of consu.tancy services.
5.  Contract packaging for consultancy services.
6.   Cost Tables.
7.   Irrigation Investment Expenditures (historical and projected).
8.   Projected Sources of Incremental Financing for Efficient O&M.



- 93 -
CHART 15 TYPICAL ORGANIZATION CHART OF
THE PROVIIAL WATER RESOURCES SERVICES (PRIS)
Oovernor of Province
Head
Din** Pu Provinco
rAdv. Divison
Sub Din&s                   Sub             Dlnn|
Cipta Kerya                  Pengsiran                 sing Margn
-     I ~dministrationI
Unit  
Plnnning a                                              Equipent         Rlvere and
Progruming           Irrigation             O*m          Logistic           Swag"n
'- Unit                 Unit                   Unit          Unit               Unit
Kantor Willynh_
DPUP Pongeirrn_1_
.           ~~~Admnistratlo;n
Deeomn                  prto                      Mntenance
Unit                                              unitit                    I
Cabing Dines      _
DPUP PonqFtr n        _
Unit  
|Operation Unit        l                                   nnt nnce- Unit      j
Renting Dinop
Ponoaolrn        h



- 94 -
CHART 2: SOURCES OF ONM FUNDING
PRESIDENTIAL FUNDS
Pubblc               Home
Work    ;           Aftf aIs
CPU
External Funding
NATIONAL LEVEL      Agencies                Irrigao.on      Highways        Infrastructure
DORD       |                 (water supply etc.)
Inpres DOti I
Special              APBN
Project                                                             GOVERNOR
PROVINCIAL                                                                         Inpres             Local
GOVERNMENT                                                                          Doti             Revenue
LEVEL
APSO            Routine                            Inpres
Temporary          To so"e                                       Budget PIK                         Funds
ohm               aroea                                                                           to
Funding            since                                                                            lower
1904/95                                                                          levels
lupati
Inpres
KASUPATEN                                                     To all                                  Dot  II 
LEVEL                                                         areas
except
those
funded
by
APON
SECTION LEVEL           I       OM Funds and Minor loprovement Works
Note; 1. VIlIlage, through the Kecasaten request works related to Irrigation. Kabupaten then discusses thes proposels
with the Irrigation Service Sectlon Head before finslizing works to be carried out. The Section Office then
carries out the design work. Tenders let through Kabupaten; constructlon supervision by Kabupaten with Sectlon
Offtice asseltnce.
2. The Irrigation Section HNed has posslblo sources of funding for DAM end mlnor works, which he has to coordinate.



lAP SECTION



IBRD 22820
f  'T\AL                                             00                                                      'or                   PHILIPPINES PINES
IRRIGATION SUB-SECTOR PROJECT 11
FondnAcrhl~.J                                               s   <sm.                                                                                                                                    Location of areafor efficientO&M end
.d~ A,h                     I~-i-  f Lci   of area for efficient O&M and
 ~~~~~~~07                                                                            -EI(1; ~~~~~~~~~s''Spociatmainfananco                                                                                        qtio
.    13  \   \\    \                                                      ~~~~~~~~          ~      ~      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~BRU!EI,\                                                    SeC;OI MOI.ten--, - sYMamP
r  \rd'rMALAYSIA                                                                                | n                      1n   Location of area for Irigation Service Fee Progis
f \SEd                                                                                                                      n            SMALA     Notureer  I  \|s Location of area foi Torn-Onni-Programs
' 5ectc1            c                                                                                       /                                                                                    S J  *    Swamp On-Going Projed Completion
.5reube                                             .                .                   MALAYSIA /S5  ,  /   -                                                            '                              Ground Water Development
2 YS  57    {4    X      \\  (                                          MALAYSIA                                                                                                    A ,$'  T SallI Ricer MOoth Monitoring
<o > '?       '>)           SO  \-.                                                                                                           Noner=do     /                             A    Pilot Ricer 8n sins
A=9%   1                    . .v +SINGAPORE                           .                                                                                                                  L   LocCation ofPLo-inCe for ISFintrodocion
1         tekorrimern~~ 0-k
-n             S     b       n       ) >                                                            -5                                                                          fioLrr\ tciht0k
-Ud              A F.Aren%                                         Ii K                        Snoariode                   teign                                                                      0
Abc
C\ D                                                                                                                                  SAT     _ , r  )mAztA     > hiniry         _-_    U L A W E 5t<G
3 JA=VAA EANrAGTAH             7<b                t                                                                                                                                  c f g       2     8R                               I R I A N               i
D J. Y0CVTAKARTAYhNBNCK
JAW   TR                  B.BEL                                                                                  .URU .D 7                                  I                                                                                              i,t\b  J A  Y Ac
7  BENGKULU                          y         /,                                                                                                                                                                                                   2 
a  SU1tATERA5EIATAN >,p/*e /,, 
2  SULOATERAUTAtA /
14KALIAN TAN EARAT                              >        2S*>              nzcK-            Sd                                                                                                                                                                  l
15   ALI2,ANTAN TENGAH_ _                                                  ')t-        ',       n
16   =AN7 AN SLATAN         nendoi                                                            a              ' W    3                                                                 c                                                    R '  
17  KALIMfAN MUR
18  SULAWESANG                            /ni *                                                                  le-f -    3nli                                 AUnr       ,
19   SUAWSITARA                                                                             ,               )r        \        //
0  SurLAWS SErLATAN
21  tUiAWf 77 Of?JAA
22  SAL,M7550 10000l
23  NUSA TENGGArAcARAT nnNni-I COWb                               INDIAN OCFAN                                                     SUMBA              KCp-            RMOR
24  NSAiTENGGARA TIMUR
2S  MLUKU                               P-m- cB-ud.rm l6.t=>4reviXnghni=nms 
27  AR                                                                              p -       Atadomn                                                                                                                                                             1
27  S'ORLnAON7R  A1USTRALIAI*~~-c-Meni
Of  5010mM, MntdCOdl~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ALI~19



