                                     Document of
                                  The World Bank




                                                            Report No: 34591-GH

                        IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                      (IDA-39570)

                                         ON A

                                        CREDIT

                         IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 58.6 MILLION

                             (US$85 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                        AND A

                                        GRANT

                         IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 27.6 MILLION

                             (US$40 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                          TO

                               THE REPUBLIC OF GHANA

                                        FOR A

                    SECOND POVERTY REDUCTION SUPPORT CREDIT


                                  DECEMBER 14, 2005




Poverty Reduction and Economic Management 4
AFC10
Africa Region

                         Simplified Implementation Completion Report


                            Second Poverty Reduction Support Credit


Project ID: P083246                                            Project Name: Second Poverty Reduction Support
                                                               Credit

Team Leader: Carlos Cavalcanti                                 TL Unit: AFTP4



ICR Type: Simplified ICR                                       Report Date: December 14, 2005




1. Project Data
                 Name:   Second Poverty Reduction Support Credit                    L/C/TF  IDA-39570
                                                                                    Number:
   Country/Department:   GHANA                                                      Region: Africa Regional Office

       Sector/subsector: General government administration (50%); Health (20%); General
                        Education Sector (20%); Other social services (5%); General
                        industry/trade sector (5%).
                Theme: Poverty strategy, analysis and monitoring (P); Education (P); Health
                         system performance (P); Public expenditure, financial management
                         and procurement (P); Administrative and civil service reform (S).


  KEY DATES                                                           Original              Revised/Actual
         PCD:    02/09/2004                              Effective:   07/20/2004            07/20/2004
     Appraisal:  04/12/2004                                  MTR:
     Approval:   07/13/2004                               Closing:    06/30/2005            06/30/2005




   Borrower/Implementing Agency:      GHANA/MINISTRY OF FINANCE AND ECONOMIC PLANNING
                   Other Partners:


STAFF                       Current                                       At Appraisal
Vice President:             Gobind Nankani                                Gobind Nankani
Country Director:           Mats Karlsson                                 Mats Karlsson
Sector Manager:             Robert R. Blake                               Robert Blake
Team Leader at ICR:         Carlos Cavalcanti                             Carlos Cavalcanti
ICR Primary Author:         Marta Berhane

2. Principal Performance Ratings
(focused on this operation's contribution toward overall program objectives)

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)



                                          Outcome: S
                                      Sustainability: L
                 Institutional Development Impact: SU
                               Bank Performance: S
                           Borrower Performance: S



                                                      QAG (if available)               ICR
                                 Quality at Entry:                                     S
                  Operation at Risk at Any Time:                                       No

3. Program Description

3.a. Overall program

1.       A series of three PRSCs was designed in 2003 in line with the policy framework of the
Ghana Poverty Reduction Strategy (GPRS) and focusing on three broad components: (i) the promotion
of growth, income and employment; (ii) improvements in the delivery of services for human development;
and (iii) the strengthening of governance and public sector management.

2.       The first component of PRSC-2 reflected the objectives of the first and second pillars of the
GPRS, and focused on ensuring progress on macroeconomic stability and pro-poor growth by
eliminating factors inhibiting growth. The first set of actions included: (i) reducing public domestic
debt and creating room for increased credit to the private sector; and (ii) strengthening the business
environment through the expansion of energy supply services, increased trade facilitation, and the
removal of administrative barriers for business development. The second set of actions consisted of
removing constraints on rural development through the increase of government's support to agriculture
and developing a new framework for micro-finance. The rural sector was selected because it includes the
bulk of the country's natural resources and it is home to the largest number of the people. Furthermore,
the rural sector embraces the largest proportion of the poor.

3.       The second component of PRSC-2 was based on the third and fourth pillars of the GPRS,
incorporating measures aimed at assisting Ghana reach the MDG goals by improving service
delivery in education, health and social protection. Measures to improve service delivery in education
focused on: (i) increasing access and completion of quality basic education, with particular attention to
the needs of underserved areas and populations; and (ii) improving the efficiency and equity of financing.
Measures to improve the delivery of health services centered on bridging the equity gaps in the access to
health care services in deprived regions, and at reducing the spread of HIV/AIDS. Measures to improve
social protection focused on actions supporting the vulnerable and the excluded, such as people living
with HIV/AIDS, orphans, homeless, and children living on the street.

4.       The third component of PRSC-2 was based on the fifth pillar of the GPRS and incorporated
actions designed to strengthen governance and public sector management. The policy actions supported
under this component range from strengthening governance institutions and moving ahead with



                                                           -2-

decentralization to carrying out public sector reforms, including modernizing public expenditure management
and building the capacity to monitor and evaluate the policy agenda.

3.b. PRSC-2 description

5.       PRSC-2 ­ a single-tranche combined credit and grant of US$125 million ­ was the second of a
series of three PRSCs prepared annually within a rolling, three-year horizon. In line with the program
envisioned in the three-year program, PRSC-2 was designed to support the Government in implementing
cross cutting reforms aimed at improving the living conditions of the population by promoting growth,
incomes and employment, improving the delivery of human services, and strengthening governance and
public sector management.

4. Achievement of Objectives and Outputs

6.       Prior to Board presentation of PRSC-2, the Government had completed all planned actions
aimed at promoting growth, incomes and employment, improving the delivery of human
services, and strengthening governance and public sector management. The detailed actions
taken are presented in Table 1 below. Given the lag between policy actions and outcomes, the latter will
be discussed comprehensively in the programmatic ICR to be prepared at the completion of PRSC-3.

                       Table 1: Reform Measures Implemented under PRSC-2
 Policy Area                  PRSC-2
 Growth, income and           ·    Launching the power sector reform.
 employment promotion         ·    Implementing a first year plan of the public-private partnership in the energy sector.
                              ·    Developing and beginning implementation of a Cabinet approved PSDS with an action
                                   plan to remove key regulatory and administrative barriers for business development.
                              ·    Completing the automation (GCMS/GCNet) at Takoradi and Tema seaports to reduce
                                   length of custom procedures.
 Human service delivery       ·    Establishing incentive schemes, including scholarships, to enable girls to complete
 improvement                       primary school in deprived districts.
                              ·    Approving a new recurrent expenditure allocation formula for the health sector aimed at
                                   protecting the deprived areas.
                              ·    Implementing a fee exemption policy for maternal deliveries in the four deprived
                                   regions.
 Governance and public        ·    Beginning implementation of the Procurement Act, designed to ensure value for money
 sector management                 in government purchases, by establishing the Public Procurement Institutions (Public
 strengthening                     Procurement Board, Secretariat, Entity Tender Committees, and Tender Review Boards).
                              ·    Expanding the new computerized budget and public expenditure accounting and
                                   information system (BPEMS) to cover the Ministry of Education, Health, and Roads and
                                   Transport.
                              ·    Issuing a Cabinet policy statement on public sector reform.
Source: Ghana: Second Poverty Reduction Support Credit, Report no. 29177-GH, June 7, 2004

7.       Progress in the implementation of the PRSC-2 reform program was broadly satisfactory,
with outcomes improving alongside the implementation of agreed policies. Under the program for
growth and employment generation, domestic debt reduction, achieved through prudent fiscal
management, allowed for an increase in credit availability to the private sector, rising by 35 percent. In
2003, private sector development received further boost with actions taken to remove certain
administrative and regulatory barriers for investment. These efforts included reducing the time needed to
obtain the environment certificate and the tax registration, and lowering the tax registration fee. Private
sector competitiveness was enhanced with the installation of automated clearance procedures
(GCMS/GCNET) at the Tema (July 2003) and Takoradi (November 2003) seaports, yielding a reduction
in the average clearance time at customs by reducing the number of clearance steps from 11 to 3.



                                                           -3-

Progress in the power sector reform consisted of the formation of the VRA holding company, the
restructuring of a large share of the debt obligations of the VRA and ECG to the government, and the
beginning of the revaluation of assets and the separation of VRA's balance sheet. Power tariffs were
adjusted twice in the year (March and October 2003), in accordance with the cost recovery formula,
yielding an 18 percent increase in prices for end-users. Actions taken to broaden access of the rural sector
to credit included the review of the National Framework Paper for Micro-Finance Institutions (MFI),
aimed at addressing issues of capacity building of MFIs, the development of a suitable regulatory
mechanism for MFI industry, the promotion of linkages between the formal and informal institutions, and
training for results in improved portfolio management. In the domain of natural resources management, a
strategic environmental assessment was completed to help identify options to better enforce
environmental regulations and standards, in areas ranging from land forestry, and water to housing,
health, and transport.

8.      Improvement in human service delivery resulted from actions carried-out in the areas of
education, health and HIV/AIDS. To redress existing gender imbalances in educational outcomes,
incentive schemes, including scholarship, were established to enable girls to complete primary school in
deprived districts. In the 2003/04 school year, a total of 5,000 needy pupils, of which 80 percent were
girls, benefited from these schemes. There was an additional 8.9 billion cedis allocated for scholarships
for the same period. Progress in the health sector was achieved through the implementation of the fee
exemption policy for maternal deliveries in the four deprived regions. This program was expanded to two
additional regions and adequately funded in the 2004 budget using HIPC resources. Efforts to contain the
spread of HIV/AIDS involved the implementation of Government-sponsored HIV/AIDS community ­
based programs, which became fully operational in 200 communities with activities ranging from
awareness creation and advocacy to support to orphans and vulnerable children, and to people living with
HIV/AIDS.

9.      Progress in implementing the governance and public sector reform focused on laying the
legislative groundwork for decentralization, developing a strategy for public sector reform,
strengthening public expenditure management, drafting key governance legislation, and upgrading
the system of monitoring and evaluation. Development in the decentralization and public sector reform
agenda consisted of the establishment of the Office of Accountability in the Office of the President, the
inauguration of an in-country Peer Review Council for the Africa Peer Review Mechanism (APRM), and
the Government funding for Electoral Commission's preparation of the 2004 National Elections -- more
specifically the voter registration exercise. An important piece of legislation, the Freedom of Information
and the Whistle Blower bills, was submitted to Cabinet in April 2004 to further enhance transparency and
accountability of public institutions.     As part of actions aimed at improving public expenditure
management, the President signed into law the Financial Administration Act, the Internal Audit Agency
Act, and the Public Procurement Act. The Financial Administration Act helps define the duties and
responsibilities of the Minister of Finance and the Controller and Account General in managing public
resources. The Internal Audit Agency Act aims at setting up an apex body to coordinate, facilitate and
provide quality assurance for internal audit controls in government ministries and agencies.            The
implementation of the Public Procurement Act aims at attaining greater value for public money spent on
goods and services.      Budget reporting was strengthened with the help of a new computer-based
information and accounting management system (BPEMS), which was installed in the Ministries of
Education, Health, Roads and Transport. Monitoring and evaluation capacity was improved with the
completion of the 2003 GPRS Annual Progress Report, the implementation of the GPRS M&E plan, and
several Poverty and Social Impact Analysis conducted in 2003 and early 2004.




                                                    -4-

Box 1: Results Achieved under the PRSC

There were specific results reached under each component of the program supported by PRSC-2. Under the
program for increased growth, income and employment, progress has been achieved in increasing the availability of
credit to the private sector, reducing subsidies to the utility companies, and reducing the time for business
registration. These results included: (i) the increase in the share of private sector in total domestic credit to an
estimated 54.7 percent by end-2004, up from 47.3 percent at end-2002; (ii) subsidies to public sector utility
companies declining in real terms by 40 percent from 480 billion cedis at end-2002 to an estimated 278 billion cedis
(in 2002 prices) at end-2004; and (iii) the time required for business registration declining to 85 days in 2004, down
from 129 days in 2002.

Under the program for improved delivery of human services, progress was achieved in increasing the share of
supervised deliveries, reducing the HIV/AIDS prevalence rate among pregnant women, and raising the gross
primary enrollment rate. Supervised deliveries rose to 53 percent by 2004, up from 49 percent in 2002. This
increase was particularly pronounced in the deprived regions, where supervised deliveries in the Central, Northern,
Upper East and Upper West regions rose by 9.3, 9.3, 26.3 and 3.8 percentage points, respectively, between 2003 and
2004. Also, the HIV/AIDS prevalence rate among pregnant women dropped to 3.1 percent in early 2005, down
from 3.6 percent in 2003. Finally, gross primary enrollment increased by over 5 percentage points between 2002
and 2004, with significant progress achieved in raising enrollment among female students and in the deprived
regions, which increased by 4.2 and 4.1 percentage points, respectively.

Progress was also achieved in strengthening public financial management, with the modernization of the
regulatory framework for public expenditure management; and improvements in the scope, timing and
quality of reporting on budget execution. Specific results include (i) monthly (commitment and expenditure)
budget execution reports reconciled with the Bank of Ghana produced with no more than 8 weeks lag; and (ii)
quarterly report on the execution of poverty related expenditures produced with no more than 8 weeks lag.




5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

10.       Several developments in 2003 positively affected the implementation of the PRSC-2.
Improved fiscal and monetary policies, coupled with a record cocoa harvest and higher world prices for
cocoa and gold exports resulted in sustained growth and progress in stabilizing the macroeconomic
environment. Real GDP growth accelerated to 5.2 percent, up from 4.5 percent in 2002. The overall
fiscal deficit declined to 4.5 percent of GDP, down from 6.8 percent in 2002, with the shortfall between
revenues and expenditures entirely financed by external credit and grants. The increased inflows of
external assistance helped keep budget execution, especially of poverty related expenditures, on track. By
end-2003 overall spending on poverty related programs exceeded the planned amounts, totaling 6.5
percent of GDP, up from 4.7 percent at end-2002 (Table 3). It is important, however, to note that
poverty-related programs did not fully benefit from the available external assistance as wage and salary
commitments ended up accounting for over two-thirds of poverty expenditure. As a result, the execution
of the budget across programs was tilted toward programs with high payrolls, such as education and
health, while more investment-intensive programs, such as rural energy and agriculture, presented lower
budget execution rates (Table 3).




                                                          -5-

                               Table 2: Key Macroeconomic Indicators, 2003-2005
                                                               (in percent)
                                                                             2003            2004           2004       2005
                                                                              Act.           Proj.           Est.     Proj.1
       Real GDP growth                                                          5.2             5.2           5.8        5.8
       CPI inflation2                                                         26.7            10.8          12.6        14.3
       Gross Investment/GDP                                                   22.9            23.1          27.9        29.6
       Gross National Savings                                                 24.6            23.5          25.2        25.6
       Current Account Balance/GDP (incl. Grants)                               1.7             0.3          -2.7       -3.7
       Overall Budget Balance/GDP (incl. Grants)                               -4.5            -1.5          -3.6       -2.6
      1) As projected in the PRSC-2 and PRSC-3 program documents. Reports no. 29177 and 33096, respectively.
      2) Annual average.
      Source: The Ghanaian authorities




                 Table 3: Government Poverty Spending and its Composition, 2003-2004
                                               (Cedis Billion, unless otherwise noted)
                                                                          2003 Budget         2003 Actual       2004 Budget
      Total Government Spending1                                                   15,713              15,744          19,508
      Total Poverty Spending                                                         4,020             4,479            5,465
      Poverty Spending/Total Spending                                                 26%               27%              28%
       of which
       Wages and salaries                                                            2,582              2,966           2,992
         % of Poverty Spending                                                        64%               69%              55%
       Non-wage expenditure in the Government budget                                   411                148             572
         % of Poverty Spending                                                        10%                 3%             10%
       Non-wage expenditure from extra-budgetary funds2                              1,027             1,313            1,904
         % of Poverty Spending                                                        26%               31%              35%
       Poverty Spending on Education                                                 1,911              2,376           2,605
         % of Sector Spending                                                         55%               58%              58%
         % of Poverty Spending                                                      47.1%               55%              48%
         % Spent on Wages and Salaries                                                 n.a.             85%              78%
       Poverty Spending on Health                                                      826              1,061           1,551
         % of Sector Spending                                                       73.4%               60%              78%
         % of Poverty Spending                                                      20.4%               25%              28%
         % Spent on Wages and Salaries                                                 n.a.             76%              48%
      Source: Ghanaian authorities.
      1) Total government spending less amortization, foreign financed project assistance, and arrears.
      2) Funds: DACF, GETF, Road Fund, HIPC & Cocoa Board.



6. Bank and Borrower Performance

11.      Overall, Bank performance was satisfactory during credit preparation, appraisal and
implementation.          PRSC-2 was prepared in parallel and in close coordination with IMF's PRGF,
following the agreed institutional division of labor with the IMF taking the lead on macro-economic
sector issues while the Bank took the lead on structural and social issues. In the number of areas where
the mandates of the two institutions overlapped, such as energy sector reforms, the work was coordinated
to ensure that consistent advice was provided to the Borrower.                                     PRSC-2 further deepened the
harmonization of donor practices. In the run up to the preparation of the program, development partners
carried out two joint missions (June and September 2003) that were important first steps in aligning



                                                                   -6-

mission schedules, advancing agreements on policy actions and on the timing of future assessment
reviews. These efforts led to a better alignment of programs for 2004, with an almost complete overlap
between key policy actions agreed under the MDBS 2004 and those envisioned under PRSC-2. The
objectives of the PRSC-2 were also well aligned with Government's development agenda, priorities and
policies, as set out in the GPRS.      Lessons learned from the implementation of the PRSC-1 were
incorporated in the design of the PRSC-2, allowing the PRSC-2 to draw from work on poverty and social
analysis, as well as from country economic and fiduciary work completed earlier.

12.      Overall Borrower performance was satisfactory.                Macroeconomic stabilization was
maintained and considerable progress was achieved in implementing the GPRS and its broad range of
sectoral strategies. Public financial management reforms in 2003 resulted in substantial upgrading of
institutions through the following actions: (i) new legislation for financial administration, internal
auditing and procurement; (ii) practices that helped minimize the risk of budget slippages and
accumulation of arrears; (iii) the prompt reconciliation of budgetary and banking accounts; (iv) the
increase of frequency and timeliness of reporting on budget execution; and (v) the control of proper use of
public resources. To ensure the efficient use of public funds, as well as greater transparency and
accountability, the Public Procurement Institutions were established after the Procurement Act was signed
into law in December 2003. Also, Ghana maintained a favorable ranking in Transparency's International
Corruption Perception Index in Sub-Saharan Africa, behind only Mauritius, Botswana and Namibia. To
encourage private sector competitiveness, the Government introduced various initiatives to reduce the
cost of doing business in the country, including the installation of automated clearance procedures at the
Tema and Takoradi seaports, and the steps to reduce the time of registering businesses. It was against this
that in July 2004 Ghana reached the completion point of the Enhanced HIPC Initiative. Funding from
HIPC relief amounted to 866 billion cedis, with around 20 percent of the resources used to pay down
domestic debt, while the remaining resources were allocated to programs and projects for the medium
term priority areas outlined in the GPRS, particularly in the areas perceived to have greater impact on the
poor. These actions and activities undertaken by the Government underscored the country's commitment
to the tenets and aspirations of the GPRS of growth and poverty reduction.

Environmental Aspects

13.      PRSC-2 was rated a structural adjustment credit governed under Operational Directive
(OD) 8.60, and required only that the operation consider environmental issues in the program
document, identifying good practices.         The team working on the preparation of the PRSC-2
acknowledged that the Government of Ghana recognizes the importance for poverty reduction to meet the
Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) of ensuring environmental sustainability, and the cross-sectoral
nature of the environment and its direct and indirect linkages to economic growth and poverty reduction
agenda have been taken into account in the preparation of the GPRS. The GPRS builds on Ghana's
robust environmental institutional framework and considerable capacities to set, regulate and enforce
environmental management standards.

7. Findings and Implications for Subsequent Operation(s) in Series

14.      The two main lessons learned in the implementation of the first two operations (PRSC-1
and PRSC-2) are the importance of "ownership" of the reform program for the satisfactory
implementation of the country's poverty reduction strategy, and the very high returns from the
harmonization among development partners around the MDBS framework. While most of the
actions completed under the program supported by PRSC-2 focused on laying out the groundwork for
legislative changes, and developing strategies for key areas of the reform agenda, achieving the expected
policy outcomes was contingent on follow-up actions that, in some instances, would be supported by
subsequent operations. These actions helped reinforce the importance of ensuring broad ownership of the


                                                    -7-

program from the onset, and building in mechanisms for regular consultations during implementation.
Consequently, better coordination among development partners allowed for greater alignment of
disbursement schedules with the government's budget cycle, thereby reducing the transaction cost for
government in dealing with development assistance. There have also been high returns from greater
knowledge dissemination among the partners, leading to improvements in the policy dialogue and better
assistance to the Government's reform program. The annual External Review of Public Financial
Management provides an example of this joint effort. These external reviews provided an opportunity to
review the government's agenda for public financial management and assess progress outside the
negotiations surrounding the budgetary support.

15.     The approach of ensuring government ownership of the program, and assuring continuous
involvement and support from development partners, appears to be yielding positive results.
Government ownership took form in three distinct phases. In the first phase the Government led the
preparation of the Ghana Poverty Reduction Strategy (GPRS), while the development partners seized on
this opportunity to draw the new instrument for development assistance in Ghana ­ the Multi-Donor
Budgetary support (MDBS), of which the PRSC is part. The second phase involved developing sector
strategies aligned with the GPRS that would provide operational guidance for the implementation of the
GPRS, as well as focus to the dialogue with the development partners. The third phase is ongoing and
builds on the two earlier phases. It involves having the Government take full leadership in the dialogue,
drawing on these strategies to define the content and focus of the policy matrix. The latter was important
in broadening the program, with the inclusion of the water sector, and giving more prominence to cross-
cutting issues, such as public financial management and the management of natural resources.




                                                   -8-

