Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
GRANT NUMBER H115 GH 
CREDIT NUMBER 3957 GH 
 
Development Financing Agreement 
 
(Second Poverty Reduction Support Financing) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF GHANA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated July 15, 2004 
 
Page  2
GRANT NUMBER H115 GH 
CREDIT NUMBER 3957 GH 
DEVELOPMENT FINANCING AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated  July 15, 2004, between REPUBLIC OF GHANA (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the 
Association). 
WHEREAS (A) the Association has received from the Borrower a letter dated  
May 19, 2004, (the Letter of Development Policy) describing a program of actions, 
objectives and policies designed to eradicate poverty from the Borrower’s territory 
(hereinafter called the Program), declaring the Borrower's commitment to the execution 
of the Program, and requesting assistance from the Association in support of the Program 
during the execution thereof;  
(B) 
the Borrower has carried out the measures and taken the actions 
described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement to the satisfaction of the Association and has 
maintained a macroeconomic policy framework satisfactory to the Association; 
(C) 
the Borrower and the Association intend, to the extent practicable, that 
the proceeds of the Grant be disbursed in support of the Program before disbursements of 
the proceeds of the Credit are made; and 
(D) 
on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of the foregoing, the Association has decided in 
support of the Program to provide such assistance to the Borrower by making the Credit 
and the Grant as hereinafter provided; 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01.  The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association dated January 1, 1985, (as amended through May 1, 
2004), with the modifications set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement (the General 
Conditions), constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
Page  3
-
2
-
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
(a) 
“BPEMS” or “Budget and Public Expenditure Management System” 
means an integrated financial management system for the preparation of budgets and 
monitoring of public expenditures to improve budget preparation, execution and 
reporting; 
(b) 
“Deposit Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; 
(c) 
“Fiscal Year” and “FY” mean the fiscal year of the Borrower beginning 
on January 1 and ending December 31 of each year; 
(d) 
“GPRS” means the Ghana Poverty Reduction Strategy; 
(e) 
“LDP” or “Letter of Development Policy” means the Borrower’s letter 
referred to in paragraph (A) of the Preamble to this Agreement;  
(f) 
“MoFEP” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Finance and Economic 
Planning; and 
(g) 
“VRA” means the Volta River Authority, a parastatal entitity established 
and operating pursuant to Act 46 of 1961, as amended. 
ARTICLE II 
The Financing 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to make available to the Borrower, on the terms 
and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement: 
(a) 
an amount in various currencies equivalent to fifty-eight million six hundred 
thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 58,600,000) (the Credit); and 
(b) 
an amount in various currencies equivalent to twenty-seven million six hundred 
thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 27,600,000) (the Grant). 
Page  4
-
3
-
Section 2.02. (a) Subject to the provisions of paragraphs (b), and (c) of this Section, the 
Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the Financing from the Financing 
Accounts in support of the Program. 
(b) 
The Borrower shall open, prior to furnishing to the Association the first request 
for withdrawal from the Financing Account, and thereafter maintain in its central bank, a 
deposit account in Dollars on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.  All 
withdrawals from the Financing Accounts shall be deposited by the Association into the 
Deposit Account. 
(c) 
The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Financing shall not be used 
to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. If 
the Association shall have determined at any time that any proceeds of the Financing shall have 
been used to make a payment for an expenditure so excluded, the Borrower shall, promptly 
upon notice from the Association: (i) deposit into the Deposit Account an amount equal to the 
amount of said payment; or (ii) if the Association shall so request, refund such amount to the 
Association. Amounts refunded to the Association upon such request shall be credited to the 
Financing Accounts for cancellation. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2005 or such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date. 
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association: (i) a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the 
Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 
of 1%) per annum; and (ii) a commitment charge on the principal amount of the Grant not 
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, 
but not to exceed the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum. 
(b) 
Each commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after the 
date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts shall be 
withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or Grant Account (as the case may be) or 
canceled; and (ii) at the respective rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual 
date and at such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The respective rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement. 
(c) 
Each commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the Association 
shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, 
the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for the purposes of Section 
Page  5
-
4
-
4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency or currencies as may from 
time to time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the rate of 
three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable semiannually 
on March 15 and September 15 in each year. 
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each 
March 15 and September 15 commencing September 15, 2014 and ending March 15, 
2044.  Each installment to and including the installment payable on March 15, 2024 shall 
be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be 
two percent (2%) of such principal amount. 
(b) 
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years the level 
established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access the 
Association's resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for 
Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the 
Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by them of the 
development of the Borrower's economy, modify the repayment of installments under 
paragraph (a) above by: 
(A) 
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of 
each such installment not yet due until the principal 
amount of the Credit shall have been repaid; and 
(B) 
requiring the Borrower to commence repayment of the 
principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual 
payment date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling 
six months or more after the date on which the 
Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out 
in this paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, however, 
that there shall be a grace period of a minimum of five 
years on such repayment of principal. 
(c) 
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of the 
increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate 
Page  6
-
5
-
agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification. 
(d) 
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further 
modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as provided in 
paragraph (a) above. 
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE III 
Particular Covenants 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower undertakes to implement the Program with due 
diligence to ensure that actions and policies adopted under the Program are put into 
effect. 
(b) 
The Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at the request 
of either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out the Program. 
(c) 
Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Association for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in carrying out 
the Program, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request. 
(d) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (b) of this Section, 
the Borrower shall exchange views with the Association on any proposed action to be 
taken after the disbursement of the Financing which would have the effect of materially 
reversing the objectives of the Program, or any action taken under the Program, including 
any action specified in Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
Section 3.02. Upon the Association’s request, the Borrower shall: 
(a) 
have the Deposit Account audited in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association; 
Page  7
-
6
-
(b) 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six months after the date of the Association’s request for such audit, a certified copy 
of the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the 
Association shall have reasonably requested; and 
(c) 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning the Deposit 
Account and the audit thereof as the Association shall have reasonably requested. 
ARTICLE IV 
Additional Event of Suspension 
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that a situation has arisen which shall 
make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried out. 
ARTICLE V 
Effective Date; Termination  
Section 5.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
Page  8
-
7
-
ARTICLE VI 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 6.01. Except as provided in Section 2.09 (a) of this Agreement, The 
Minister of the Borrower at the time responsible for Finance and Economic Planning is 
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the 
General Conditions. 
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Borrower:
 
Minister for Finance and Economic Planning  
 
Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning  
 
P.O. Box M40 
 
Accra, Ghana 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
ECONOMICON 
2205 MIFAEP GH 
233-21-667069 
Accra 
 
 
 
 
      
233-21-663854 
 
For the Association: 
 
International Development Association  
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 248423 
(MCI) 
or  (202) 
477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
 
Page  9
-
8
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in the Washington, D.C., as of the day and year first above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF GHANA 
 
/s/ Isaac Aggrey 
 
By  
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
/s/ Nils Tcheyan 
 
By  
Authorized Representative 
Page  10
-
9
-
SCHEDULE 1 
Excluded Expenditures 
 
For purposes of Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement, the proceeds of the Financing 
shall not be used to finance any of the following expenditures: 
1.  
expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied 
from the territory of the Borrower; 
2. 
expenditures for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national 
or international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the Association 
shall have financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the Association shall have 
financed or agreed to finance under another credit or a loan; 
3. 
expenditures for goods included in the following groups or subgroups of the 
Standard International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by the 
United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC), or any 
successor groups or subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as designated by the 
Association by notice to the Borrower: 
 Group
Subgroup
Description of Items
112 
- 
  Alcoholic 
beverages 
 
121 
- 
  Tobacco, 
unmanu- 
 
factured, tobacco 
 
refuse 
 
122 
- 
  Tobacco, 
manufactured 
 
 
(whether or not 
 
containing tobacco 
 
substitutes) 
 
525 
- 
  Radioactive 
and 
 
 
associated materials 
 
667 
- 
  Pearls, 
precious 
and 
 
semiprecious 
 
stones, unworked 
 
or
worked 
Page  11
-
10
-
Group
Subgroup
Description of Items
718 
718.7 
 
Nuclear reactors, and  
 
parts thereof; fuel  
 
elements (cartridges), 
 
non-irradiated, for 
 
nuclear reactors 
 728 
728.43 
 
Tobacco 
processing 
 
machinery 
 
897 
897.3 
 
Jewelry of gold,  
 
silver or platinum 
 
group metals (except 
 
watches and watch 
 
cases) and 
 
goldsmiths’ or  
 
silversmiths’ 
 
wares (including  
 
set gems) 
 
971 
- 
  Gold, 
non-monetary 
 
(excluding gold 
 
ores and concentrates) 
4. 
expenditures for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for 
luxury consumption; 
5. 
expenditures for environmentally hazardous goods (for purposes of this 
paragraph the term “environmentally hazardous goods” means goods, the manufacture, 
use or import of which is prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international 
agreements to which the Borrower is a party; 
6. 
expenditures: (a) in the territories of any country which is not a member of the 
Bank or for goods procured in, or services supplied from, such territories; or (b) on 
account of any payment to persons or entities, or any import of goods, if such payment or 
import is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security Council taken under 
Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; and 
7. 
expenditures under a contract in respect of which the Association determines that 
corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in by representatives of the Borrower or of a 
beneficiary of the Credit or the Grant during the procurement or execution of such 
contract, without the Borrower having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to 
the Association to remedy the situation. 
Page  12
-
11
-
SCHEDULE 2 
Program Actions Taken By the Borrower 
1. 
The Borrower has launched the power sector reform, including implementation 
of the first year of the public-private partnership plan, in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraph (41) of the Letter of Development Policy. 
2. 
The Borrower has installed automated clearance procedures and reduced the 
average clearance time at the Tema and Takoradi seaports, in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph (45) of the Letter of Development Policy. 
3. 
The Borrower has developed and commenced the implementation of a Private 
Sector Development Strategy and action plan to remove administrative and regulatory 
barriers for investment in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs (45 and 48) of the 
Letter of Development Policy.  
4. 
The Borrower has established incentive schemes, including scholarships to 
enable girls to complete public primary school in deprived districts, in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraph (69) of the Letter of Development Policy. 
5. 
The Borrower has implemented a fee exemption policy for maternal deliveries in 
four underserved Regions (Northern, Upper East, Upper West and Central Regions) in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph (91) of the Letter of Development Policy.   
6. 
The Borrower has adopted a new recurrent expenditure allocation formula for 
health favoring the most deprived regions in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 
(89) of the Letter of Development Policy.   
7. 
The Borrower has begun implementation of the Procurement Act, and begun to 
make Public Procurement Institutions operational, including the Public Procurement 
Board, Secretariat, Entity Tender Committees, and Tender Review Boards, in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraph (123) of the Letter of Development Policy. 
8. 
The Borrower has expanded the computerized BPEMS to include the Accra sites 
of the Ministries of Education, Health, Roads and Transport, in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs (119 and 120) of the Letter of Development Policy. 
 
Page  13
-
12
-
SCHEDULE 3 
Modifications to the General Conditions 
 
For the purpose of this Agreement, the provisions of the General Conditions are 
modified as follows: 
1. 
Section 1.01 is amended to read: 
“These General Conditions set forth certain terms and conditions 
generally applicable to development financing granted by the Association as a 
development credit and development grant to its members.  They apply to any 
development financing agreement providing for any such development finance to 
the extent and subject to any modifications set forth in such agreement.” 
2. 
Paragraph 8 of Section 2.01 is amended to read as follows: 
“8.  “Development Financing Agreement” means the particular Development 
Financing Agreement to which these General Conditions apply, as such agreement 
may be amended from time to time. Development Financing Agreement includes 
these General Conditions as applied thereto, and all schedules and agreements 
supplemental to the Development Financing Agreement.” 
3. 
Paragraph 12 of Section 2.01 is modified to read: 
“12. 
“Project” means the Program, referred to in the Preamble to the 
Development Financing Agreement, in support of which the Financing is made.” 
4. 
The following new paragraphs are added to Section 2.01: 
“15.  
“Grant” means the development grant provided for in the Development 
Financing Agreement;” 
“16.  
“Grant Account” means the account opened by the Association on its 
books in the name of the Borrower to which the amount of the Grant is credited;” 
“17.  
“Financing” means, collectively, the Credit and the Grant;” and 
Page  14
-
13
-
“18. 
“Financing Accounts” means, collectively, the Credit Account and the 
Grant Account (or, where the context so requires, either of the Credit Account or 
the Grant Account).” 
5. 
The term “Credit”, wherever used in the following Articles and Sections of the 
General Conditions, is amended to read “Financing”: Sections 2.01(3), 2.01(12), 4.01, 
Article V, Article VI (excluding Section 6.05), Section 7.01(d), Article VIII, and Article 
IX. 
6. 
The term “Credit Account”, wherever used in the following Articles and Sections 
of the General Conditions, is amended to read “Financing Accounts”: Section 2.01(6), 
4.01, Article V, Article VI, and Section 12.03. 
7. 
The term “Development Credit Agreement”, wherever used in the General 
Conditions, is amended to read the Development Financing Agreement. 
8. 
Section 3.01 is modified to read as follows: 
“Section 3.01. Financing Accounts
.
The amount of the Credit shall be 
credited to the Credit Account and may be withdrawn from the Credit Account 
by the Borrower as provided in the Development Financing Agreement and in 
these General Conditions. The amount of the Grant shall be credited to the Grant 
Account and may be withdrawn from the Grant Account by the Borrower as 
provided in the Development Financing Agreement and in these General 
Conditions.” 
9. 
Section 4.01 is modified to read: 
“Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, 
withdrawals from the Financing Accounts shall be made in the currency of the 
deposit account specified in Section 2.02 of the Development Financing 
Agreement.” 
10. 
Section 5.01 is modified to read: 
“The Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the 
Financing from the Financing Accounts in accordance with the provisions of the 
Development Financing Agreement and of these General Conditions.” 
11. 
The last sentence of Section 5.03 is deleted. 
Page  15
-
14
-
12. 
The phrase “(including any development financing agreement or development 
grant agreement)” is added to Section 6.02(a)(ii) after the words “any development credit 
agreement” and before the words “between the Borrower and the Association”, to Section 
6.02(c)(i) after the words “any development credit agreement” and before the words 
“with the Association”, and to Section 7.01(b)(i) after the words “any other development 
credit agreement” and before the words “between the Borrower and the Association.”   
13. 
Section 6.05 is amended to read as follows: 
“Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, any 
cancellation of any amount of the Credit shall be applied 
pro rata
 to the several 
installments of the principal amount of the Credit maturing after the date of such 
cancellation.” 
14. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 9.06 is modified to read as follows: 
“(c) 
Not later than six months before the Closing Date or such later date as 
may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, the 
Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Association a report, of such scope and 
in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request, on the execution of the 
program referred to in the Preamble to the Development Financing Agreement, 
the performance by the Borrower and the Association of their respective 
obligations under the Development Financing Agreement and the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Financing.” 
15. 
Section 9.04 is deleted and Sections 9.05, 9.06 (as modified above), 9.07 and 
9.08 are renumbered, respectively, Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06 and 9.07. 
 
