Page  1
 
 
PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.:  AB700 
Project Name 
GH: PRSC II 
Region 
AFRICA 
Sector 
Central government administration (50%);Other social services 
(40%);Sub-national government administration (10%) 
Project ID 
P083246 
Borrower(s) 
GHANA 
Implementing Agency 
MINISTRY OF FINANCE & ECONOMIC PLANNING 
Contact Person:  Michael Ayesu 
Tel:  233-21-662299/686179 
Fax:  233-21-663854 
Email:  mayesu@africaexpress.com 
Environment Category 
[ ] A   [ ] B   [ ] C   [ ] FI   [x ] TBD (to be determined) 
Safeguard Classification 
[ ] S
1
   [ ] S
2
  [ ] S
3
   [ ] S
F
   [x ] TBD (to be determined)
 
Date PID Prepared 
February 18, 2004 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
April 07, 2004 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
June 07, 2004 
 
 
1.  Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
 
Bank support through the PRSC-2 is critical to assist the Government of Ghana meet the 
development objectives outlined in the 2003-05 Ghana Poverty Reduction Strategy (GPRS).  These 
objectives include maintaining macroeconomic stability and enhancing equitable growth, 
improving human development indicators, especially in deprived areas, and strengthening 
governance and public sector management.  Ghana is a low-income country of about 20 million 
inhabitants and a per capita income of US$290 (2001), which is more than a third below the average 
US$460 for Sub-Saharan Africa (SSA).  Despite progress in raising per capita income and 
improving indicators of human development over the last twenty years, there are still large regional 
disparities within the country that are reflected in a clear urban-rural divide.  While 60 percent of the 
population lives in rural areas, these areas account for 84 percent of those living on less than one 
dollar a day.  There are also large differences in provision of human services between urban and 
rural areas, which are reflected in a one-to-five difference in the ratio of doctors to the overall 
population, and a difference of one quarter in the number of girls enrolled in school.   
 
The Bank supported the launching of the GRSP through PRSC-1, and PRSC-2 would support 
the first year implementation of the strategy through continued quick-disbursing assistance, 
providing predictable resources for the implementation of the 2004 budget.  Through its PRSCs, 
the Bank has established a credible framework for supporting the GPRS, with increasingly close 
collaboration with other donors.  Bank support through PRSC-2 would be crucial to maintaining 
macroeconomic stability, and funding of human services in deprived areas, making possible 
progress toward meeting the MDG targets and the GPRS objectives.   
Page  2
 
 
 
 
 
 
2. Proposed 
objective(s) 
 
PRSC-2 would support the government in making progress toward key GPRS objectives.  By 
providing financing for the budget, including additional external financing, it would support the 
government in maintaining a sound macroeconomic framework.  A stable macroeconomic 
framework would be essential for achieving the economy’s growth potential and reducing 
poverty as targeted under the GPRS.  The operation would furthermore aim at enhancing growth 
potential by supporting measures to improve the business environment, facilitate trade, increase 
energy supply, and develop the rural economy.  In the education sector, the operation would aim 
at increasing access, completion and quality in basic education in deprived regions, and at 
ensuring sustainable financing for the delivery of education to the poor.  In the health sector, 
PRSC-2 would focus on bridging the equity gaps in the access to health care services in deprived 
regions.  In areas of social protection, PRSC-2 would support programs for children living in 
streets and to preventing the spread of HIV/AIDS, as well as providing support to people living 
with AIDS and AIDS orphans.  Furthermore, to reinforce the programmatic links of the budget 
with the GPRS, the operation would support key public sector reforms aimed at (i) laying the 
ground work for better service provision at the local level; (ii) enhancing the efficiency and 
transparency of public spending; (iii) refocusing civil service reform; and (iv) building the 
capacity to monitor and evaluate policy outcomes.   
 
 
 
3. Preliminary description 
 
To support progress toward GPRS objectives, PRSC-2 would support policies under three 
broad components: promoting growth, income and employment; improving the delivery of 
human services, and strengthening governance and public sector management.  Policy reforms 
under the first component include measures to reduce public domestic debt, creating room for 
increase credit to the private sector, as well as measures to strengthen the business environment, 
through the expansion of energy supply services, increased trade facilitation, and the removal of 
administrative barriers for business.  This first component also focuses on measures to improve the 
performance of the rural sector through actions aimed at raising farmers’ income, strengthening 
government’s support to agriculture, and developing a new framework for micro-finance.  Actions 
under the second component include measure to improve service delivery in education, health and 
social protection.  These measures range from increasing access and completion of quality basic 
education, particularly in the three most deprived regions (Northern, Upper East and Upper 
West), to improving the efficiency and equity of education financing, with greater attention to 
the poverty impact.  Measures to improve the delivery of health services center on bridging the 
equity gaps in the access to health care services in deprived regions (Northern, Upper East, 
Upper West and Central).  Measures to improve social protection concentrate on actions aimed at 
reducing the spread of HIV/AIDS and at supporting the vulnerable and the excluded, such the 
orphans, the homeless, and street children.  Action envisioned under the third component aim at
 
Page  3
 
 
strengthening governance and public sector management, and range from moving ahead with 
decentralization and public sector reform, to modernizing public expenditure management, 
strengthening governance institutions, and building the capacity to monitor and evaluate the policy 
agenda.   
 
 
 
4.  Safeguard policies that might apply 
[Guideline:  Refer to section 5 of the PCN.  Which safeguard policies might apply to the project 
and in what ways?  What actions might be needed during project preparation to assess 
safeguard issues and prepare to mitigate them?]
 
 
The predecessor of this operation, PRSC-1, was rated a structural adjustment credit governed 
under Operational Directive 8.60, and therefore did not require an environmental assessment.  
The policy reforms supported by PRSC-2 are broadly similar, which would suggest that it would 
also not require an environmental assessment.  PRSC-2 will continue, nevertheless, to reinforce 
the government’s own capacity for assessing environmental safeguards issues and implementing 
environmental safeguards under national regulation.   
 
5. Tentative 
financing 
Source: ($m.) 
BORROWER/RECIPIENT 0 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
125 
 Total 
125 
 
6. Contact point 
Contact: Carlos B. Cavalcanti 
Title: Lead Economist 
Tel: (233-21)22 96 81 
Fax: (233-21)22 78 87 
Email: Ccavalcanti@worldbank.org 
Location: Accra, Ghana (IBRD)
 
