Page  1
PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.:  AB5013 
Project Name 
NELSAP Regional Agricultural Trade and Productivity Project 
Region 
AFRICA 
Sector 
Irrigation and drainage (40%); Agricultural marketing and trade 
(30%); Crops (20%); General agriculture, fishing and forestry 
sector (10%) 
Project ID 
P115414 
Borrower(s) 
NILE BASIN INITIATIVE 
Nile Basin Initiative 
P.O. Box 192 
Uganda 
Tel: +256 414 321424/321329 
Fax: +256 414323757 
nbisec@nilebasin.org 
Implementing Agency 
 
Nile Equatorial Lakes Subsidiary Action Programme (NELSAP) 
Inyota House, P.O. Box 6759 
Kigali, Rwanda 
Tel: +250 08307334 
Fax: +250 580100 
asendama@nilebasin.org 
Environment Category 
[
]
A
[
]
B
[X] C   [ ] FI   [ ] TBD (to be determined) 
Date PID Prepared 
August 27, 2009 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
July 30, 2009 
Date of Board Approval 
n.a. 
1. 
Country and Sector Background 
1. 
Within the Nile Basin’s ten riparian countries 160 million people depend for their 
livelihoods on the river and its tributaries. Demand for water is expected to increase in coming 
decades. Population increases alone will double water demand over the next quarter century, and 
to this will be added demand emanating from new investments particularly for hydropower and 
agriculture. Given the increased pressure on regional water resources, it is in the interest of all 
riparian states to manage shared water in a more sustainable and equitable manner. Joint action is 
also needed to reduce the costs of extreme water events such as floods and droughts. 
Recognizing the importance of cooperation, in 1999 nine Nile riparian states
1
established the 
Nile Basin Initiative (NBI) as a partnership to “achieve sustainable socio-economic development 
through equitable utilization of, and benefit from, the common Nile Basin water resources.”  
2. 
Management of Nile Basin water requires an understanding of Basin agriculture. Within 
this broad mandate to manage transboundary water resources for development, the NBI has 
developed capacity since 1999 for integrated water resource management in NBI’s implementing 
1
The NBI includes Burundi, DRC Congo, Egypt, Ethiopia, Kenya, Rwanda, Sudan, Tanzania, and Uganda.  
Page  2
bodies, through the Shared Vision Program (SVP). It has also initiated a first generation of 
investments through the Subsidiary Action Program (SAP), with particular focus on hydropower. 
Two regional technical offices were established. The Eastern Nile Regional Technical Office 
(ENTRO) is located in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia, and the Nile Equatorial Lake Subsidiary Action 
Plan Coordination Unit (NELSAP) is located in Kigali, Rwanda. This work has been supported 
by donors through the Nile Basin Trust Fund (NBTF), managed by the World Bank. 
3. 
Water resource management at basin level requires good monitoring capability and 
forward planning capacity. Agriculture is one of largest water users in the region, and the 
ambitious agricultural development plans of riparians will increase demand on the Basin’s finite 
water resources. Under the Comprehensive Africa Agricultural Development Program, African 
countries are seeking to increase agricultural growth rates to an average of 6 percent per year. 
Four areas of support are emphasized of which one, land and water management, will affect the 
demand for water directly by increasing investment in irrigated agriculture. The World Bank has 
been increasingly investing in irrigation in the basin countries, especially Egypt, Ethiopia, 
Tanzania, Rwanda, Kenya, with the plans to do so in Uganda and Burundi. Others activities will 
stimulate water demand through expansion of commercially oriented crop and livestock products 
that use water as an input. It is important for the Basin manager to anticipate these new water 
uses and weigh them against competing uses across the Basin. Conversely, agricultural 
investments of individual riparians need to take account of the increasing opportunity cost of 
Basin water as early as the appraisal stage, and such costs need to be monitored and regularly 
updated. Without such an accounting, country investments are likely to employ inefficient 
technologies, and riparian projects may not be economically viable in the long run.  
4. 
The NBI has made some progress on promoting agricultural development. Its Efficient 
Water Use for Agricultural Productivity Project (EWUAP), closed in June 2009, collected the 
best practices in water harvesting, small-scale and large-scale irrigation in the Nile Basin 
countries with the objectives of improving water use efficiency and cross-country learning. The 
FAO Nile project, also closed in June 2009, began to collect baseline data of irrigated and rain-
fed agriculture and promoted the comprehensive approach to the irrigation development in the 
region. The Social Development and Benefits Sharing Project (SDBS), closed in December 
2008, supported the local institutions to undertake research on transboundary issues in the basin, 
where regional agricultural trade and food security received the large attention. As a result of 
these SVP projects, agriculture revealed its prominence in becoming an integral part of the NBI 
activities.  
5. 
Despite these progress and advances, the strategic role of the NBI in agricultural 
development of the basin remains unclear. It is well-recognized that agriculture is important user 
of water in the Nile Basin and its development will greatly determine the success in water 
resource management, economic growth, and poverty reduction. The exact role of NBI vis-à-vis 
riparians in agricultural development, once the NBI turned into a River Basin Organization 
(RBO), remains less clear, however. What will be an agricultural agenda of the RBO? If it 
wishes to promote more efficient irrigation investments, how may it support the country level 
activities? If the RBO wants to support regional agricultural trade, as a mean of promoting more 
efficient water use at the basin level, what is its unique role compared to the riparians and also 
regional economic communities (REC)? These and other relevant questions require answers to 
permit the NBI effectively support agricultural development in the region.   
Page  3
6. 
To the limited extent that an agricultural function has been developed, it has not been 
integrated into the NBI planning and decision support framework. Basic information on 
agricultural sector, both irrigated and rain-fed, at the basin level still needs to be collected for 
strategic choices and investment decisions. This lack of information does not permit properly 
representing the agriculture sector in the Nile Basin Decision Support System (DSS). As a result, 
the estimates of cumulative impact of irrigation investments on water resources at the basin 
level, impact of climate change on agricultural production and water use in productive 
agriculture, as well as evaluations of the impact of water costs on the economic viability of 
emerging investments in the basin are not possible. Furthermore, the basic data is missing to 
evaluate trade-offs in investing in agriculture versus hydropower and other activities related to 
water use. 
7. 
These challenges help define the main goals of the proposed Project. NBI requires a 
strong knowledge’s input in order to effectively support more efficient and sustainable use of 
water resources and economically viable investment in agriculture in the Nile Basin. This 
knowledge generation activities are very timely as the NBI needs to prepare for a future in which 
the expected signing of a Cooperative Framework Agreement (CFA) will create a permanent 
RBO, and in which the riparians are increasingly requesting the NBI to invest in agricultural 
development. Since the NBI has recently begun the consolidation of knowledge generated by its 
previous SVP projects and the determination of its future role and functions, the agriculture-
related knowledge generated by RATP will timely feed into this process. 
2. Objectives 
 
8. 
The project development objective is to increase knowledge of Basin agriculture in NBI 
institutions, to promote more efficient and sustainable use of water resources and economically 
viable investment in agriculture. The end-of-project outcome indicators are as follows:  
PDO  
Project Outcome Indicators 
 
To increase knowledge of Basin 
agriculture in Nile Basin institutions, to 
promote more efficient and sustainable 
use of water resources and economically 
viable investment in agriculture 
-
Options for NBI agricultural agenda presented to the NBI 
governing bodies
 
-
Analytical tools developed and information disseminated to 
increase water use  productivity in Basin agriculture 
 
-
Analytical tools developed and information disseminated to 
promote agricultural trade in the Nile Basin
 
3. 
Rationale for Bank Involvement 
9. 
Since 1999 the Bank has intensively engaged Nile Basin countries to promote 
cooperation in management of the Nile. The Bank’s broad experience and long involvement in 
the Nile Basin constitutes compelling reasons for involvement in this project. The Bank is one of 
the region’s largest development partners; since the outset the Bank has been administering the 
Nile Basin Trust Fund on behalf of the development partners, facilitating political dialogue 
amongst riparians, promoting investment projects and supporting the Nile Basin institutions 
through supervision and technical assistance in a number of projects. Thus, the Bank’s 
involvement with the Regional Agricultural Trade and Productivity Project (RATP) is a natural 
continuation of its support to the NBI.  
Page  4
10. 
The Bank is also well-positioned technically to support agricultural development in the 
basin by having long experience dealing with development of agriculture, water resources and 
trade at regional level, as well as within individual riparian countries. Development partners 
support the Bank’s involvement, through their commitments to the Nile Basin Trust Fund. The 
Canadian International Development Agency (CIDA) is taking a particular interest in this 
project, welcoming the Bank leadership and program development, and providing the technical 
support to the RATP task team during the concept, preparation, and appraisal of the project. 
4. Description 
 
11. 
The proposed Project is a technical assistance financed through a recipient-executed trust 
fund. The project is managed from a PMU based in Bujumbura, and is administratively linked to 
the NBI’s Subsidiary Action Plan for the Nile Equatorial Lakes, which has a coordinating unit 
based in Kigali. Although the activities of the proposed project focus on the Nile Equatorial 
Lakes sub-basin area, it supports generation of agricultural knowledge that is basin-wide, in line 
with the aims of the NBI’s Shared Vision Program and NELSAP’s subsidiary action plan.  
12. 
The preparation of the project documents has been guided by (i) the meetings of the 
Regional Project Steering Committee held in October 2008, April 2009, and August 2009; (ii) 
findings of the scoping studies prepared under the inception phase of RATP; (iii) the outputs of 
first generation NBI projects such as SDBS, EWUAP and ENTRO agricultural program; and (iv) 
the Project Implementation Manual (PIM). The project components are:  
Component 1
:
Defining NBI’s core agricultural functions 
Component 2
:
Supporting productive water use in Basin agriculture  
Component 3
:
Incorporating agricultural trade into Basin water resource management  
Component 4
:
Project management and M&E. 
Component 1: Defining NBI’s core agricultural functions
 
13. 
The outcome of this component is proposed options for agricultural mandate and core 
agricultural functions for NBI (and its successor RBO) that have been discussed and agreed 
among stakeholders. The resulting framework for agriculture-related activities will allow its 
subsequent incorporation into the Basin’s enabling legislation, as well as its governance 
arrangements and the work of constituent institutions. NBI will thus be prepared for its future 
role as RBO under the expected CFA.
2
The RATP will fill the knowledge gap on agricultural 
issues and assure complementarity between core agricultural functions and NBI’s broader roles 
vis-à-vis riparians, as well as its strategy for institutional and financial sustainability. 
14. 
Specific outputs under this component will be produced in three main areas of activity: 
(1) definition of agriculture-related core functions for NBI based on a regional public goods 
framework, critical assessment of agricultural functions in other RBOs of interest, and lessons 
and recommendations from first generation NBI projects; (2) consultation with national and 
2
CFA sets forth general principles and establishes the legal foundation and institutional framework for a permanent 
institution, the Nile River Basin Commission. Detailed functions and operations of the commission are to be 
developed by the commission after its formal establishment.  
Page  5
regional stakeholders in order to inform them on the main findings and conclusions, to tailor 
future institutional design to the current institutional settings in NBI countries, and to develop a 
consensus on study recommendations; and (3) preparation of information materials and Basin-
wide dissemination of information on NBI functions and related services and opportunities. 
Component 2: Supporting productive water use in Basin agriculture
 
15. 
The outcome of the component is the development and dissemination of analytical tools 
and information to increase water use productivity in Basin agriculture. This will be achieved 
through integration of agriculture into Basin strategic water resource planning and management; 
generation of utilizable knowledge on irrigation potential in Nile Equatorial Lakes Basin; and 
generation and dissemination of knowledge of best practices on water harvesting.  
16. 
Three major activities with associated outputs are anticipated. First, the project will 
support the collection of the basin-wide data on agricultural sector and water use from sector 
activities (i.e. irrigated systems, rain-fed agriculture, livestock, etc.) that will be integrated into 
the Nile Basin-DSS.
3
DSS is the information system that provides a common and shared basis 
for NBI planning and decision making processes, locally, sub-regionally, and Basin wide. This 
work will allow modeling of future demand and supply of agricultural products and assessment 
of the implications for Basin water demand. It will provide the DSS and the NBI Water 
Management and Planning Unit with analytical tools and data that will allow it to: predict 
changes in agricultural demand and trade and their implications for regional water resources; 
assess the impact of country agricultural investment plans on transboundary water resources; 
anticipate changes in food supply based on improvements in water productivity and expansion of 
irrigation; and assess the effect of future changes in land use and the composition of sectoral 
production. It will also provide a foundation for future estimation of the impact of climate 
change on water resources and agriculture, as well as calculation of the impact of changing water 
costs on the economic viability of agricultural investments planned by riparians.  
17. 
Second, studies of irrigation potential in the Nile Equatorial Lakes Basin will be carried 
out to estimate the basin-wide impact of potential expansion of irrigation systems at country 
levels. Collected information will be integrated in and used by the NBI-DSS, including the 
activities described above. Third, there will be a dissemination of best practices on water 
harvesting and irrigation technologies generated by past NBI projects and (where readily 
available) by national research systems and development partners. The dissemination will be 
undertaken by utilizing the existing arrangements at the national level. 
Component 3: Incorporating agricultural trade into Basin water resource planning
 
18. 
The outcome of this component is an integration of agricultural trade issues into the 
Basin’s strategic water resource planning. To accomplish this, two major activities are supported. 
The first highlights the implications of different commodity trade patterns for efficiency of water 
use. This involves a technical of the “water footprint” for agriculture in Basin countries. From a 
policy perspective, this shows the importance of agricultural trade (along with production) 
3
The activities under this component will be jointly implemented with the NBI Water Resources Planning and 
Management Project that is developing the DSS. 
Page  6
decisions for water resource management, a matter of considerable interest to NBI as the Basin 
water manager. From a “water for agricultural development” perspective, there should be a 
shared interest between the NBI, regional commodity groups and economic communities, and 
member countries, in improving the profitability and long-term economic viability investment in 
Basin agriculture, both rain-fed and irrigated.  
19. 
The second activity shows how to promote trade in the Basin. Studies are anticipated on 
trade in grains; fruits and vegetables; and livestock. At the request of stakeholders from the 
livestock sector, an additional study is planned on export potential for livestock to the Gulf 
States. These studies will identify opportunities for greater trade, document major constraints, 
and identify investment and policy measures that facilitate trade.  
20. 
This work will be done jointly with the Regional Commodity Groups such as the East 
African Grain Council, the Horticulture Council of Africa, and others, to collect data and 
contribute to report preparation. This engagement will strengthen the capacity of the private 
sector in the Basin and leave memory in regional institutions after the exit of the international 
consultant. It will also allow the NBI to rely on strengthened commodity groups to promote 
regional trade in ways compatible with efficient allocation of regional water supplies.  
21. 
During the inception phase the RATP has built partnerships with the RECs, in particular 
with COMESA and EAC for discussion of regional trade policy and reform. The platform of 
these RECs will be utilized for dissemination of the results of trade studies and discussion of 
reforms. It will also be used by NBI to cement partnerships with RECs to promote trade jointly 
and on a sustainable basis, in line with the CAADP. The private sector and civil society will 
participate in the discussions of regional trade, cross-border trade corridors, and strengthening of 
agribusiness linkages in the Nile Basin region.  
Component 4: Project management and M&E
 
22. 
This component deals with project management and monitoring and evaluation and will 
provide support to the project management unit (PMU), which will be responsible for 
implementing the project and day-to-day management. The PMU will be guided by the Regional 
Project Steering Committee (RPSC), following guidelines set out in the Project Implementation 
Manual (PIM). The main activities under this component involve day-to-day management and 
administration of RATP; monitoring, evaluation and reporting on project activities; support for 
statutory meetings, biannual Steering Committee meetings, and annual stakeholder meetings; and 
support for the part-time activities of National Liaison Officers (NLO). The NLOs are the first 
point of contact between the NBI and riparians on issues of water-for-agriculture. The PMU will 
be responsible for coordinating its activities with NELSAP-CU and Nile-Sec, reporting to the 
Nile Equatorial Lakes Council of Ministers (NELCOM) and the Nile Equatorial Lakes Technical 
Advisory Committee (NELTAC), and collaborating with other NBI projects such as the Nile 
Basin DSS, Nile-ISP, among others. Regular meetings of the RPSC and other regional events 
will also be supported by this component. The PMU will monitor and report the progress towards 
the achievement of intermediary outcomes and the project development objective.    
 
Page  7
5. Financing 
23. 
RATP will be financed on a grant-basis by the NBTF. NBTF is a multi-donor trust fund 
financed by a partnership of ten agencies and administered by the World Bank.
4
Canada has 
expressed particular interest in the project. The budget for supervision is also eligible for 
financing from the NBTF.  
 
Source:  
($m.) 
Borrower (Burundi, host of the project management unit),  
in-kind contribution 
0.12 
 
Nile Basin Initiative Trust Fund 
 
7.00 
Total 7.12 
6. Implementation 
Responsibility for project implementation 
24. 
Project oversight and steering
.
Oversight of the RATP will be done by NELCOM and 
NELTAC and steered by the RPSC. This will ensure strategic guidance for the project from a 
basin-wide perspective. Each country is represented on the RPSC by two representatives, from 
the ministries of agriculture, trade, and water resources. The PRSC was established during the 
preparatory phase of the RATP, and thus it is fully functional and prepared for implementation. 
The RPSC will take into consideration the decisions of other NBI governance bodies and will 
refer any unresolved issues to NELTAC and if necessary to NELCOM, according to NBI 
standard procedures. The Nile-Sec will sign the Project Grant Agreement on behalf of the NBI 
countries and delegate coordination and management to the NELSAP-CU.  
25. 
Project coordination
.
The NELSAP-CU will be responsible for facilitation and 
supervision of RATP implementation, providing quality control and compliance with NBI rules 
and procedures. It will also coordinate and facilitate linkages between project activities and the 
Nile-Sec, NBI governing bodies, and other projects and programs in Nile Basin countries. 
NELSAP-CU will also manage procurement of goods and services, following World Bank 
procurement guidelines.  
26. 
Project execution
.
The PMU in Bujumbura, Burundi, will execute all activities of the 
project. The staff of the RATP PMU will include: (i) a regional project manager; (ii) an 
agricultural trade and policy specialist; (iii) a modeling and water resource management 
specialist; (iv) a financial management officer; and (v) a project administrative assistant. A 
procurement consultant will be hired for the first year of project implementation, during which 
most of the large procurement contracts will be concluded. The regional project manager, who 
was hired for the preparatory phase of the project, will continue his duties during the 
4
NBTF Partners are: Canada (CIDA), Denmark, European Commission, Finland, France, the Netherlands, Norway, 
Sweden (Sida), United Kingdom (DfiD), and the World Bank (DGF).   
Page  8
implementation phase. Technical specialists will be recruited competitively from the region, 
according to NBI human resources rules and procedures. Administrative staff (secretary, cleaner, 
and drivers) will be recruited competitively from Burundi. The staff will be identified and 
competitively pre-selected during the end of the preparation phase, with contracts finalized 
immediately after signing of the grant agreement.    
27. 
Implementation and coordination arrangements at the riparian level
.
Project activities at 
the country level, such as data collection or dissemination, will be carried out through National 
Liaison Officers (NLO). The NLOs are technical experts appointed by the member governments 
from the ministries responsible either for agriculture or water resource management. They will 
coordinate national level activities and ensure inter-sectoral coordination with relevant 
institutions. They will devote about 30 percent of their time to the project, and their expenses 
will be covered according to the rules agreed by the RPSC as described in the PIM. Their duties 
include but are not limited to: (i) promoting the activities of the project within their countries; (ii) 
coordination of the activities of the project consultants in the field; (iii) coordination of 
consultative meetings on different assignments in the country and facilitation of inter-sectoral 
coordination among the national institutions. Project links with national-level activities will also 
be ensured through members of RPSC and NELTAC. 
Financial management and disbursement arrangements 
28. 
Flow of funds
.
External financing for the RATP will be through the Legal (Grant) 
Agreement with the Nile-Sec. The Nile-Sec will sign a Legal Agreement on behalf of NBI and 
NELSAP. RATP will receive disbursements from the Bank on the basis of incurred eligible 
expenditures (transaction-based disbursements). Upon Grant effectiveness, an initial advance 
(“Advance” method) will be disbursed from the proceeds of the NBTF grant and will be 
deposited into a Project-operated Designated Account (DA) in Bujumbura, Burundi, to expedite 
Project implementation. Actual expenditures will be reimbursed (“Reimbursement” method) 
through submission of Withdrawal Applications (at least monthly) supported by Statements of 
Expenditures (SOE). The Project will also use the Direct Payment method, whereby the Bank 
makes payments directly to a third party (e.g. a supplier, contractor, and consultant) at its 
request.  RATP will maintain a US dollars denominated designated account held in a commercial 
bank in Bujumbura, Burundi, acceptable to the Bank.   
29. 
Procurement
.
Procurement for the project will be carried out in accordance with the 
World Bank’s “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” (May 2004; 
revised October 2006) (referred to here as “Procurement Guidelines”); and World Bank 
“Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” (May 2004; 
revised October 2006) (referred to here as “Consultant Guidelines”); and the provisions 
stipulated in the Grant Agreement. For each contract financed under the project, the procurement 
or consultant selection method, the need for prequalification, estimated costs, prior review 
requirements, and time frame are included in the Procurement Plan agreed between the 
NELSAP-CU and the World Bank. The Procurement Plan will be updated annually or as needed 
to reflect actual implementation needs and improvements in institutional capacity.    
30. 
Project procurement will be facilitated by the NELSAP-CU Procurement Officer, 
working with the PMU. The NELSAP-CU procurement committee is staffed by the NELSAP-
Page  9
CU Regional Coordinator, the NELSAP-CU Program Officer, and the NELSAP-CU 
Procurement/Operations Officer. In addition, it will include the RATP Project Manager, RATP 
procurement consultant and one RPSC member, which are already conversant with World Bank 
procurement procedures. The Procurement Committee will be responsible for inviting tenders, 
approving tender evaluations, and awarding contracts. PMU staff will be trained in World 
Bank’s Procurement and Consultant Guidelines and the project procurement consultant will help 
the PMU prepare technical specifications (for goods) and terms of reference (for consulting 
services). All goods and equipment purchased by the project shall be the property of 
NELSAP/NBI for the duration of the project. However, depending on the changes in NBI 
institutional makeup, project assets may be transferred to a successor institution tasked with 
water resource management and planning in the Basin. NELCOM and the RPSC will provide the 
necessary guidance on this issue as the project moves forward. 
31. 
Audit
.
The RATP will be subject to an annual external audit. It is expected that the 
NELSAP-CU will coordinate with the RATP PMU to engage one external auditing firm to 
perform annual financial statements audits of all NELSAP projects, including the RATP. 
NELSAP-CU will use the procedures set out in the Nile-Sec Financial Management Manual that 
are fully in conformity with World Bank requirements. It will ensure that the terms of reference 
are adequate; it will be responsible for checking that all funds under RATP are audited, and will 
ensure that auditor’s comments are properly addressed.   
32. 
Reporting
.
NELSAP-CU will submit quarterly interim financial reports (IFR) to the 
World Bank. The report shall form part of the overall quarterly progress report that will be 
submitted to the World Bank by the NELSAP-CU. Thus, the NELSAP-CU will be responsible 
for consolidated and harmonized reporting, based on the information provided by the RATP-
PMU. The Results Based System (see below) and Financial Management Systems of NELSAP-
CU will be applied, and used to meet consolidated reporting needs and requirements of the 
NELTAC, NELCOM, World Bank and partners. The reports should adhere to financial control 
systems, entries in the accounts and bank reconciliations.  
33. 
Supervision plan
.
One supervision mission will be conducted each six months. The mid-
term review is planned for April 2011.  
Monitoring and evaluation of outcomes/results 
34. 
The Results Based System (RBS)
.
From 2006, NBI adopted a RBS for Basin planning, 
monitoring and reporting. RBS design has now been completed, and the system is ready for full 
implementation. The RBS permits NBI to track the progress and success of its activities at 
project, program and NBI corporate levels, and to monitor and evaluate broad progress toward 
achievement of the NBI’s shared vision.  
35. 
Design of RATP M&E
.
Based on the RBS, a RATP Results Chain and a Performance 
Measurement Framework has been developed. It provides the basis for monitoring 
implementation progress against plans for each project component. Key RATP results will be 
monitored using indicators outlined in the RATP Results Framework. Regular M&E reports will 
provide essential input to planning and decision-making to the NELSAP-CU, and through the 
NELSAP-CU to the Nile-Sec and other project stakeholders.  
Page  10
36. 
M&E staffing and implementation
.
Monitoring and evaluation of the RATP 
implementation and results will be the carried out by technical specialists within the PMU. Each 
will be responsible for providing input to M&E reports in their technical or management area. 
Monitoring reports prepared by the PMU will be submitted to the NELSAP-CU and the World 
Bank by the Project Manager according to an agreed schedule. This information will be further 
consolidated and integrated into the NELSAP M&E reports for quarterly and annual reporting to 
the Nile-Sec, the Bank and partners.  
7. Sustainability 
37. 
There is strong ownership of RATP by all stakeholders. The project represents a 
significant contribution to the vision of Nile Basin cooperation and development, to which all 
NBI member countries have consistently shown strong commitment. The stakeholders have 
identified knowledge generation and dissemination as a key priority during this period of 
transition for NBI. The highest level of NBI governance, the NELCOM, has specifically 
requested the project, and NELTAC and appointed members of the RPSC have shown a keen 
interest in project development, providing guidance and suggestions on numerous issues of 
project design. This shows strong stakeholder ownership of the project, and it provides a strong 
foundation for sustainability of activities after project completion. 
38. 
There is strong collaboration with other NBI projects to exploit synergies and 
complementarities. RATP will provide concrete proposals on the role of the future RBO in 
agriculture, and it will mainstream these into broader water management structures being 
developed by NBI-ISP. At a technical level, the agricultural database and model prepared by the 
project will integrate agriculture into water resource planning models and data structures, feeding 
directly into Nile DSS system. This alignment with other NBI projects under a basin-wide vision 
of water resource and agricultural development will also increase sustainability. 
39. 
There is a need to promote an integrated approach to agriculture and water resource 
management in the Basin. Improved efficiency of agricultural water use between Basin members 
is a long-term process that will increase the net benefit of agricultural activities Basin-wide. 
Agricultural productivity improvements and increased regional trade flows that reflects water’s 
true resource value in the Basin facilitates this increase in benefits. Cooperation structures 
fostered by NBI and its successor RBO under the Shared Vision Program provides a strong basis 
for increased sharing of these increase agricultural water benefits among riparians. RATP will 
contribute to this long-term process by supporting both productivity and trade through 
knowledge generation, awareness raising within the Basin, and riparian strategies and policies. 
This contributes to a comprehensive approach to water resource management that not only 
improves water allocations within the agricultural sector, but between agriculture and other 
sectors. 
8.  Lessons Learned from Past Operations in the Country/Sector 
40. 
Project design reflects lessons learned from NBI’s past experiences, specific lessons of 
RATP’s first phase which prepared RATP (May 2008-September 2009), and from World Bank 
experience with other international river basin organizations. The most important lessons, and 
how they have been incorporated into RATP, are outlined below.  
Page  11
41. 
NBI development needs to keep pace with the progress towards CFA conclusion. The 
growth of NBI cannot get ahead of the political process of reaching agreement on the CFA, but it 
can support and help catalyze it. RATP will therefore produce studies and facilitate consultation 
exercises to provide guidance on NBI’s institutional direction, and to prepare for the decision on 
CFA.  
42. 
The significant increase in attention to African agriculture in recent years needs to be 
better understood in the context of regional water use. Agriculture is one of largest water users in 
the region, and the ambitious agricultural development plans of riparians will increase demand 
on the Basin’s finite water resources. Under CAADP, for example, African countries are seeking 
to increase agricultural growth rates to an average of 6 percent per year. It is important for the 
Basin manager, therefore, to anticipate these new water uses and weigh them against competing 
uses across the Basin. This has to occur within a regional public goods framework that is 
supported by national level information and analysis on agricultural production, consumption 
and trade, and with a view to assessing the effects of future investments in the sector. The project 
therefore strongly links agricultural development activities with integrated water resource 
management functions being identified for the NBI and its successor RBO. This will provide the 
framework for scaled up water resource development for agricultural growth and poverty 
reduction in the basin.  
43. 
NELSAP SAP projects need to support sub-basin autonomy but within a common NBI 
framework. Decentralization of NELSAP-CU and NELSAP projects has created considerable 
energy, initiative and ownership, but there are also risks to a ‘one NBI’ philosophy created by the 
autonomy of the sub-basin offices and projects. RATP therefore provides for consultation and 
coordination with NBI institutions and projects such as WPRM and Eastern Nile agricultural 
program (ENTRO). This ensures that RATP will contribute to and operate under NBI-wide 
policies, procedures, and information data bases.  
44. 
Past NBI projects created a foundation on which RATP should build. Several past NBI 
projects worked on promoting agriculture through knowledge generation, regional capacity 
building, exchange of experiences and basin-wide consultations.
5
There are many useful outputs 
and lessons produced by these projects to be taken into account. Moreover, there could be 
outputs that require future either continuation of work or wider stake holder dissemination. There 
are risks that new agricultural projects would not integrate these into their activities. RATP, 
therefore, builds on the past achievements and outputs, and provides for a financing of (i) basin-
wide dissemination of best practices for water-harvesting and irrigation collected by the 
EWUAP; (ii) process to define the agricultural agenda of NBI, the work initiated by the 
EWUAP; (iii) improvement of the basin agricultural database building on the work under the 
FAO Nile; and (iv) estimation of virtual water for food at the riparian and basin-wide levels and 
cross-border trade in agricultural products, the initial work done under the SDBS.    
45. 
There is a need for stronger collaboration with and support of other regional institutions 
in the Nile Basin. RATP needs to collaborate with other regional organizations to ensure an 
appropriate division of labor and to avoid overlap of functions. RATP explicitly recognizes the 
existence of other regional players, collaboration with which would allow greater impact for 
5
These projects include EWUAP, FAO Nile, and SDBS. 
Page  12
project activities. Collaboration with the Lake Victoria Basin Commission would be guided by 
the Memorandum of Understanding signed by the EAC and the NBI on July 14, 2006. The NBI 
institutions will be instrumental in exploring synergies with Lake Victoria Environmental 
Management Project II (LVEMP II), while coordination at the World Bank level would be 
ensured by sharing of team members between LVEMP II and RATP task teams. The ability of 
the project to promote water-efficient trade will depend on collaboration with RECs such as EAC 
and COMESA. The engagement with these RECs during the project preparation and appraisal 
would need to continue; the RECs are expected to disseminate the findings of cross-border 
agricultural trade studies and engage with RATP on regional policy trade policy dialogue.        
46. 
Communication and stakeholder involvement need to be built in as core functions. 
Communication and stakeholder involvements have proven invaluable at different levels, from 
the basin-wide NBI level, to the sub-basin level, the level of individual countries, and finally the 
project level. It proved to be invaluable during preparatory stage of RATP (April 2008-
September 2009). For this reason, stakeholder engagement and development communications 
will be fully integrated into RATP during implementation through the PMU staff as well as 
NELSAP communication and social development officers.    
9. 
Safeguard Policies (including public consultation) 
47. 
RATP is classified as Category C project. RATP does not include or directly finance any 
activity that has safeguard impacts. The project will use the NELSAP environmental and social 
management framework (ESMF), the compliance with which will be ensured through NBI-ISP. 
This ESMF describes the NELSAP’s approach to address and manage safeguard issues related 
public consultations and disclose documents. The ESMF was disclosed in the Info Shop on 
August 21, 2009. 
Safeguard Policies Triggered by the Project
 
Yes
 
No
 
Environmental Assessment
(
OP
/
BP
4.01) [ 
] 
[x] 
Natural Habitats (
OP
/
BP
4.04)
 
[
]
[x ] 
Pest Management (
OP 4.09
)
[
]
[x ] 
Physical Cultural Resources (
OP/BP 4.11
)
[
]
[x ] 
Involuntary Resettlement (
OP
/
BP
4.12)
 
[
]
[x ] 
Indigenous Peoples (
OP
/
BP
4.10)
 
[
]
[x ] 
Forests (
OP
/
BP
4.36)
 
[
]
[x ] 
Safety of Dams (
OP
/
BP
4.37)
 
[
]
[x ] 
Projects in Disputed Areas (
OP
/
BP
7.60)
*
[
]
[x ] 
Projects on International Waterways (
OP
/
BP
7.50)
 
[
]
[x ] 
10. List of Factual Technical Documents 
·
RATP Proposal as of March 2009   
·
RATP Project Concept Note 
·
RATP Project Information Document 
*
By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice the final determination of the parties' claims on the 
disputed areas
 
Page  13
·
RATP Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet 
·
NELSAP Environmental and Social Management Framework  
·
RATP Project Implementation Manual   
11. Contact point 
Contact: Sergiy Zorya 
Title: Economist 
Tel: (202) 458-4867 
Fax: (202) 473-5147 
Email: szorya@worldbank.org 
12. For more information contact: 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-4500 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Email: pic@worldbank.org 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop 
 
