Page  1
INTEGRATED SAFEGUARDS DATASHEET 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
 
I.  Basic Information
 
Date prepared/updated:  09/30/2009 
Report No.:  AC4663
1. Basic Project Data  
 
Country:  Africa 
Project ID:  P115414 
Project Name:  NELSAP Regional Agricultural Trade and Productivity TA (Phase II) 
Task Team Leader:  Sergiy Zorya 
Estimated Appraisal Date: July 30, 2009 
Estimated Board Date: October 30, 2009 
Managing Unit:  AFTAR 
Lending Instrument:  Technical Assistance 
Loan 
Sector:  Irrigation and drainage (40%);Agricultural marketing and trade (30%);Crops 
(20%);General agriculture, fishing and forestry sector (10%) 
Theme:  Rural markets (20%);Global food crisis response (20%);Trade facilitation and 
market access (20%);Regional integration (20%);Water resource management (20%) 
SPF Amount (US$m): 
0.00 
GEF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
PCF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
Other financing amounts by source:  
 Borrower 
0.12 
 
Nile Basin Initiative Trust Fund 
7.00
7.12 
Environmental Category: C - Not Required 
Simplified Processing 
Simple [X] 
Repeater [] 
Is this project processed under OP 8.50 (Emergency Recovery) 
or OP 8.00 (Rapid Response to Crises and Emergencies) 
Yes [ ] 
No [X] 
2. Project Objectives 
The project development objective is to increase knowledge of Basin agriculture in Nile 
Basin Initiative (NBI) institutions, to promote more efficient and sustainable use of water 
resources and economically viable investment in agriculture   
 
3. Project Description 
The proposed Project is a technical assistance financed through a recipient-executed trust 
fund. The project is managed from a PMU based in Bujumbura, and is administratively 
linked to the NBI Subsidiary Action Plan for the Nile Equatorial Lakes, which has a 
coordinating unit (NELSAP-CU) based in Kigali. Although the activities of the proposed 
project focus on the Nile Equatorial Lakes sub-basin area, it supports generation of 
agricultural knowledge that is basin-wide, in line with the aims of the NBI Shared Vision 
Program and NELSAP subsidiary action plan.  
 
The preparation of the project documents have been guided by (i) the meetings of the 
Regional Project Steering Committee meetings held in October 2008 and April 2009; (ii) 
findings of the scoping studies prepared under the inception phase of RATP; (iii) the 
Page  2
outputs of first generation NBI projects such as Social Development and Benefit Sharing, 
Efficient Water Use for Agricultural Production and Eastern Nile Technical Regional 
Office; and (iv) (i) the Project Implementation Manual. The project components are:  
 
-
Component 1: Defining NBI core agricultural functions (total component cost 
US$0.64 million)  
 
-
Component 2: Supporting productive water use in Basin agriculture (total component 
cost US$2.12 million)  
 
-
Component 3: Incorporating agricultural trade into Basin water resource planning 
(total component cost US$1.48 million)  
 
-
Component 4: Project management and M&E (total component cost US$2.49 million).  
 
A. Component 1: Defining NBI core agricultural functions  
 
The outcome of this component is a proposed agricultural mandate and core agricultural 
functions for NBI (and its successor RBO) that have been discussed and agreed among 
stakeholders. The resulting framework for agriculture-related activities will allow its 
subsequent incorporation into the Basin#s enabling legislation, as well as its governance 
arrangements and the work of constituent institutions. NBI will thus be prepared for its 
future role as RBO under the expected CFA.   
 
Specific outputs under this component will be produced in three main areas of activity: 
(1) definition of agriculture-related core functions for NBI based on a regional public 
goods framework, critical assessment of agricultural functions in other RBOs of interest, 
and lessons and recommendations from first generation NBI projects; (2) consultation 
with national and regional stakeholders in order to inform them on the main findings and 
conclusions, to tailor future institutional design to the current institutional settings in NBI 
countries, and to develop a consensus on study recommendations; and (3) preparation of 
information materials and Basin-wide dissemination of information on NBI functions and 
related services and opportunities.  
 
B. Component 2: Supporting productive water use in Basin agriculture  
 
The outcome of the component is an improved regional environment for higher 
productivity of water used in Basin agriculture. This will be achieved through integration 
of agriculture into Basin strategic water resource planning and management; generation 
of utilizable knowledge on irrigation potential in Nile Equatorial Lakes Basin; and 
generation and dissemination of knowledge of best practices on water harvesting.  
 
Three major activities with associated outputs are anticipated. First, the project will 
support the collection of the basin-wide data on agricultural sector and water use from 
sector activities (i.e. irrigated systems, rain-fed agriculture, livestock, etc.) that will be 
integrated into the Nile Basin-DSS.  DSS is the information system that provides a 
common and shared basis for NBI planning and decision making processes, locally, sub-
regionally, and Basin wide. This work will allow modeling of future demand and supply 
of agricultural products and assessment of the implications for Basin water demand. It 
will provide the DSS and the NBI Water Management and Planning Unit with analytical 
Page  3
tools and data that will allow it to: predict changes in agricultural demand and trade and 
their implications for regional water resources; assess the impact of country agricultural 
investment plans on transboundary water resources; anticipate changes in food supply 
based on improvements in water productivity and expansion of irrigation; and assess the 
effect of future changes in land use and the composition of sectoral production. It will 
also provide a foundation for future estimation of the impact of climate change on water 
resources and agriculture, as well as calculation of the impact of changing water costs on 
the economic viability of agricultural investments planned by riparians.  
 
Second, studies of irrigation potential in the Nile Equatorial Lakes Basin will be carried 
out to estimate the basin-wide impact of potential expansion of irrigation systems at 
country levels. Collected information will be integrated in and used by the NBI-DSS, 
including the activities described above. Third, there will be a dissemination of best 
practices on water harvesting and irrigation technologies generated by past NBI projects 
and (where readily available) by national research systems and development partners. 
The dissemination will be undertaken by utilizing the existing arrangements at the 
national level.  
 
C. Component 3: Incorporating agricultural trade into Basin water resource planning  
 
The outcome of this component is an effective integration of agricultural trade issues 
into the Basin#s strategic water resource planning. To accomplish this, two major 
activities are supported. The first highlights the implications of different commodity trade 
patterns for efficiency of water use. This involves a technical of the #water footprint# for 
agriculture in Basin countries. From a policy perspective, this shows the importance of 
agricultural trade (along with production) decisions for water resource management, a 
matter of considerable interest to NBI as the Basin water manager. From a #water for 
agricultural development# perspective, there should be a shared interest between the NBI, 
regional commodity groups and economic communities, and member countries, in 
improving the profitability and long-term economic viability investment in Basin 
agriculture, both rain-fed and irrigated.  
 
The second activity shows how to promote trade in the Basin. Studies are anticipated on 
trade in grains; fruits and vegetables; and livestock. At the request of stakeholders from 
the livestock sector, an additional study is planned on export potential for livestock to the 
Gulf States. These studies will identify opportunities for greater trade, document major 
constraints, and identify investment and policy measures that facilitate trade.  
 
This work will be done jointly with the Regional Commodity Groups such as the East 
African Grain Council, the Horticulture Council of Africa, and others, to collect data and 
contribute to report preparation. This engagement will strengthen the capacity of the 
private sector in the Basin and leave memory in regional institutions after the exit of the 
international consultant. It will also allow the NBI to rely on strengthened commodity 
groups to promote regional trade in ways compatible with efficient allocation of regional 
water supplies.  
 
Page  4
During the inception phase the RATP has built partnerships with the RECs, in particular 
with COMESA and EAC for discussion of regional trade policy and reform. The platform 
of these RECs will be utilized for dissemination of the results of trade studies and 
discussion of reforms. It will also be used by NBI to cement partnerships with RECs to 
promote trade jointly and on a sustainable basis, in line with the CAADP. The private 
sector and civil society will participate in the discussions of regional trade, cross-border 
trade corridors, and strengthening of agribusiness linkages in the Nile Basin region. 
Partnerships will be facilitated between the Basin and with regional networks such as 
FEWSNET, COMPETE, and others.  
 
D. Component 4: Project management and M&E  
 
This component deals with project management and monitoring and evaluation and will 
provide support to the project management unit (PMU), which will be responsible for 
implementing the project and day-to-day management. The PMU will be guided by the 
Regional Project Steering Committee (RPSC), following guidelines set out in the Project 
Implementation Manual (PIM). The main activities under this component involve day-to-
day management and administration of RATP II; monitoring, evaluation and reporting on 
project activities; support for statutory meetings, biannual Steering Committee meetings, 
and annual stakeholder meetings; and support for the part-time activities of National 
Liaison Officers. The NLOs are the first point of contact between the NBI and riparians 
on issues of water-for-agriculture. The PMU will be responsible for coordinating its 
activities with NELSAP-CU and Nile-Sec, reporting to NELCOM and NELTAC, and 
collaborating with other NBI projects such as the Nile Basin DSS, Nile-ISP, among 
others. Regular meetings of the RPSC and other regional events will also be supported by 
this component. The PMU will monitor and report the progress towards the achievement 
of intermediary outcomes and the project development objective.   
 
4. Project Location and salient physical characteristics relevant to the safeguard 
analysis 
The project will be implemented by the Nile Equatorial Lakes Subsidiay Action Plan 
Coordination Unit. The project management unit will be located in Bujumbura, Burundi. 
Project activities will cover nine riparian countries of the Nile Basin, namely Burundi, 
DRC, Egypt, Ethiopia, Kenya, Rwanda, Sudan, Tanzania, and Uganda.  
 
This Technical Assistance  project in itself is a knowledge generation  operation.  It will 
not support any  physical investments, and hence none of the Bank environmental and 
social safeguard policies are triggered.   
 
5. Environmental and Social Safeguards Specialists 
Ms Mary C.K. Bitekerezo (AFTCS) 
Mr Ladisy Komba Chengula (AFTEN) 
 
Page  5
6. Safeguard Policies Triggered
 
Yes No 
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP 4.01) 
 X 
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04) 
 X 
Forests (OP/BP 4.36) 
 X 
Pest Management (OP 4.09) 
 X 
Physical Cultural Resources (OP/BP 4.11) 
 X 
Indigenous Peoples (OP/BP 4.10) 
 X 
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12) 
 X 
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37) 
 X 
Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP
 
7.50) 
 X 
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP/BP 7.60) 
 X 
II.  Key Safeguard Policy Issues and Their Management 
A. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues 
1. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the proposed project. 
Identify and describe any potential large scale, significant and/or irreversible impacts: 
The RATP project is under environmental Category C, because its Technical Assistance 
interventions, which include data collection and knowledge generation, are likely to have 
minimal or no adverse environmental impacts.  The Project is therefore exempted from 
Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA).  
 
Any future investments which may be prepared using the results of the RATP will be 
subjected to safeguard policies screening so that the relevant instruments will be 
prepared.   
 
2. Describe any potential indirect and/or long term impacts due to anticipated future 
activities in the project area: 
RATP will not provide for investments and thus its impact on environment will be 
indirect. Although impact will be indirect, and small in the short run, it will be positive. 
The project will facilitate the sustainable development of water resources by generating 
knowledge on agricultural interactions with regional water resources, and will 
disseminate results to regional and riparian stakeholders, forging of a common 
understanding of good practice in agricultural and water resource planning and 
management. The data collected through the project in collaboration with the NBI-
Decision Support System (DSS) will provide information and analytical tools to improve 
environmental assessment of agricultural investments, showing their effect on regional 
water resources. The regional river basin planning model can in combination with the 
agricultural model being developed under the project, provide valuable information on 
the response of river flows to alternative agricultural development and management 
paths. This information will also contribute to more detailed environmental assessments 
of impacts of proposed projects on sensitive habitats such as lakes and wetlands.  
 
Sustainable water resource management for agricultural production can be achieved 
through productivity improvements that use water efficiently and trading patterns 
(#virtual water#) that reflect the real (social) opportunity costs of water, taking into 
Page  6
account regional externalities. Once decisions on production and trade guided by this 
approach being promoted by RATP, the agricultural development of riparians will be 
more economically sustainable and environmentally friendly.  
 
Development of sound agricultural and water resource management policy has 
significant social and poverty alleviation implications in the Nile Basin. It is important 
that regional projects and activities reflect social concerns, reinforce cultural and social 
values, and protect environment. RATP supports regional dialogue, collection of 
information, development of the agricultural model, and development of common tools to 
explore alternative development paths from regional to sub-regional perspectives, thereby 
contributing to sustainable land and resources management and poverty reduction. The 
project also helps develop common approaches and improve the information needed to 
assess social and environmental impacts of future NBI and related projects. However, the 
project itself, because it focuses on knowledge generation and technical tools, is not 
anticipated to have any adverse social impacts.  
 
During the pre-appraisal and implementation planning phase of the project, regional 
consultations were held with a range of stakeholders, including representatives from 
agriculture, water and trade-related ministries; academic and training institutions; private 
sector; regional organizations; and donor partners. The success of RATP will be based, in 
part, on the continuation and strengthening of this consultative process. As such, key 
stakeholders will continue to be engaged directly through active consultation as well as 
national and regional seminars and workshops.   
 
3. Describe any project alternatives (if relevant) considered to help avoid or minimize 
adverse impacts. 
No alternative was considered because the project itself does not trigger any 
environmental and social safeguard policies (Category C project). The project does not 
finance any physical investment activities that  could cause environmental and social 
impacts.   
 
4. Describe measures taken by the borrower to address safeguard policy issues. Provide 
an assessment of borrower capacity to plan and implement the measures described. 
As mentioned above, RATP is TA project, which has been assigned environmental 
Category C, and no project specific environmental and social safeguard policies 
documents have been prepared. However, should there be any environmental and social 
issues, the project will use the NELSAP Environmental and Social Management 
Framework, which was disclosed in the NELSAP countries on August 14, 2009 and at 
the World Bank InfoShop on August 21, 2009.  
 
Although NELSAP-CU is a transitional institution and does not have strong built in 
institutional capacity for environment and social safeguard policies, it performs due 
diligence and follows international good practice for each investment project. Moreover, 
there are the on-going efforts under the NBI Institutional Strengthening Project to support 
NBI in strengthening and harmonizing its capacity to incorporate environmental and 
Page  7
social safeguards  polices in all  investment projects and programs. RATP will benefit 
from these efforts through training sessions.   
 
5. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for consultation and 
disclosure on safeguard policies, with an emphasis on potentially affected people. 
The key stakeholders of the project are the institutions of the Nile Basin Initiative, 
members of the Regional Project Steering Committee, national liaison officers and 
national governments, members of the Nile Equatorial Lakes Technical Advisory 
Committee, regional economic communities, and regional partners. The project provides 
funds for communication, disclosure and consultation with these stakeholders at the 
regular basis. Consultations and disclosure are normally in form of meeting, public 
hearing of EIAs of investment projects, stakeholders# workshops and seminars, 
publication of the executive summaries of safeguard documents in national newspapers, 
and placing the documents at the NBI#s website.   
 
B. Disclosure Requirements Date
 
Environmental Assessment/Audit/Management Plan/Other: 
Was the document disclosed 
prior to appraisal?
 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
 
 
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
 
 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
 
 
For category A projects, date of distributing the Executive 
Summary of the EA to the Executive Directors 
 
Resettlement Action Plan/Framework/Policy Process: 
Was the document disclosed 
prior to appraisal?
 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
 
 
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
 
 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
 
 
Indigenous Peoples Plan/Planning Framework: 
Was the document disclosed 
prior to appraisal?
 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
 
 
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
 
 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
 
 
Pest Management Plan: 
Was the document disclosed 
prior to appraisal?
 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
 
 
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
 
 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
 
 
*
If the project triggers the Pest Management and/or Physical Cultural Resources, 
the respective issues are to be addressed and disclosed as part of the Environmental 
Assessment/Audit/or EMP. 
Page  8
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected, please 
explain why: 
Not applicable.  
 
There are not safeguard documents prepared specifically for this project. Instead, the 
project will rely on the NELSAP Environmental and Social Management Framework 
(ESMF), which was disclosed in August 2009.   
C. Compliance Monitoring Indicators at the Corporate Level (to be filled in when the 
ISDS is finalized by the project decision meeting) 
 
The World Bank Policy on Disclosure of Information 
 
Have relevant safeguard policies documents been sent to the World Bank's 
Infoshop? 
No 
Have relevant documents been disclosed in-country in a public place in a 
form and language that are understandable and accessible to project-affected 
groups and local NGOs? 
No 
All Safeguard Policies 
 
Have satisfactory calendar, budget and clear institutional responsibilities 
been prepared for the implementation of measures related to safeguard 
policies? 
No 
Have costs related to safeguard policy measures been included in the project 
cost? 
No 
Does the Monitoring and Evaluation system of the project include the 
monitoring of safeguard impacts and measures related to safeguard policies? 
No 
Have satisfactory implementation arrangements been agreed with the 
borrower and the same been adequately reflected in the project legal 
documents? 
No 
D. Approvals 
 
Signed and submitted by: 
Name 
Date 
Task Team Leader: 
Mr Sergiy Zorya 
08/27/2009 
Environmental Specialist: 
Mr Ladisy Komba Chengula 
09/07/2009 
Social Development Specialist 
Ms Mary C.K. Bitekerezo 
09/11/2009 
Additional Environmental and/or 
Social Development Specialist(s): 
 
Approved by: 
 
Sector Manager: 
Ms Christine E. Cornelius 
09/14/2009 
Comments:   
