JOFICAL           TF oSI
DOCUMENTS
The World Baik                                 1818 Street N.W.        *202) 473-1000
INTERNATIONAL BAh M FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT  Washi      -   -Cable Address: INTBAFRAD
INTERNATIONAL DE\ LOPMENT ASSOCIATION          U.S.A.                   Cable Address: INDEVAS
October 25, 2012
Eng. Teferra Beyene
Execut've Director
Nile Basin Initiative
P.O.Box 192
Entebb.-, Uganda
Rc: Nile Basia Trust Fund Grant Number TF095157
Nile Equatorial Lakes Subsidiary Action Program (NELSAP)
Regional Agricultural Trade and Productivity Project
First Revised Disbursement Letter dated November 20, 2009
Addition. Imtructions: Disbursement Letter
Dear Sir:
I refer to the Letter Agreennt ("Agreement"), dated November 20, 2009, for the above-
referenced Project, entered into between the Nile Basin Initiative (variously, "Recipient" and
"NBI"), and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development ("IBRD") and
International Development Associa ion ("IDA") (collectively, "World Bank"), acting as
administrator of grant funds provided by various donors to the Nile Basin Initiative Trust Fund,
which Agreement counte -signed Ncvember 30, 2009. The Agreement provides that the World
Bank may issue additional instructions regarding the withdrawal of the proceeds of NBTF Grant
TF096105 ("Grant"). By a letter (" Disbursement Letter") dated November 20, 2009, the World
Bank constituted the additional inst-uctians. In this first revision of the Disbursement Letter, we
wish to indicate a new mi nimum value for withdrawal applications. This Disbursement Letter
supersoles the previous version.
The attached World Bank D sbursement Guidelines for Projects, dated May 1, 2006,
("Disbursement Guidelines") (Attachment 1), are an integral part of the Disbursement Letter.
The ma.iner in which the provision, in the Disbursement Guidelines apply to the Grant is
specifi-c. below. Sections and subs,-ctions in parentheses below refer to the relevant sections and
subseci.ons in the Disbursement Gt idelines and, unless otherwise defined in this letter, the
capitaltzed terms used have the me, nings ascribed to them in the Disbursement Guidelines.
I. Disbursement Arrangements
(i) DisiJursement Methods (section 2). The following Disbursement Methods may be used
under t I Grant:
* Reimbursement
* Advance
* Direct Payment
* Special Commitment


﻿(ii) Disb ursement Deadline Date (s wbsection 3.7). The Disbursement Deadline Date is four [4]
months after the Closing D)ate speci 'ed in the Grant Agreement. Any changes to this date will be
notifiecd by the Association.
II. Withdrawal of Grant Proceeds
(i) Authorized Signature.s (subsectim 3..1).
A letter in the Form attached (Attac'iment 2) should be furnished to the World Bank at the
address indicated below providing t ie name(s) and specimen signature(s) of the official(s)
authorized to sign Applic ations:
Thl World Bink
18 18 H Stree:, N.W.
Washington, DC:20433,
United States of America
Atiention: Loan Department
(ii) Apldications (subsections 3.2 - 3.3). Please provide completed and signed (a) applications
for withdrawal, together with supporting documents, and (b) applications for special
commitments, together with a copy of the commercial bank letter of credit,] to the address
indicated below:
Th. World B ink,
4 Fricker Ro-.d,
Illovo Boulevard, 2196
Johannesburg,
Republic of South Africa
At-ention: Loan Department
(iii) Electronic Delivery (subsection 3.4) The World Bank may permit the Recipient to
electroiically deliver to te World Bank Applications (with supporting documents) through the
World Bank's Client Connection, web-based portal. The option to deliver Applications to the
World Bank by electronic means m iy be effected if: (a) the Recipient has designated in writing,
pursuant to the terms of subparagrah (i) of this Section, its officials who are authorized to sign
and deliver Applications and to receive secure identification devices ("Tokens") from the World
Bank for the purpose of delivering such Applications by electronic means; and (b) all such
officials designated by the Recipiert have registered as users of Client Connection. If the World
Bank agrees, the Association will p.rovide the Recipient with Tokens for the designated officials.
Following which, the designated of icials may deliver Applications electronically by completing
Form 2380, which is accessible through Client Connection
(https:/clientconnection. worldbank.org). The Recipient may continue to exercise the option of
preparing and delivering Applicaticns in paper form. The World Bank reserves the right and
may, in its sole discretion, temporarily or permanently disallow the electronic delivery of
Applications by the Reci ?ient.


﻿(iv) Terms and Conditionis of Use of Tokens to Process Applications. By designating officials
to accept Tokens and by choosing to deliver the Applications electronically, the Recipient
confirnt through the authorized sig iatory letter its agreement to: (a) abide by the Terms and
Conditions of Use ofSecure Identifi vation Devices in Connection with Use ofElectronic Means
to Process Applications and Supporting Documentation ("Terms and Conditions of Use of
Tokens") provided in Attachment 3. and (b) to deliver the Terms and Conditions of Use of
Tokens to each such official and to cause such official to abide by those terms and conditions.
(v) Minimum Value ofApplications (subsection 3.5). The Minimum Value of Applications is
US$ 60,000.00
(vi) Advances (sections 5 and 6).
*  Type ofDesigniated Account (subsection 5.3):
DesignateI Account: RATP Designated Account: Segregated
*  Currency of Designated A ccount (subsection 5.4):US Dollars
* Financial Institution at which the Designated Account[ Will Be Opened (subsection
5.5) A commercial bank / inancial institution acceptable to the World Bank.
*  Ceiling (subsection 6.1): USE) 500,000.00
III. Reporting on Use of Grant Pi-oceeds
(i) Supporting Documentation (section 4). Supporting documentation should be provided with
each application for withdrawal as set out below:
* For requests fo,r Reimburyement:
o  Records evidencin: eligible expenditures (e.g., copies of receipts, supplier
invoices) for payments against contracts of (a) goods valued at US$ 100,000 or
more; (b) services )f consulting firms valued at US$ 100,000 or more: and (c)
services of individial consultants valued at US$ 50,000 or more.
o Stateme at of Expe iditure in the form attached (Attachment 4): and
o List of rayments against contracts that are subject to the World Bank's prior
review, in the fort. attached (Attachment 5);
* For reporting eligible ex enditures paidfrom the Designated Account:
o Records evidencing eligible expenditures (e.g., copies of receipts, supplier
invoices) for payments against contracts of (a) goods valued at US$ 100,000 or


﻿more; (b) services of ccnsulting firms valued at US$ 100,000 or more: and (c)
services of individual consultants valued at US$ 50,000 or more.
o  Statement of Expenditure in the form attached (Attachment 4): and
o  List of payments against contracts that are subject to the World Bank's prior
review, in the fon-n attached (Attachment 5);
For requests for Direct Payment: records evidencing eligible expenditures, e.g., copies of
receipts, supplier invoices.
(ii) Frequency of Reporting Eligible Expenditures Paid from the Designated Account
(subsection 6.3): Monthly
IV. Other Important Informatiou
For additional information on disbursement arrangements, please refer to the
Disbursement Handbook available on the World Bank's public website at
https://www.worldbank.org and its ;ecure website "Client Connection" at
https://clientconnection.worldbank.org. Print copies are available upon request.
From the Client Connection website, you will be able to prepare and deliver
Applications, monitor the near real-time status of the Grant, and retrieve related policy, financial,
and procurement information.
If you have any queries in re lation to the above, please contact Hassine Hedda, Finance
Officer at service accoun- email adcress LOA-afr(kworldbank.org, using the above reference.
Yours sincerely,
Hassine H  da
Finance Officer
Loan Department
CTRLA
Attachnents
1. World Bank Disbursement Guicelines for Projects, dated May 1, 2006
2. Form for Authorized Signatures
3. Terms and Conditions of Use of'Secure Identification Devices in connection with Use of
Electronic Means to?Process Alplications and Supporting Documentation, dated January 20,
201 D


﻿4. Forrn of "Statement of Expenditure"
5. Fortn of Summary Sheet for Paymerts Against Contracts Subject to the World Bank's Prior
Rei%ew.
6. Initial allocations of tle Grant to Prcject implementing entities
Hassine Hedda
Cleared with and cc: John Bryant Collier - LEGAM
Jo n Bryant C allier- Task Team Leader


