Docummnt of
The World Bank
FOXR OFMCIL USE ONLY
Rbpwt No. 12297
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
THAILAND
LAND REFORM AREAS PROJECT
(LOAN 2198-T¢)
SEPTENBER 7, 1993
MICROGRAPHICS
Report No:        12297
Type: PCR
Agriculture and Natural Resources Operations Division
Country Department I
East Asla and Pacific Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Currency Eggivalents
Name of Currency - Baht (B)
Currency Exchange Rate
Appraisal Year Average (1981)           - US$ 1.00 - Baht 23.0
Intervening years average (1982-88)     - US$ 1.00 - Baht 23.7
Completion Year Average (1989)          - US$ 1.00 - Baht 25.1
RoyaL Thai Government
Fiscal Year
October 1 - September 30
Weightn and Measures
1 hectare (ha) - 2.47 acres - 6.25 rai
Otherwise Metric System
ASbbreviations
ALRO             Agricultural Land Reform Office
BAAC             Bank for Agriculture and Agricultural Cooperati1es
DLD              Department of Land Development
DOAE             Department of Agricultural Extension
DOH              Department of Health
LRA              Land Reform Area
M & E            Monitoring and Evaluation
NIDA             National Institute for Development Administration
ONPEC            Office of the National Primary Education Commission
RTG              Royal Thai Government



FOR OFCIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washingon, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Offlo of Dirsotear4mrl
Operions Evaluaton                                                    September 7, 1993
MEMORANQlIM TO THE£ XECUV DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Prolect Comoletlon Regort on Thailand Land Reforni Aroas Proiect (Loan 2198-TH)
Attached is the Project Compldon Report on Thailand - Land Reform Areas Project
(Loan 21 98-TH) prepared by the East Asia and Pacific Regional Office. Part 11, prepared by the
Borrower, stresses the ne,d for flexibility in the application of Bank policies and procedures (e.g.,
those for consultant selection and procurement) to projects of this kind.
In Thalland significant numbers of farmers are occjpying land which has been officially
gazetted as public land. In the past they had no security of tevure and no public infrastucture or
services have been provided. The Agricultural Land Reflorm Office (ALRO) was established in 1975
to tackle this problem. The project was the first Bank operation supporting this agency. In
additon to institutional support, and the provision of secure land rights, the project funded
infrastructure development in nine 'Land Reform Areas' ILRAs! totsalling almost 200,000 ha.
During implementation one LRA was dropped and three smaller 3nes substituted. At completion
almost all the physical targets had been achieved or substantially exceeded, except for tubewell
development planned for the LRA which was dropped. The institutional development impact is
rated as partial since, at completion, ALRO was still heavily dependent on extemal assistance.
At project closing, output of most of the crops targeted at appraisal was close to
projections. The PCR indicates that, in addition, farmers in the project aeeas borrowed almost
US$5 million in medium to long term loans from official sources to develop new enterprises, in
partcular dairying. The reestimated economic rate of return (based on the targeted crops) is 17
percent, 3 percent above the appraisal estimate. The main reason was cost reduction, in particular
the reduction in irrigation investment. Because of the diversification of production which is now
taking place, sustainability is considered likely and the overall project outcome is rated as
satisfactory.
The loan carried an interest rate of 11.6 percer.t. Because of this the borrower did not
seek reimbursement of afl expenditure to which it was entitled. US$7.5 million of the US$17
million loan was cancelled and the balance was prepaid at completion.
The completion report provides an adequate account of project implementation. An
audit is planned.
Attachment
This doctument has a rssk-d di8tudo and may be used by el;mt onlsy In the perfomumos of
th1* offtli duties. It8 ¢OmotEt ma not otherws be di8t:10ed withdlt Wodd Ban ut or:dwfs



FOR OMCIL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
LAND REFORM AREA8 PROJECT
ILOAM 2198-TH)
Table of Contents
Pace No.
Preface   .   .    .    .   .    .   .   .    .    .   .    .   .    .   .    .   .    .   .   .    .   .    .    .   .    .    .    .    .    .   ... .......   .
Evaluation Summary  ....  .  .     . . . . . . . . . . .. .....i. .  .  .    .   i.
PART I:  PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE  . . . . . . . . . . . .    1
A.  Project Identity   1.. .....  .   * * * .............         1
B.  Background    . . . .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    1
C.  Project Objectives and Description   . . . . . . . . . ... 2
D.  Project Design and Organization   . . . . . . . . . . . .    3
E.  Project Implementation    .. ...  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .   4
F.  Project Results  . . . . . . . . . .  . .  . . . ...  . . .  *   9
G.  Project sustainability   . ........ .            .... .  11
H.  Bank Performance   . . . . .  . . * .  . * *  *..     . * * **...    11
I.  Borrower Performance   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  12
J.  Project Relationship  ............. ...  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .   13
X.  Consultant Services  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  13
L.  Project Documentation and Data   . . . . . . . . . . . . .  13
PART II:  PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE  . . . . . . . . . .  15
A.   Bank's  Performance  During  Project  Evolution  and
Tmplementation   . ........... ... .15
B.  Borrower's Performance During Project Evolution and
Implementation   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    16
C.  Relationship between the Bank and the Borrower During
Project Evolution and Implementation   . . . . . . . . .    17
D.  Comments on Part I and Part III  . . . . . . . . . . . . .  17
PART IIIt STATISTICAL INFORMATION  . . . . . . . .               . . . .  18
1. Related Bank Loans and/or Credits   . . . . . . . . . . . .  18
2.  Project Timetable   ....................                    18
3. Loan Disbursement   . . . . . . . .    .......    . . .  .   .  21
4.  Project Implementation  . . . .  . . . . . . . .  . * * .  .  21
5. Project Cost and Financing  .... . . . . . . . . . . . . . 25
6.  Project Results   . .  .  .  .  .     .  * . *  . . . . . .  . . 27
7. Status of Covenants       . ................... 36
8. Use of Bank Resources       ...................              41
ANNEX
Table 1: Economic Benefits and Costs   . . . . ..  . . . . . .42
Table 2: Financial and Economic Costs   .* ......   . . . . . 43
NMA       IBRD 15809R: Location of Project Areas
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- i -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TRALAND
LAND REFORM AREAS POJECT
(LOAN 2198-THu
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Land Reform Areas
Project in Thailand, for which Loan 2198-TH in the amount of US$17 million was
approved on September 21, 1982. The loan was closed on September 19, 1989, about
nine months behind schedule. Loan disbursement of US$9.S million was repaid by
the Royal Thai Government (RTG) on September 19, 1989, when the undisbursed
balance of US$7.5 million was cancelled.
Parts I and III of the PCR are based on a draft prepared by an
PAO/World Bank Cooperative Program mission which visited Thailand in
September/October lS9l1 a review of the Staff Appraisal Report (3553-TH) dated
August 23, 1982t the Loan Agreement dated September 29, 1982; Bank supervision
reports and project files; discussions with the Borrower's project staff; and
interviews with World Bank staff associated with the project.
The Bank wishes to thank the Agricultural Land Reform Office (ILRO)
and other involved RTG agencies for their assistance in preparing this PCR.



- iii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
THAILAND
LAND REFORM AREAS PROJECT (LOAN 2198-TH)
Evaluation Summary
Obiectiyk
1.        The Land Reform Areas Project, financed by Loan 2198-TH which became
effective in June 1983, was the first Bank-financed operation in Thailand for
land distribution and infrastructure development through the Agricultural Land
Reform Office (ALRO). The project aimed to develop public lands which had been
encroached on by small farmers, intensify rainfed agricultural activities and
improve land use in those areas, expand agricultural exports and alleviate rural
poverty. The project area included nine land reform areas (LRAs) of 192,000 ha,
with a target population of some 35,000 low income families. The project was
expected to cost US$31 million over five years, with US$17 million being financed
by the Bank, and includeds (a) strengthening of ALRO's capacity to carry out its
land reform functionsl (b) land distribution and provision of improved security
of tenure on about 173,000 ha; (c) infrastructure development, comprising roads,
soil conservation works, irrigation, domestic water supply, school classrooms and
health centers in the nine LRAs; and (d) strengthening of the project preparation
capability of several government agencies engaged in agriculture and rural
development.   n addition, the Bank for Agriculture and Agricultural Cooperatives
(EAAC) was to provide credit to project beneficiaries for land compensation,
production inputs, and miscellaneous agricultural investments.
Imolementation Experience
2.        General.   The loan closing date was extended by nine months to
September 19, 1989, when the Government fully pre-paid US$9.5 million which had
been disbursed and cancelled the balance of US$7.5 million. The final project
cost amounted to US$19.8 million (8506.8 million) compared to the appraisal
estimate of US$31 million (3711.8 million), due largely to savings on land
compensation, the deletion from the project of one LRA which was to include the
bulk of the irrigation component, and the devaluation of the Baht. The problems
encountered during implementation were delays in road construction and issuance
of land use certificates, inadequate road maintenance, insufficient availability
of institutional credit, limited interest of farmers in soil conservation works,
and weak project monitoring arrangements.
3.        Institutional Development.  Since ALRO was a relatively inexperienced
institution, the project design was not based on time-slice funding of ALRO's
development program but on preparation and review of a separate sub-project for
each of the nine LRAs. The provision of staff, vehicles, equipment, civil works,
training and consultants and data processing services strengthened ALRO and the



'' iv -
cooperating agencies. Several studies, including a Master Plan for ALRO, were
completed and contributed to project implementation as well as the overall debate
on land reform policy in the country. However, the failure of ALRO's monitoring
system and ALRO's continued reliance on external assistance in sub-project
preparation even at project completion were disappointing. The monitoring system
suggested by the consultants for ALRO was found to be too complicated and is not
functioning.    Moreover,  most  of  the  staff  trained  during  the  project
implementation period were deployed to positions unrelated to their training,
thereby not realizing the benefit of their improved knowledge and skill.
4.        Land distribution.   Of the nine LRAs originally included in the
project, one of them, Pichit (covering 56,000 ha) was replaced in 1983 by two new
LRAs covering about 46,620 ha since Pichit was to be developed under a Thai-
Australian project.   A third LRA was included in 1987 to make up for the
difference In area between Pichit and the two LRAs included earlier (Map IBED
15809R). Altogether, there are now 11 LRAs in the project covering 200,240 ha,
compared to the appraisal target of 192,000 ha. The agricultural area in the 11
LREA is about 158,400 ha (173,000 ha at appraisal). As at end August 1991,
although land distribution field work (cadastral survey, negotiation and final
allocation) had been completed in all the 11 LRAs, ALRO 4.01 certificates (which
confer land use rights and security of tenure) had been issued to 32,982 farmers
covering an agricultural area of 115,480 ha.
S.        Infrastructire develoPment.  A total of 669 km of roads and service
tracks were constructed representing 156% of the appraisal target. However, road
maintenance  continues  to  be  a  problem.       Efforts  to  transfer  these
responsibilities to the relevant agencies have not met with success because of
inadequate joint planning and discre ancy in road standards used. The other sub-
components except health centers and classrooms have fallen short of the
appraisal targets.   Soil conservation works completed were only 57% of the
appraisal target since ALRO and the Land Development Department failed to reach
agreement on low-cost soil conservation practices and structures to be used.
Farmers' lack of interest due to loss of land for structures was another reason
for the shortfall. Experiments with vegetative hedges are now being conducted
by ALRO. Only 12 rock weirs and 53 tubewells were constructed (16% and 11% of
appraisal targets, respectively), mainly due to the exclusion of Pichit LRA,
which contained most of the irrigation component. The component did not respond
well to the farmers" needs since they were not involved in either its planning
or implementation and, as a result, some weirs constructed under the project are
hardly used.
6.        Aaricultural suMort services.  Coordination among the cooperative
agencies for agricultural extension, land development and credit was somewhat
below expectations. However, credit to project farmers by 8AAC rose six-fold
from about B18.4 million in 1985 to B115.7 million in 1989.  Despite credit
expansion, the farmers' investment requirements are 'not fully met due to the
small average loan size which, in turn, is due to the fact that the ALRO 4.01
certificate is not a land title and its usefulness as collateral is, therefore,
limited.



-V-
Proisect results
7.        Overall, the project was satisfactory and had a partial institutional
impact. It achieved most of its major objectivess the development of encroached
public lands, intensification of rainfed agriculture, improved income of
beneficiaries, the expansion of agricultural exports ,ad improved land use.  The
project, however, did not have much success in redistributing holdings above the
maximum legal limit of 8 ha as large farmers were unwillinj to relinquish excess
lands. The major objectives of the project were met by providing road access to
markets; providing extension and credit services to help increase cropping
intensity, yields and crop diverslfication for some 35,700 rural households; and
improving water supply, providing health centers, and adding school classrooms.
The number of beneficiaries exceeded appraisal targets. Incremental production
of cassava, cotton, mungbean and rice, estimated at about 34,600 tons at project
completion, also exceeded the appraisal target of 21,000 tons.
8.        The economic rate of return of the project at completion is re-
estimated at 17%, about 3% higher than the appraisal estimate. The higher rate
of return is mainly due to overall cost under-run, higher vehicle cost savings,
and higher incremental production of non-rice commodities.
Proiect Sustainabilitv
9.        Overall, project sustainability is likely. ALRO has been strengthened
and the project's land reform and development model is replicable in other areas
of the country. However, the sustainability of project infrastructure in the
long term requires the transfer of maintenance responsibilities to other relevant
agencies.   The sustainability of improved farmer incomes is linked with
investment which, in turn, is at least partly dependent on credit availability.
Lack of collateral limits farmers' ability to borrow from formal lenders. The
conversion of ALRO 4.01 certificate into a full land title would help resolve the
collateral problem. The issue is under consideration by the Government.
Findings and Lessons Learned
10.       The main lessons are the followings
(a)  land reform projects that improve the security of land ownership
combined with the provision of economic and social infrastructure and
services close to national .standards can improve farm incomes and thus
help reduce encroachment and deforestation (PCR, para. 1.33);
(b)  the sustainability of infrastructure maintenance cannoc be assured by
ALRO in the long term unless efforts are made to undertake early joint
planning with agencies whose core function is infrastructure
development, ensure standards equivalent to those of similar
infrastructure in other parts of the country and transfer maintenance
responsibilities to the relevant agencies (PCR, paras. 1.22, 1.35 and
1.39(b));
(c) to induce farmers to invest more in sustaining and raising land
productivity,   it  is  necessary  to  improve  accessibility  of



- vi -
institutional credit, possibly through conversion of the ALRO 4.01
certificate into a full land title which can serve as bank collateral
(PCR, para. 1.28)1 and
(d) project design should be flexible to allow changes in response to
farmers, needs and involvement of local people should be sought in
planning and implementation of rural infrastructure such as rock weirs
and service tracks to ensure optimum utilization and maintenance of
these facilities (PCR, paras, 1.10 and 1.23).



PROJECT COMPLETION REgORT
TkILAND
IAND REFORM 4REAS PROJECT
(LOAN 2198-TH)
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANKS PERSPECTIVE
A.    Proiect Identity
Name          :   Land Reform Areas Project
Loan number   :   2198-TH
RVP Unit           East Asia and Pacific Region
Country       :   Thailand
Sector            Agriculture
Sub-sectors       Land Reform
B.    Background
1.1            During the post-World War II period, Thailand has achieved an
impressive record of growth and development. Real GDP increases have averaged
nearly 7X p.a., poverty has been dramatically reduced, and output and exports
I:ave become increasingly   diversified.   Although agriculture remained the
mainstay of the economy, its share in GDP fell sharply, and the dominance of rice
and other traditional crops began to be ch&llenged by new crops such as
sugarcane, maize and cassava. This development was greatly facilitated by
substantial improvements in infrastructure, notably in irrigation, electricity
supply and transportation, and by the growth of the banking system particularly
during the 1950s. The improvement of the road system opened up the domestic
market for the country's nascent manufacturing  industry,  while allowing
agricultural production in the provinces to be sent to Bangkok for export.
1.2       The Government's current agricultural policy objectives emphasize
continued expansion of agricultural production and alleviation of rural poverty
and interregional income disparities, but with relatively greater attention than
in the past to issues of sustainability and sound natural resource management and
conservation. A significant element of the Government's efforts to attain these
objectives is the establishment of an appropriate land use policy, with the
necessary legal and regulatory underpinnings. Two major constraints concern
unrealistic land classification and the continued lack of secure tenure for many
farmers. With regard to land classification, about 6 million ha of officially
classified forest lands have been encroached bv about one million families
pursuing agricultural activities, witb some villages having existed for more than
100 years. About two-thirds of the settled area does appear to be suitable for
agriculture, but the level of infrastructure and public services, and of
agricultural productivity, is substantially below that in neighboring villages
because these areas are legally designated only for forestry.   Poor tenure
security also provides little incentive for investments in soil conservation
works, irrigation systems or perennial crops.
1.3            The Agricultural Land Reform Office (ALRO) was established in
March 1975 to improve land distribution and security of tenure in specified land
reform areas (LRAs) on public and private lands. ALRO's initial efforts to
redistribute about 9,000 ha of public land have had limited saccess because the
land was allocated rather mechanically according to a geometric pattern, without
regard to previous holdings, topography, soil quality or relevant agronomic



- 2 -
factors. Moreover, ALRO sometimes attempted to secure farmers' agreement to land
distribution by offering to provide irrigation. However, most of the public land
reform areas were not suitable for irrigation and the approach to land
distribution needed to be changed to take into account the fact that most farmers
in those areas would continue to operate under rainfed conditions. Taking the
above factors into consideration, ALRO prepared the Land Reform Areas Project for
Bank financing.
C.     Project Oblectives ard DescriRti-n
1.4       Objectives.   The project was designed to help develop encroached
public lands, intensify rainfed agriculture, expand agricultural exports,
alleviate rural poverty and improve land use. These aims were to be pursued by
strengthening ALRO's institutional capability and demonstrating the viability of
an improved land reform and infrastructure development model in an initial set
of nine land reform areas (LRAs) of 192,000 ha, which included an agricultural
area of 173,000 ha and some 35,000 low-income families.  In addition, the project
was to strengthen the project preparation capability of several government
agencies engaged in agriculture and rural development and provide for the
preparation of future projects.
1.5       Comnanents.  The project had the following components:
(a) Institutional Strengthening and Land Reform. The provision of staff,
vehicles, equipment, materials, civil works, training, and consultants
and data processing services for the carrying out of the following:
(i) expansion of ALRO's capacity to carry out its land reform role
through the preparation of sub-project proposals, the strengthening
of its mapping capability, the establishment of a monitoring and
evaluation system, the undertaking of land reform studies and the
carrying out of a study of ALRO's organizational structure and
procedures; and (ii) the carrying out of land reform, including land
distribution and improved security of tenure on about 173,000 ha;
(b) Infrastructure Development. (i) the construction or rehabilitation of
430 km of access roads and tracks;   (ii)  introduction of soil
conservation structures and practices on about 4,500 ha; (iii)
extension of the irrigated area by about 4,200 ha through the
construction of 75 small weirs and the drilling of about 500 shallow
tubewells; (iv) expansion of the water supply system through the
construction of about 130 dugwells and the drilling of about 20
tubewells; (v) expansion of the education system through the
construction of about 115 primary school rooms; and (vi) improvement
of the health delivery system through the construction of 10 health
centres; and
(c)  Sector Studies and Proje2t Provaration:   (i) the carrying out of
sector and sub-sector studies through the provision of consultants'
services;   (ii) strengthening the project preparation capacity of
selected agencies through the provision of vehicles, equipment,
materials, minor civil works, training and consultants and data
processing services therefor;   and (iii) preparation, through the
provision of consultants' services, of projects by selected agencies.



-3.
1.6       Total project Costs, over a five-year period, were estimated at US$31
million (B712 million). The Bank loan of $17 million was to fund 58X of costs,
net of taxes, while the Government and the Bank for Agriculture and Agricultural
Cooperatives (BAAC) were to contribute 24% and 18%, respectively. The BAAC's
contribution to project financing was to be in the form of credit to
beneficiaries for land compensation and irrigation tubewells and pumps.   In
addition, BAMC was to provide credit to project beneficiaries for production
inputs and miscellaneous agricultural investments.   The project was to be
iwplemented by ALRO, with the participation of other Government agencies.
D.     Project Design and Organization
1.7       The project was identified and prepared by ALRO, assisted by the
FAO/World Bank Cooperative Program, an FAO consultant funded by the UNDP and a
Bank mission. The project was uell-conceived. It was based on the reasoning
that improving the security of land ownership and providing infrastructure and
development assistance would both improve farmer incomes and reduce further
encroachment into and degradation of remaining forested lands. ALRO's experience
prior to the start of the project, albeit on a small scale, had been on newly
degazetted forest areas, with a focus on infrastructure development. Technical
planning was done mechanioally without taking into account the agro-ecological
and social aspects of existing holdings and benefits to farmers. The project
sought to strengthen ALRO's capacity for planning and implementation of the land
distribution and agricultural development program of each LRA, with emphasis on
beneficiary feedback and consensual decision-making. However, the project design
was not based on time-slice funding of ALRO's development program but on
preparation and review of a separate sub-project for each of the nine LRAs. This
sub-project approach was adopted since ALRO was a relatively inexperienced
institution.   Consultants were to be employed to prepare sub-projects.  The
project design also envisaged close cooperation of other agencies with ALRO
during implementation.
1.8       The refinements  in ALRO's strategy and procedures  at the LRA,
provincial and national levels, and the execution of Letters of Agreement with
cooperating agencies responsible for e1,ricultural extension, land development,
credit, education and public healti., provided a good basis for orderly
implementation, though coordination with cooperating agencies was below
expectations (para. 1.27).  The Secretary-General of ALRO served as Project
Director, and a new unit led by a Project Manager was charged with day-to-day
implementation responsibilities related to field operations. Some specialized
activities (e.g. engineering, research and planning) remained headquarters-
based. The project and other foreign-financed land reform activities were
planned and monitored by the Foreign Loan Project Office. The timing of this
project was particularly appropriate and the capability of ALRO has now developed
to the point where the Parliament has increased the magnitude of the land reform
and development work assigned to the agency from about 1 million ha previously
to 4.8 million ha over the next 15 years.
1.9       Three concerns identified at appraisal were how to: (a) establish
economically viable farm sizes;   (b) distribute land to as many farmers as
possible; and (c) minimize the reluctance of farmers holding more than the
maximum limit (about 8 ha) to give up land during implementation. The minimum
farm sizes set (4-5 ha) proved to be small and, in the absence of better than
average management, insufficient to provide adequate family income and the



-4-
capacity for repa)tent of land and crop related loans. ALRO's strategy now is
to improve the pxoductivity of smaller farms and oncourage a high level of
commercialization in LRAs with intensive infrastructure development. The land
occupied by large farmers unwilling to relinquish excess lands was set aside and
land reform concentrated on achieving quick results by dividing up the available
agriculturally suitable land among those eligible and living in the area. Very
little land was distributed to landless families or new families entering the
area (see further para. 1.20).
1.10      It also appeared th&t the sub-project proposals, particularly for
irrigation, were not fully responsive to farmers' needs (see para. 1.23). This
weakness could have been avoided if there had been consultation with and
participation by the beneficiaries in project planning and implementation.
E.     Project Implementation
1.11      Loan 2198-TH of US$17 million was approved in September 1982 and
became effective in June 1983. The Loan was closed on September 19, 1989, about
nine months behind schedule. At that time the outstanding balance of US$7.5
million was cancelled and the Government fully prepaid the US$9.5 million which
had been disbursed, to avoid what it considered to be heavy interest charges of
11.61 p.a.
1.12      The final project cost was B506.8 million (US$19.8 million), about 36X
lower than the appraisal estimate in dollar terms.   This was due mainly to
savings in expenditures on land compensation, which was mostly completed before
the start of the project, and on irrigation, due to deletion from the project of
Pichit LRA (para. 1.13), which included the bulk of the irrigation component, as
well as to devaluation of the Baht. Roads (which absorbed 301 of total cost) and
institutional development (which accounted for 381 of total cost) exceeded their
appraisal estimates because of higher costs of construction, consultants,
equipment and buildings, than were originally estimated.
1.13      Of the nine sub-projects originally planned, one of them (Pichit LRA,
56,000 ha) was replaced in 1983 by two new LRAs (Doi Pui, 6,680 ha and Si Sa Ket,
39,940 ha). Pichit was to be developed with grant assistance from the Australian
International Development Assistance Bureau (AIDAB). Later in 1987, the Uthai
Thani LRA (29,330 ha) was included in the project to make up for the project area
lost by the transfer of Pichit and to use the available funds (Map IBRD 15809R).
The increase in the number of LRAs from 9 to 11 necessitated more infrastructure
works in roads, schools and health centers.   By the end of September 1991,
infrastructure works on all the 11 LRAs were completed and the project now covers
a total area of 200,240 ha (compared to 192,000 ha at appraisal) located in the
North, Northeast and Central regions with about 35,700 farm families.   Some
158,400 ha of the total area is presently under cultivation (Table 1).



Table 1: DISTRIBUTION OF PROJECT LAND REFORM ARES (LRAs) BY REGION
:S:;:''x'':RA3P        Rtou  Son Retor   Agiutu t Ar'  '' oP ,-n. ........ , '
2. W.n C.i (Chiang Ra)    1            .. N     -4  2  :      ,.
3~  akouSawan           N       23,930        1887 :  i P:::180-  .
4. LopBuv C27,840-
* &    ~     :.           NE
N     North;    C -  Central;    NE    Northeast.
1.14      Institutional Development.   Institutional development was promoted
through the provision of staff, vehicles, equipment, civil works, training and
consultancy and data processing services to strengthen ALRO's capacity to carry
out its land reform responsibilities.   The facilities and services have
essentially been completed, albeit with some delays, and with generally
satisfactory results.  The main exceptions were the failure of the monitoring
syscem, the continued reliance on external assistance in project preparation and
inefficient use of trained staff. ALRO's reliance on consultants seemed heavy
as evidenced by the expenditure on consultants (B102.8 million compared to B57.7
million at appraisal). A number of ALRO staff have been trained under in-house
and external training programs and through study tours abroad, but most were
deployed to positions unrelated to their training, thereby not realizing the
benefit of their improved knowledge and skill.
1.15     A number of studies were also carried out, as detailed in Part III,
Section 6D - Studies. These studies havve contributed to project implementation
as well as the overall debate on land reform policy in the country.   The
reorganization of ALRO was carried out in April 1990, drawing in part on the
recommendations of the study on organization and management.
1.16      The project also provided funding for the preparation of sub-projects
(para. 1.7), the strengthening of ALRO's mapping capability and the establishment
of a monitoring and evaluation system. ALRO recruited consultant advisors to
assist in the implementation of sub-projects and in supervision and maintenance.



All sub-projects except Doi Pui LRA were prepared by consulting firms, which
performed satisfactorily.   However, consultants' performance in the area of
training was not satisfactory. The main reason for poor performance was their
neglect of training in favor of project execution. This may be partly explained
by pressure from management to complete project works.           ALRO's mapping
capability has improved and this helped in  completing the project's land
distribution work by December 1989.
1.17      The computerized monitoring system was first developed by the National
Institute for Development Administration (NIDA) in 1984 and was proposed to ALRO
for implementation in February 1985. The system was found to be too complicated
during implementation and the NIDA team revised it in 1986.   Despite this
revision, ALRO has not officially set up a monitoring unit, still finding the
system too complicated (see further para. 1.47).
1.18      Committees. Project implementation was coordinated by committees set
up at four different levels  - a Project Executive Committee,  a Project
Coordinating Committee, a Project Working Committee, and a Project Field Working
Committee set up in each of the participating provinces. The committees, in
general, did not perform as expected (para. 1.41). It is recommended that the
working of these committees be streamlined with the Executive Committee meeting
more frequently to better monitor the progress of the project and help solve
problems involving cooperating agencies; and the Coordinating Committee
concentrate more on joint planning of project activities and actual
implementation in the project area.  The Working Committees should pay more
attention to agricultural development with better representation from those
agencies working on agricultural development activities within the district where
the LRA is located.
1.19      Coogeratives. Since 1978, when the first ALRO Cooperative was set up,
89 land reform agricultural cooperatives have been established. Their operating
performance, however, has been below original expectations.   Nore than 10
cooperatives are close to insolvency, and the rest still cannot pay for their own
managers and employees and are practically run by government officials. Loan
repayment is low at 40X of amounts due. This raises doubt as to their ability
to function as the principal means to improve the standard of living of poor
farmers in LRAs.
1.20      Land distribution.  The land reform program involved the issue of land
use certificates (ALRO 4.01) to farmers for the use of encroached forest lands
suitable for agricultural use, and transfer of land from farmers with holdings
over 8 ha to landless farmers or farmers having holdings below a financially
viable minimum size established for each LRA (generally about 4-5 ha). ALRO's
ability to distribute land to landless farmers not farming in LRAs has been
limited, partly because (i) de facto distribution had taken place ahead of formal
declaration of the LRA; and (ii) the number of parcels subject to distribution
were, in any case, limited in the project LRAs. Furthermore, ALRO chose to focus
its attention on regularization of forest settlers rather than distribution of
holdings above maximum legal limits and the number of beneficiaries from land
redistribution, therefore, continues to be limited. As of December 1990, land
distribution field work comprising cadastral survey, negotiation of individual
plots and final allocation had been completed in all the 11 LRAs.   By
August 1991, ALRO 4.01 certificates had been issued to 32,982 occupants (which
included only about 2% landless farmers) representing 115,480 ha. Issue of ALRO



- 7 -
4.01 was completed in Phetchabun and Wiang Chai, 12% completed in Uthai Thani and
70-90% completed in the remaining 8 LRAs.  Project activities supporting the
identification of improved mapping techniques, purchase of appropriate equipment,
buildings and training have been instrumental in this accomplishment. However,
NIDA studies show that some farmers (perhaps 5-10%) have begun to transfer the
land to others for various reasons-failure in farming, higher land prices and
better alternative opportunities. Since such transfers are informal, the sellers
cannot obtain the higher market prices which would have been possible with
legally permitted transfers.   Whether such transfers are detrimental to the
objectives of the land reform program is an issue which has not yet been
resolved.
1.21      Soil conservation.  Soil conservation works were carried out by the
Department of Land Development (DLD) in two LRAs: Phetchabun and Nakhon Sawan,
the former comprising 61.5 km of diversion ditches, 122 km of graded banks, and
30 units of silt traps covering 1,920 ha;  the latter comprising 6.8 km of
diversion ditches, 46.6 km of graded banks, 4 units of silt traps and 3 units of
check structure covering 640 ha. Further work on soil conservation is, therefore,
needed as the planned area for Nakhon Sawan was 1,120 ha. The works completed
thus far represent 57% of the appraisal target. The shortfall was mainly due to
the fact that ALRO and DLD could not reach agreement on low cost improvements in
soil conservation practices and structures to be used.   The problem was
compounded by the lack of farmers' interest due to loss of land for structures
and the emphasis has now shifted to agronomic practices rather than structural
works.   New experiments with vegetative hedges such as vetiver are being
conducted by ALP.O with assistance from two German volunteers, one in Doi Pui and
the other in Lop Buri.
1.22      Roads.  Perhaps the single most important achievement of the project
was the construction, despite some delays, of a total of 669 km of roads and
service tracks under the project, representing 156% of the appraisal physical
target and 115% of cost. These roads are well utilized by farmers residing in
LRAs and others living or farming in neighboring areas thereby linking the
relatively isolated villages to the mainstream of economic life of the provinces.
Maintenance of roads to date has been provided by ALRO. Efforts to transfer
maintenance responsibilities to the provincial authorities have not progressed
far because of lack of clear cut Government policies and construction standards
being different from those of other agencies such as Accelerated Rural
Development and Public Works Departments.   There have also been some minor
problems in road construction related to narrow width (.in some cases the width
was only 4 meters), lack of drainage canals, and a court dispute with a
contractor on defective construction (in Nakhon Ratchasima III).
1.23      Irrigation.    A  total of  12  rock weirs  and  53  tubewells were
constructed during the project period, representing 16% and 11% of appraisal
targets.  The shortfall was mainly due to the transfer of Pichit LRA, which
contained most of the irrigation component, and lack of groundwater potential in
many other LRAs. Actual command area is 224 ha compared to the revised potential
of 400 ha. Farmers were not involved in either planning or implementation of
this component which has resulted in some weirs (Phetchabun) being hardly used
by farmers. It was expected at appraisal that the farmers would contribute free
labor for construction but this did not prove possible and construction was done
with hired labor.



- 8 -
1.24      Water supply.  A total of 229 dugwellc  and 9 tubewells for potable
drinking water were constructed representing 176% and 45% of the appraisal
targets.   Tubewell construction fell short of the target because of poor
underground water potential in the proposed LRAs. Some of the wells are used
only in the rainy season.
1.25      School classrooms.  The project provided for the construction of
classrooms, teachers' houses, water storage and toilet facilities. A total of
160 schoolrooms and other facilities were constructed under the project
representing 139% of the appraisal target. Contracts for the scnool civil works
were managed by the Office of the National Primary Education Commission (ONPEC)
with funds transferred from ALRO.   Schoolrooms have been well utilized as
indicated by NIDA final evaluation studies.
1.26      Health centers.  Twenty-two hialth centers were completed and turned
over to the Department of Health (DOH) for management. This represents 220% of
the appraisal target. NIDA studies have indicated increased availability of
medical services due to the construction of health centers and roads permitting
access to other medical facilities.
1.27      Ae-ricultural sunnort services.  Incremental agricultural production
from the project was to result from crop diversification, provision of advice
through the Department of Agricultural Extension (DOAZ) and implementation of
soil conservation measures through DLD. Finance for productive activities was
to be provided by BAAC in the form of short, medium and long-term credit. These
activities started slowly and it was only after considerable effort by ALRO that
the cooperating agencies assumed their role. ALRO supplemented the activities
of DOAE by the temporary employment of 10 agricultural graduates in each of the
provinces covering the LRAs.   Coordination among the cooperating agencies,
specified under separate Letters of Agreement, was somewhat below expectations.
1.28      As designed, the project did not provide credit funds directly and
BAMC had to utilize its own funds in extending credit to farmers in LRAs. Short-
term credit disbursed to project farmers rose to B81.6 million for 16,476 loans
in 1989 from a low B10.1 million in 1985 for 993 loans, while medium and long-
term credit disbursement mainly for dairy cattle rose to B34.1 million from B8.3
million in 1985. Loans were disbursed to farmers directly as well as through
cooperatives and joint liability groups with an average loan size of B8,000 and
B2,500, respectively, compared to the normal lending limit of B30,000 in
surrounding provinces. By entering into an agreement with BAAC to provide credit
services to the LRAs, the project succeeded in getting an earlier presence of
institutional credit in the project area than would have otherwise evolved. Bank
lending to farmers in LRAs (11.5% p.a., short term rates) has also moderated
interest rates in the informal market (previously 3-5% per month), but both the
volume and the size of loans are considered to be too small to fully meet the
investment requirements of the farmers. One reason is that, although ALRO 4.01
certificate was to have served as loan collateral (an important objective of the
project), BAAC in practice (as evidenced from discussions with branch managers)
still requires personal guarantees from prominent and well-placed individuals
before approving loans for LRA farmers. Since the size of loans is restricted
in such cases, farmers' needs are not fully catered to.  Thus, despite the
expansion of credit to LRA farmers during the project period, the usefulness of
ALRO 4.01 certificates as collateral will continue to be limited, until the
certificates are upgraded to land titles.



-9-
F.     Proiect Results
1.29      Overall, the project was satisfactory and had a partial institutional
impact. It achieved most of its major objectives: the development of encroached
public lands, intensification of rainfed agriculture, the expansion of
agricultural exports and improved land use.   The project did not, however,
succeed in extending land distribution much beyond existing farmers as little
formal land redistribution actually took place. Besides directly improving the
incomes of existing farmers in the LRAs (who tended to have lower farm incomes
than those in surrounding legally-settled villages), indirect contribution has
occurred through improved access to credit and cooperative services along with
availability of extension as part of the post-land distribution development.
Physical targets of the project have been achieved (land distribution and
institutional development) or exceeded (roads by 56% and schools, health centres
and drinking water supply through dugwells by 40%, 120Z and 76%, respectively).
Other components experienced shortfalls, with soil conservation at 57% of the
appraisal physical target, irrigation by rock weirs and tubewells 16% and 11%,
and tubewells for drinking water supply 45%.
1.30      Improved facilities, including civil works, vehicles and equipment,
and provision of technical assistance and training helped institutional
strengthening of ALRO and the cooperating agencies. Road infrastructure and, to
a lesser extent, provision of water supply for domestic use as well as for
agricultural production has made the most visible impact on beneficiaries. Apart
from facilitating integration of communities, the road infrastructure had a
significant economic impact, particularly in relatively commercialized LRAs like
Doi Pui and Wiang Chai where higher producer incomes have been realized through
reduction of marketing margins. In other areas, which were once inaccessible or
inconvenient to reach, roads have created possibilities for merchants, thereby
increasing the commercial potential for small farmers with small marketable
surpluses. Improved transportation has also helped change cropping patterns from
predominantly subsistence to commercial production. The net effect of these
developments is that the incomes of the farmers in the LRAs have been raised.
The socio-economic condition of the farmers in at least one LRA (Phetchabun) has
been shown to have improved faster than that in the neighboring area. According
to the NIDA final evaluation report, the net farm income (from crop, livestock
and off-farm sources) in Phetchabun has increased from B34,500 (or B39,740 in
1989 prices) in 1982/83 to B60,780 in 1988/89, representing an increase of about
53% in real terms over six years compared to an increase of about 45% in the
neighboring area (Part III, Section 6C).
1.31      The project has directly benefitted 35,713 families through land
distribution, about 700 higher than targeted at appraisal; 20,000 households
through construction of health centers; 4,200 children through provision of
schoolrooms; and 3,300 families through drinking water supply (Part III, Section
6A).
1.32      Incremental production of caE  --a, cotton, mungbean and rice under the
project is estimated at about 34,600 tol  .t project completion and 63,500 tons
at full development, compared to 21,OUO tons estimated at appraisal.   The
economic rate of return is re-estimated at project completion to be 17%, about
3% higher than the appraisal estimate. The higher rate of return is mainly due
to a reduction in overall cost, higher vehicle cost savings, and incremental
production increases of all commodities except rice, not fully offset by



- 10 -
projected commodity prices which were lover than anticipated at appraisal.
However, because of substantial change in the nature of the project area
(substitution of 56,000 ha of Pichit LRA with irrigation potential by rainfed
area totalling 75,950 ha in Si Saket, Doi Pui and Uthai Thani), the economic rate
of return is not strictly comparable with that at appraisal.
1.33      Environmental effects.   The project has a positive environmental
impact which includes a more diversified farming system with less dependence on
monoculture of rice or corn, and a greater use of legumes in both upland and
lowland cropping systems. Mungbean before rice in the lowland and the use of a
number of legumes in the upland contributes positively to soil fertility. The
project, in seeking to stabilize rural population by assuring land distribution
and improving productivity (and thus farm incomes) reduced the incentive for
further  forest  encroachment and deforestation.    The  impact of  increased
accessibility through road construction is, however, a "double-edged sword" which
has positive and negative effects on forest encroachment. Although studies and
observations related to this topic are availablelL, detailed assessments
specific to the project LRAs have yet to be undertaken.
1.34      Social effects.  The original hostility towards land reform by LRA
residents has gradually given way to a better understanding of the objectives of
land reform. This favorable change in social attitude is particularly noticeable
in the Phetchabun LRA. The establishment of formal boundaries and issuance of
ALRO 4.01 certificates have provided some formal land security for the
beneficiary farmer/resident. Whether or not the issuance of ALRO 4.01 by itself
creates an attachment to land is unclear since such attachment tends to be
determined more by socio-economic than by legal factors. Most residents have
cleared and settled in land reform areas for more than 20 years while others
claim de facto rights through having purchased land from former occupants. Thus
the sense of belonging or attachment to land is not directly created by ALRO,
though conditions imposed either by the Government (or by financial institutions)
necessitate the possession of an official document.  Other aspects of social
changes in LRAs are those related to women.   There has been an increase in
women's participation in the labor force, particularly in the establishment or,
in some cases, revival of handicraft industries.   However, much more skill
IL   On the negative side, a research report (No. 2 on Deforestation and
Poverty) by the Thailand Development Research Institute in December
1990 has found that a 10X increase in rural road network would result
in a 2.8X increase in forest loss. The multiple regression models
used ARD roads as a proxy explanatory variable for rural road
construction (LRA roads were omitted) with no allowance for time
lagged effects of construction on deforestation.   The models also
found that income per capita (negative correlation), size of remaining
forests, and the price of rainfed low maintenance crops (cassava) were
statistically more important as variables explaining deforestation.
On the Rositive side, aerial photographs contained in a 1991 World
Bank/RFD-administered study on Conservation Forest Protection showed
that in certain conservation forests (e.g. Khao Soi Dao Wildlife
Sanctuary in Chantaburi Province) the sections adjoining ALRO-managed
areas have experienced minimal incursion and deforestation compared
to other areas around the Sanctuary.



- 11 -
training is required for design and marketing if such activities are to emerge
as a reliable and sustainable source of income.
C.     Project Sustainability
1.35      Overall, project sustainability is likely.  The project worked within
the existing ALRO organization and programs of the participating agencies. In
many cases, project activities represented an acceleration of the agencies'
programs in the province-e.g. land distribution, education, health and community
water  supply.    There were,  however,  two  exceptions-road and  irrigation
works-which were implemented not by the relevant agencies such as Accelerated
Rural Development  (ARD)  or Public Works Departments but by ALRO.   The
sustainability of this infrastructure in the long-term requires the transfer of
responsibilities for post-project maintenance and operation to the relevant
agencies (para. 1.22).
1.36      The project's land reform and development model, as it emerged at the
end of the project implementation period, is replicable in other areas. However,
some modification in infrastructure maintenance arrangements would be needed
(paras. 1.22 and 1.39 (b)) and the level of expenditure on preparation of sub-
project proposals would have to be lower than that experiencel. under the project
due to heavy reliance on consulting firms (para. 1.14).
1.37      In most of the upland rainfed conditions encountered in the project
LRAs, the long term sustainability of improved income benefits for the project
farmers would involve the fundamental question of ownership security and thus the
conversion of ALRO 4.01 certificate into a full land title. The pressure for
shorter fallow periods requires investment in land improvement to retain soil
fertility, and investment to expedite land preparation and to increase land
productivity. The incentive to undertake such investments is based in part on
secured future access to the land. Land ownership security enhances both the
incentive to invest and the ability to invest by obtaining credit against land
collateral. Lack of collateral limits the farmers' ability to borrow from formal
lenders and also perpetuates the situation they face with respect to high
interest rate charged. Thus constraints on credit limit the farmers' investment
possibilities and consequently their opportunities for longer term improvement
of their incomes. The problem of lack of ownership security inherent in LRA 4.01
certificate should, therefore, be remedied by the conversion of this certificate
into a full land title. The conversion is now being seriously considered by the
Government which was earlier apprehensive that granting of full land titles might
induce further encroachment and deforestation.
H.     Bank Performance
1.38      The Bank's performance throughout the project cycle was generally
satisfactory. Supervision missions were regular and the Bank maintained as much
staff continuity as possible during the 16 supervision missions which took place
between 1982 and 1989. The missions concentrated on physical and institutional
components.   The Bank was also flexible in agreeing to the addition of an
additional land reform area (Uthai Thani) within the existing project funds, and
to the extension of the project implementation period.



- 12 -
1.39      The main lessons learned from the project are as follows:
(a) land reform projects that improve the security of land ownership
combined with the provision of economic and social infrastructure and
services close to national standards can improve farm incomes and thus
help reduce encroachment and deforestation;
(b) the sustainability of infrastructure maintenance cannot be assured by
ALRO in the long term unless efforts are made to ensure standards
equivalent to those of similar infrastructure in other parts of the
country and transfer the maintenance responsibility to agencies whose
core function is infrastructure development. This would also allow
ALRO to concentrate on its land redistribution responsibilities. To
be able to do this, ALRO should involve the other agencies to the
maximum extent possible in the planning and, where appropriate, in the
construction of infrastructure to avert problems that may emerge
during the transfer of maintenance responsibility;
(c) the issuance of ALRO 4.01 certificates proved to be a useful first
step by assuring occupants of encroached lands continued use without
fear of eviction and land disputes. However, the analysis of loans
extended by BAAC in LRAs shows that collateral substitutes like group
loans against personal guarantees were much smaller in size than
institutional loans which were secured against land collateral by
farmers in neighboring areas (para. 1.28). Provision of secured legal
ownership .to occupants of encroached lands will allow larger size of
loans and induce higher levels of land improvements and capital
formation.   It is, therefore, desirable to convert the ALRO 4.01
certificate into a full land title (para. 1.37); and
(d) project design should be flexible to allow changes in response to
farmers' needs and involvement of local people should be sought in
planning and implementation of local facilities such as rock weirs and
service tracks to ensure optimum utilization and maintenance of these
facilities.
I.     Borrower Performance
1.40      The adoption of a sub-project approach (para. 1.7) was important for
setting time limits, development goals, and linkages to other involved agencies.
The project was managed by a special group located at Bangkok and teams set up
at each LRA with the intent that they be closely linked to provincial and
district authorities. However, because some LRAs fell within portions of several
districts and the role of provincial officers was only partially defined, LRA
officers were mostly on their own. Officers in the LRA over a period of time
became known to farmers but there was only minimal involvement of local residents
in the planning process and training.
1.41      Project committees at the national and LRA levels (para. 1.18) were
to ensure efficiency in management. Meetings of the committees were infrequent
(Executive Committee 8 times, Coordinating Committee 6 times, and only 11
meetings were reported at the LRA level). An examination was also made for
NIDA's Final Evaluation Report of the attendance of actual members vs their
representatives; time devoted to meetings; and nature of topics discussed as



- 13 -
indicated by the minutes.   For the most part, the opportunity to utilize
committees as linkages to other organizations was lost and thereby the build-up
of partnerships which would assist in assuring the continuation and maintenance
of project accomplishments.
1.42      Letters of Agreement were signed early in the implementation period
with DOAE, DOH, ONPEC and DLD and generally complied with. Agreements were also
made with BAAC for the provision of credit, but a better linkage could have been
fostered between the BAAC branch managers and LRA committees and thereby access
of farmers to BAAC services might have developed even sooner.
1.43      The Loan Agreement also specified preparation and furnishing to the
Bank for approval of ALRO Guidelines for carrying out the project - this was done
and several revisions were accomplished during supervision to take advantage of
experience and to modify organization and staffing.
J.     Project Relationships
1.44      The Bank started its association with ALRO with this project.  The
relationships were good and there was a learning attitude on the part of both
parties. While most project-specific problems were eventually resolved, some
important issues such as conversion of ALRO 4.01 certificate into a full land
title, limited land redistribution to the landless, agreement on appropriate soil
conservation practices, and transfer of ALRO's responsibilities in the LRAs to
other line agencies, had not been resolved at project completion.
1.45      The Bank and borrower relationships with other relevant parties
including consultants were satisfactory.
K.     Consultant Services
1.46      Implementation of the project was greatly assisted by the employment
of a combined international/local advisory team who gave advice to project
management, developed the sub-project plans for the first two LRAs, and
supervised the work of consultants employed for development of sub-project plans
and various studies. The membership of the advisory team was gradually reduced
as project staff became competent to take on additional responsibilities. A
single advisor has been retained by ALRO for a year's service after the close of
the project. Eight consulting firms were retained to provide plans, supervision,
studies and training.   The consulting services proved beneficial in project
implementation, but had negligible impact on training ALRO staff.
1.47      A satisfactory impact monitoring and evaluation (M&E) system failed
to develop.   The first efforts by the consultant were too complex and the
consultants made recommendations for modification. This has again not met with
success because of the difficulties in integrating the new system within the ALRO
system and also because of inadequate assignment of permanent staff for M & E
duties.
L.     Project Documentation and Data
1.48      As a condition of loan effectiveness, the Loan Agreement (Section
5.01(b)) required operation of the project to be in conformity with the
Implementation Guidelines for ALRO organizational arrangements, procedures for



- 14 -
execution, and criteria for individual components, which were to be agreed with
the Bank. These Guidelines were agreed and modified from time to time and, along
with the Staff Appraisal Report, Loan Agreement and Agreed Minutes, provided
guidance to ALRO staff, advisors and Bank missions.
1.49      Information for the preparation of the Project Completion Report was
readily available with respect to physical and financial progress of works and
other activities, but data on measurements and evaluation of impact were weak.
In preparing the Final Evaluation, NIDA had to depend upon general data from
other sources (primarily village data collected for the National Rural
Development Program). In the absence of meaningful data specific to the project
LRAs and given the short period of time since the issue of ALRO 4.01 certificates
and the completion of major works, definitive conclusions on project impact
cannot be formed at this stage.



- 15 -
PART IT: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
A.     Bank's Performance During Project Evolution and Imnlementation
2.1       The Bank's project conditionalities delayed the start of project
implementation. As per the Loan Agreement No. 2198-TH, four conditions for loan
effectiveness were stipulated in Article V:
(a) agreement for credit provision under the project should be signed
between BAAC and ALRO and submitted for concurrence of the Bank;
(b) ALRO's Guidelines should be prepared and submitted for concurrence of
the Bank;
(c) four specialists-a rural development economist, a land reform
specialist, an agriculturalist/ soil conservationist, and a rural
works engineer-should be employed; and
(d) the Phetchabun LRA should be degazetted.
The fulfillment of these conditions delayed project implementation start up. It
also resulted in a financial cost to RTG in the form of the commitment charge
which was applied as soon as the loan agreement was signed. It also pushed back
the project completion date and the cost of project (due to inflation). These
time-consuming conditions should have been completed before signing of the loan
agreement.
2.2       During the project implementation period, the representative of the
Bank's Regional Office in Bangkok provided only minimal help for the execution
of the project, i.e. transmission of message by telex or by facsimile, and has
never received any authority for approvals of any project documents.  All the
documents submitted for prior concurrence of the Bank had to be sent to the
Bank's Headquarters in Washington, D.C., resulting in inconvenience, waste of
time, and delays in project implementation. A recommendation is the partial
transfer of authority of the Bank's Head Office to the Regional Representative
in Bangkok to facilitate quicker Bank concurrence.
2.3       The Bank's concept of project implementation through the sub-project
approach giving the borrower flexibility to formulate different project packages
to suit the different natural resources and socio-economic conditions of each
LRA, is an appropriate approach for such a large project with different
characteristics. However, the approach is time-consuming and resulted in slow
loan disbursement at the beginning of the project.  A different approach of
support for a time-slice of a long-term program might be considered for a future
project.
2.4       The World Bank plays an essential role in development throughout the
world. The Land Reform Areas Project is aimed at the development of small or
low-income farmers. Project results for the rural sector are low in comparison
to the industrial sector. However, the interest rate of the Bank loan was quite
high. As a result, the Royal Thai Government pre-paid the loan amount when more
favorable loan sources became available. Changing the loan source had little
impact on project implementation. For future projects, interest rates for loans



- 16 -
to the rural sector should be at a lower rate and no loan commitment rate should
be charged.
2.5       Under the project, the Bank has assisted, both before the start and
during the project implementation period, ALRO and the Government in clarifying
the national land policy, the agricultural land reform policy, and in preparation
of ALRO's Master Plan, Public Land distribution guidelines, accounting
guidelines, procurement guidelines, and measures for the strengthening and
restructuring of ALRO.   The results of these studies are now in hand for
execution and will strengthen ALRO's capacity and efficiency for project planning
and reduce its dependency on external consultant service.
B.     Borrower's Performance During Proiect Evolution and Implementation
2.6       Project implementation was centralized in AlRO, the lead agency. Thus
ALRO was in charge of preparation of the overall project implementation plan,
project annual plan, and also the allocation of the project fund to other
implementing agencies for the implementation of their respective project
activities. Each implementing agency was frae to administer its project budget
on condition that the work progress in relation to the amount spent should be
periodically reported to ALRO. This allowed ALRO to follow-up on work progress
and expenditures in every project LRA. However, it was found that there was a
certain delay in submission of the payment advice for reimbursement from the
World Bank loan, of the amount initially paid from the revolving fund.   A
recommendation for the future is the prior training of the accountants of every
concerned agency in this respect.
2.7       Throughout  the project  implementation period,  the Borrower has
adjusted or modified the overall project implementation plan and the annual
plans, in consultation with the Project advisors and in relation to the actual
conditions, resulting in a decrease of the project cost in comparison with the
appraised cost. For example, the land compensation amount was only spent for the
Phetchabun LRA, using fund provided by the Land Reform Fund instead of the BAAC's
credit and the cost incurred was only lOX of the appraised cost; the cancellation
of field office construction in some of the LRAs implemented in the later stage
of the project; the cancellation of the low cost weir construction due to lack
of farmers' interest, etc. The lesson for the future is the need to respond to
involve farmer participation (bottom-up approach) in project planning and
execution. This would improve the viability of the project.
2.8       The project committees comprise mostly top-ranking executive officers
or high-ranking officials who, in view of their workload and commitments, have
difficulty in attending meetings. On the other hand, implementing staff are not
represented on these committees and, therefore, have little opportunity to
participate in a meeting where important decisions have to be taken on project
problems.   It is recommended that the composition of the project committees
should be modified to include officials at the implementing level to participate
in project planning or in solving problems encountered.
2.9       Throughout the project implementation period, the Borrower' s officials
have always been recommended by the Bank's Missions to act in accordance with the
Bank's or the Borrower's regulations or procedures. This has facilitated the
execution mostly on time or at least with a minimum delay in comparison with the



- 17 -
initial target.   However, to help facilitate the execution of the project,
recommendations should better be made by the Bank's Bangkok Regional
Representative.
2.10      The Borrower has benefitted from the technical inputs of Bank's
supervision missions. As a result, work procedures were improved, which helped
to strengthen ALRO's staff capability. The best example is in cadastral survey.
Before the start of the project, ALRO's capability in cadastral survey covered
200,000 rai (32,000 ha) per year. During the project implementation period, the
capability was raised up to 300,000 rai/year. At the end of the project, it was
raised to 2.5 million rai/year (0.4 million ha).
C.     Relationship between the Bank and the Borrower During Project Evolution
and Implementation
2.11      The relationship between the Bank and the Borrower has, throughout the
project implementation period, been very satisfactory, with a close, friendly and
efficient  cooperation.      The  Bank's  missions  have  provided  necessary
recommendations to the Borrower's staff in project preparation and in project
execution. Each time that the Borrower has encountered any problem, e.g. the two
changes of LRAs under the project, the two extensions of the project closing date
(1 year each), the Bank's Supervision Missions have always provided timely and
constructive recommendations and assistance to address these problems.
D.     Comments on Part I and Part III
2.12      The contents of Part I give a clear overview of the whole project,
including the physical infrastructure development and the impact of all the
activity supported under the project.   The lessons learned from the issues
addressed under the project provide valuable experience for future project
preparation and management.
2.13      The Borrower confirms the eccuracy of the factual information as the
data and figures were provided by ALRO staff. As for the adequacy, there have
been some difficulties in provision of some data requested by the Bank's PCR
Mission, due to changes in ALRO's responsible personnel, limited time for search
of data located in different divisions, and, above all, unavailability of some
requested data.
2.14      A lesson learned is that, in future, at the very beginning of a new
project, the types of data required should be clearly identified and data file
maintained throughout the project implementation period for purposes of project
evaluation and for preparation of the PCR at the end of the project. The Bank
should provide guidelines to the Borrower's responsible agency on the types of
data required, and the methods for collection.
2.15      The timing of the PCR preparation should also be adjusted so that it
is not carried out so long after the project completion or the project closing
date, for reasons given above.



- 18 -
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
1. Related Bank Loans and/or Credits
Loan/Credit Title               Purpose                         Year of   Status                   Comments
Approval
1. Structural Adjustment I    Agricultural Component-           March 82        Closed on         PCR dated
(Ln 2097-TH)                 Forest Land                                    31 March 83        12 December 84
2. Structural Adjustment II   Agricultural Component-           March 83        Closed on          PCR dated
(Ln 2256-TH)                 Land                                           31 January 84    12 December 84
Reclassiffcaticn Programme
*                          l~~~~~~~~~II
3. Land Titling                 Land Cadastre,                   1984           Closing date       Cofinanced by
(Ln 2440-TH)                 registration                                   September 91       AIDAB
and valuation. Dept. of
Lands
4. Land Titling 11               - do -                          1990           Ongoing            Phase 11 of
(Ln 3254-TH)                                                                                   Ln 2440-TH
2. Project Timetable
Item                               Date Planned    Date Revised                       Date Actual
Identification                                                                                     11/76
Preparation                                                                                         9/78
Appraisal                                                                                           3/81
Negotiations                                                                                        7182
Board Approval                                                                                   9/21/82
Loan Signature                                                                                   9/29/82
Loan Effectiveness                                12/82                                          6/30/83
Loan Closing                                  12/31/88                 12/31/89               9/19/89 I/
Loan Completion                                3/31/88                                              6/90
1/   Loan was prepaid by RTG.



- 19 -
Comments on Section 2
The project was identified and prepared by ATRO, assisted by FAO/World
Bank Cooperative Programme mission, an FAO consultant funded by the UNDP and a
Bank mission.
Main issues raised at appraisal as recorded in the issues paper and
the Decision Memorandum of 4 June 1981 included:
(a) Sub-project approach: The approach contemplated for the project
was that of a series of sub-projects and the appraisal mission
recommended that the Bank accept the sub-project approach as a
means of implementing the project and a vehicle for strengthening
ALRO which was a young and relatively inexperienced agency
established in 1975.
(b) Degazettement: The decision meeting endorsed the recommendation
of the appraisal mission that the Bank press the Government to
degazette (forest reserves) or declassify (permanent forest) the
LRAs included in the project by the time of negotiations.
Degazettement or declassification would ensure the legal status
of the beneficiaries whose holdings would otherwise be subject
to the provisions of complex and sometimes conflicting
legislation concerning land designated as permanent or reserved
forest.   If the Government was not prepared to degazette or
declassify the land reform areas by the time of project
implementation, the Bank would need to receive, by the time of
negotiations: (i) a legal opinion from the Government that ALRO
has a legal right to implement sub-projects in these areas; and
(ii) satisfactory assurances regarding the land tenure rights of
the squatters. There was also hope of reaching agreement during
negotiations on a timetable for the eventual degazetting of those
areas now designated as forest reserves which were shown suitable
for agricultural use on the basis of land use studies.
Government officials had subsequently indicated that this might
be difficult to achieve but that they were working on some
alternative arrangements. It was agreed that the Bank continue
discussing this issue and possibly include funds for land use
studies in this project.
(c)  Cost   recovery:      The  meeting  accepted   the  mission's
recommendations with regard to cost recovery for weirs and soil
conservation works; namely, that some subsidy would be allowed,
with the farmers' contribution being limited to labour (for
construction of weirs) and mainterance costs (for bunds).  In
addition, it was agreed that the Staff Appraisal Report would
explain the credit arrangements under which some land would be
redistributed.



- 20 -
(d) Land distribution: Some concern was expressed regarding the land
distribution element of the project as this had proved to be
difficult to implement in other countries. The appraisal mission
explained that the land redistribution under the proposed project
was somewhat different from most land reform projects and
therefore did not offer the same risks. Inhabitants of the land
reform areas recognize that they are illegal squatters on public
lands and therefore generally were willing to compromise in order
to obtain security of tenure.  The land distribution approach
being adopted by ALRO utilized maximum and minimum holding sizes.
Only farmers with holdings above 50 rai (8 ha) would lose land,
while those with holdings below the minimum would receive enough
land to raise their holding size to the minimum level, whenever
possible.   When land distribution became imminent in a given
area, farmers with holdings above the maximum had tended to sell
land to smaller landholders or to tenants. Therefore, only l0X
or so of landholders actually would be transferring land under
the project. Those losing land would be compensated at the rate
of about 65X of the current market value, which surveys indicate
was acceptable to landholders.  The mission also clarified that
BMAC  had  agreed  to  provide  the  required  loans  to  small
landholders for their supplemental land purchases under the
project;   indeed BAAC was already providing such loans under
another ALRO scheme.
(e) Government support: Given the sensitive nature of land reform
in general the Decision meeting felt it was not surprising that
opinions differed in Government as to ALRO's appropriate future
role. The project was designed to strike a balance between the
two areas of concern to ALRO: (i) land redistribution to achieve
more equitable farm size and security of tenure; and (ii) land
development  and provision  of  infrastructure.    The meeting
endorsed the emphasis being placed on strengthening ALRO's
capability in handling land reallocation issues and noted that
this had the support of the current Minister of Agriculture and
Cooperatives.   Even with this support, however,  the meeting
a cepted that there was some ris.  that Bank financing for the
project  would  be  controversial  within  the  Government,
particularly if a consensus had not developed by the time of
inviting negotiations regarding the direction in which ALRO's
future development should move. Moreover, the project might have
some difficulty in attracting sufficient resources for completion
within the period contemplated. Because of the importance of
land use and land tenure issues in Thailand, the meeting felt the
risk worth taking.



- 21 -
3. Loan Disbursement
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
US$ million
FY3       FY8       F8        FY86       FY87      FYN       FY8        FY9
Appraisal Estimate            .1        1.3       3.5       7.1       11.3      16.0       17.0      17.0
Actual                                  0.3       1.1       2.1       3.2        5.7       8.7        9.5
Actual as a X of                       23.1      31.4       29.6      28.3      35.6       51.2      55.9
estimate
Date of final disbursement: September 19, 1989.
Comments:
No follow-on project. A proposal for further World Bank assistance
is under discussion.
4. Project Implementation
Key Indicators
A. Project Facilities
Indlcators                        Appraisal         Revised            Act ul X
Estimate
Agricultural area (ha)                                   173,000       158,395             156,812          99
Roads and tracks (iom)                                       430                               669         156
Soil conservation (ha)                                     4,480                             2,560          57
Irrigation
-  Rock wefrs (No.)                                           75                                12          16
-  Tubewells  (No.)                                          500                                53          11
Uater supply
-  Duepells  (No.)                                           130                               229         176
-  Tubewells (No.)                                            20                                 9          45
Schoolrooms (No.)                                            115                               160         139
Health centres (No.)                                           10                               22         220



S. Lard Distributfon In Su*bProject Areas i(p to end of Awut 1991)
Lord Reform Areas                  PatFdaibun   Vieng Chef   Nakhon   Lop Suri   Saasburi        akhan      Si Satet   Doi pFt   Uitha       Totat
Sama                           Ratilusim                           Thain
Totat land reform area Cral)                            72,500        27,500   149,576    173,982    219.269      133,990    249,601    41,759   183,293   1,251,470
Totat agricultural area tral)                           59,950        18,640   117,954    144,452    143,823      108,546    202,861    18,340   165,511      se,077
Initial total no. farm famifles                          1,i70        1,063      3.180      3,398      3,829        4,356     12,921      1,294     3,702      35,713
Revised total no. farm families
after land reform (Deceaiwer, 1990)                    2,199         1.528     3,715      4,394      3,790        3,228      10,728     1,271                 -
Land distribution field work
(Cadastrat survey, negotiation, final allocation)
Thtat work areas carmleted (raf)                      59,950        18,640   117,954    144,452    143,823      108,546    202,861    18,340   165,511      98D,077
(1001)       (1001)    (1001)     (1001)     (1001)       (1001)      (1001)    (1001Z    (1001)
ALRO 4-01 Distrfbution
Total distr. up to end of Aug. 91 (no. farmers)        2,199         1,528     3,884      4,394      4.402        3,268      10,728     1,271     1.308      32,9e
Total areas with ALRO 4-01 up to Aug. 91 (rai)        59,950        18,640   107,895    116,159    128,610       76,892    179,392    14,156    20.074      M.768
(100)       (1001)     (911)      (801)      (891)        (711)       (881)     (77X)     (121)



- 23 -
C. Use of Agricultural Credit
Short-Term (Production) Credit by BAAC
(B million)
No.               Amount            Avrage
(Baht)
1984
- Direct                            514                 2.5               4,864
-  through Cooperatives
1985
- Direct                            993                10.1              10,171
- through Cooperatives               -                 -
1986
- Direct                            1,857              20.0              10,770
- through Cooperatives              1.330               3.1               2,782
3,187             23.7
1987
- Direct                            4,160              29.2               7,019
- through Cooperatives              5,432              14.0               2,577
9,592             43.2
1988
- Direct                             4,882             31.3               6,411
- through Cooperatives               5.432             17.9               3,198
10,480            49.2
1989
- Direct                             7,580             59.7               7,875
- through Cooperatives              8.896              21.9               2,462
16,476            81.6
1990
- Direct                            11,779             68.6               5,824
-  through Cooperatives              9.008             25.7               2,853
20,787            94.3



- 24 -
Medium and Long-Term Credit by BAMC
(B million)
Loan Purposes           1984   1985   1986   1987    1988    1989    1990
Sericulture                 -       -           -       1.9      0.6    0.09
Fruit orchard            -      -       0.06   0.02    -         -       -
Beef-cattle              -      -       -       -       -        -       1.3
Cashew nuts              -      -       -       -       1.3      1.6    -
Dairy                    -      -       -       -      18.2    27.8   42.4
Rubber planting          -      -               -       -        2.6    0.7
Others                   -      -       0.2    0.2      0.2      1.4    2.3
Land compensation        -      -       2.8    0.02    0.1       0.1    -
credit by BAAC                        (97)    (1)      (4)      (4)
Land compensation        -      8.3    -        -       2.3              -
credit by land               (316)
reform fund
Total:                   -      8.3    3.06   0.24   24.0    34.1   46.79
N.B.    The figures within brackets indicate the number of beneficiaries.
Comments
The item 'Others' signifies medium-term credit extended by BAMC to finance
mainly draught animals.
Credit disbursements started first in Phetchabun (1984) followed by Wiang
Chai and Nakhon Sawan (1986), Lop Buri, Sara Buri, Nakhon Ratchasima and Si Saket
(1987), Doi Pui and Uthai Thani (1990).



5.  Project Cost and Financing
A. Project Cost
AT     APPRAISAL                                               ACTUAL   COST
Local    forefgn    Total    Local    Foreign    Totat    Local    Foreign    Total    Locat    Foreign    Totat
(S    llion)                  (USS mittlon)                  (B mittion)                  - (USS mittion)
- Land reform                             41.4           -      41.4      1.8                   1.8     49.0           -      49.0      1.9           -       1.9
- Land coqpensation                       57.9           -      57.9      2.5           -       2.5        -           -         -        -           -         :
- Roads                                   90.0        41.4    132.3       4.0         1.8      5.8      27.1       122.1    149.2       1.0         4.8       5.8
- Soit conservation                        8.2         3.2      11.4      0.4         0.1       0.5      4.2         4.9      9.1       0.2         0.2       0.4
- Irrigation                              25.1        14.4      39.5      1.1         0.6       1.7      1.7         1.8      3.5       0.1         0.1       0.2
- Water supply                             2.6         0.7      3.3       0.1                   0.1      1.7         3.2      4.9       0.1         0.1       0.2
- Schools                                 29.5         9.8     39.3       1.3         0.4       1.7      7.9        49.6     57.5       0.3         1.9       2.2
- Heatth centres                           5.9         2.0      7.9       0.2         0.1      0.3       2.8        15.9      18.7      0.1         0.6      0.7
- Institutional development               79.9        44.3    124.2       3.5         2.0       5.5     79.9       114.6    194.5       3.1         4.5       7.6
Totat Base Cost:                       341.4       115.8    457.2      14.9         5.0      19.9    174.3       321.1    486.4       6.8        12.2      19.0   "n
Continenc ies
- Physical                                24.2        11.5     35.7       1.1         0.5       1.6        -
- Price                                  147.0        37.4    184.4       6.4         1.6      8.0         -           -
Totat Contiencies                      171.0        48.9    220.1       7.5         2.1      9.6         -
Project preparation                       19.0        15.5      34.5      0.8         0.7       1.5                 20.4     20.4         -         0.8       0.8
Total Project Costs:                   531.6       180.2    711.8      23.2         7.8     31.0    174.3        332.5    506.8       6.8        13.0      19.8



- 26 -
B. Project Financing
Planned Loan                                   FINAL
IBRD Expenditure/Categories                     Agreement (US$'000)  Revised
1. ALRO (Part A)            a) Civil works                      7.180                                 2,788        39
b) Equipment                         700                                   834        119
c) Consultants                      3,490                                 3,432        99
2. OLD (Part A)             a) Civil works                       260                                   108         42
b) Equipment                         60                                    50         113
3. DOAE (Part A)            a) Equip. & vehicle                   30                                    4          13
4. ONPEC                    a) Civit works                      1,450                                 1,276        88
b) Equipment                         370                                   23          6
5. DON                      a) Civil. works                      290                                   480         166
b) Equipment                         70
6. Part B                   a) Civil works                       100
b) Equipment                         200
c) Consulting                       1,100                                  509         46
7. Unallocated                                                  1     700
Total disbursements                                                                                9.505        56
Cancellation                                                                                       7,495        44
Total                                                        170S00                                17.000
Cancellation September 19, 1989.



- 27 -
6. Project Results
A. Direct Benefits
Eattmte at       Estfmated at futl
Ind1cators                  Appraisal Estimate   Closin, Date           Denteqaielt
Agricultural area (ha)                           173,000              158,395             158,395
Production (toas) (incremental)
- Cassava                                         10,000               25,400             27,600
- Munsbean                                         4,000                3,400              13,300
- Cotton                                           4,000                5,600              21,600
-  Rice                                            3,000                  200               1,000
No. of beneficiaries (families)                   35,000               31,222              35,713
No. of school places created                       3,500                4,200               4,200
No. of families served by
health centres                                    10,000               20,000              20,000
No. of families benefitting
from potable water supply                          2,100                3.300               3,300
Comments
A lower volume of rice production was more than compensated by the higher
production of other crops because of reduction in paddy potential area by 56,000
ha in Pichit and increase in rainfed area of 75,950 ha in Si Saket, Doi Pui and
Uthai Thani.
B. Economic Impact
Appreislt Estimte              Pcl Estimte
Economic Rate of Return                                  14X                          179
Underlyng AssuWtions
Project Life                                           20 yrs                       20 yrs
Standard conversion factor                              0.79                         0.79
Conversion factor for:
- Consunption                                           0.96                         0.96
- Transportation                                        0.76                         0.76
- Construction                                          0.74                         0.74
- Draft animal                                          1.01                         1.01
- ALRO management                                       0.95                         0.95
Agricultural Machinery Service                          0.88                         0.88
Government Service                                      0.65                         0.65



- 28 -
C. Financial Impact
Net Farm Income - Baht/Farm (Imputed)
Income Source                    1982/83      1985/86     1988/89
Phetchabun LRA
- Crop                           33,039       37,588       53,091
- Livestock                       1,262        2,971       2,902
- New farm 1/                    32,845       39,295       56,688
- Off-farm income                 6,584       11,565       11,709
Net Total Income 1/               34,481      46,510       60,773
Control Area
- Crop                            37,198      50,200       66,938
- Livestock                       1,733        3,210       2,118
- Net farm /                     36,490       49,346       66,965
- 0ff-farm income                11,598        6,281       11,163
Net Total Income 1/               43,995      49,419       73,457
i/ Less unallocated expenses.
D. Studies
1.    Study Title: "Monitoring and Evaluation" undertaken by the NIDA Consulting
Centre.
Duration       -    Phase I (Monitoring System Set-up):
4 months (Nov. 1, 1984 - Feb. 28, 1985).
-    Phase II (Mid-term Evaluation):
6 months (July 1, 1986 - Dec. 31, 1986).
-    Phase II (Final Evaluation):
6 months (April 1, 1989 - Sept. 30, 1989).



- 29 -
Purpose as Defined at Appraisal:
-         design of a monitoring system  to provide  information
promptly on project inputs such as staffing, training and
equipment, and on outputs such as area of land distributed,
length of roads constructed, and area covered by soil
conservation works;
-         assistance  to ALRO  in establishing  and operating the
monitoring system; and
-         mid-term and final evaluation of project impact in terms of
farm income, school enrollment, hqalth centre utilization,
etc.
Status:       Completed
Final Output:
=         a  computer-based  monitoring  and  evaluation  system  in
February 1984 and revision in 1986;
=         a mid-term evaluation report in 1986;  and
=         a final evaluation report in 1989.
Impact of Study: The monitoring system recommended by the NIDA team was
found to be complicated and not adopted by ALRO. NIDA's evaluation study
has concluded that "agricultural production has been intensified. Land is
now being used more in the second season cultivating recommended crops.
The increased production in the LRA in crops such as maize and cassava led
directly to more exports. The incomes of the farmers in the LRA have been
raised. The socio-economic condition of the farmers in at least one LRA
Phetchabun has been shown to be improved and raised to a higher level than
the neighbouring area".
2.   Study Title:  "Issues in Land Reform Implementation" undertaken by the
Chulalongkorn University Social Research Institute (CUSRI); Duration - 10
months commencing May 6, 1986.
Purpose as Defined at Appraisal: Not defined.
Objectives as defined in the Agreement with CUSRI: Studies on 4 different
items:
(a)       Assessment of the Value of Public Land;
(b)       The Organization of Land Distribution;
(c)       Land Ownership and Development Inputs;  and
(d)       Status of the Land Reform Fund:  Issues relating to the
preparation of a long-term financing plan.
Status: Complete; Output - Final Report on the four studied items in
early 1987.



- 30 -
Impact of Study:
(1)       The proposed guidelines for land value assessment are being
used to calculate the public land value to be put in the
Land Reform Fund Accounting System.
(2)       The recommendations in item (d) are being applied to fix the
use ratio of revolving fund and expenditure (80:20).
3.    Study Title:  "Organization and Management" undertaken by Southeast Asia
Technology Co., Ltd. in association with RDI Limited; Duration - 8 months
commencing June 1, 1985.
Purpose as Defined at Appraisal:
A consulting team would:
-         review ALRO's  organizational  structura  and operational
procedures in the light of its primary focus on land reform
and formulate recommendations designed to enable ALRO to
fulfill its role more effectively and efeiciently;
-         assist ALRO in implementing those recommendations accepted
by ALRO;
-         design an accounting system which would provide relevant
financial information to ALRO management in a timely manner
and facilitate processing of disbursements; and
-         assist ALRO in introducing and operating the system, and
train ALRO staff as appropriate.
Status:        Completed;  Final Output in 1986:
=         Final MIS Manuals;
=         Final Procurement Manuals;
-         Final Accounting Manuals;  and
-         Final Report.
Impact of Study: All the manuals are being applied by the concerned units
within ALRO.
4.    Study Title:   "Ground Water Resources" undertaken by the Short-term
Specialists under the consulting services Agreement with Team Consulting
Engineer Co., Ltd. in association with Empire Consulting Engineer Co., Ltd.
Duration:  13 months:
-         Phase I (a) - Preliminary Assessment (1 month:  June 16,
1986 -July 15, 1986).
-         Phase I (b) - Drilling and Testing Programme (3 months:
Aug. 6, 1986 - Nov. 5, 1986).
-         Phase I (c) - Evaluation and Economic Analysis (3 months).
-         Phase II - Implementation (6 months).



- 31 -
Purpose as Defined at Appraisal: Not defined.
Objectives as indicated in the Terms of Reference: study the suitability
of developing groundwater for irrigation in the Si Sa Ket LRA. The task
includes:
-         preliminary assessment based on field surveys and existing
data;
-         evaluation, oconomic analysis and preparation of a detailed
implementation programme; and
-         if the project seems to be feasible after the aforementioned
tasks, the consultant will be expected to assist ALRO with
the implementation programme.
Status:        Completed only at the end of Phase I (b).
Final Output:
-         Preliminary Report of Developing Ground Water Resources.
=         Drilling and Testing Programme Report.
Impact of Study: The Bank and ALRO agreed to stop this activity at the end
of Phase I (b) as the outcome of Phase I (a) and Phase I (b) reflected the
non-potentiality of the surveyed area for underground water development.
5.    Study Title:  "Integrated Farming Systems" undertaken by the Short-term
specialists under the consulting services Agreement with TEAM/EMPIRE.
Duration:      -    Animal Husbandry Specialist - 3 months
-    Fisheries (aquaculture) Specialist - 3 months
-    Economist - 6 months
-    Commencing May 2, 1988
Purpose as Defined at Appraisal: Not defined.
Objectives as indicated in the Terms of Reference
-         To conduct investigations of appropriate technology and
activities in fisheries and animal husbandry to supplement
crop production on small farms to alleviate the finar.cial
risk in rainfed crop farming.
-         To  develop  typical  models  of  integrated  systems  of
crops/farm animals and/or fish production on small farms in
land reform areas.
Status:        Completed
Final Output: A final report in 1989.



- 32 -
Impact of Study: Typical models and associated technology recommendations
were circulated to all LRAs which proved useful. Active field managers
promoted it with the help of agricultural extension staff and volunteers
working in the area.
6.    Study Title:   "Photogrammetry and Geographic Information System (CIS)"
undertaken by Hansa Luftbild GmbH.
Duration: 12 months (June 15, 1987 - June 14, 1988).
Purpose as Defined at Appraisal: Requirement of only a photogrammetry
specialist for:
-         training ALRO staff in field survey, photogrametric and
computer techniques; and
-         assistir.0  ALRO   staff  with  project   implementation,
particularly with respect to:
Mi)       preparing topographic and cadastral maps using
photogrammetric and computer techniques;
(ii)      utilizing maps in designing and implementing land
distribution    models    and    in    planning
infrastructure development;
MOii)               reorganizing and programming the work
of the survey unit to take full
advantage of the latest photogrammetric
and computerized mapping techniques.
Objectives as indicated in the consulting services agreement with Hansa
Luftbild include requirement of GIS Consultant to study how to develop GIS
within ALRO.
Status:        Completed in 1989.
Final Output:
-         A Final Report
-         A GIS Report
Impact of Study:   The study helped to accelerate land distribution
activities.   It particularly helped aerial photography sub-division to
speed up work and used recommendations in a phased manner, and increased
equipment according to recommendations.
7.    Study Title:   "Policy Study for the Agricultural Land Reform Office"
undertaken by Thailand Development Research Institute (TDRI).
Duration - 8 months, commencing Nov. 1, 1988.
Purpose as Defined at Appraisal: Sub-sectoral studies;



- 33 -
Objectives as defined in the Agreement with TDRI:
-         To identify scope of land reform activities in both public
and private lands and to consider conditions for the
termination of agricultural land reform activitLes when
those identified activities have been implemented;
-         To formulate procedures for implementation of Land Reform
Programme in both public and private lands, so as to achieve
the targets in 2.1 and to identify strategies for solving
varlous constraints during and after the National Land
Reform and Land Allocation Programme, such as to control the
transfer of land right in public land during the period with
no Land Title, to control production activities and to solve
the problems; and
To  suggest  possible  methods  of  finance  for  the
implementation of National Land Reform Programme.
Status: Completed; Final output - Final report submitted in January 1990.
Impact of Study:   The study provided valuable input for policy level
decision-making in land reform policy.
8.   Study Title:   "Master Plan for the Agricultural Land Reform Office"
undertaken by Socio-Economic Policy and Forecasting Unit.  Chulalongkorn
University Social Research Institute.
Duration: 15 months commencing Oct. 3, 1988.
Purpose as Defined at Appraisal: Sub-sectoral studies;
Objectives as defined in the Agreement with SEPF CUSRI:
-         To determine the criteria for selection of both public and
private lands for land reform activities;
-         To set up the scope of work for land reform implementation
in terms of total area coverage and prioritize urgency of
land reform among the potential land reform areas;
-         To develop planning models for land reform implementation
within public and private land with clear specifications of
operational procedures for land distribution and development
activities as well as the prioritization and scheduling of
those activities;
-         To specify the time-frame for the implementation of the
Master Plan which is subjected to the operational procedures
of the adopted models for land distribution and development
activities in the potential LRAs;



- 34 -
-         To set up an institutional framework for planning and
implementation of land distribution and development
programme.   This will involve the specification of the
supportive organizational structure which will facilitate
the execution of the land distribution and development
activities; and
-         To determine the total cost for the implementation of the
land reform Master Plan.
Status:        Draft Final Reports recently submitted for ALRO's comments.
Impact of Study: The report was approved by ALRO special committee on
23.9.1991. The study is expected to help ALRO plan ahead and will also be
considered for incorporation in the 7th Plan.
9.    Study Title: "Development Directions for Agricultural Cooperatives in Land
Reform Areas" to be undertaken by Department of Cooperatives, Faculty of
Economics and Business Administration, Kasetsart University.
Duration required: 10 months
Purpose as Defined at Appraisal: Not defined.
Objectives as indicated in the Terms of Reference:
To study and analyse existing organization,  operation,
management and development problems and recommend practical
ways to solve the immediate problem of insolvency or near
insolvency of Agricultural Land Reform Cooperatives; and
-         To develop medium and long-term directions to develop and
strengthen Agricultural Land Reform Cooperatives and Farmers
Institutions.
Status:  ALRO is in the process of engagement negotiation with Kasetsart
University.
Expected Output: A Final Report.
It was submitted to ALRO in August 1991.
Sub-Project Proposals Preparation
1.    Phetchabun Sub-Project Proposal  (April 1984) prepared by the Advisory
Group (: Louis Berger International Inc. in association with Agri. Econ.
Eng. Co., Ltd.).
2.    Viang Chai Sub-Project Proposal  (February 1985) prepared by the Advisory
Group (LBII + AEE).



- 35 -
3.    Nakhon Sawan Sub-Project Proposal   (September 1985) prepared by Team
Consulting Engineers Co., Ltd. in association with Empire Consulting
Engineers Co., Ltd.
4.    Lop Buri Sub-Project Proposal  (April 1986) prepared by TEAM/EMPIRE.
5.    Saraburi Sub-Project Proposal  (April 1986) prepared by TEAM/EMPIRE.
6.    Nakhon  Ratchasima  Sub-Project  Proposal    (November  1986)  prepared by
TEAM/EMPIRE.
7.    Si Saket Sub-Project Proposal  (November 1986) prepared by TEAM/EMPIRE.
8.    Chiang Rai (Doi Pui) Sub-Project Proposal (June 1987) prepared by ALRO's
staff.
9.    Uthai Thani Sub-Project Proposal  (December 1987) prepared by TEAM/ EMP.aE.
E. Farmers' Aspirations 1986-1989
Phetchabun          Nakhon Sawan   Chiang   Saraburf  Lop Burt
Rai
Control    Sub-project area    N a 260  N a 138   N a 216   N a 291
1986  1989    1986    1989      1989       1989       1986     1989
......................                  . ... . ............
Comparison of life
between the past &
present
- Present is better than
the past             62.3  89.9      76.4  81.3      76.5        76.1      63.0     71.8
- It is the same as ever   24.6  10.1  17.2  14.2      19.2       23.9      18.5      16.2
- Present is worse than
the pest             13.1      -      6.4   4.5       4.3         -        14.3     11.0
Comparison of life would
be in the future
- Future would be better   55.7  71.0  59.1  71.0      49.6       49.3      49.1      64.6
- The same as present   6.6   4.4       4.3   5.8       0.8         4.3      4.2       3.1
- Worse than present    3.3     -       2.7     -      36.6       43.5        1.4     45.7
Source:  Final Evaluation of the Land Reform Areas Project, September 1989, by
NIDA.



7. 8tatus of Covenants
Cptf an,e with Loen Conditfons
Loan Agreient         1Fpraisat      comenat Aequirement              Deadlfne Date        Present Status                        Rem aks
Secticn        Report Pwarragr
3.01(c)            7.01(f),4.02       Appointment of Project Manager    Loan effectiveness   Done (ALRO's Order No.304/2526 dated    3Assistant ProJect wrws weq4oWItedby
8 Apr.1983, revised by ALRO's Order    ALRO's Ordr No.156029 dated 11 Mar.1986
No.156/2529 dated 11 Mar. 1986)       (Thefr T.OR. Is specified in thwrevise
ALRo' DAid-t frie Aug. 15. Pages 23-34)
7.02(f),4.05      Sufficient mnbt  -   .aff        At alt times         Done
3.02(a)            7.02, 4.04         Prepare guidelines and           No date              U.B.'s approval of revised ALRO's
iopletent project accordingly                        Culdetlnes (Aug. 85) by U.S.'s letter
dated 15 Jan.'86. Design Guidelines
for Low Cost Rural Roads wa sent to
U.S. on 12 Mar.'86
3.03(a)            7.Olb),7.02       Prepare written agtments with   No date               Signed with B.A.A.C. - 29 June'83                                      1
other partfcipating agencies                         Signed with D.A.E.  . 18 May'84
Signed with L.D.D.  - 18 May'84.
Sg1ned with OUPEC   - 30 May'84
Signed with D.O.H.  - 17 May'84
3.03(a)            7.01(b),7.02       Erploy consultants:
(1) Advisory 6roup               No date             Agreement with LBII * AEE signed on    Coma_nement Date - 25 Aug.'83
10 Aug. '83                          Expiration Date   -24 Aug. '86
(36 meonths)
1st Amencdient of Agreement with      Caemt Date - 25 Aug. 86
LII + AEE                             Expiration Date   - 24 Dec. 86
2nd Amendunt of Agreement with        Coaencement Date - 5 Jan. 87
LUII + AEE                            Expiration Date   - 31 Dec. 87
(9months ith scae intervals requested
by the consultents or by ALO)
3rd Amendent of Agreement with        C           Oate - 1 Oct.87
Ult1 + EE                             Expiration Date   - 31 ec. '88
'Dr. shakd Lust_endm                                 Agreement No. 25/2531 sifned an        C    _mm temnt Date - I Wr. 88
(individual)                                        19 Sep.'88                             Expiration Date   - 31 Mar.#89
Amenxent signed an 13 Feb.'90 for
extension of consulting services
frem 1 Jan.'90 to 31 Dec.'90
(revised Project Closing Date)
'Mr. DOavid S. Valtace                               Asreement No.2/253  signed on          C       _   Date - I Apr.'88
(through LBll)                                      30 Nov.'88                             Expiration Date  - 31 Oec.'89



Coltfance with Loan Caeditfouw
Loa n Agreemen        AWrisat         Covenet R uiremit                 Deaine Date          Present StatR                                 s
Sectin         RePort Parabrqi
(2) SubproJect Preperatlon,       No date              Agreement with TEAM/EMPIRE signed on    Phase t
Road Design & Construction                         29 mar. 85.                             C _ M ncnet Date - I Apr.-85
Supervision                                                                                Expiration Date   - 31 Jan.'86
U.S. s concurrence on Phase It         Phase II
continuation on 10 Aug. 86             ROa Design & Construction S81 vision
camuneed an 1 Feb. 86
construction Supervision comsenced on
17 Mar. 86.
Amenduent of Agreement TEAM/EMPtRE     Coencesient Date - 1 Apr. '87
signed on 26 June'87                   Expirstion Date   - 31 Oct.'87
(For Sbproject prepoation of MaI Thab
Salao LRA, Uthal Thani Province)
Addendu  11 to Agreement TEAK/WIRE
signed on 1t Oct.'88 (for additionat                                       I
road design work)
(3) Monitoring 8 Evaluation       31 Dec.'83           Agreement signed wuth VIDA Consulting   Phase  t (4  ths)  1 Ib.v86 - 28 F  #85
Center on 29 Oct.'84                   Pase II (6 , ts) I Juty'86 - 31 Dec. 86
fhe III (6 mts) 1 r. 'G - 3D Sqp'8
(4) Organization & Manaement      30 Sep'84            Agreement signed with SEATEC & RDI     Cameenerwt Date - 1 Juxwe8S
Group on 1 May'85                      Expiration Date  - 31 Jan. 86
(5) Land Reform Studies                                Agreement signed with CUSRI             Ctmiencet Date - 6 May'86
on 1 May'86                            Expiration Date   - 5 per.'87
(6) Short-term Specialist                              As referred In Agreement TEAmIEMPIRE    1.8. and ALRO agreed to stop this
6.1  Groutd water resources                        13 months:                              activity at the end of Phase I (b).
Phase I (a) - Preliminary Assesmnt
t month): 16 June'86 - 15 Julyo86
Phase I (b) - Dritling and Testing
Program (3 months):
6 Aug. 86 - 5 Mov. 86
Phase I tc) - Evaluation and Ecnomic
Analysis (3 months)
Phase It - leplemtation (6 mnths)
6.2  Integrated Farming                            Addenk  I to the Agreement              Co_ncenent Date - 2 May'88
System                                        TEAM IRE signed on 25 Apr.'88           Expiration Date   - 1 Nov.'88
(7) Photogrumetry a 8GI                                Agreement signed with Ninsa Luftbitd    Coencenent Date - 15 June 87
G*8 on 28 Nay'87 (12 months)           Expiration Date   - 14 JauneS88



Ct4uonc  edth Loem Cudftlens
Lean Areemit          Appredeat       Covenant Requirement              Deadlfne Date        Presmn t Status                         Oc2nk
Section        Ueqmt FPraurqab
3.04 (a)             7.01(b)            Furnish HSE Consultant report     30 Apr.'84            Report for Phase 1 furnished
to WB.                                                 an 28 Mar.'85
Report for Phase II furnfshed
on 23 Feb.'87
*Report for Phase IlI furnished an
arrivat of Project Cooptetion Report
Nisiuw%, Sept.'91
(i) 7.01 (b)       Furnish Orgenization              31 Dec.'84           Furnished on 30 Sep.'87
Consultants report to US. with
ALRO's proposals
(Ci) 7.01(b)       Carry out agreed                  No date
re-organization amesures
3.06                7.01(f), 4.02      Appoont Cuuiittees:
(1) Project Executive Comittee   31 Jan.'83            Done by  I.O.A.C.'s Order No.470/2525
dated 6 Dec.'82.
(2) Project Coordinsting          31 Jen.'83           Don by Prolect Exe.com.'s Order        CanceledendreplacedbyProj.Exe. oL
Comaittee                                          No. 1/2526 dated 22 Aug.'83             Order So. 11/2529 dated 12 June'S?  1
(3) Project Field Working         31 Jan.'84           Done for :
Comaittee                                          1) Petchabun                            -y Proj. etu Cma.'s Cder NOL.  daed
21 Oct.'83.
2) Chiege Rai                          - btProJ. s. W-m's Order bS58dted
24 Jan.'85
3) Nakhon Sawan                        - by Pro. Eme. OCi's rder VoA02S dted
22 Feb..85.
4) Lop burl                            - by Proj. Ee. on .s Oardo Ih dMaZted
4 Nov.'85
5) Saraburf                            -y Prol . tE. COus Ortdr ML402dated
4 Nov.'85
6)  akhon Rattasimf                    - bY ProJ. En. CaL 's Oxldr b1/M dte
18 NoW.'86
7) 51 Saket                            - bProJ.0e.LO 'sCbOrdr3        datd
8) Uthal Thanlt                           a Nov.'86
- by Proj. 0e..Wam's or  uo41 ate
21 Nov.'88
3.08(s)                                 Pro"t stission of reportst        so Date              DOem for periodic progres reports of
etc., to U.B.                                          consultants; or done as requted by
me.
.s.O8Cb)(lli)                           Suit Sed-Awal Report to            Within 2 months of   12th report (1 Apr.- 30 Sep.'89)       enomoe report was preparedefter the
t.S.                              end of semster       sent on 24 Jan.'90                        ref nencing of the loan (30 Sep.'89)



Ca*tisce with Loan Cnrlitfies
Loan ADeMft            ApratIat        Cainut Reqtirmet                  Dedline Date          Preseit Stats                              ks
Section        Report Paras
3.08(d)                                  submit Copletion Report to         6 mnths after
U.B.                               Loan Closing Date
3.10(t)              7.01(b),3.t0        Furnish Subproject Proposals       No Date              Furnished for:
to U.S.                                                 (1) Petchabun - 24 May'84
(2) Chieng Rat - 25 Feb.'85
(3) Nakhon Saan - 31 Oct.'85
(4) Lop Buri - 26 Mar.'86
(5) Saraburi * 26 mar. 86
(6) Makhon Ratchasima - 20 Mar.'87
(7) St Saket - 20 Mar. 87
(8) Dot Pui  18 Dec. 87
(9) Uthat Thani - 18 Dec.'87
* Iplementatifn carpeted in
every LRA.
3.11 C11)            3-49                Submit pre sals for                .................--    Agreement signed with TDRI an 19
31r3cuitural sector                                     Dec. 88 for #Policy Study for the
ad scusector studies                                    Agricultural Land Reform Office (t8 
months starting I Nov.'88)
3.11 (11)            3.49                submit proposats for               -------....          Agreement signed with CasRt on 6
strenthening                                            Jan. 89 for _Mater Plan btady for
project preparation capacity of                         the Agricultural Land Reform Office"
selected agecies                                       (._ -onths starting 3 Oct.'88)
3.11 (iii)           7.01(d), 3.51       Subit proposals for-               No Date              * Request for Japanese grant for F.S.
preparation of future projects                            preparation of Phase it had been
submitted to ll in October 1990
through the Bank's Mission but was
turned down.



Cmt tmxa with Lam Canditiom
Lam Agreeent          Apraiaat       CQ_ant reenI  t                    Demtine Date         Present Status                           23mks
sectfan        Neport Paragrap
3.12(a)              7.01(a),3.02       Degazette land reform arem
according to following
scbedute 5
(1) Petchbiun                     31 Dec. '82          Ninistarlat Regulation Issued
29 Dec. 82
(2) Chiang Rat                    30  ep. '83          Ministerial Regulation Issued
Hakhon Saman                                       31 Dec. 83
30 Sep.'83           Ministerfal Regulatfon Issued
2 Sep. 83
(3) Lop Burl                      30 Sep.'84            inisteriat Regulation Issued
Saraburl                                           1 Nov. 84
30 Sep.'84          NInisteriae Regulation Issued
14 Oct.'82
(4) Nlakhon Ratchasia             30 Se. '85           Ninisterlal Regulatiln Issued
4 Dec. 85 (Suef a)
Ministerfa1 Regulatfon issnrd
25 Dec.'85 (Kthao Phu Luan,
Sang HaW m Kho)
(5) Ii SaRet                      30 Sep.'86           Ministerial Regulation Issued
27 Feb.'899
(6) Doi Puf                       30 Sep. 86           No degazettesaent was required for
this LRA.
(7) Uthai Ianli                   Ho Date                                                      - the Ibd Thb Salto LtRA ud to be a pwt
of the Nlatinal Pweent Forest. The
CaUrtat Wooedon 2 .ff to set a"
the LRA out of the uational Permnent
Forest, ed on25    7, to itlid this
LRA iuder the Led RefoAres Project.
3.12(b)              7.01(a).3.02       Integrate land reform areas       Ho Date
Into provincial awhinistratfon
after development
Prepared by Forefgn Cooperation Section, 2esearch and Plaming Diision, ALRO.



- 41
8. Use of Bank Resources
A. Staff Inputs (staff weeks)
Stag of
Project      FY78   FY79   FY80   FY81   FY82   FY83   FY86   FY85   FY86  F"8T   FM88   FY89  FY90   Totat
Cycle
Through           0.3   32.6   61.8   36.1                                                                     130.9
apprai6al
Appraisal
through                  0.2          44.0    6.4                                                               50.6
board
approval
Board
approval
through                                        5.1    5.7                                                       10.8
effectiveness
Supervision              0.1    3.1    9.5    5.8   12.5   10.9   10.2    4.7    6.8    S.2   10.1   10.8   93.7
TOTAL:          0.3   32.9   64.9   89.6   17.3   18.2   10.9   10.2    4.7    6.8    9.2   10.1   10.8  286.0
B. Missions
Stage of Project   alnth/Yr  no. of  DOays        Specialfza-    Perfornoe Trend 31    Types
Persons  In Field tionh/          Rating 2/                 of -'btns
Appraisal            3/81      4        28        FAE, AR
Supervision   1    11/82       1        2         FA              WRI
Supervision   2      6/83      1        4         FA              MR
Supervision   3     10/83      1        3         FA              1            2           p
Supervision   4      3/84      2         12       2A              2            1           p
Supervision  5      11/84      2        6         ZA              2            1            F
Supervision  6       2/85      1         1        A               2            1            F
Supervision   7      8/85      1        3         A               I
Supervision   8      3/86      2        2         A,R             MR
Supervision   9      7/86      4        5         2AER            2
Supervision  10      4/87      3        4         A, 2E           2
Supervision  11      7/87      1        4         A               NR
supervision  12    10/87       1         2        A               NR
Supervision  13      4/88      2        9         2A              2
Supervision  14     11/88      3        8         2AF             2
Supervision  15      6/89      3         10       2AE             2
Supervision  16      2/90      1         5        A               UR
Completion          Sep/Oct9l 3          24       E2S
1/  A a Agriculturalist;  E a Economist;  FA = Financial Analyst;  R   Rural Engineer;  S a Sociologist.
2/ 1 a problem-free or minor problem; 2 a moderate problems.
3' 1 a improving; 2 : stationary.
4' P a Political; F a Financial.
MR= Not rated (no Form 590 prepared or Form 590 does not show rating as for Supervision 1).
C. Costs
Data are not available on cost of staff inputs broken down by stage of project cycle.



Project Completion Report                                                   A         I
Thailand: Land Reform Areas Project (Ln. 2198-TH)                                      TabLe 1
ERR Calculations
Econoic Benefits ad CsXt  (BeSt'O00)
yewr                  PRMDUCIM EleFlTS                                                         3J
p    _ serV  Vehicle    Total    Coasts 3/    et meref its
Cotten    Cassava     Rice                    coist Savings  Bdenfits
1983                                                                                         2,570        (2,570)
1984                                                                             -          25,230        (25,230)
1985           4,300      1,900      200      5,200              356             11,956     56,751        (44,795)
1986           5 600      3,400      200      980              3,135             22,135     55,424        (33 289)
1987          10,800      4,900      400                       6,023             35,923                   (46,744)
1988          14 200      6,300      500    13,600            10,641            45,241      K4593        (39.352)
1989          17,900      8,200      700     17,300           11.173             55,273     68,82        (13,552)
1990          21.200      9,800      900     20.600           11,732            64232       79,685       (15,453)
1991          24,500     11,300    1,100     23,600           12.318             72,818     16,511         56,307
1992          27,800     12,800    1,300     27,000           12,934            81,834      16,708        65.126
1993          31,200     14,400    1,200     30,300           13,580            90,680      26,180        64,500
1994          34,800     16.100    1,400     33,000           14,260            99,560      42,460        57,100
1995          38,400     17,600    1,600     37,000           14,992            109,592     59,406         50,186                   4
1996          41 600     19,200    1,700    40,000            15.721            118.221      9 900        108.321
1997          41.600     19,200    1,700     40,000           16,507            119,007      9,900        109,107
1998          41600        19,200    I,m     35,900           17,333            115,833      9,900        105,933
1999          41,600     19.200    1.800     35,900           18,200            116.700      9,9*0        106,800
2000          41,600     19,200    1,800     35,900           19,109            117,609     59,406        58 203
2001          41.600     19,200    1,800     35,900           20,065            118,565      9,900        108,665
2002          41t600     19,200   1800      35,900           21,068            119,568      9 900        109.668
2003          41,600     19,200    1,800     35,900           22122            120,622      9900         110,722
2004          41 600     19.200    1.800     35.900           23,227           121727        9900         111a827
2005          41,600     19,200    1,800     35,900           24,388           122,888      59,406        63,482
EcDmic Rate of kttn a 17X
1/ In the absence of needed monitoring ard evaluation data, analysis is based an mision estimates, NIDA evaluation wd updated
2appraisa assumtione.
Assumed to grom at 5S p.a., savir4s derived on the saw basis as at appraisal altowing for 669 km instead of 430 km at
appraisal.
/ See Table 2.



Project Caipletion Report                                                            1
Thailand: Land Reform Areas ProJect (Ln. 2198-TN)                                          Table 2
ERR Calculations
FinanslaL an Econmlc Costs (a*t'000)
Land          Road 1/           Soit                       institutional      Totat Cost 21          MP
Yewr         Oistributifn    Construction    Conervation      Irrigaticn     Dewleopsnt      in Econsai Term        Oef(star           Cost
1983            2,349                                                 _                            2,231             86.81            2,570
1984            6,559                             528                          1 16,101           21,917             86.87            25,230
1985            8,000            6,700            754                          34,460             49.521             87.26            56,751
1986           13.685             776            1,742          1,653          29,384             44,001             79.39            55,424
1987           14,711           22,326            965           t,091          38,218             68,324             82.65            82,667
1988           t5.574           32,407          3,475                 _        33,286             72,70              86.26            84,593
1989              742           43,074         1t675              793          29,348             62.583             90.93            68,825
1990               81           67,391            -                            26,653             79.685            100.00            79,685
1991              196           19.852            _               -             1,722             16,511               .              16.511
1992 __         _               22,578                                                            16,708               _              16,708
1993                            35,378                      _                                     26,180                              26,180
1994                           57,378                                                             42,460                              42,U0
1995                           80,278                                                     _       59,406                              59.406
1996                           13.380      _                                                      ,9,900                              9,900
1997                           13,380                                                             9,900                     _         4,900
1998                           13,380                                                             9,900                               9,900
1999                           13,380                                                             9.900                               9,900
2000                           80,278                                              _              59,406                              59,406
2001                           13,380                                                             9,900                               9,900
2002     ____ _ _    _          13.380                                                            9,900                               9,900
2003                            13,380-                                                            9,900        _            _        9,900
2004                            13,380                              9,900                                                             9,900
2005                            80,278                                                            59,406                              59.406
1/ Road constructfon Including maintenance at 820,000/km annually based on cortructlon: 1985 - 20 km;  1987 - n kbn   1988 - 128 aki;  1989 - 220 kb,*
and 1990 - 229 kbn; plus B100,000/km every five years.
Z  Financial cost of lard distribution and institutional development adjusted by conversion factor of 0.95 and the rest by 0.74.



E;  1;°    __             io                                 IIi°                    <    <a;,1040HtNA
MYANMAR   <,..>
-20-                                                                                             211~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  :l ~~~~~~~~THI4LAN
[LA   PEOPLE'S DEM. REP
IN            ~~~SINGAPORE
161
5140                                                                                                                                                                           14 .
120
~~~...7Ni4Mi100
fROCTARLCO  Of POE   AREAS
|~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3AaO S9TAILAND
6SARI    LROARS
O   0   Gti          IDO      1C MIF                                                                          -0  ' '.  RAILWAYS
9NA_HON RA'; oA>'tAAI ITERNATIONAL ffOAAIRS
> ~~~~~~~_4~~~~~~~ v ~~~~~DI PL"
z _ z S _ ~~~~~~~~~~ s _ 32LM  TKAN 
440                                 552o4           AL   A V        Y                                                                             55 40, TD
152LADEFR0RESPRJC



