Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3381-TH
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO $17 MILLION
TO THE KINGDOM OF THAILAND
FOR A
LAND REFORM AREAS PROJECT
August 26, 1982
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit -  Baht (B)
$1.00             B 23
B 1           =   $0.04
B 1 million   =   $43,478
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ALRO - Agricultural Land Reform Office
BAAC - Bank for Agriculture and Agricultural Cooperatives
LRA   -  Land Reform Area
THAI FISCAL YEAR
October 1 - September 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THAILAND
LAND REFORM AREAS PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:          Kingdom of Thailand
Amount:            $17 million equivalent
Terms:             25 years, including 6 years grace, with interest at
11.6% per annum.
Project
Description:    The project will contribute to the intensification of
rainfed agriculture, the expansion of agricultural
exports, the alleviation of poverty, and improved land
use. It will pursue these aims by strengthening the
capability of the Agricultural Land Reform Office (ALRO)
to implement a series of land reform and development
projects on encroached public lands and by demonstrating
the viability of a land reform and infrastructure
development model in an initial set of nine land reform
areas (LRAs) of 192,000 ha affecting some 35,000
low-income families. Furthermore, it will promote
appropriate land use by releasing the LRAs from forest
reserve status through degazettement and by promoting soil
conservation on sloping land. Finally, it will facili-
tate the absorption of the LRAs into the provincial
administrative framework. The major risk associated with
implementation of the project concerns the fact that ALRO,
as a relatively young institution, has not yet had
extensive experience in implementing land distribution
measures and coordinating the activities of other agencies
&                             involved in LRAs.  The extensive use of technical
assistance and the adoption of a subproject approach are
meant to minimize this risk.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Local   Foreign   Total
Estimated Costs:                                                  ($ million) --
Institutional development               3.5      2.0        5.5
Land reform                             4.3       -         4.3
Infrastructure                          7.1      3.0       10.1
Project preparation                     0.8      0.7        1.5
Subtotal                          15.7      5.7      21.4
Physical contingencies                  1.1      0.5        1.6
Expected price contingencies            6.4      1.6        8.0
Total Project Cost /a             23.2      7.8       31.0
Financing Plan:   Government                                8.7        -        8.7
The Bank for Agriculture                5.3        -        5.3
and Agricultural Cooperatives
IBRD                                    9.2      7.8       17.0
Total                             23.2      7.8       31.0
Estimated               Bank FY 1983  1984  1985  1986  1987  1988  1989
Disbursements:                ----------------- ($ million) ---------
Annual       0.1   1.2   2.2    3.6   4.4   4.5   1.0
Cumulative  0.1   1.3   3.5    7.1  11.5  16.0  17.0
Rate of Return:   14%
Staff Appraisal
Report:          No. 3553-TH, dated August 23, 1982
IBRD Map:          No. 15809
/a Including $1.5 million of taxes and duties.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE KINGDOM OF THAILAND FOR
A LAND REFORM AREAS PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to the Kingdom of Thailand for the equivalent of $17 million to help
finance a Land Reform Areas Project. The loan will have a term of 25 years,
including 6 years of grace, with interest at 11.6% p.a.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A Basic Economic Report entitled "Thailand:  Toward a Development
Strategy of Full Participation" (Report No. 2059-TH) was issued on
September 18, 1978. Subsequently Thailand's economic situation deteriorated,
and an economic report entitled "Coping with Structural Change in a Dynamic
Economy" (Report No. 3067-TH), which proposed a medium-term strategy to deal
with the problems, was discussed with the Royal Thai Government in September
1980 and issued on January 8, 1981. A country economic mission visited
Thailand in June 1982 and is expected to issue a Country Economic Memorandum
in February 1983. Country data are given in Annex I.
Recent Political Developments
3.        Frequent changes at the top levels of government have characterized
political developments in Thailand until recently. General Kriangsak Chomanan
was Prime Minister from November 1977 to February 1980. His third cabinet
resigned following increasing public and parliamentary criticism of its
economic policies. General Prem Tinsulanonda was elected by the National
Assembly as Prime Minister after receiving the support of nearly all major
political parties. General Prem's government, formed in March 1980, included
leaders from the political parties which supported him. General Prem soon
announced his government's policies on a number of issues including economic
and social development. These policies place high and immediate priority on
accelerating rural development, raising rural incomes and improving health and
education. Particular emphasis was given to generating more jobs, and a rural
public works program was included as a major element in the strategy. The
Government also committed itself to containing inflation, although it
recognized the need for a substantial adjustment of energy prices and most
public enterprise tariffs. Furthermore, it decided to institute reforms in
monetary and fiscal policy and to reduce the trade deficit through improved
export performance and development of domestic energy resources.
4.        After a period of political consolidation, the Government began to
take steps to implement these policies in the fall of 1980. In March 1981,
however, the social action party and other coalition parties withdrew from the



-2-
cabinet on an issue of handling fuel oil contracts and a new cabinet was
formed comprising members of the United, Chart Thai, and Democrat parties as
well as a number of technocrats. Shortly thereafter there was an attempted
coup by a group of military officers which, however, failed. During much of
the summer of 1981, the political position of the second Prem cabinet appeared
to be weak, particularly in the wake of the devaluation of the baht against
the dollar in July, which resulted in much public criticism. Since then,
however, the Prime Minister's position strengthened, not least because of the
relatively favorable economic developments during 1981, especially in the
agricultural sector. In December 1981, the Government's parliamentary basis
was broadened significantly when the Social Action Party rejoined the cabinet.
Currently, it is expected that Prime Minister Prem will remain in government
until the general elections to be held in April 1983, and possibly beyond.
Past Economic Trends
5.        The 1960s and early 1970s were a period of unprecedented economic
development in Thailand, with GDP growth averaging 7-8% per year (or 4 to 5%
per capita). Real agricultural growth of nearly 5% per year, based largely
on an expansion in cultivated area and development of new crops in response
to export opportunities, was a major factor contributing to these develop-
ments as well as to a sustained growth of exports. An increase in the
investment level from about 20% to 27% of GDP contributed to rapid indus-
trial growth. Investments were largely financed by domestic savings, keep-
ing the debt service ratio quite low. The incidence of poverty was reduced
substantially, from about 57% in 1962/63 to about 31% by 1975/76. However,
poverty still remains a problem, and significant regional disparities exist,
with the Central Region, including Bangkok, not only having the highest per
capita income, but also being much better served by roads, telecommunica-
tions, schools, public health and other services than the other three regions,
the North, the Northeast and the South. Considerable variations also remain
within regions: farmers who have diversified into the new cash crops have
in many cases succeeded in crossing the poverty line, while the incomes of
those unable to shift out of subsistence rice culture have stagnated. By
the mid-1970s it became apparent that Thailand was facing increasingly
difficult problems of development, including the lack of new arable land to
continue to absorb the rapidly growing labor force, and an emerging balance
of payments constraint as a result of deteriorating terms of trade. In
order to deal with such problems the country needed to shift its pattern of
growth from one based on the extension of land under cultivation and on
import substituting industries to one based on increasingly intensive use of
land and on industries producing for domestic and export markets under
competitive conditions.
6.        Since the mid-1970s Thailand's development problems have been
compounded by adverse external factors including oil price increases, a
resurgence of inflation and slow growth in developed countries. A relatively
high rate of overall growth was maintained (8.6% per annum between 1975 and
1978, 6.0% in 1979 and 5.8% in 1980) but this was accompanied by accelerating
inflation, large fiscal and external deficits and growing dependence on



foreign borrowing. Consumer prices increased by 8% in 1977 and 1978, by 10%
in 1979 and by 20% in 1980. The overall Central Government deficit reached
4.4% of GDP in 1980. Notwithstanding continued rapid export growth, the
current account deficit came close to 5% of GDP in 1977 and 1978, but it
amounted to 7.7% of GDP in 1979 and 6.2% of GDP in 1980; consequently there
has been a rapid accumulation of Thailand's initially low external debt.
7.        Over the years 1975-78 the Government was slow in responding to the
changing internal and external conditions, but, beginning in 1979, policy
adjustments were undertaken at a gradually accelerating pace. They included
sharp increases in prices for most petroleum products and electricity;
measures to increase government revenues; amendments to the usury laws, which
permitted an increase in interest rates; and the introduction of regulations
to increase financial stability and exercise more monetary restraint. In the
second half of 1980, the Government began to give serious attention to
developing a longer-term comprehensive program for the economy, and continued
to implement necessary, but politically contentious, economic decisions. In
October 1980 price controls were lifted on 29 of 36 goods. In the same month
the Government started on a reform of the tariff structure, reducing import
duties on 10 categories of electrical goods by between 10% and 60%. In
November, retail prices of sugar, which had fallen out of line with inter-
national prices, causing domestic shortages, were increased by 60%. In a
number of successive steps, electricity and petroleum prices were increased
further, and by mid-1981 they were nearly two-and-a-half times as high as at
the start of 1979.  During the first half of 1981, charges for other public
services (water, transport, communications) were increased substantially
(most by at least 50%). During this period, the Government also introduced
various fiscal measures designed to contain the central government deficit.
8.        Despite the effect that these measures inevitably had on the price
level and on effective demand, economic performance in most areas appears to
have been good during 1981 with GDP increasing at about 7%. Agricultural
production and incomes increased rapidly, due to favorable weather and, until
mid-1981, agricultural export prices, and the demand and interindustry effects
of a buoyant agricultural sector stimulated the other sectors of the
economy.  In 1982 a slowdown in economic activity is expected, in part as a
result of a projected decline in the growth rate of agriculture. The extent
*         of this slowdown depends significantly on weather conditions during the second
half of the year and on the impact of the substantial drop in commodity prices
(only partly cushioned by a drop in commodity taxation). On the expenditure
side, the weak performance of private investment is notable, especially
during the second half of 1981 and the first half of 1982. Among the
indicators of a weak investment demand is the substantial reduction in the
imports of capital goods and of intermediate goods for capital goods produc-
tion which occurred in the last quarter of 1981 and the first four months of
1982, when compared with the same quarters of the preceding year. Overall the
growth prospects of the Thai economy for 1982 have continuously weakened since
the second half of 1981. Continued high interest rates at home and abroad,
substantial reductions in commodity prices and a weaker outlook for export
demand, lower than expected construction activity, and an unfavorable and



-4-
uncertain investment climate are likely to result in a growth rate of 5% or
possibly less for 1982.
9.        Associated with the slowing of international price level increases
and recently slower economic expansion at home is a reduced rate of domestic
inflation of 13% in 1981, and an expected 7% in 1982. The balance of pay-
ments situation worsened slightly in 1981 as compared with 1980 as the current
account deficit reached 6.9% of GDP in 1981, in the wake of an export short-
fall and relatively buoyant import demand in the first half of 1981. For
1982, however, the current account deficit is expected to drop to 4.2% of GDP
due to a decline in imports during early 1982 and due to continued weak import
demand but relatively steady export performance forecast for the remainder of
the year. The budgetary position of the Government which had shown signs of
improvement between 1980 and 1981, deteriorated substantially in fiscal year
1982, reflecting to a significant extent the reduction in imports (and thus
import tariff and business tax revenues) and the drop in export tax revenues
as a result of lower tax rates and reduced product prices.
Development Prospects and Constraints
10.       For the remainder of the decade, many of the positive features
which contributed to Thailand's rapid socio-economic development over the
past two decades will continue to do so. These factors include a relatively
equitable distribution of rural land, responsiveness of Thai farmers to
economic incentives and improved technology, provision of infrastructure by
the Government, and the dynamism of the private sector in both industry and
agriculture. Also, major gains have been made in family planning in recent
years, slowing the annual rate of population growth from about 3% during the
1960s to an estimated 2.1% in 1981 (but only affecting labor force growth
two decades later). A new favorable factor is that the first phase of the
infrastructure to tap the substantial natural gas reserves in the Gulf of
Thailand was completed in September 1981, enabling a gradual but significant
reduction in Thailand's dependence on foreign oil.
11.       The recent developments have, however, demonstrated that the Thai
economy is not immune from adverse international developments, such as low
international economic growth, high interest rates, and declining terms of
trade, resulting in lower domestic growth and a poor investment climate.
What is more, fiscal measures have as yet fallen short of reestablishing
balance in the Government's accounts. In response to these challenges, the
Government has searched intensively for policy alternatives which will
correct the fiscal and external imbalances without undue consequences for
the growth of incomes and employment, especially for the poor. Its efforts
are reflected in the Fifth Five-Year Plan, which covers the period October



-5-
1981 to September 1986. The major (and interrelated) objectives are equity,
financial stability, and national security; growth is seen as a derived
rather than a primary objective. The Government aims at reconciling these
objectives over the five-year period of the Plan, partly through a reduction
in lower-priority expenditures, but mainly through medium-term structural
adjustments which improve production incentives and increase the efficiency
of the economy, and improve its competitiveness, both in the external and
domestic markets. The implications of the recent slowdown for longer term
growth and for the achievement of the Fifth Plan targets will be assessed in
the preparation of the forthcoming Country Economic Memorandum, as will be
the requirements for narrowing the fiscal deficit through measures to
strengthen the underlying responsivemess of the Thai tax system and to
ensure a more efficient utilization of public sector resources.
12.       To assist it in realizing the objectives of the Fifth Plan, the
Government has sought the assistance of the IMF and the Bank. Agreement was
reached with the Fund on a major standby program, which covers a two-year
period starting in June 1981, and amounts to SDR 814.5 million. In addi-
tion, the Fund in July 1981 provided Thailand with SDR 186 million under its
Compensatory Financing Facility. With regard to the Bank, the Government
has sought assistance in further developing and implementing the structural
adjustment program, incorporated in the Fifth Plan, through a series of
structural adjustment loans. The first such loan was approved by the
Executive Directors on March 2, 1982.
Financing Requirements
13.       While the Government is making considerable efforts to improve the
efficiency and effectiveness of its spending, the implementation of policies
needed for a satisfactory rate of economic and social progress will require
continued growth in the absolute level of public expenditures, though they
are expected to remain constant relative to GDP. Much greater efforts will
be required to mobilize both domestic and external resources than in the
past. The Government's domestic revenue, as a percentage of GDP (about 14%
for 1978 to 1980), is low compared to other developing countries at similar
levels of development. Recently the Government has taken steps to revise
the tax structure and to improve collections. Further tax measures are
planned, particularly in the area of improved tax administration and
structure. In addition, the financial situation of state enterprises, which
has already improved in the wake of recent tariff increases, is expected to
continue improving as a result of appropriate pricing policies.
14.       Despite these fiscal policy measures and the ambitious structural
adjustment policies to be implemented in the agriculture, industry and energy
sectors, the demand for external resources will increase. Macroeconomic
projections indicate that the current account deficit will remain at levels
over $2 billion per annum, but will decline as a share of GDP to about 4% in
1987. Even the realization of this target will require large amounts of
external borrowing, totalling about $25 billion over the period 1982-87, of
which about half is expected to be in the form of public and publicly



-6-
guaranteed debt. Assuming a significant level of concessional assistance,
total debt service payments as a percentage of exports of goods and
non-factor services will rise from 11.6% in 1980 to 17.9% in 1987. Given
the diversification of Thai commodity exports and the continued expansion of
agricultural and manufactured exports expected as a result of appropriate
structural adjustment policies, these debt service requirements should be
sustainable.
15.       Official donors, particularly Japan and the development banks,
have been expanding their programs to meet a larger part of Thailand's
growing resource requirements. The rest has been financed through
syndicated loans and bond issues. The Government has established a Foreign
Loan Policy Committee to coordinate and approve all foreign borrowing by the
public sector. The Bank of Thailand is improving its procedures for
recording private borrowing abroad in order to keep track of total foreign
debt. External agencies, including the Bank Group, have in recent years
increasingly concentrated on project lending to Thailand in some sectors
that have high social benefits, but low foreign exchange savings or
earnings. To achieve the level of external resource transfer that is now
required, it is necessary, in selected projects where the foreign exchange
component is low, to finance some local currency expenditures.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THAILAND
16.       Thailand first borrowed from the Bank Group in 1950 for a railway
project and, as of March 31, 1982, had received 69 IBRD loans (including
two third window loans) and six IDA credits, totalling (net of cancellations)
$2,558 million in loans and $125 million in credits. As of that date,
$1,337.3 million remained undisbursed on effective loans and credits. No IDA
credits have been extended to Thailand since FY79. Annex II contains a
summary statement of Bank loans, IDA credits, and IFC investments as well as
the status of Bank Group projects under implementation.
17.       The sectoral distribution of Bank loans and IDA credits, in dollar
terms, has been as follows: 30% for energy; 28% for agriculture and rural
development; 17% for transportation; 6% for telecommunications; 5% for urban
development; 4% for education; 1% for industry; 2% for population/health/
nutrition; and 6% for structural adjustment lending. Overall implementa-
tion of Bank projects in Thailand has improved steadily during the past five
years. Thailand's disbursement ratio increased from 14.5% in 1977 to 21.2%
in 1980. These rates compare well with other countries. In 1980, for
example, the ratios for two comparator countries, the Philippines and
Malaysia, were 15.4% and 13.0%, respectively.
18.       Over the past six years, the Bank has shifted its lending in
Thailand from a program dominated by investments in traditional infrastruc-
ture projects (accounting for over 80% of the lending through FY75) to a
program which places increasing emphasis on assisting the Government's
efforts to reach the poorer segments of its population more directly. Since



-7-
FY76, investments in transportation, power, water supply, telecommunications
and industry have accounted for about 60% of Bank Group lending and about
half of these, in dollar terms, were for projects specifically designed to
benefit the rural population. The proportion of Bank lending to the
agricultural/rural development sector has trebled, accounting for about 30%
of lending operations since FY76. The design of projects in this sector
has also changed, from exclusively large irrigation projects to a more bal-
anced program covering irrigation (including land development and support
services to the farmer) and a variety of innovative projects to assist farm-
ers outside the central flood plain (rubber replanting, livestock, agricul-
tural extension, research and credit, and rural development). Projects in
the social sectors which, prior to FY76, were limited to three in education,
accounting for 6% of the program, have both diversified and grown. In recent
years education, population and low-income housing projects have accounted for
about 10% of the program.
19.       For the future, the Bank's assistance objectives are to support the
Government's development efforts, as articulated in its Fifth Five-Year Plan
for the period 1982-1986, to address: (a) the long-term issues of poverty
alleviation, promotion of employment, and reduction of income disparities; and
(b) the medium-term issue of restructuring the Thai economy through the inten-
sification of agriculture, efficient development of the industrial sector,
promotion of domestic energy conservation and development, increased public
resource mobilization, and improved institutional capacity in the public
sector. In addition to these two broad objectives, Bank assistance in
Thailand also aims at moving from project-specific to sectoral lending,
especially in agriculture, industry, energy, and education, and at strengthen-
ing the local Thai capacity for policy analysis and formulation.
20.       In implementing this strategy, projects in the areas of agriculture
and rural development will seek to generate employment and income growth
particularly among the poorer farm households in the rainfed areas of the
country and will support the structural adjustment process by aiming at
continued growth of agricultural production and exports through intensi-
fication. Lending for transport and communications will increasingly aim at
expanding the rural road system and thus be in support of agricultural and
rural development for the medium and longer term. In the urban development
and human resources sectors, Bank lending will be geared to strengthening
the long-term capacity of Thailand to transform itself efficiently from a
primarily agricultural and rural economy to a relatively more industrial and
urban economy, while also supporting the Government's goal to address basic
human needs in the more disadvantaged rural and urban areas of the country.
Lending in the energy and industry sector will be designated to support
structural adjustment and growth through the efficient development and
utilization of domestic energy resources and the strengthening of the
financial infrastructure. Finally, structural adjustment lending will
strengthen the Government's structural adjustment program through studies,
development of action programs, and policy actions in the areas of agri-
culture, industry, energy, fiscal policy, and institutional development.



-8-
21.       Bank loans and IDA credits to Thailand, disbursed and outstanding,
amounted to $1,063.2 million as of March 31, 1982. As of December 31, 1980,
Bank and IDA debt disbursed and outstanding accounted for 11.7% of total
debt (disbursed and outstanding), while the Bank Group's share of total debt
service payments amounted to 8.3% in 1980. This is not excessive in view of
Thailand's modest overall external debt (18% of GDP in 1980) and the
declining shares of Bank debt in total debt, and of Bank debt service in
total debt service.
22.       As of March 31, 1982, IFC had made commitments totalling $110.6
million in nine projects in Thailand. IFC's investments have been primarily
in industry and in the development of financial institutions aimed at
mobilizing domestic resources and providing financing to smaller enterprises.
Prospects for increased IFC operations in Thailand have been enhanced by
expanding private sector investment activity, and consultations with the
Government have identified several areas where IFC's assistance may be
needed. These areas include very large and complex projects such as a
proposed soda ash project to serve the ASEAN community, projects in the
petroleum and downstream petrochemical sector, and projects in the agri-
cultural sector. A tantalum processing project and a shrimp farming venture
are being considered by IFC management.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
Background
23.       The Thai agricultural sector currently employs about 50% of the
labor force, produces about 30% of Gross Domestic Product, and provides about
60% of total export earnings. The overall growth of the sector has been
excellent, averaging about 5.3% p.a. during 1960-79, largely as a result
of movement into higher valued crops and expansion of the area under
cultivation. This expansion, sometimes illegally into areas reserved for
forest, proceeded at more than 4% p.a. in the 1960s and early 1970s.  Now,
however, with the exception of a few remaining forest and brush areas suitable
for agriculture, the expansion of the area of farm holdings is coming to an
end, and there is a need to increase output from the present area under
cultivation, largely by increasing the planted area within holdings and
raising crop yields.
24.       With some 4.5 million farm families occupying about 24 million ha,
farm sizes are necessarily small, but the size distribution is not partic-
ularly skewed, in general. Ninety percent of the cultivated area is rainfed
and only 10% irrigated. In the 1979/80 season, rice was planted on over 60%
of the cultivated area, rubber on 10%, maize and cassava together about 15%,
and sugarcane 5%. Maize and cassava exports are now higher than the value
of rice exports.



-9-
25.       Despite agriculture's overall good performance during the past two
decades, large numbers of the rural population remain poor in absolute
terms. It is estimated that about one third of all agricultural households
or 8 million people remain in absolute poverty (with incomes below $148 per
capita), and many have had little or no improvement in real incomes since
1960.
Government Objectives and Strategy
26.       The main objectives of the Government's agricultural policy are
to increase agricultural production; to alleviate rural poverty and redress
inter-regional income disparities; to expand agricultural exports rapidly
to help the balance of payments; and to utilize more fully the available land
suitable for agriculture, protect against deforestation, conserve natural
resources, and minimize the deterioration of the environment. Its efforts to
pursue the above objectives involve the following major strategies: the
creation of an environment in which the private sector will have the needed
incentives and confidence to boost production, marketing and exports;
demarcation of poverty areas in which line agencies are to focus their
programs, particularly for agriculture, rural infrastructure (physical and
social) and community development; and the establishment of a land-use policy
for better utilization of land suitable for agriculture, including the
required legal and regulatory framework to give individual farmers title to
their land and a clear demarcation of zones reserved for forestry and
conservation.
27.       The Bank fully supports the broad outline of the Government's
objectives and strategies; its lending program for Thailand's agricultural
sector is geared to strengthening the technical and infrastructural bases
for improving production, and the expansion of Government's overall capacity
for project planning, coordination and implementation. Where possible,
projects are oriented toward poverty alleviation by increasing productivity
(and thus farmers' incomes). The main activities supported by the Bank in
agriculture are irrigation, tree crop development, research, extension,
credit, livestock, rural infrastructure, and land development.
Land Reform and Development Subsector
28.       Issues.  In the context of an expanding cultivated area, efforts
to intensify agricultural production had been limited to irrigated areas.
However, significant extension of the cultivated area is no longer possible,
and increasing attention is being directed toward raising productivity in
rainfed, areas as well. Two major problems currently hamper this
development. First, land classification in Thailand frequently runs counter
to the land's actual suitability. This is particularly a problem in lands
officially classified for forestry, which now cover up to 26 million ha or
half the country's total area. In spite of the classification, about 6
million ha of the areas classified as forest have been encroached by
approximately one million families, and some villages have been established
for more than 100 years. Furthermore, roughly two-thirds of the forest that



- 10
has been settled appears to be suitable for agriculture, and it is estimated
that over 50% of total maize and cassava production, which has been a major
factor in Thailand's recent agricultural and national growth, comes from
encroached lands. Within these areas, land distribution is more skewed than
elsewhere, and the level of infrastructure and public services is substan-
tially below that in neighboring, legally-settled areas. Agricultural
productivity is also relatively low.
29.        Security of tenure remains a major problem in many areas through-
out the country, and 40% of all agricultural land holdings, including the
6 million ha classified for forest, is being occupied with no legal
certification.  Farmers without any official claim to land face difficulties
in obtaining institutional credit and often must depend on relatively
expensive informal sources. Inadequate security of tenure also gives
farmers little incentive to make long-term improvements to their holdings,
such as soil conservation works. This is particularly a problem in the
encroached public lands, which are usually transition areas between
traditional agricultural lowlands and forested highlands, and which often
have sloping portions requiring soil conservation measures.
30.       Development Programs.  When new land for development was widely
available, development programs for public lands were primarily aimed at
settling the landless in new areas. More recent programs have placed greater
emphasis on intensifying development in populated areas in order to raise
incomes of small farmers and curtail further migration. In recognition of
the urgent need to address the problems of land use and development, the
Government has established a National Land Policy Committee and is reviewing
land problems and preparing land-use policies and development programs for
implementation under the Fifth National Economic and Social  evelopment Plan
(1982-86).
31.       The Agricultural Land Reform Office (ALRO).  ALRO, in the Ministry
of Agriculture and Cooperatives, was created by the Land Reform Act of 1975
to improve land distribution and security of tenure in specified land reform
areas (LRAs). ALRO currently has responsibility for land reform and
development on I million ha. Its activities are expected to help bring
about a more equitable income distribution among the households reached, as
well as an increase in both production and incomes by (a) providing security
of tenure, which encourages greater investment; and (b) improving infra-
structure, which raises productivity and directly affects living standards.
ALRO is also introducing soil conservation measures in areas with signifi-
cant erosion problems.  Thus far, 73 LRAs have been established by Royal
decree, including 39 LRAs on encroached public lands suitable for agriculture
(700,000 ha) and 34 LRAs on private lands (300,000 ha). About 50% of the
LRAs on public lands are located in the Northeast Region, 30% in the Central
Region and 20% in the North. About 85% of this area is in land classified
as forest.



- 11 -
32.       ALRO is initially concentrating on developing the public lands
under its jurisdiction. Physical and socioeconomic surveys as well as
registration of landholdings have been carried out in most of the LRAs, and
some rural infrastructure has already been provided in many of them. Three
LRAs in which land reform has been completed have been degazetted - that is,
reclassified as lying outside the national reserve forest - and farmers
have been issued land use certificates, increasing their security of tenure
and access to credit. The proposed project will accelerate the public
lands effort by financing a land distribution and infrastructure development
program covering nine LRAs. As appropriate land compensation arrangements
are introduced, ALRO will increase its involvement in LRAs on private lands.
33.       ALRO's early efforts at land distribution had limited success
since the land was allocated rather mechanically according to a geometric
pattern, without regard to previous holdings, topography, soil quality or
other relevant agroeconomic factors. Recognizing these shortcomings, ALRO
is adopting a more effective approach, which will be incorporated in the
proposed project.
34.       ALRO has also prepared two projects for external financing, one of
which is the project now proposed for Bank financing. The second project
involves the development of a private LRA covering nearly 13,000 ha and
costing about $40 million; the Japanese Government is considering financing
this project.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
35.       The proposed project was prepared by ALRO with assistance from the
FAO/World Bank Cooperative Program, an FAO consultant funded by the UNDP and
the Bank. The project was appraised in March/April 1981. Because of certain
ambiguities in the ALRO Act, the Government was asked to provide a legal
opinion, prior to negotiations, confirming ALRO's ability to carry out land
reform in forest reserve areas. The legal opinion, provided by the Juridical
Council in December 1981, stated that ALRO does not have legal authority to
operate in such areas and recommended that they be reclassified (degazetted)
before ALRO undertake land reform in them. While it had been ALRO's practice
to degazette LRAs only after land reform had been completed, the Government
has decided to degazette those areas included in the project on an acceler-
ated basis (see paragraph 55). Once these legal issues had been clarified,
negotiations were held in Washington from July 12 to 16, 1982, with the Thai
delegation led by H.E. Prok Amranand, Ambassador to the United States,
assisted by Mr. Charin Atthayothin, Director-General, ALRO.



- 12
Project Objectives
36.       The proposed project will contribute to the intensification of
rainfed agriculture and the development of encroached public lands. The
project will pursue this aim by strengthening ALRO's capability to implement
a series of land reform and development projects in these encroached lands,
and will demonstrate the land reform and development model for subsequent
extension to other areas.
Detailed Features of the Project
37.       The main features of the project are:
(a)  strengthening of ALRO's capability to plan and implement land
reform and development projects through the provision of consul-
tancy services and the training of staff through relevant courses
and foreign study tours;
(b)  implementation by ALRO, over a five-year period, of a land reform
program in nine land reform areas in the North, Northeast and
Central Regions currently gazetted as forest land. Project LRAs
were selected on the basis of the effectiveness of the respective
Provincial Land Reform Offices, the diversity of agricultural
conditions represented, and their proximity to each other. They
extend over an area of 192,000 ha of encroached forest lands, of
which about 173,000 ha are to be covered by the land reform program.
The program involves the transfer of land from farmers with
holdings over 8 ha to farmers with holdings below the financially-
viable minimum size established for each LRA (generally about
4-5 ha). Until the farmers can be given full title, they will
receive land-use certificates from ALRO reflecting the new
landholding pattern;
(c)  development of infrastructure in the project LRAs consisting of:
the construction or rehabilitation of 430 km of access roads and
service tracks; soil conservation works on about 4,500 ha; small
surface water or groundwater irrigation schemes, comprising 75 rock
weirs and 500 shallow tubewells irrigating a total of 4,200 ha;
water supply facilities, comprising 130 dugwells and 20 tubewells;
and construction of 115 primary schoolrooms and 10 health centers;
and
(d)  strengthening of the project preparation system through the imple-
mentation of sector and subsector studies, expansion of the
project preparation capacity of selected agencies, and preparation
of specific projects.
A Staff Appraisal Report entitled "Land Reform Areas Project" (No. 3553-TH,
dated August 23, 1982) is being distributed separately. Supplementary data
are provided in Annex III.



- 13 -
Project Cost and Financing
38.        Total project costs (including about $1.5 million of taxes and
duties) are estimated at $31.0 million, of which $7.8 million or 25%
represents foreign exchange. Physical contingencies of 15% for civil works
and 10% for vehicles and equipment have been added to base costs. Price
increases for local costs were assumed at 12% in 1983, 10% in 1984, 9% in
1985 and 8% in 1986 88; for foreign costs at 7.5% in 1983-85, and 6% in
1986-88. Expected price increases amount to 37% of base cost plus physical
contingencies.
39.        The proposed Bank loan of $17.0 million, amounting to 58% of total
project cost net of taxes and duties, is equivalent to the total foreign
exchange cost of the project plus $9.2 million of the local cost. Local
currency financing is considered justified in order to give the Bank a
significant share in project financing and achieve the desirable level of
resource transfer. The Government will directly finance $7.2 million, or 24%
of net project cost, which includes a contribution of $0.6 million to the
Government-owned Bank for Agriculture and Agricultural Cooperatives (BAAC) as
a guarantee fund for land compensation credit to be supplied by BAAC. BAAC's
contribution to net project cost of $5.3 million (18%) will be provided on its
normal terms; its current rate of interest is 14%, and it is expected to stay
at this level, which is about 2% in real terms, during the project. Credit
will be provided for up to 15 years, including grace periods of up to 5 years.
40.        In addition to its contribution to the financing of project cost,
BAAC will provide credit at its normal terms to project beneficiaries
for production inputs and miscellaneous agricultural investments. Short-
term production credit will be made available to beneficiary farmers in a
timely manner and will include the cost of maintenance of soil conservation
works. The maximum annual requirement of about $4.0 million for short-term
credit is expected to be reached in the fifth year of the project. Mledium-
term investment credit will be made available to project beneficiaries to
finance equipment, vehicles and tree crops. The total amount of loan funds
required for these items over the five-year period of the project is esti-
mated at $0.8 million. Credit arrangements for the project will be stipul-
ated in an agreement between BAAC and ALRO satisfactory to the Government
and the Bank, signature of which is a condition of loan effectiveness
(Section 5.01(a) of the draft Loan Agreement).
Cost Recovery
41.        Costs will be recovered to the maximum extent feasible but since
the incomes of project beneficiaries will approximate the relative poverty
level at full development, some measure of subsidy is deemed acceptable. For
components involving cost recovery through the credit mechanism (land com-
pensation, irrigation, tubewells and pumps) the subsidy resulting from the
current interest rate will be the same as that received by BAAC's other
borrowers.  In the case of the soil conservation structures, there are
significant benefits which do not accrue to participating farmers, and the



- 14 -
Government proposes to use the subsidy as an inducement for adoption of
appropriate soil conservation works and practices. No special arrangements
will be introduced for cost recovery on rock weir materials, roads, water
supply facilities, schools, health centers, or for institutional development.
Technical Assistance
42.       Consultancy services will be provided for preparation of subproject
proposals and assistance to ALRO in the review and implementation of those
proposals, mapping, design and supervision of road construction, establishment
and operation of road maintenance units, design and implementation of a
monitoring and evaluation system, a study of ALRO's organization and proce-
dures, and the carrying out of other relevant studies. This assistance is
estimated to require about 600 man-months of professional expertise at a total
cost of about $2.5 million. About 75% of the consultants are expected to be
local. The average man-month cost (including salary, costs, fees, travel and
local allowances) is expected to be $4,150. The average local man-month cost
is $3,200 (462 man-months) and the average international man-month cost is
$7,500 (138 man-months). Consultants will also be provided to assist in
strengthening project preparation. All consultants and technical assistance
retained under the project will be employed in accordance with Bank guide-
lines and with qualifications and experience, terms of reference and
conditions of employment satisfactory to the Bank (Section 3.03 of the draft
Loan Agreement).
Procurement
43.       Due to the relatively small unit size, varied timing and geogra-
phical dispersal of civil works to be carried out under the project, inter-
national competitive bidding would not be appropriate. Roads ($8.6 million
total; $300,000 average contract size), drilled water supply wells ($0.1 mil-
lion total; $35,000 average), schools ($2.5 million total; $80,000 average),
health centers ($0.4 million total; $50,000 average) and miscellaneous build-
ings ($0.5 million total; $90,000 average) will be constructed by contract on
the basis of competitive bidding advertised locally in accordance with
procedures acceptable to the Government and the Bank. A substantial number of
local construction firms, tractor contractors, and drilling contractors are
capable of undertaking these types of works, and they have adequate capacity
to meet project requirements. To the extent practicable, works will be
grouped into contracts of the size indicated above for efficient execution and
supervision. Rock weirs and dug wells will be constructed by beneficiaries
under the supervision of ALRO.
44.       Equipment ($0.6 million total) and vehicles ($0.8 million total;
$65,000 average) needed for project implementation are varied in type, of
small unit size, and to be procured by various agencies. Contracts will
therefore be awarded on the basis of competitive bidding advertised locally in
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Government and the Bank. Major
manufacturers of equipment and vehicles to be utilized in the project either
have plants in Thailand or are represented in Thailand.



- 15 -
45.        In order to provide a measure of flexibility in the case of small
civil works, items of equipment or quantities of materials, prudent shopping,
involving a minimum of three quotations where possible, may be applied for
items costing less than $20,000 each and $700,000 in the aggregate. When bids
are estimated to exceed $300,000 for civil works or $100,000 for vehicles and
equipment, the Bank's prior approval will be required before invitations to
bid are issued and before contracts are awarded.
Disbursement
46.       Disbursements from the Bank loan will be made at the rate of 100%
of the foreign exchange costs of directly imported goods; 100% (ex-factory)
of the costs of locally manufactured goods; or 65% of other goods procured
locally. The rate of disbursement will be 85% of expenditure for civil works
and 100% for consultants, training, and data processing services. It is
expected that disbursement will be completed by December 31, 1988.
Project Organization and Management
47.       Institutional Strengthening.  ALRO has about 1,700 staff centrally
located in Bangkok that undertake surveys, prepare recommendations on the
proclamation of land reform areas (LRAs), formulate plans for land reform and
improvement of infrastructure, and implement these development plans.
Headquarters staff, together with about 600 staff of the Provincial Land
Reform Offices operated by ALRO in 32 provinces, undertake the land reform
programs and execute some of the infrastructure works. Other works are
constructed by contractors supervised by ALRO, while the remainder (e.g.,
schools, health centers) are established and operated by other Government
agencies in cooperation with ALRO.
48.      -The proposed project will strengthen ALRO's capacity to implement
the land reform and infrastructure development program to be carried out
under the project, while also enhancing ALRO's ability to undertake a series
of similar programs in the future. A primary means of accomplishing this
aim will be the introduction of a subproject approach to program implemen-
tation, with each of the nine LRAs treated as a separate subproject. This
will facilitate the use of consultants, keep ALRO's workload manageable,
and permit review of parts of the program as appropriate. Subproject
proposals for each LRA will be prepared by teams of consultants with
expertise in land reform, agriculture, rural engineering, and economics.
Each subproject will be expected to meet specified technical and economic
viability criteria, including a satisfactory rate of return, to be agreed
between ALRO and the Bank. After review and, where appropriate,
modification by ALRO, the Bank will be sent subproject proposals for its
review and approval (Section 3.10 of the draft Loan Agreement). ALRO will
also retain appropriate specialists to assist in reviewing and implementing
the subproject proposals. Informal training for project staff will be
provided by the specialists, and selected staff will be assigned full time
to participate in the preparation of subproject proposals by the consultant
teams.  Formal training will be provided through courses in subjects



- 16 -
relevant to the project and through foreign study tours. As a condition of
loan effectiveness, ALRO will retain an agriculturalist/soil
conservationist, a rural works engineer and a rural development economist
(Section 5.01(c) of the draft Loan Agreement). ALRO will retain consultants
to design a monitoring and evaluation system by January 31, 1983, and by May
31, 1983 will provide a copy of the consultants' report on the proposed
system for review by the Bank (Sections 3.03(a) and 3.04(a) of the draft
Loan Agreement). To ensure that ALRO's organization and procedures are
appropriate to its expanding responsibilities, ALRO will retain consultants
by December 31, 1983 to undertake a study of the agency's existing structure
and procedures and to recommend appropriate modifications. ALRO will
provide a copy of the study, together with its proposals, for review by the
Bank by December 31, 1984. The Government will take into consideration the
Bank's comments in implementing the proposals (Sections 3.03(b) and 3.04(b)
of the draft Loan Agreement).
49.       Land Reform and Infrastructure Development Program.  Overall
responsibility for implementing the program will rest with ALRO, which
will be directly responsible for all land reform activities and the
execution of civil works when the timing of such investments in relation to
land distribution activities are particularly crucial or when there
is insufficient assurance of adequate performance by another agency.
The Land Development Department and the Department of Agricultural Extension
will be responsible for soil conservation activities, the Ministry of
Education for the establishment of schools and the Ministry of Public Health
for the establishment of health centers. These other agencies will carry
out project activities under written agreements with ALRO, such agreements
to be satisfactory to the Government and the Bank, and copies of the signed
agreements will be provided to the Bank prior to disbursement for the
relevant component (Section 3.02(b) and paragraph 4(b) of Schedule 1 of the
draft Loan Agreement).
50.       Program implementation will be coordinated by means of committees
to be set up at four different levels of Government, with representatives of
the implementing agencies and BAAC included in each committee. In the
Government's view, this will allow the formulation of policy and coordin-
ation of project activities at the various levels, besides providing lines
of communication from the ministerial to the field level. The project
committees will be established by January 31, 1983 (Section 3.06 of the
draft Loan Agreement).
51.       ALRO will implement the project through its existing Divisions,
with the Director of the Operations Division serving as Project Manager.  In
the project LRAs, field offices will be established for implementation of
project activities. ALRO's Foreign Loan Project Office will have general
responsibility for planning, training, budgeting, procurement, disbursement,
coordination, and monitoring. ALRO will assign 56 full-time staff to the
project - 36 in the field offices, 9 in the Operations Division, and 11 in the
Foreign Loan Project Office. In addition, teams from ALRO's various Divisions
will provide an average input of 40 man-years annually for project activities.



- 17 -
To the maximum extent possible, a Division will assign the same staff to
work part-time on a particular LRA until the Division's activities in the
LRA is completed (Section 3.01(c) and Schedule 6 of the draft Loan
Agreement).
52.       In each LRA, the program, in general, will be based on a variety of
preparatory investigations including: a study of the existing political,
social, economic and landholding structures in order to formulate the land
distribution strategy; a census of all persons residing in the LRA and a
survey of all claimed landholdings; mapping of land use and capability; and a
socioeconomic survey to determine the minimum financially-viable holding for
the area. In all the initial surveys, perceived needs of the residents and
their priorities will be recorded. Meetings will then be held with village
leaders, groups of farmers and farm families on an individual basis to explain
the proposal for land distribution and infrastructure development, and to
obtain reactions. Proposals will be modified as feasible to accommodate
suggestions arising during this process. The land distribution program as
agreed with the farmers will then be implemented, and boundaries permanently
marked. Land-use certificates corresponding to the new landholding pattern
will be provided, and infrastructure development will follow. ALRO is
currently preparing implementation guidelines setting forth its organizational
arrangements and procedures for execution of the project, including the para-
meters and procedures for land distribution and titling. Bank approval of
these guidelines is a condition of loan effectiveness (Sections 3.02(a) and
5.01(b) of the draft Loan Agreement).
53.       Under the project, a phased program of development will be followed
in each of the selected LRAs, commencing with one LRA in the first project
year, two in each of the second and third years, and four in the fourth year.
The approach to be adopted and the activities to be implemented are based on
ALRO's own experience and the recommendations of a consultants' study which
draws on the experience of the various Thai agencies which have carried out
settlement programs. Land distribution will be implemented in blocks of
about 4,800 ha in order to complete operations in each block during a single
dry season. For project LRAs, the cadastral and socioeconomic surveys have
already been undertaken, and cadastral and topograhic maps prepared. Land
claimants have also been registered. Furthermore, small land distribution
schemes in areas of the order of 1,000 ha have been initiated by ALRO in six
of the nine project LRAs. Therefore, after some additional survey work to
investigate the power structures and formulate strategies, full-scale land
distribution is ready to begin in the project LRAs.
54.       In order to minimize the dislocation caused by land transfers but
still to achieve a reasonably equitable distribution, a range of holding
sizes will be allowed. The maximum size will be 8 ha, the area cited in
most land reform legislation in Thailand. The minimum will vary among LRAs
but will generally be 4-5 ha. Consequently, only farmers with holdings above
the maximum will be subject to loss of land (with compensation), while all
other landholders will either remain unchanged or gain land. Farmers losing
land will be allowed to choose which part of their original holding they



- 18 -
wish to retain, and new holdings will be designed with a minimum change of
existing boundaries. Compensation will be set at about 65% of current market
value, which surveys indicate is acceptable to landholders. Since many of the
farmers with excess land will sell the excess prior to intervention by ALRO,
it is estimated that 9,500 ha of the 38,000 ha of excess land indicated by
surveys in project LRAs will remain available for distribution under ALRO
supervision. Land available for redistribution will be allocated first to
farmers with holdings below the minimum viable size, and any remaining land
will be allocated in minimum-sized holdings to laborers and families from
outside the LRAs. Farmers receiving land will obtain credit from BAAC to
cover the compensation amount.
55.       Although the areas included in the project are still officially
gazetted as forest reserve, their designation as LRAs is a step toward full
recognition of their general suitability for agriculture rather than forestry.
The status of the LRAs will now be further stabilized by: degazettement;
development of basic infrastructure in the LRAs to the level of surrounding
areas, which would facilitate integration into the economy; and assimilation
of the LRAs into the local administrative structure. The Government has
agreed that each LRA will be degazetted according to a schedule which will
allow project activities to begin in a timely manner and will be integrated
into the local administrative framework by the end of its development period
(Section 3.12 of the draft Loan Agreement). Degazettement of the LRA to be
developed in the first year of the project is a condition of loan
effectiveness (Section 5.01(d) of the draft Loan Agreement).
56.       Implementation and maintenance of project infrastructure works will
be handled as follows:
(a) Designs for the roads and tracks to be constructed initially have
been completed by ALRO and will be reviewed by consultants.
Works will be carried out by contractors under ALRO supervision
with the assistance of consultants. ALRO will establish six
small maintenance units to carry out minor repairs, and remedial
maintenance will be carried out by contract. ALRO will
utilize road and track design standards agreed with the Bank
and will provide adequate maintenance for roads and tracks in
the project LRAs during the project period, after which they
will be transferred to provincial authorities.
(b) Soil conservation works will be carried out on about 4,500 ha
of sloping land susceptible to erosion.  Under the supervision of
the Land Development Department, diversion ditches and broad-based
banks will be constructed by contractors. The Department of
Agricultural Extension will advise farmers on the maintenance of
conservation works and on agronomic conservation practices.
Maintenance of the diversion ditches will be carried out by the
Land Development Department by contract during the project period
and by benefitting groups of farmers thereafter; banks will be
maintained by farmers through incorporation into their plowing
contracts, financed with credit from BAAC.



- 19 -
(c)  Irrigation tubewells will be constructed by contractors and
financed by credit from BAAC. Rock weirs will be constructed by
the benefitting farmers under the supervision of ALRO, which will
also provide the necessary materials. The weirs will be
maintained by the benefitting farmers under the supervision of
ALRO.
(d)  Dugwells for water supply will be constructed by ALRO using force
account while tubewells for water supply will be constructed by
contract under ALRO supervision. Users will maintain all wells
under ALRO's guidance.
(e)  Schools will be established, operated and maintained by the
Office of the National Primary Education Commission in the Ministry
of Education.
(f)  Health centers will be constructed, operated and maintained by
the Department of Health in the Ministry of Public Health. Sites
will be selected according to the criteria used in establishing
rural health facilities under the Bank's Population Project
(Credit 767-TH).
57.       Project Preparation.  The capability of government agencies to
formulate and prepare agriculture and rural development projects requires
strengthening. The project will provide assistance for the implementation
of sector and subsector studies, the expansion of the project preparation
capacity of selected agencies, and the preparation of specific projects.
Proposals will be submitted to the Bank for its approval prior to imple-
mentation.
Accounts and Auditing
58.       ALRO, the Land Development Department, the Department of Agri-
cultural Extension, the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Public
Health will establish separate accounts covering all financial transactions
related to project activities and will prepare annual statements of receipts
and expenditures based on these accounts. The existing internal control
systems are adequate for the project. Auditors satisfactory to the Bank
will audit the project accounts and financial statements. The audit reports
and audited financial statements will be sent to the Bank within nine months
of the close of each fiscal year.
Benefits and Risks
59.       The project will strengthen ALRO to enable it to implement this and
succeeding projects and thus has the potential to affect eventually roughly
4 million ha of encroached public lands suitable for agriculture and some 0.8
million low-income families. The proposed project covers nine LRAs, 192,000
ha and 35,000 families. Squatters in the LRAs will be affected in varying
degrees, but generally the improvement of infrastructure and provision of



- 20 -
security of tenure will increase agricultural productivity and incomes, and
land distribution will provide a relative increase in the assets and incomes
of the poorest farmers. Project beneficiaries typically have incomes just
under the absolute poverty level ($148 per capita) which will rise to about
the relative poverty level ($260 per capita) at full development. The land
reform and development model to be applied in the project, when suitably
modified on the basis of experience, would be incorporated into succeeding
projects on encroached public lands suitable for agriculture. Other benefits
include improved quality of life through the provision of social infra-
structure, and improved land use stemming from the degazettement of forest
reserves and the introduction of the soil conservation works.
60.       Due to the interrelated nature of the project's components, a single
economic rate of return was calculated. The project's quantifiable benefits
are associated with the proposed construction or improvement of 430 km of
access roads and service tracks, which will have an impact on agricultural
production and passenger transport costs. Calculation of the economic rate
of return included all project costs excluding those for land compensation
(which are transfer payments), social infrastructure (since benefits were
assumed to equal costs), and project preparation (the costs of which are
related to other projects). Based on 74% of total project costs, the economic
rate of return for the project is estimated to be about 14%. A decline in
benefits of 13% or a cost increase of 15% will reduce the economic rate of
return to 10%.
61.       There is a risk that ALRO, as a young and relatively inexperienced
organization, might have some difficulty in implementing a project of this
size and complexity, particularly in view of the sensitive nature of many of
the policy issues involved. To minimize technical risks, the project was
designed to utilize a subproject approach and includes considerable consultant
input to permit project execution and simultaneously to train ALRO's staff so
that they may assume responsibility for future projects. The Government is
dealing with the difficult policy issues of land use and land tenure through
the establishment of its National Land Policy Committee. Dialogue on these
issues is being pursued under the Bank's Structural Adjustment Loan.



- 21 -
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
62.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Kingdom of Thailand and the
Bank and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4
(iii) of the Articles of Agreement of the Bank, are being distributed to the
Executive Directors separately. In addition to the features of the Loan
Agreement which are referred to in the text and listed in Section III of
Annex III, additional conditions of effectiveness are (a) signature of an
agreement between ALRO and BAAC, (b) employment of an agriculturalist/
&          soil conservationist, a rural works engineer, and a rural development
economist, (c) agreement by ALRO and the Bank on implementation guidelines
setting forth ALRO's organizational arrangements and procedures for execution
of the project and (d) degazettement of the LRA to be developed in the first
project year (Section 5.01 of the draft Loan Agreement).
63.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan complies with the Articles of
Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
64.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
August 26, 1982
Washington, D.C.



-22-                                           ANNEX I
Page 1 of 5
T8AILAND - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
THAILAND                           URZEENCE  ROUPS (WEIGHTED AVWSGS
ARZA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                                 M- IST RZCZNT ZSTIMATE
TOTAL             514.0                                  MOST RECENT           MIDDLE INCOMM            MIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTURAL      182.6               1960  /b    1970 /b ZSTIMATZ /b          ASIA A PACIFIC    LATIN ANEICA A CARIBBZAN
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)                   110.0       230.0      670.0                 890.1                   1902.0
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)       59.5        195.2      352.9                 701.7                   1259.9
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS) 27039.0       36431.0   46950.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 12.5          13.2       14.4                  32.4                     65.7
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                         68.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                          100.1
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                    2070
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                        52.6         70.9      89.3                  255.4                     35.2
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    208.8         259.2      251.3                1748.0                     92.5
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                          44.7         46.2       41.9                  39.9                     39.7
15-64 YRS.            -             52.6         50.8      55.0                   56.8                     56.1
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                    2.7          3.0        3.1                   3.3                      4.2
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               2.7          3.0        2.5                   2.3                      2.4
URBAN                               4.5          3.5        3.4                   3.9                      3.8
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      43.6         39.7       30.0                  31.8                     31.4
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)       14.9        10.8        7.9                   9.8                      8.4
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                3.1         2.8        2.0                   2.0                      2.1
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)         ..       202.9/c   761.0
USERS (PERCENT OF HARRIED WOMEN)    ..           7.6      39.0                   36.3
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)           92.0        100.0     125.0                  115.6                    110.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                    99.0        100.7      96.9/d                106.4                    108.4
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)           44.7         48.7      47.57r                 54.4                     66.0
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE        1060         14.2       15.2Td                13.9                     34.0
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE      13.3          7.9        4.5                   6.7                      5.6
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    52.3          57.9      62.5                   59.8                     64.2
INFANT KORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                           103.0         74.6       54.8                  63.7                     64.2
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                 ..        17.0      22.0/e                 32.0                     65.6
URBAN                                ..         60.0      49. 7;T                51.9                     78.9
RURAL                                 ..        10.0       12.06T                20.5                     43.9
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                 ..        17.0      40.0/f                 37.7                     59.3
URBAN                                 .         65.0      58.07d                 65.7                     75.3
RURAL                                 ..         8.0      36.07f                 24.0                     30.0
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN           7948.0       8446.8    8222.5/e               8540.4                   1617.3
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON      4857.9/8    7045.3    1166.27e                4829.4                   1063.5
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                            1384.4        896.1     821.0/e               1047.5                    477.4
URBAN                                ..        176.0      525.7Te               651.6                    679.8
RURAL                                 ..     13884.8    1278.471              2597.6                    1903.4
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED            ..         31.0       44.8/e                27.0                     27.3
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                               5.5/L        5.8       5.5/e
URBAN                               5. 37;i      5.8       5. 5T*
RURAL                               5.67         5.8       5. 5Th
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                 ..          ..       2.4/e
URBAN                                 ..          ..       2.2/.
RURAL                                 ..          ..        2.4/e.
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                 ..        18.9
URBAN                                           861
RURLAL                               ..          9.0



ANNEX I
- 23 -                                            Page 2 of 5
TRAILAND - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
THAILAND                        REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVE;ES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
MOST RECENT           MIDDLE INCOME            MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 lb ESTIMATE /b         ASIA & PACIFIC    LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                 83.0         81.0      82.0/d                 96.2                     104.3
MALE                  88.0        85.0       85.077                 99.8                    106.4
FEMALE               79.0         77.0       78.07-?                92.1                    103.3
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                 13.0         17.0      29.0                   37.6                     41.3
MALE                  16.0        20.0       30.0                   41.1                     40.4
FEMALE                10.0        14.0       28.0                   34.1                     41.8
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (X OF SECONDARY)    19.1          22.3      17.1/e                 20.8                      33.7
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                            36.2         34.7      28.9/d                 35.5                     29.9
SECONDARY                          19.8         15.5      26.97;i                25.0                     16.7
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)        68.0         78.6      84.0/e                 73.1                     79.1
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          1.8          5.1       6.4/f                  9.8                     42.8
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          6.0         76.2     131.0                  116.5                    270.5
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          2.2          6.6      17.6                   37.6                    107.7
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                  10.6         20.5        ..                   53.7                     63.7
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..           1.8/h     1.7                    2.8                      2.7
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)    13859.9      16986.9   22428.6
FEMALE (PERCENT)                   48.4        46.8       46.0                   33.6                     24.4
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              84.0         80.0      76.0                   52.2                     31.3
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  4.0         6.0        9.0                   17.9                     23.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                51.3         46.6      47.8                   38.5                     33.6
MALE                                 52.7         49.3      51.3                   50.5                     50.4
FEMALE                               49.8        43.9       44.2                   26.6                     16.8
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               0.9          1.1       0.9                    1.1                      1.3
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGhEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   21.8/        23.8/i    14.0/
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  50.9/g       49.777i   42.2/d
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    6.27L         6.177     7.6/ I
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   14.97/        15.97i    19.17.
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..     159.0                  194.7
RURAL                                ..           ..     106.0                  155.1                    184.1
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..     115.0                  178.2                    518.0
RURAL                                ..           ..     110.0                  164.9                    371.1
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                ..           ..      15.0                   24.4
RURAL                                ..           ..      34.0                   41.1
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1978 and 1980.
/c   Government program only; /d 1977; /e 1976; /f 1975; /g 1962; /h 1973; /i 1968; /L  Preliminary data for
1975-76; due to lack of data on national ba'-is, the methodology for aggregating the available regional
data overstates incomes of low income groups and understates incomes of higher income groups. Thus, this
data is not suitable for any analytical comparisons.
May, 1982



-24 -                                                                ANNEX 
Page 3 of .5
ee.iAlthough the dtte arm drEtelf Io  eet.foekoeolpJ.dId gme Mat tethe1titetit  tad reliable, it should AIle be nttGdbthee tthePrtoy see he teten._
MetetUlly comirablo beteetofth  leac  of ste.0 orttLe  defnit                 GM e   emg:pt  ttf  by ditett  taettt!oleteatedaa    h  dt   re   oe
andte, uteful to deetrihe edt.o  thitt,   .Itoeeted t                 te  Ohrteitcrtto  iediffaem.  heteet  teaum                     e
he reeea groUPo are (1) the tat  tototry stru  of te eubjeot tounttry ted (2) a0 o-utri   M arw tith etiNuht htuhor aver&"  tetse thm the cotmepy vpe
.1the iijo   onr    ecp   o             1t I  etCe     Cil tootae   sto  there   iddle tItem  North  WfIGS tad Ks idd   Moet" isehe ho teneem or otroeer
toot-ealtenti MiffteCo.au)" in the  eferee. iteut dat  the teerSIet toS Se t iett, vatltted ofthet   tte    e emit irdtoOtet ab  sbm te,p 06 wen
tejorttp  of  he otuettle  tn t Brett  ce date for that  ttg tr    oftc tGm   eeearee ef feetrite  ReMB the tdItAOttrt dopoedo totettttitp tdt
00eiotfo tohe  ti. a,!, n  the b  -aunry ted                                &drat, otwtronto  aroe   .  CI .t.oL,i   I
d 1  Gnocean  tqI.k."t                                                                          !oohignr.u.0l e  -tta.ure.,e1tri      oplttt(tti
Tol Tetal ourfaca tree oorteioo  lend tree ted  nLe1nd -tetoro  1979 data.                   uh,ennold   itdbterroeti    eheof hofotp W                                 e
tA.rieIturcI -  tott-t  of tjriultu... tIO SC     te.d tofoo....ily or p-rteountly              oIeiebl  to puli oed prie,tt  tetetel ted  pGGattittd heptl tert
If.ii-P..Ptetoreo, otrit ted kitchen at-d-c  on to It. fellow; 1979 data.                      t         'Gioete    G.toe   tePit    ore tttbi  hmetP_t        G Waeempt  atd
hy St I.t." en. thy.1.clt.  Mt.tIi.hiofott  p-oidiot prnciopally -ate-
GOP Pn CAPITA (USt))      O   e   oieetmo   tt,tn   tAopit tl                                      did, caren.  nottoluded.  Mutal heptGie. hocer  include hotlth
oclted by ot  on,ertiontto.               odtc  AtleS (l97t-t  hoot.); 10960,                   Snd eeditl  tooett  omtnlyeuftbye ySit   htb
1970. en  190dae.todcl  ottt,ot,*itf,O.)hihofrt-titeco -
COURY CONSUMPTION Pt! CAPITA -Acot-l coneuMf,lo  of oonrlt  eaty(colti1dPrpet   1bcfooitl   Sold   90   tonplaoot   eoie
and ligito, ptrolocm   neturl tee  cd bydr-, nucear en  goonhemel 010-           endturol hoptttl. l1te  or iorl bdtytulo a   teSiteieud  -t,rtot
dtriutty)tkltom     tto)q.tlntper ceylte; 1960. 1970, end 1979                                   lonor.    pocelco                rupiot1 hc.i.lde  nly  oni.det  oSe
POPULATIOp ADub VITAL-STATISTICSh                                                                              IH"l Md-Tt   ..rof eI    i_'                            da ".
tot_lPculettt, tid-T-e  (tbch-de) -A. of July 1; 1960, 1970,. td 1990                      ff NG0
dlate    Ad to         otSloeItf toeood (ooc   t  tnecd      tu.ubn  idrr
-T.font dflntton   of utenre   Soy  ffect roeert.bili'tPyof ,'dtendhir icml.Abrot  or lc`'.`i                                              -detr toy or my. no   etnlddt
Iseccttioe; l9b0. 1970, end 1900 date,                                                    th   othlgfreeltne   upoo
Populteion PrObe toSAeeo  nutr o soeone, A btroom - tudelr uthee- ted  Iturel   encludedo
.P.1 tlott  to coot 20000 - Current populutico projonton   en  booed Co 1960               hArc   nroe  o  rcodooG-j. in , pI te,  tdtrponuto  onenl
total PPeItutttn by  e. end lee end thei.        iltyatfruiyrto                             doellinyto- ,  proottnl.Oritt  otOlde Ce-odruralo                - otetrea te
Prejontoprmeefriroi itlOerto oftreSoet00mr7otptdpre
tntlife enpneenp  tbit  incrotint oit           nu"ntlyertot cattl  inoomSn.e itlnrioitr  (neoen   fdnlte      oe.uhc   n   u
lecl  enS ea.lfetpoec    teblon 'or "                .  per.    Tepr-_conl7ldolct iheooict   0Inn   uattd otI  te tectie
mitt. Gc ortlt  reeee   eottelcl   ttttdcIn. in.-                                          l of. tte,  ubn   n  rurb-ttiitGmteputtc
fetlt    tedn   n  noolclttpet foolly.y,,              t...nnictParporfettt-tnco..
Gtho   uty  tto   c tndtoo P             h.te nin   oeAiotce  of- partein               ROICA
MteIonteOoel .. dtic Ytio  Lon  t= JtineyPoputio       Y Pie ..e IIt B.frooheaIt             Print,              n ocolttlur. dl.Iend  Smel -pGrat tosy It- mal  ted  ..o.e.
dhIbi  II YaW(i-ue   to-P,-j. tho d  th   ::.., Sc tIblt  , the et  _tncturototyrlen   folet  a   h    ror   eo   opoonet   froet
miow _" oteu th hIe  othoe    nyenrhtIe    el   eln   oplepaho-t   uuett;nral   Olocide   edal
th   olcten'Ye fot   e   otdelnnt,te   ehanrno                                              oaehteleo   t   ifrn   ooh   ftiiyeaate   o
of otn  epece  ttot  neoly   te  tetotcypoultio   000te                 nontio  tithunneea  euceio   eroite.ttaDUtCeA1T   eron
PnAlioOOt-tV                                                                                occluded.Iarut     .  .    t                ,sc
theer- popuetio  per Iqoedte1.  'Alt;tot 110   wheot..e).o tet_lonl ecnliet pets  of  ceonten)                                           Per       P.na   toen ..tat,to
fLot Plie;16,17   n   99dTh.                                                                      S        duidoSGnhocel  t dtteif. otether lre drm   echid. notEd teoe-i
Per eq.     IS                                    Y.eaiuirlln      opcd0   hv   o   aictriln  nl   r0  d_-Imteo           eeo Yen    ntitto
onl; 160,197  en  ItO  dto.PuOi-tenhr rtte-tedton.  nd SIh-et  -  P To re onudontoonroi., t
60 -Ie)  td   rtird               SI eeed                                                       ... l  otnngenfldVonppo  o ropein  10th0.1..
year     -r200,- poplatonrar t990 o0   al0-0  endc of970-l0  .t  t
letien   fa   904,104.ad  90t.PeoorC    (nor ihoueend' nnpuition    - Patogr  ee cd                                                                             t     mt
pnpuetin;160. 1970, and  1900  d.ti.                                                     0110 tary trhicloo
Cru, SIt  tblernoeed   fa ooldap              thoG.b pe   hute oft-yratic tuc...... laon thoucent ronultdion) -  Vll atyionof  SatVeIfn  e
popalonio; 1    1960, 1Sod  and7Ot data-brYdtorio it Yeoa  pulcpr  htad  fppleit   nceo 
her noral rtpotnctlt  purle  if  Choldr.nle0u14 yreeenO)  ef-,kptotflt for-.           roenu   nef ;dt  forreoo  pedro my Toal bS ceud teb..1in.4
tulln    eolatlyf no-0 re  Ycn~oodn   n10,17, ead pOt.pmtuotire   abloe    litoe
ofbithnntrl  ont,toerotpitaofneicolfell  penin  potam                          Ccoalpuli  rt hooad   opioioofncudSalionodTVte                              inor
PamlIcplennie - lote leooent o  etld   otn -   - .  at  Seuneoo    are                   in- ocnnltadi  yaoehnrteSernofTVCi   e   o    en
oiG arid  oe  in n    o, 95-om eg  group., Sueto   o    n(yoceeltnGreonounrSotOcta                                                                                etrdie
P.Pul.tt.. G _th 1.  Id 19  -                                                                tpblteic   dnto  plmti  i  ncotit  onca  noetI  t  onedde
Inte  oftoodPtnuttlc nr Capita          An0-10)-ltoo   o   oiaeea                        ieaAeulA  odnortCpl   o   er-eodo  th  n.0   of
.u   Aireh of . (uBan  elh eo--dib Anend 1  b,h.P t           hnenoret  ..ot. doffeiad-Y.                           ho  .     p..i..' 
ne  ae  o lh el   Agrt 0c prduttio  tSot   onr   0heto                                   AO OC
nalocu  eorao  nedco  prroeolhc; 10101,190,  ct196  dle,toal Lbo  Prc (OhocoendoIgh  P... 1ccaiel                          Saniv  portt   h.....dS.t
Po   -Lin   un,TGon c9tlo_ito (nortont    .. of  Peourcmte)u. - f Ca Lrd fo                 ro  fny...nolydhtOOldO   otOIt.oodn                                    t.
ocr cnt d. tnd chngc  It etc..te  bupioOcueeia   id   od,lo.(r-rcoBeer thmal  labor forc                                                      All typnnf  of lctelleh.  forte
qunile  cot       n  od  rcoot,  n  100 iclonhnin   tqlo-t9iunuoIoroo)-lbodoroinlma.fcdty  hnin   .
mnceoorooenlmned by tAO boot~~~- no   St.  phSoole  n..d .t ll nor .a 0001            fphn!9 ecetg   f  ca  lbrtoc;160,90  n   96   e
Icty rod helt  tona toin   pvrtnotl t....orcue  body noleblp.  etIf,ctr f.                                rtn-ra   Labor torte yn onng  toorum..eonng
act  tah   atluto  oP.'lton   ndaloig10phco  f.uo.ten..oilut,.at!edou   o  otocg  ouolll""                                                                         fre
h      uohldlcl   191-AS,rl 197  cod 197dSoS90   197:n                                                                IS.tGO data.a
P     "I000onono   rli  (treno r ccu:ut  a)-Polontcr   o   ocpl 9Otl0te O                                 fue ltorcnont-f. toce,moan  Itao             ariipts.o
conY  ...p.y tof fon  poda.   Cot op1 Gffoo    dof.uInod e  atofe, -;t.r-T  Racalnyeeeocpto   etotl,, Y                                       M and   b f .......bor foS  a...
qurmnf      fo   Ilcanytotttiehdby-I iro%dufc  InS.prounof loal,.. mlt  n   rol   ocllo   f  l   ooSepcc.ay
elitonanto. of 60 cram  of cocel p100010 pot dayend 20 gram of oninal end   1900. 1970. and 1980 aco.  thee. err boaed to ILOc panoicipatms. Iote
Po  eonpoeI u1l  toanblenhuot-PocI  oc.ppr1y of food dn-f                                                                                                   ...  T
rio   ro   n.leec  pli         o  c. ptdyd16-O   1970 adeV1977 dole                                               V.C..4..SITnIWalt
FOOD    o doMTeIONned                                                                              blft lft cablto  tOhOp 190 and 1980deco.  cI  ocetholde
t PrLod-                                  ProdtiTY.t  IGI_  OttOdO-PI                                                      ;
LIflpe cny ocfIc  Iree dil-             i Anrg   obco    tec.o   tfdcddnn                    TefloIn           dula  o  am     Pt c  Prp epyrcn -mc  maacrd 00. p00cm  V f
ebIrt;190I        19  end 1990) : S    I deco,                                                any.o:1  d ahctid  eltrccdnt.ctineltuIn
lnan  utoiy  aoIrnchten)- acl  och   f  c uc   cdcoc   ou             ocmo  AalooPonlyItonLve  00   ntcona cri                              adrua 
of ogo pt thnootd lccnhircho;1960. 170 and  960 doc.                            theolco pococy lotom   lenol  0 chal  cconr lvol hob  ohich    .101n0
Acrat  Sf   uo  (oco  o   ccelo)-tnl,con  adttl-  u-                 ocrclnly  dqaod             Src  leanca    c-tdcqonot  o
hoIfdoi  ccI  c00   n   ua)nc                                        ffeo_labiocccroocooato dff-rdabl-
roeoonohul,occetefocad fepd checlth  hoceilfbe i c- mthryo ct           p, th  hcrhld         ad  frcral   Pndrunnc    l of  bcclti... lcudied  cc)ab  are-i    "btlco
AceaotcraOct!ld             .... n.co  cocu Ict  -        ' toel                                            t)thaF,and1ruralf-
_otyatlo  con PhtucifIa,-boy                                                                     .ulr PopltOcd1-o b0  -hcu    Luccccroa-  c ob  n  SOa         Ide 19e dlc tom
.t  Supplyo ft fconod  rti Proc - PoclucYo      - dt otdid cy n ... r  of pr cclpltg              196up97   1d9962dt.
forucoot  alatOuep.         t  lldb  UD   rli.ft



- 25 -                                                     ANNEX I
Page 4 of 5
Population        46,500 (mid-1980, thousands)
GNP per Capita   US$670 (1980)
THAILAND - ECONOMIC INDICATORS
Amount
(million USS at              Average annual increase (X)                       Share of GDP at market prices (2)
current prices)                  (at constant prices)                                 (at current prices)
Indicator                        1980 /a       1960-7n  1970-75  1975-80  1980-85/b  1985-90/b   1960               1970         1975         1980/a
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
Gross domestic product        32,865            8.4       6.3       7.7        6.8         7.3      100.0        100.0         100.0        100.0
Agriculture                  8,572            5.5       5.3       3.5        4.2         3.8       39.8         28.3         31.5          26.2
Industry                     7,499           11.5       7.8      11.7        8.6         9.0       18.7         25.3         24.8          27.5
Services                    13,326            9.0       7.1       7.8        7.5         8.3       41.5         46.4         43.7         46.3
Consumption                   25,716            7.3       7.0       7.7        4.9         6.2       85.7         78.7         79.3          77.6
Gross investment                9,166          15.8       3.8       8.9        7.0         6.7       15.7         26.2         25.4          27.9
Exports of GNFS                 8,211          10.5       3.6      14.1        9.9         9.1       17.4         16.7          19.1         25.0
Imports of GNFS                10,228          13.9       3.7      10.5        4.9         5.6       18.9         21.5         23.7         31.1
Gross nattonal savings          6,995          13.7       4.1       6.8        9.9         8.4       14.1         21.5         20.7          20.7
Composition of merchandise trade (2)
(at current prices)
1960   1970   1975   1980/a  1985/b  1990/b
EXTFRNAL TRADE
Merchandise exports             6,657           5.5       9.0      14.7       10.2         9.3    100.0  loo.n  100.0  100.0   100.0   100.0
Primary                      3,785            4.2       6.6      10.8        6.1         5.0      97.8   80.5   77.3   60.2    46.6    37.4
Manufactures                  2,872          29.2      20.9      25.0       14.6        12.7       2.2   19.5   22.7   39.8    53.4    62.6
Merchandise imports             8,987          11.5       3.3      10.1        5.2         6.0    100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0   100.0   100.0
Food                           303            4.3      -2.7      11.2        5.0         6.0       9.6    5.4    4.4    3.4       3.2      3.1
Petroleum                    2,824           11.8       5.0       8.6      -1.0          3.4      10.9    8.8   22.1   31.4    26.9    26.5
Machinery & equipment        2,110           16.1       5.9       4.4        7.8         7.0      25.3   36.1   35.8   23.5    25.2    25.4
Others                       1,750           10.1       1.0      18.7        7.8         7.0      54.2   49.7   37.7   41.7    44.7    45.0
1975       1976       1977       1978       1979       1980/a
PRICES
GDP deflator                                        100.0      103.3       112.1      121.8     135.0      154.0
Exchange rate                                         20.4       20.4       20.4       20.3       20.3       20.5
Export price index                                  100.0       97.3       99.4      107.4      128.3      151.0
Import price index                                  100.0      105.5      113.4      122.3      141.4      176.0
Terms of trade index                                100.0       92.2       87.6       87.8       90.8       86.0
As % of GDP
1960           1970           1975            1980/a
PUBLIC FINANCE /c
Current revenues                                       13.6           13.8           13.2            14.5
Current expenditures                                   10.6           12.6           11.7            14.1
Surplus (+) or deficit (-)                            +3.0            +1.2           +1.5            +0.4
Capital expenditure                                     4.3            5.8            3.4             3.9
Foreign financing                                       0.2            0.05           0.06            n.2
1960-70         1970-75         1975-80          1980-85/b          1985-90/b
OTHER INDICATORS
GNP growth rate (2)                           8.4             6.2              6.9             6.7                7.5
GNP per capita growth rate (X)                5.2             3.4              4.4             4.4                5.4
ICOR                                          2.8             4.0              3.4             4.1                3.8
Marginal savings rate                         0.29            0.23             0.21            0.34               0.3
Import elasticity                             1.7             0.6              1.3             0.64               n.77
/a  Preliminary.
/b Projected.
/c Central government only.
December 14, 1981



ANU I
Page 5 of 5
Populaton      I 46.00 (aid-1980, tboueead)                                           . 
087 per Capital  uS. 70 (1980)
THAILAND - MIA2C3 OP PAIVMT8  XTNAL CAITAL AltD 08?T
(amillion  04  at earnste pyicte)
Actual                                                             .......te
Indtcator                          97       9       I6                        199   198j    t98l    16           Pal          199 51   198           to,    199
BALANCE OV PAISaTr
xportt of Ood6  and nonfactor
service.                                 1,108   2,796   3,490 . 4,029   4,976   6,494   8,211   9,061  10,562  12,783  15,236  18,251  21,794  25,884  51.414
Of whichl  merchandise f.o.b.              686   2,178   2,959   3,456   4,041   5,233   6,657   7,333   8,573  10,397  12,491  14,963  17,832  21,221  42,574
Import. of  0oods and nonfactor
servicee                               -1,430  -3,487  -3,892  -5,066  -5,905  -8,170 -10,228 -11,022 -12,319 -14,384 -16,033 -19,706 -23,115 -27,186 -52,347
Of uhieh,  Morch;ndi.. f.o.b.          -1,148  -2,639  -3,166  -4,244  -4,909  -6,822  -8,907  -9,704 -10,928 -12,809 -15,048 -17,679 -20,808 -24,557 -47,913
Net fa tor Incoe from abroad                  23        *      -63     -97    -261    -477    -703    -740    -933  -1,152  -1,435  -1,773  -2,183  -2,646  -5,122
Net transfers                                 49       81       24       40      41       61      333      342      147     373      402      433      467      505      697
Current account balance                     -250    -606    -441  -1,094  -1,149  -2,092  -2,367  -2,359  -2,343  -2,380  -2,630  -2,795  -3,037  -3,443  -5,358
Private diract investeant                     43       86       80      106       51      53       55       60       65       70     *75       80       90      100      140
MLT loans (net)                               32      111      198      205      644     995   2,093   1,732   1,916   2,273   2,515   3,005   3,238   3,412   4,919
Official                                    21       93      109     212      285      439      460      639      808     919      955   1,016   1,081   1,169   1,598
Private /a                                  10       18       89       -7     360      557   1,633   1,093   1.108   1.354   1,560   1,989   2,157   2,243   3,321
Other capital /b                              93      356      242      792     490   1,036       223      867      762     437      440      160      159      381      799
Change in rserves                             82       52      -79       -9     -36        8        -      300      400      400     400      430      450      450      500
International reserves                       906   2,007   2,113   2,208   2,558   3,102   3,026   3,526   3,926   4,326   4,726   5,176   5,626   6,076   8,076
Reserve as months imports                      8        7        7        5        5       5        4        4        4        4        3       3        3        3        2
EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
Gross Disbursmeents
Concessional loans                          11       43       52      80      153      233      222      311      410     475      466      488      518      558     960
DAC                                       11       40      45       53       84      167      158    2H        340      377      359      378      405     429      589
IDA                                        -        3       7        9        5        4        4       9       14       18       19       15       10        5       0
Other                                      -        -       -       18       68       62       60       34      55       80       88       94      103      112     371
Nonconcessional loans                      188      493      556      558   1,160   1,792   2,395   1,930   2,000   2,691   3,269   3,986   4,563   5,229   8,373
Official export credits                    7        -       -       54       44      127      169     150      138       86       89       88       95      113     195
IBRD                                      19      41       43       65      103      139      143     250      346      442      524      584      645     718      879
Other m ltilateral                         2      37       46       33       46       36       83      77      107      149      196      225      265     302      420
Private publicly guaranteed               17      29      100       57      396      691      712     597      455      435      462      449      440     500      500
Private noeguaranteed                    143     386      367      349      571      799   1,288      856      954   1,581   2,008   2,640   3,118   3,596   6,329
Total gross disbursements                  199      536     608      638   1,313   2,025   2,617   2,241   2,410   3,168   3,735   4,474   5,081   5,787   9,333
External Debt (fixed-term)
Public debt outstanding 6
disbursed                                  328      622      828   1,094   1,816   2,819   4,063   4,926   6,072   7,216   8,288   9,250  10,425  11,599    n.a.
Official                                 291     548      666      917   1,270   1,638   2,098   2,737   3,545   4,464   5,419   6,435   7,515   8,685  14,440
Private                                   37      68      156      151      520   1,064   1,694   2,189   2,527   2,752   2,869   2,815   2,910   2,914    n.a,
Private nonguaranteed debt
outstanding end disbursed                382     730      785      880      939   1,243   1,922   2,845   3,615   4,743   6,187   8,229  10,292  12,530    n.a.
Total debt outstanding and
disbursed                                710   1,352   1,613   1,974   2,755   4,062   5,985   7,771   9,687  11,959  14,475  17,479  20,717  24,129  41,571
*Undisbureed debt                          118      666     840   1,401   1,902   2,358   3,204   3,066   3,386   3,734   4,087   4,514   5,001   5,459   7,710
Debt Service
Total sarvice payments                     162      378      399     443      708      954   1,250   1,149   1,325   1,913   2,480   3,013   3,733   4,647   8,614
Intereat                                  16      35       44      126      198      325     461      640      831   1,019   1,260   1,544   1,890   2,272   4,200
Payments as 2 exports of goods and    14.6    13.5    11.4    11.0    14.2    14.7    15.2    12.7    12.5    15.0    16.3    16.5    17.1    17.9    16.8
nonfactor services
Average interest rate on new loano
(2) /c                                       6.R      7.5      7.8      7.0     6.7      7.3    11.5    10.5    10.7    11.3    11.6    11.9    12.0    12.3    12.4
OfTicial                                   6.8      7.4      7.7      6.2     5.3      5.3        -        -        -       -        -        -        -        -       -
Private                                    6.0     8.5      R.1      8.2      8.8      9.6        -        -        -       -        -        -        -        -       -
Av rag  nnturity of new loans
(Years) Ic                                  18.9    22.9    17.4    14.8    17.3    17.1    14.1    15.6    15.8    14.8    14,2    13.7    13.5    13.1    12.8
Official                                  19.4    24.2    20.7    19.3    22.3    22.6            -        -       -        -        -        -        -        -       -
Private                                   11.2      7.0      7.3     8.3      9.4    10.6         -        -       -        -        -        -        -        -       -
Bank Group Expgare (%
IBRD DODtotal DOD                         22.6    20.0    18.5    17.5    15.8    13.7    11.3
I8RD disbursements/total gross
disbursements                           9.5      7.7      7.1    10.2       7.8      6.9      5.5
I8RD debt service/total debt
aervice                                11.1      8.5      9.0    10.0       7.8      7.0     6.3
IDA DOD/total DOD                            -     0.3      0.7       1.0     0.9      0.7      0.5
IDA disbureseents/total gross
disbureemnts                               -     0.5      1.1      1.4      0.4      0.2      0.2
IDA debt service/total debt
servics                                    -     0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0
As S of debt outstanding
at and of 1979
Maturity structure of debt outstanding
Principal due within 5 years                                                               28.4
Principal due within 10 years                                                              61.3
Interest structure of debt outstanding
Interest due within first year                                                              4.6
/a Due to change in classification, projected data for "private MLT loans' include some of the category -other capital".
7ii 'Other capital" includes net use of IMF funds and net flow of short-term capital.
7i Ristorical data does not include nonguaranteed private debt.
7i Preliminary.



- 27 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 12
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THAILAND
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of March 31, 1982)
Loan or                                                                 Amount ($ million)
Credit                                                                  Less Cancellations
Number Year         Borrower                          Purpose        Bank    IDA  Undisbursed
Thirty three loans and three credits fully disbursed                 639.20  31.74        -
1149   1975   Kingdom of Thailand                     Irrigation    95.00        -   39.51
1198T  1976   Kingdom of Thailand                     Rural Dev.    21.O0(TW)   -    3.01
1199T  1976   Kingdom of Thailand                    Livestock        5.00(TW)   -    0.54
1243   1976   Kingdom of Thailand                     Rubber        50.00        -    4.83
1271   1976   Kingdom of Thailand                     Education     31.00        -    8.29
1327   1976   Industrial Finance Corporation of
Thailand                             Industry       25.00       -    0.03
1393   1977   Kingdom of Thailand                    Agriculture   28.00         -    3.10
1468   1977   Kingdom of Thailand                     Irrigation    55.00        -   18.53
1485   1977   Electricity Generating Authority
of Thailand                          Power         50.00        -    6.90
767   1978   Kingdom of Thailand                    Population          -   33.10/a 16.00
1519   1978   Kingdom of Thailand                    Highways      110.00        -   26.03
1527   1978   Provincial Electricity Authority        Rural Elect.  25.00        -    4.79
1556   1978   Kingdom of Thailand                     Housing        8.60        -    6.03
1620   1978   Telephone Organization of Thailand   Telecom          90.00        -   80.75
1630   1978   Kingdom of Thailand                     Irrigation    17.50        -   14.21
1638   1979   Kingdom of Thailand                    Urban Trans.  16.00         -   12.67
1662   1979   State Railway of Thailand               Railways      16.70        -    9.10
1690   1979   Electricity Generating Authority
of Thailand                          Power         80.00        -   43.79
913   1979   Kingdom of Thailand                    Education          -   35.00   29.00
929   1979   Kingdom of Thailand                    Agriculture        -   25.00   21.23
1752   1979   Kingdom of Thailand                    Ag. Extension 40.00         -   34.13
1770   1980   Electricity Generating Authority
of Thailand                          Power          80.00       -   42.17
1773   1980   Petroleum Authority of                 Natural Gas
Thailand                               Pipeline   107.00/b      -   10.55
1787   1980   Kingdom of Thailand                     Irrigation    80.00        -   73.59
1816   1980   Kingdom of Thailand                    Ag. Credit    19.00         -   12.41



-28-
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 12
Loan or                                                                 Amount ($ million)
Credit                                                                 Less Cancellations
Number   Year         Borrower                    Purpose           Bank    IDA  Undisbursed
1852     1980   Electricity Generating
Authority of Thailand        Power               72.00    -         45.08
1863     1980   Provincial Waterworks
Authority                    Water Supply        40.00    -          39.71
1870     1980   Kingdom of Thailand             Housing             29.00    -          28.46
1871     1980   Provincial Electricity          Rural Elec-
Authority                      trification       75.00    -         72.57
1889     1980   Kingdom of Thailand             Inland Waterways   53.00    -           52.62
1918     1980   Kingdom of Thailand             Ports               47.00    -          47.00
1922     1980   Kingdom of Thailand             Ag. Research        30.00    -          29.95
1947     1981   Kingdom of Thailand             Potash Engineering  8.90    -            7.73
1956     1981   Industrial Finance Corp.
of Thailand                  Industry            30.00    -         10.18
2000     1981   Electricity Generating
Authority of Thailand        Power              100.00    -        100.00
2022     1981   Kingdom of Thailand             Irrigation          57.00    -          56.50
2035     1981   Kingdom of Thailand             Provincial Roads   35.00    -           34.27
2078     1982   Kingdom of Thailand /c          Tree crops         142.00    -         142.00
2097     1982   Kingdom of Thailand T7          Structural
adjustment       150.00    -        150.00
Total                                                        2,557.90  124.84  1,337.26
of which has been repaid                                     279.36    2.85
Total now outstanding                                        2,278.54  121.99
Amount sold /d                       68.63
of which has been repaid           50.88                      17.75
Total now held by Bank and IDA                                1,968.78  121.99
Total undisbursed                                            1,271.03   66.23
/a  Of which $3.1 million is Norwegian grant participation.
7T Includes refinancing of Loan S-10-TH ($4.9 million).
7-c Not yet effective.
7T Of which $43.3 million sold to the Bank of Thailand.



-29 -                    ANNEX II
Page 3 of 12
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVE$TMENTS
(As of March 31, 1982)
Amounts ($ million)
Year       Company                Type of Business           Loan    Equity    Total
1959   Concrete Products and   Cement and Construction
Aggregate Co., Ltd.      Materials                 0.30        -      0.30
1964/  Industrial                Development                    -    0.39       0.39
1970     Finance Corporation       Finance Company
of Thailand (IFCT)
1969/  Siam Cement Group         Cement and
1975/                              Construction
1978/1979                          Materials               28.33    4.24       32.57
1977   Mutual Fund Company       Money and Capital
Limited                  Market                       -    0.29       0.29
1977   United Sugar Terminal   Food and Food
Limited                  Processing                2.50    0.20       2.70
1978   Siam Commercial Bank    Small and Medium
Scale Industries         2.00        -       2.00
1979/  Bangkok Glass Industry
1980     Company, Limited        Glass Containers           4.85    0.34        5.19
1979/  Siam City Cement          Cement and Construc-
1981     Co. Ltd.                  tion Materials          63.00    4.00       67.00
1979   Thai Orient Leasing
Co. Ltd.               Capital Market                 -    0.15       0.15
Total gross commitments                            100.98    9.61    110.59
Less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                           65.71    2.71      68.42
Net held by the Corporation                         35.27    6.90      42.17
Total undisbursed                                   25.00    -         25.00



- 30 -                  ANNEX II
Page 4 of 12
C.  STATUS OF PROJECTS IN EXECUTION /1
(As of March 31, 1982)
Credit No. 929 Northern Agricultural Development Project; $25 Million
Credit of June 28, 1979; Effective Date: October 12, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1985
In general, reasonable progress has been achieved to date, but
the completion of major work programs planned for this year will be
important to the project's success. Actions are being taken to resolve
difficulties relating particularly to management, staffing, contracting and
budgeting. IDA staff are giving close attention to these problems in an
effort to help resolve them.
Loan No. 1149 Phitsanulok Irrigation Project; $95 Million Loan of July 25,
1975; Effective Date: October 31, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1985
Project completion is now expected by mid-1985, two years behind
schedule, due to slow progress in on-farm works. Construction work on the
diversion dam is complete and works on the distribution systems are proceeding
well. All studies financed under the project are proceeding satisfactorily.
Loan No. 1468 Second Chao Phya Irrigation Improvement Project; $55 Million
Loan of September 23, 1977; Effective Date: December 23, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
Equipment procurement is almost complete. Rehabilitation and on-
farm development works for Part A of the project on about 13,000 ha were
completed in 1981 bringing the total area developed to 48,000 ha, compared
to 51,000 in the appraisal schedule. Under Part B, rehabilitation works
are progressing satisfactorily. Under Part C, 65 km of service roads are
being constructed. All physical works are expected to be completed in 1982
in accordance with the appraisal schedule. Under Part D, a feasibility
study for about 175,000 ha in the Stage II area of Maeklong was completed in
March 1980 and a study for a possible Third Stage Chao Phya Irrigation
Improvement Project was completed in December 1980.
/1 These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any prob-
lems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding
that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths
and weaknesses in project implementation.



- 31 -                  ANNEX II
Page 5 of 12
Loan No. 1630 Second Northeast Thailand Irrigation Improvement Project:
$17.5 Million of December 4, 1978; Effective Date:
April 25, 1979; Closing Date: September 30, 1985
Project implementation is about one year behind schedule due to
initial delays in procurement of equipment and supplies. Procurement of
equipment is now proceeding smoothly. Construction of main and secondary
canals is progressing satisfactorily but on-farm works are well behind
schedule. Two new diversion dams have been built in the Lam Takhong project
area, and work on canal rehabilitation is progressing satisfactorily.
Loan No. 1787 Eleventh Irrigation Project; $80 Million Loan of
January 17, 1980; Effective Date: April 2, 1980;
Closing Date: June 30, 1986
The project is about one year behind schedule due to delays in the
appointment of consultants. Satisfactory progress is now being made in
procuring equipment and vehicles. Canal rehabilitation work is progressing
satisfactorily, but on-farm works are behind schedule due to delays in
design work.
Loan No. 2022-TH Twelfth Irrigation Project; $57 Million Loan of
August 13, 1981; Effective Date: November 11, 1981;
Closing Date: June 30, 1987
Consultants were appointed in September 1981. Surveys and mapping
have been completed for 10,000 ha, and 8 km of main and lateral canals have
been constructed. A contract for construction of about 60 km of main and
lateral canals is due to be awarded in 1982. Good progress is being made
in developing a Plan of Action for strengthening the Royal Irrigation
Department.
Loan No. 1198T Northeast Thailand Rural Development Project; $21 Million
Loan of Februar} 27, 1976; Effective Date: June 28, 1976;
Closing Date: September 30, 1982
Construction of almost 600 km of village access roads is complete
and is under way on the remaining 700 km. The road maintenance program is
being carried out at an acceptable rate with good quality work using
equipment procured under the project. The village water supply component
has provided 2,600 freshwater wells. The agricultural extension component
was completed in 1978 and subsumed into the National Extension Project (Loan
1393). The upland crops component is being satisfactorily completed and
research work is being continued by the National Agricultural Research
Project (Loan 1922). The village electrification component has been
completed with electrification of about 475 villages. The land settlement
component is essentially complete; cash incomes of pilot cooperating farmers
were roughly doubled in the project period, and settlement cooperative
placed on a sound footing.



- 32 -                  ANNEX II
Page 6 of 12
Loan No. 1199T Livestock Development Project; $5.0 Million Loan of
February 27, 1976; Effective Date: May 25, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The project continues to make fairly good progress particularly
with legume seed production, artificial insemination and private pasture
development. However, disbursement remains behind schedule and the original
loan closing date of June 30, 1981 was extended by 12 months to June 30,
1982.  The Department of Livestock Development is developing plans for
transferring project activities into the work programs of the regular divi-
sions of the Department, and these transfers should be completed before
June 30, 1982 as part of a departmental reorganization plan.
Loan No. 1243 Rubber Replanting Project; $50 Million Loan of September 13,
1976; Effective Date: January 14, 1977; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982
The project is one year behind schedule due to procurement diffi-
culties and initial delay in loan signing as well as in agreeing on the
formula of fertilizers to be procured through ICB. The replanting rate over
the project period has been slower than that envisioned at appraisal, but for
1981 about 65,000 ha were replanted - 30% above the target of 50,000 ha.
Management and the general level of staff efficiency at the Office of the
Rubber Replanting Aid Fund is satisfactory. Bank disbursements for the
project are expected to be completed before June 30, 1982.
Loan No. 1393 National Agricultural Extension Project; $28 Million Loan
of May 17, 1977; Effective Date:  September 1, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Delays in staff recruitment experienced in the early days of the
project have now been overcome and the "T and V" system is operating
reasonably satisfactorily. Vehicles, including motorbikes for village-level
extension workers, remain in short supply. Shortages of audio-visual aids
and counterpart funds for day-to-day operations are also adversely affecting
progress. Subject matter specialist training is being given priority atten-
tion. Civil works construction is nearing completion and disbursement has
improved considerably in recent months.
Loan No. 1752 Second National Agricultural Extension Project; $40 Million
Loan of September 18, 1979; Effective Date: December 18, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1985
Project implementation is off to a reasonable start in seven
provinces and disbursements are ahead of appraisal estimates. Subject
matter specialist training is being given priority attention, as also is the
relevance of the information being disseminated to farmers through the "T and
V" system.



- 33 -                  ANNEX II
Page 7 of 12
Loan No. 1816 Agricultural Credit Project; $19 Million Loan of
April 30, 1980; Effective Date: August 29, 1980; Closing
Date: December 31, 1984
Overall Bank disbursements for the project are ahead of schedule.
The Bank for Agriculture and Agricultural Cooperatives' (BAAC) ongoing term
lending in the North and Northeast, to be financed under the project, is
progressing well. Implementation of works under the specified lending
component, however, has been slow. The most critical factor affecting the
financial viability of BAAC is the interest rate levels for agriculture.
Satisfactory progress has been made by the Cooperative Promotion Department
and the Cooperative Auditing Department in their training activities and in
the construction of regional and provincial staff housing.
Loan No. 1922 National Agricultural Research Project; $30 Million Loan of
December 19, 1980; Effective Date March 20, 1981; Closing
Date: June 30, 1989
The loan became effective in March 1981, but a budget deficiency
in the first six months, which coincided with the last six months of the
Government fiscal year, seriously affected project implementation, which was
negligible, although much useful preliminary planning was accomplished. The
recent approval of a project budget for FY82 and the pending approval by
Cabinet of the reorganization plan for the Department of Agriculture should
enable implementation to proceed satisfactorily in the latter part of FY82
after allowing for a delay of about nine months from the appraisal report
schedule.
Loan No. 2078 Second Tree Crops Project; $142 million Loan of
January 29, 1982; Closing Date: March 31, 1987
The loan has not yet been declared effective.
Loan No. 1271 Fourth Education Project; $31 Million Loan of September 13,
1976; Effective Date: February 9, 1977; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982
Progress in project implementation is satisfactory and is expected
to be completed by the original Closing Date. All civil work contracts have
been awarded and nearly completed. Equipment and furniture is under
procurement. Nearly all fellowships have been awarded. Staff training
programs are on schedule but need to be improved, as does supervision by the
Ministry of Education of its nonformal education programs.
Credit No. 913 Fifth Education Project; $35 Million Credit of June 28,
1979; Effective Date: October 12, 1979; Closing Date:
June 30, 1985
The project is being implemented in three phases. Acquisitions of
sites and design work has been completed. Construction of workshops
included in phase one has been completed, and equipment contracts have been



- 34 -                  ANNEX II
Page 8 of 12
awarded. Phases two and three will be completed mid-1982 and mid-1983,
respectively. Project staff has been appointed or designated. Curricula
are being developed. Technical assistance agencies have been contracted and
staff training programs are being conducted as scheduled. The studies under
the project are progressing satisfactorily.
Credit No. 767 Population Project; $33.1 Million Credit of February 27,
1978; Effective Date: July 6, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983
Under new management, the project is moving ahead smoothly and
rapidly, and disbursements have improved considerably over the past year.
Project implementation is now running, on the average, about 12 months
behind the appraisal schedule. Six of the ten national level training
facilities have been completed.  Of the 430 rural health facilities, 374
have been completed, 33 are under construction and 23 had to be deleted.
The final round of procurement of equipment and furniture is currently
underway. Most training, information/education/communication, and
population-related research and evaluation activities have been completed on
schedule. The Innovative Village Nutrition Activity has been successfully
launched and Government is about to approve the use of most of the remaining
funds for Innovative Activities for testing new ideas in continuing
education and the role of mass communication in health education are about
to be approved by the Government.
Loan No. 1556 Bangkok Sites and Services Project; $8.6 Million Loan of
June 15, 1978; Effective Date: September 22, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Project implementation is about eighteen months behind schedule
because of difficulties encountered with the largest contract.  The National
Housing Authority (NHA) has terminated the existing contract and steps are
underway to hire a new contractor to complete the work. Good progress,
however, has been made on the various policy concepts on which the project
is based, and NHA's financial management has been strengthened through
technical assistance.
Loan No. 1638 Bangkok Traffic Management Project; $16 Million Loan of
January 25, 1979; Effective Date:  April 25, 1979; Closing
Date: September 30, 1982
There has been a significant improvement in all aspects of the
project. While no action seems probable on area road pricing, progress has
been made in implementation of the bus lane system, parking
restrictions/charges, experimentation of staggered work hour system and
noise abatement. Construction is now underway on several traffic
improvement schemes. Since November 1981, contracts worth $6.3 million have
been awarded; further contracts for $10.3 million equivalent are to be
awarded in the next 3-6 months.



- 35 -                  ANNEX II
Page 9 of 12
Loan No. 1870 National Sites and Services Project; $29 Million Loan of
August 8, 1980; Effective Date: January 7, 1981; Closing
Date: December 31, 1984
This project expands the National Housing Authority (NHA) programs
initiated in Bangkok under the Bangkok Sites and Services and Slum
Improvement Project (Loan 1556-TH) and extends the sites and services
program to five regional cities. Design and procurement are proceeding
satisfactorily. Construction has commenced in Bangkok and the regional
cities.
Loan No. 1863 Provincial Water Supply Project; $40 Million Loan of
November 25, 1980; Effective Date: January 4, 1982;
Closing Date: April 3, 1986
Engineering consultants were appointed in January 1982, about one
year later than originally expected due to the Borrower's inexperience in
hiring outside consultants. A UNDP-financed adviser has been appointed
to assist the borrower in these and related matters.
Loan No. 1485 Pattani Hydroelectric Project; $50 Million Loan of
September 23, 1977; Effective Date: December 20, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The project has been completed on schedule. The three units of
turbine generators are operating satisfactorily. Good progress is being
made under the transmission line and substation components associated with
the project.
Loan No. 1527 Accelerated Rural Electrification Project; $25 Million
Loan of March 9, 1978; Effective Date: June 7, 1978;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
Work has been started on 3,480 villages, out of which 2,100
villages have already been electrified. The load promotion program started
in April 1981. Disbursements have accelerated and are very close to initial
appraisal estimates.
Loan No. 1690 Bang Pakong Thermal Power Project; $80 Million Loan of
August 9, 1979; Effective Date: May 23, 1980.
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
The project is about two months behind schedule because of poor
soil conditions encountered during foundation piling. Field works are now
proceeding satisfactorily, and project execution is expected to catch up
with the original schedule. The first unit is targeted for commissioning in
July 1983, as scheduled.



- 36 -                  ANNEX II
Page 10 of 12
Loan No. 1770 Khao Laem Hydroelectric Project; $80 Million Loan of
June 17, 1980; Effective Date: September 17, 1980;
Closing Date: February 28, 1985
The project is about one year behind schedule because of unexpect-
edly poor rock foundation, but works are now underway satisfactorily.
Disbursements are close to appraisal estimates. Construction of the
resettlement program started at all five sites.
Loan No. 1871 Second Accelerated Rural Electrification Project; $75 Million
Loan of November 14, 1980; Effective Date: August 20, 1981;
Closing Date: June 30, 1986
Construction started in 262 villages for the first nine provinces.
Seventeen villages have been electrified. Procurement is proceeding
satisfactorily.
Loan No. 2000-TH Power Subsector Project; $100 Million Loan of July 8,
1981; Effective Date: October 26, 1981; Closing Date:
June 30, 1985
Bids for the diversion tunnel will be issued in July 1982, and
main civil works in May 1983 for the Chiew Larn Hydroelectric component of
the project.
Loan No. 1773 Second Natural Gas Pipeline Project; $107 Million Loan of
February 15, 1980; Effective Date: May 27, 1981;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Good progress was made with the overall physical works and major
project components, including the offshore pipeline and onshore main line
which have been completed on schedule. The pipeline started operations
in September 1981, and all physical works should be completed by mid-1982.
The project is being completed on schedule and below the original cost
estimate.
Loan No. 1852 Mae Moh Lignite Project; $72 Million Loan of June 17, 1980;
Effective Date: September 17, 1980; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984
Procurement of equipment is proceeding satisfactorily. However,
the borrower, in its last progress report dated January 1982, indicated
little progress in civil works.
Loan No. 1327 Third IFCT Project; $25 Million Loan of December 8, 1976;
Effective Date: March 14, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The loan is almost fully disbursed. Only $29,000 remain against
an outstanding letter of credit.



- 37 -                   ANNEX II
Page 11 of 12
Loan No. 1956 Fourth IFCT Project; $30.0 Million Loan of April 15, 1981;
Effective Date: June 18, 1981; Closing Date: December 31,
1984
The project is proceeding well. By the end of March 31, 1982, an
amount of $23.2 million has been committed and $19.8 million disbursed,
considerably faster than originally estimated.
Loan No. 1947-TH Potash Engineering Project; $8.9 Million Loan of
March 4, 1981; Effective Date: December 29, 1981:
Closing Date: March 31, 1983
The loan became effective on December 29, 1981 and is proceeding
well.
Loan No. 1519 Sixth Highway (Provincial Roads) Project: $110 Million
Loan of March 23, 1978; Effective Date: June 22, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
All construction contracts have been awarded and work is over 80%
completed. However, for three of the roads the bidding and awards were
delayed about 10 months to synchronize with bidding and award of contracts in
March 1979 on a link road financed wholly by the Government. Completion of
the project may thus be delayed about twelve months. The maintenance equip-
ment has been procured and with recently increased budgetary allocations,
progress with the road maintenance program is improving. The studies are
nearing completion. Detailed engineering of roads for construction under the
Provincial Roads Project (Loan 2035-TH) has been completed and is underway on
roads for future projects.
Loan No. 2035-TH Provincial Roads Project; $35 Million Loan of
August 13, 1981; Effective Date: December 1, 1981;
Closing Date December 31, 1985
Contracts have been awarded on 19 roads, and are expected to be
awarded shortly on the remaining four. Proposals have been obtained for a
Transport Study.
Loan No. 1662 Fifth Railway Project; $16.7 Million Loan of April 23, 1979;
Effective Date: August 22, 1979; Closing Date: June 30,
1982
Mainly due to slow progress in procurement of equipment and
material, project execution is behind schedule. Contracts are placed or being
placed for all originally agreed Bank financed items, and most of the
contracted equipment and material has been delivered. An amount of about



- 38 -                  ANNEX II
Page 12 of 12
US$2.9 million remains unallocated. Disbursements are about two years behind
schedule and an extension of the Closing Date to June 30, 1983 is being
considered. Operational efficiency is in general good; however, availability
of passenger and freight cars was below appraisal target. The financial
position of SRT remains unsatisfactory despite the 35% and 73% tariff
increases for passengers and freight respectively in June 1981, mainly because
of a subsequent severe decline in freight traffic.
Loan No. 1889 Inland Waterways and Coastal Ports Project; $53 Million Loan
of August 27, 1980; Effective Date: December 10, 1980;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
The construction contract for improvements to the Chao Phraya
River has been awarded and the contractor is in the process of mobilizing.
Consultants have been appointed for design and construction supervision of
the various project components and work is underway. Acquisition of land for
port sites is still incomplete.
Loan No. 1918  BPnZkok and Sattahip Ports Project; $47 Million Loan of
December 19, 1980; Effective Date: August 12, 1981
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
Implementation of project components concerned with the Port of
Bangkok are progressing satisfactorily with construction work underway and
selection of consultants to provide technical assistance to the Port
Authority of Thailand in process. Work at the Port of Sattahip is temporarily
in abeyance pending completion of the Master Plan Report now being prepared
by consultants financed through bilateral aid (Australia). The appointment of
consultants for the design of the Bang Su Container Freight Terminal has been
long delayed. With Bank concurrence, consultants were selected and contract
negotiations completed by the State Railway of Thailand but approval from
higher authority is not yet forthcoming, causing serious delays in the
implementation of this project component.
Loan No. 1620 Third Telecommunications Project; $90 Million Loan of
October 4, 1978; Effective Date: January 3, 1979;
Closing Date: September 30, 1983
Due to a delay in the borrower's decision on standardization of
switching equipment and subsequent delays in issue of bid invitation and in
evaluation of bids, the project is currently about 18 months behind schedule.
Recent progress has been satisfactory, with TOT awarding contracts for most of
the Bank financed items. The financial condition of the borrower continues to
be satisfactory.
Loan No. 2097 Structural Adjustment Lending; $150 million Loan of
March 15, 1982; Closing Date: March 31, 1983
The Loan has not yet been declared effective.



- 39 -                             ANNEX III
Page 1
THAILAND
LAND REFORM AREA PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time required to prepare the project: 2 years, 6 months
(b) The agencies which prepared the project: ALRO, FAO/CP, UNDP, Bank
(c) Date of first presentation to the Bank: November 1976
Date of first Bank mission to consider the project: September 1978
(d) Date of departure of appraisal mission: March 1981
(e) Date of completion of negotiations: July 16, 1982
(f) Planned date of effectiveness: December 31, 1982
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
Bank staff have commented on draft ALRO Guidelines and draft
implementation agreements between ALRO and each of the other implementing
agencies. Prior to commencement of the project the Bank will need to review
these again so that they may be finalized. Bank staff will visit Thailand
in late 1982 to facilitate this review.
Section III: Special Conditions
(a) The Borrower has agreed that:
(i) credit arrangements for the project will be stipulated in
an agreement between BAAC and ALRO under terms and con-
ditions satisfactory to the Government and the Bank, and the
Land Development Department, Department of Agricultural
Extension, and the Ministries of Education and Public Health
will implement their parts of the project under agreements
with ALRO satisfactory to the Government and the Bank
(paras. 40 and 49);



-40 -                             ANNEX III
Page 2
(ii)  subproject proposals will be furnished to the Bank for
approval; project committees will be established by January
31, 1983; and ALRO will assign staff to the project according
to an agreed schedule, maintaining the continuity of part-
time staff to the maximum extent feasible (paras. 48, 50, and
51)
(iii)  the consultants for design of the monitoring and evaluation
system will be retained by January 31, 1983, and their report
will be sent by May 31, 1983, for the Bank's review; the
consultants for the organizational study will be retained by
December 31, 1983, and ALRO will provide the Bank with a copy
of the study and its proposals thereon by December 31, 1984,
and would consider Bank comments in implementing the study
recommendations (para. 48); and
(iv)  all LRAs will be degazetted by Government according to an
agreed schedule and would be integrated into the local
administrative framework at the end of the development period
for each LRA (para. 51).
(b) Additional conditions of effectiveness of the lyan are:
(i) signature of an agreement between ALRO and BAAC (para. 40);
(ii)  employment of an agriculturalist/soil conservationist, a
rural works engineer and a rural development economist to
advise ALRO (para. 48).
(iii) agreement by ALRO and the Bank on implementation guidelines
setting forth ALRO's organizational arrangements and procedures
for execution of the project (para. 52); and
(iv)  degazettement of the LRA to be developed in the first
project year (para. 51).



z                                                                                                     U~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L
1~~~~1          0 0~~~0 
U  z~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
uli ~ ~   ~     ~     ~     -   . 
-~-~   ~           -,-yu 
'v-  a                                                                                                             a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C
I                                                                        a   a ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ a~~~~~~r
~~~~~~~~  (*~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ *0 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1



