Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 3553-TH
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
THAILAND
LAND REFORM AREAS PROJECT
August 23, 1982
Projects Department
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1.00      =  Baht (B) 23.00
B 1.00       =  US$0.04
US$1 million = B 23 million
B 1 million  =  US$43,478
FISCAL YEAR
October 1 to September 30
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
m      =  meter (39.4 inches)
km     =  kilometer (0.62 miles)
ha     =  hectare (2.47 acres)
sq km  =  square kilometer (0.39 square miles)
cu m   =  cubic meter (35.3 cubic feet)
kg     =  kilogram (2.2 pounds)
ton    =  metric ton (0.98 long tons)
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
ALRO    -  Agricultural Land Reform Office
BAAC    -  Bank for Agriculture and Agricultural Cooperatives
DAE     -  Department of Agricultural Extension
FLPO    -  Foreign Loan Projects Office
LDD     -  Land Development Department
LRA     -  Land Reform Area
MOAC    - Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives
MOE     - Ministry of Education
MOPH    - Ministry of Public Health
NPV     -  Net Present Value
ONPEC   -  Office of the National Primary Education Commission



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THAILAND LAND REFORM AREAS PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.  BACKGROUND . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .           1
A.  Project Background ...  .      .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  1
B.  The Agricultural Sector  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .           1
C.  Government Policy. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .           2
D.  Bank Involvement ....  .       .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  3
II.  LAND DEVELOPMENT AND THE ROLE OF ALRO  . . . . . . . . . . .           4
A. Land Development.                                                 4
B.  Agricultural Land Reform Office (ALRO) . . . . . . . .           6
III. THE PROJECT..                                            . . . .        8
A.  Objectives , . .. .                                 . . . .      8
B.  Brief Description  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .           9
C.  Detailed Features. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          10
D. Project Cost ....  .  .       .  .  .  .  .    .......  .  .   .  22
E. Financing. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .           24
IV.  PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          25
A.  Organization and Management  . . . . . . . . . . . . .          25
B.  Procurement  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         .28
C. Disbursement               .. .28
D.  Accounts and Auditing. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          29
V. MARKETING AND PRICES .29
A. Output .29
B.  Production Inputs. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          31
VI.  BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION AND RISK . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          31
A.  Benefits .....  .        .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  31
B.  Environmental Impact ....  .        .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  34
C.  Role of Women. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          34
D.  Economic Returns ....  .       .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  35
This report is based on the findings of a team composed of Messrs. Luhman,
Panton (Bank), Lohavisavapanich (Cooperative Program) and Whitehouse
(Consultant) which visited Thailand in March/April 1981. Mss. Brereton,
Mendoza, Mott, and Pinto (Bank) assisted in the preparation of the report.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- il -
Page No.
E.  Cost Recovery .   . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . . . . . . .    35
F.  Risks  .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .  36
VII.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOM14ENDATION. . . . . . . . . . . .    37
ANNEXES
1. Consultants' Terms of Reference
2. Supporting Tables and Charts
Tl. Project Land Reform Areas
T2. Project Facilities by Province
T3. Staffing Schedule
T4. Land Compensation Repayment
T5. Farm Model Basic Data
T6. Financial and Economic Prices
T7   Economic Benefits and Costs
T8. Project Cost Details and Phasing
T9. Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
Cl. Implementation Schedule
C2. Organization of Agricultural Land Reform Office
C3. Project Committee Structure
C4. ALRO Project Organizational Structure
C5. Typical Road Cross Sections
C6. Rock Causeway Cross Section
C7. Rock Weir Cross Section
C8.  Tubewell Cross Section
C9. Dugwell Cross Section
3. Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
MAP
IBRD 15809 - Location of Project Areas



THAILAND
LAND REFORM AREAS PROJECT
I. BACKGROUND
A. Project Background
1.01      The proposed Bank loan would help finance a land distribution and
infrastructure development project to be implemented by the Agricultural Tand
Reform Office (ALRO). The project would contribute to the development of
encroached public lands, the intensification of rainfed agriculture, the
expansion of agricultural exports, poverty alleviation, and improved land use.
It would pursue these aims by strengthening ALRO's capability to implement a
series of land reform and development projects in encroached public lands and
by demonstrating the viability of a land reform and infrastructure development
model in an initial set of nine land reform areas (LRAs) of 192,000 ha and
some 35,000 low-income families. The total project cost is estimated at $31.0
million of which $17 million would be provided as a Bank loan. The proposed
project was prepared by ALRO, assisted by FAO/World Bank Cooperative Program
missions, an FAO consultant funded by the UNDP, and a Bank mission.
B. The Agricultural Sector
1.02      About 80% of Thailand's population of 47 million resides in rural
areas where social services are relatively poor, economic activities limited
and agricultural productivity is usually low. Although structural change in
the Thai economy has been rapid in recent years, agriculture is still domi-
nant and will remain so for many years to come. It employs about 50% of the
labor force, produces about 30% of GDP and contributes about 60% of total
export earnings. Agricultural GDP in 1972-79 grew by 5% p.a., down from
5.4% p.a. in 1960-72, with about 70% of output accounted for by crop pro-
duction and the balance by livestock, fisheries, and forestry. Much of this
growth has come from an expansion of the area under cultivation (about 4% p.a.
until the mid-1970s), along with a movement into higher valued crops, as major
crop yields and cropping intensity changed little on a national basis. Since
the mid-1970s, however, some increase in cropping intensity within holdings
has occurred as the scarcity of new land has had an effect. The area planted
to maize, cassava and sugarcane is now just over 3 million ha and has tripled
in the last decade. This has been largely achieved through an expansion of
the rainfed cultivation area, not at the expense of traditional crops. In



- 2 -
the 1979/80 season, rice was planted on more than 60% of the cultivated
area, rubber on 10%, maize and cassava each about 8%, and sugarcane 5%.
Maize and cassava exports together are now higher than the value of rice
exports. Although the private business sector is subject to some regulatory
and price controls, it has been able to perform vigorously, contributing
substantial support services to agriculture (especially marketing, credit,
and input supply). The Government has contributed most through the building
of infrastructure (roads, water control, ports, electric power, etc.) and
through agricultural research and extension.
1.03      About 4.5 million farm faLmilies occupy about 24 million ha.
Ninety percent of the cultivatedl area is rainfed and only 10% irrigated.
Farm size is necessarily small, but: the size distribution is not particularly
skewed, in general. Estimates made by the Office of Agricultural Economics
in the Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives (MOAC) give a modal farm
size of 3.6 ha and a mean size of about 5.5 ha. Almost 90% of farm families
are self-employed, and three quarters of the farms are worked by owner-
occupiers rather than tenants. Although population pressure is leading to
the cultivation of poorer lands, higher relative prices for farm products in
recent years have resulted in the annual average income of agricultural
households being nearly tripled during 1960-79 to $1,200. Nevertheless,
variations around that mean are large, with the highest incomes being
realized in the irrigated areas of the Central Region and the lowest in the
North and Northeast. Agricultural employment has grown less rapidly than
the rural labor force, resulting in substantial rural-urban migration and
the growing importance of rural nonfarm employment and income. In 1979
about 30% of average national gross farm income came from off-farm sources.
1.04      Despite agriculture's overall good performance during the past two
decades, large numbers of the nrraL population remain poor in absolute
terms. It is estimated that about one third of all agricultural households
or 8 million people remain in absolute poverty (with incomes below $148 per
capita), and many have had litt:Le or no improvement in real incomes since
1960.
C. Government Policy
Objectives
1.05      The main objectives oE the Government's agricultural policy are:
(a) to increase agricultural production; (b) to alleviate rural poverty and
redress inter-regional income disparities; (c) to expand agricultural
exports rapidly to help the balance of payments; and (d) to better utilize
the available land suitable for agriculture, protect against deforestation
and conserve natural resources, and minimize the degradation of the
environment.



-3-
Strategies
1.06      The Government's efforts to pursue the above objectives involve
the following major strategies: the creation of an environment in which the
private sector will have the needed incentives and confidence to boost pro-
duction, marketing and exports; demarcation of poverty areas in which line
agencies are to focus their programs, particularly for agriculture, rural
infrastructure (physical and social) and community development; and the
establishment of a land-use policy for better utilization of land suitable
for agriculture, including the required legal and regulatory framework to
give individual farmers title to their land and a clear demarcation of zones
reserved for forestry and conservation.
D. Bank Involvement
1.07      The Bank fully supports the broad outline of the Government's
objectives and strategies, and the proposed project would contribute toward
the achievement of these objectives by promoting the intensification of
rainfed agriculture among low-income farmers in encroached public lands. In
general, the Bank's agricultural lending program supports the strengthening
of the technical and infrastructural bases for improving production, and the
expansion of the Government's overall capacity for project planning,
coordination and implementation. Where possible, projects are oriented
toward poverty alleviation by increasing productivity (and thus farmers'
incomes). The main activities supported by the Bank in agriculture are:
(a)  irrigation.  Since 1950, Bank assistance to Thailand's water
resource development has included financing for five multipurpose
dams and 12 irrigation projects for a total of $683 million.
Of the irrigation projects, six were in the central Chao Phya
Basin, two in the Northeast, one in the South, and three in or
near the Mae Klong Basin to the west of Bangkok.
(b)  Tree Crops.  The replanting of rubber is being expanded, mainly in
the South and Southeast.
(c)  Research.  Research programs are being supported which emphasize
the production of high-yielding and pest- and disease-resistant
varieties of the main crops; adaptive research aimed at improving
rainfed rice and other rainfed crop yields; and research into
alternative farming systems, including crop diversification,
intercropping and rotational cropping, which should also benefit
rainfed rice farmers.
(d)  Land Development.  Current land development activities are focused
on the conversion of shifting cultivation areas to a condition of
stable agriculture and introduction of appropriate soil and water
conservation works and practices.



-4-
(e)  Extension.  A training, and visit system of extension is being
expanded to achieve national coverage. Efforts are being made to
ensure that it reaches poor rural communities and that the service
is supported by the wider availability of agricultural inputs.
(f)  Credit.  The cooperative system and credit institutions are being
improved primarily through the provision of more funds for relend-
ing for agricultural investments and through the strengthening of
the Bank for Agriculture and Agricultural Cooperatives (BAAC), the
cooperatives, and the agencies supervising the cooperatives.
(g)  Livestock.  Livestock development is being improved mainly in the
Northeast Region and aims at: improving meat production and
quality for local consumption and export; controlling animal
disease; and strengthening the capacity of the Department
of Livestock Development.
(h)  Rural Infrastructure.  Rural infrastructure and services are being
strengthened through several Bank projects.
1.08      These projects have helped the Government achieve its objectives of
maintaining agricultural growth. lowever, future productivity increases will
be affected greatly by Government's agricultural pricing policies, which must
provide adequate incentives for farmers to adopt improved technologies and for
the private sector to boost. the marketing of agricultural inputs and outputs.
II. LAND DEVELOPMENT AND THE ROLE OF ALRO
A. Land Development
2.01      Constraints to Development.  Up to now, the key factor in raising
agricultural production has been the expansion of the cultivated area
(para. 1.02), and the only efforts focussed on the intensification of produc-
tivity have occurred in irrigated areas. Now that opportunities for extending
the cultivated area are virtualLy exhausted, increasing attention is being
directed toward raising productivity.
2.02      There are, however, two major constraints to these more recent
efforts: unrealistic land classification and the lack of secure tenure for
many farmers. Land classification in Thailand frequently runs counter to the
land's actual suitability. This is particularly a problem in lands officially
classified as forest lands, which currently extend up to 26 million ha or half
the country's total area. (About 18 million ha of the area have been surveyed
and legally gazetted as forest resierve.) In spite of the classification,
approximately 6 million ha of the areas classified as forest have been



-5-
encroached by approximately 1 million families, some of whom live in villages
established for more than 100 years. Furthermore, roughly two thirds
of the forest land that has been settled appears to be suitable for
agriculture, and it is estimated that over 50% of total maize and cassava
production, which has been a major factor in Thailand's recent agricultural
and national growth, comes from encroached lands.
2.03      Settlement of the encroached areas arose spontaneously from indi-
vidual or group initiatives, and the distribution of land among individuals
is relatively unequal. While the majority of farmers cultivate around 5-8
ha, a few farmers have holdings of over 160 ha, and some have holdings that
are too small to support their families and must supplement their incomes by
working as hired labor for larger farmers, renting land, or working as
sharecroppers. The income of the typical farmer is about at the absolute
poverty level. Furthermore, throughout the encroached areas, the level of
infrastructure and public services is substantially below that in
neighboring legally-settled areas, and agricultural productivity is
correspondingly lower, due to the reluctance of public agencies to operate
in the illegally-occupied lands.
2.04      A high proportion of farmers in Thailand also lacks security of
land tenure. Of total agricultural land of 24 million ha, about 60% has
some form of documentation, while the remaining 40% has none. Within the
former category, only 20% has full title deed; the remainder is covered by
various forms of land use certificate. The latter category includes the
4 million ha (17% of agricultural land) which is located in areas classified
for forest. Farmers without any official claim to land face difficulties in
obtaining institutional credit and often must depend on relatively expensive
informal sources of credit. Inadequate security of tenure also gives little
incentive to farmers to effect long-term improvements of their holdings such
as soil conservation works. This is particularly a problem in the encroached
public lands, which are usually transition areas between traditional agri-
cultural lowlands and forested highlands and often have sloping portions
which require soil conservation measures.
2.05      Programs.  The Government has supported settlement programs on
public lands since 1938. These programs were designed to establish new
villages on virgin lands, primarily to settle landless families or to
resettle those displaced from sensitive areas or by flood/watershed
development, dam inundation, etc. Agencies implementing programs of this
type include the Cooperative Promotion Department in the MOAC, the Public
Welfare Department and the Land Department in the Ministry of Interior, and
to a lesser extent the War Veterans Organization in the Ministry of Defense.
The various programs have not been well coordinated and differ widely in
terms of objectives, scale, management and benefits to settlers.
2.06      More recent programs have placed greater emphasis on intensifying
development in populated areas in order to raise incomes of small farmers and
curtail further migration. The agencies involved in this effort include, in
addition to ALRO:



- 6 -
(a)  the Royal Irrigation Department and the Office of Land Con-
solidation in MOAC, which have been concerned with the realignment
of existing holdings for more efficient irrigation distribution in
the Central Region and to some extent in the Northeast and North;
(b)  the Land Development Department, which is undertaking a program in
the Northern Region for the establishment of permanent cultivation
in place of shifting agriculture, together with the introduction of
soil conservation works. The program involves clearing, root
ripping, construction of soil conservation banks, and initial
cultivation on upland areas subject to shifting cultivation. This
effort is being assisted by the Northern Agricultural Development
Project (Credit 929-TH); and
(c)  the Forest Industries Organization and the Royal Forestry Depart-
ment, which are implementing forest village programs. Their
efforts aim at reforestation of denuded upland forest which has
been encroached by squatters, and the regrouping of farmers
into villages on the border areas of forest reserves.
In recognition of the long-term need to improve land use and increase
agricultural productivity, Government has established a National Land Policy
Committee and is reviewing land prcblems and preparing land-use policies and
development programs for implementation under the Fifth National Economic and
Social Development Plan (1982-86).
B. Agricultural Land Reform Office (ALRO)
2.07      Authority.  ALRO was created by the Land Reform Act of 1975 to
improve land distribution and security of tenure in specified land reform
areas (LRAs) on public and privaLte lands.  Currently, ALRO has responsibi-
lity for land reform and development on 1 million ha. Its activities are
expected to help bring about a more equitable income distribution among the
households reached and an increase in both production and incomes by (a)
providing security of tenure, which encourages greater investment; and (b)
improving infrastructure, which raises productivity and also directly affects
living standards. ALRO also is introducing soil conservation measures in
areas with significant erosion problems.
2.08      Jurisdiction.  Thus far, 73 LRAs have been established, including 39
LRAs on encroached public lands suitable for agriculture (700,000 ha) and 34
LRAs on private lands (300,000 ha). In public lands, LRAs are designated on
the basis of the degree of encroachment, the skewness of the landholding
pattern, the existence of agricultural development potential, and the
proximity to legally-settled areas. About 85% of the area of public LRAs is



in land classified as forest. Of the 700,000 ha, 53% is in the Northeast
Region, 30% in the Central Region (primarily along the border with the
Northeast), and 17% in the North. IRAs in private lands are selected on the
basis of tenancy. Only about 24,000 ha of the private LRAs have been bought
by ALRO for distribution to smallholders, primarily because landholders are
reluctant to accept ALRO's terms of purchase, i.e., about half in cash and
the other half in long-term bonds carrying an unacceptably low interest rate
of 6%.
2.09      Operations.  AIRO is initially concentrating oni developing the
public lands under its jurisdiction. The proposed project would assist ALRO
in this effort by financing a land distribution and infrastructure
development program covering nine LRAs in public areas. As appropriate land
compensation arrangements are introduced, ALRO will increase its involvement
in LRAs on private lands.
2.10      ALRO's initial efforts to redistribute about 9,000 ha of public
land have had limited success since the land was allocated rather
mechanically according to a geometric pattern, without regard to previous
holdings, topography, soil quality or relevant agroeconomic factors.
Furthermore, ALRO sometimes attempted to secure farmers' agreement to land
distribution by offering to provide irrigation. Since most of the LRAs on
public land have few areas suitable for irrigation, the land distribution
program must be based on the assumption that the great majority of farmers
will continue to operate under rainfed conditions. Recognizing these short-
comings, ALRO is adopting a more effective approach which will be incor-
porated in the proposed project.  Physical and socioeconomic surveys as well
as registration of landholdings have been carried out in most of the LRAs,
and some rural infrastructure (roads, domestic water supply wells and
irrigation works such as ponds and reservoirs) has already been provided in
many LRAs. ALRO has drawn up master plans for the development of 12 LRAs,
and physical investment has been concentrated in these areas.
2.11      AILRO also has prepared two projects for external financing, one of
which is the project now proposed for Bank financing. The second project
involves the development of a private LRA in the central plain involving
consolidation of holdings, land levelling, dikes, and pump irrigation/
drainage. It is based on a pilot scheme covering 500 ha being undertaken
with assistance from Japanese consultants financed by a loan of $600,000
from the Japan International Cooperation Agency. Tne full project, costing
about $40 million and covering nearly 13,000 ha, is being considered for
financing by Japan's Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund and could begin in
1982.



2.12      Organization.  Owing to its rather recent establishment, ALRO's
institutional capability i.; still comparatively weak and would be inadequate
to carry out the two projects nlow planned.  The proposed project therefore
would assist in strengthening ALRO's capacity for planning and implementing
large-scale land reform programs.  ALiO currently has about 1,700 staff
in its central office organized into six administrative units, namely: (a)
the Office of the Secretary, responsible for administration, finance, and
personnel; (b) the Land Reform Fund Division administering the Land Reform
Fund; (c) the Research and Plannin-g Division which undertakes studies to
support its recommendations for proclamation of land refonn areas; (d) the
Foreign Loan Project Office which prepares projects involving external
financing; (e) the Legal Division which registers existing landholdings and
negotiates land transfers; and (f) the Operations Division, which has about
half of the ALRO staff and is responsible for engineering and construction
work carried out by force account, contract, or agreement with other
government agencies. In addition, Provincial Land Reform Offices under the
jurisdiction of the provincial Governors and operated by ALRO have been
established in 32 provinces. Each office has a staff of about 19 who,
together with AIRO staff from Baqgkok, carry out land reform and development
activities in the LRAs.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Objectives
3.01      The project would ccntribute to the development of encroached
public lands suitable for agriculture, the intensification of rainfed
agriculture, the expansion of agricultural exports, poverty alleviation, and
improved land use. It would pursue these aims by strengthening ALRO's
capability to implement a series of land reform and development projects
affecting low-income squatters growing export crops on encroached public
lands. This first project would demonstrate the land reform and development
model which subsequently woulcd be! extended to other areas.  In this project,
the model would be applied to nine land reform areas (LRAs) currently
gazetted as forest land covering 192,000 ha and containing some 35,000
families. The model would involve the establishment of a reasonably
equitable landholding pattern ancL provision of security of tenure in
accordance with that pattern, and the upgrading of economic and social
infrastructure to area and national standards. Appropriate land use would
be furthered by releasing the LRAs from forest reserve status through
degazettement and by introducing soil conservation measures on sloping land.
The project would facilitate 1he absorption of the LRAs into the provincial
administrative framework.  In addition, the project would strengthen the
project preparation capability oE Government agencies in agriculture and
rural development and provide for the preparation of future projects.



B. Brief Description
3.02      The project would involve a five-year program to strengthen ALI<"
and to implement a land reform and infrastructure improvement model in n,n-
LRAs covering 192,000 ha and containing about 35,000 families. Upgrading of
infrastructure and security of tenure would increase productivity throughout
the areas and raise incomes generally, while land distribution would provide
relatively greater improvements in income for the lowest income farmers.
Security of tenure would also encourage farmers to maintain their land
resources, and to adopt appropriate soil conservation measures where needed.
The low cost per family of the land reform and development model (about $460
excluding investments financed by credit and institutional strengthening)
would allow its extension to other encroached areas at reasonable cost. In
accordance with the land reform legislation, each LRA will be degazetted (and
thus released from forest reserve status) prior to development of that LRA.
A schedule for degazettement was agreed at negotiations, with the first LRA
(Petchaboon) to be degazetted as a condition of effectiveness. Assurances
also were obtained that each LRA will be integrated into the local administra-
tive framework at the end of its development period. The project is based on
the experience of ALRO and other agencies operating in similar areas, supple-
mented by a recent land distribution study carried out for ALRO and a soil
conservation pilot scheme in one of the project LRAs.
3.03      ALRO would be strengthened to implement a series of land reform
and development projects on encroached public lands. An important element
in this process would be the introduction of a subproject approach to
project implementation, with each of the nine LRAs treated as a separate
subproject. This approach would allow even a young agency such as ALRO to
implement the proposed project and simultaneously gain the experience and
training necessary to execute a series of future projects. ALRO would
retain consultant teams to prepare subproject proposals for each of the
project LRAs and would review these proposals with the assistance of its own
consultant advisers. The Bank, in turn, would review a selection of the
proposals. ALRO also would retain consultants to assist with the final
design and supervision of construction of works which ALRO would implement
itself. In each case, appropriate arrangements would be made for ALRO
personnel to work in close association with the consultants and to benefit
from their experience. Other participating agencies would be the Land
Development Department and the Department of Agricultural Extension for soil
conservation, the Ministry of Education for schools, and the Ministry of
Public Health for health centers, each operating under an agreement with
ALRO.
3.04      In each LRA, land distribution would be carried out prior to
infrastructure development. The former would involve the transfer of land
(on a credit basis) from farmers with holdings over 50 rai (8 ha) to farmers
with holdings below the financially viable minimum size (about 4-5 ha).



- 10 -
Until such time as farmers can be given full title, they would receive
land-use certificates from ALRO reflecting the new landholding pattern.
3.05      Infrastructure development would consist of:  the construction or
rehabilitation of 430 km of access roads and tracks; soil conservation works
comprising diversion ditches and broad-based graded banks on 4,500 ha; about
75 small rock diversion weirs and 500 shallow tubewells (the latter financed
by credit) irrigating a total of 4,200 ha; 130 dugwells and 20 tubewells
supplying domestic water to about 2,100 families; 115 primary schoolrooms
for 3,500 children; and 10 health centers serving approximately 10,000
families. The security of tenure provided by the land-use certificates, and
the improved infrastructure, would have a significant impact on agricultural
production in the project LRAs. Maize, cassava, rice, and mungbean are the
principal crops grown at presenlt and would continue to dominate in the
future. The lower transportation costs and greater access to markets,
extension services, and improved inputs expected under the project would
result in increased yields, cropping intensity, and area sown to other crops
such as cotton.
3.06      A project preparation component for agriculture and rural develop-
ment would also be included in the proposed project, and would consist of
sectoral studies, the strengthening of government agencies in project
preparation, and the preparation of future projects.
C. Detailed Features
Project Areas
3.07      The nine project LRAs were selected on the basis of the effec-
tiveness of the respective Provincial Land Reform Offices, the diversity of
agricultural conditions represented, and their proximity to each other.
They are located in low-income areas of the North, Northeast, and Central
(near the border with the Northeast) Regions (Map IBRD 15809). The
distribution of the project LRAs is given in Table 3.1. Implementation of
the LRA subprojects would be phased as follows: Petchaboon LRA would begin
in year 1 of the project, Nakhon Sawan and Pichit in year 2, Lopburi and
Saraburi in year 3, and Chiang RaiL and the three LRAs in Nakhon Ratchasima
in year 4. All LRAs are located in undulating rainfed uplands with cassava
being the principal crop in the Nakhon Ratchasima LRAs, rice in Pichit and
Chiang Rai, and maize in the remaining areas. About 173,000 ha of the total
area of 192,000 ha is suitable for agriculture and is under cultivation.
The project LRAs contain a total population of about 35,000 families, of
which approximately 28,000 are farm families and the remainder are
commercial or laborer families, The typical farmer in the LRAs has an
income near the absolute poverty 'Line of $148 per capita.



- 11 -
Table 3.1:  DISTRIBUTION OF PROJECT AREAS BY REGION
Land reform area            Region             Size (ha)
Chiang Rai                  North                 4,000
Pichit                      North                56,000
Petchaboon                  North                13,000
Nakhon Sawan                North                 24,000
Nakhon Ratchasima I         Northeast             4,000
Nakhon Ratchasima II        Northeast             18,000
Nakhon Ratchasima III       Northeast             7,000
Lopburi                     Central              35,000
Saraburi                    Central              31,000
Total                                      192,000
Institutional Development ($5.5 million)
3.08      In order to strengthen ALRO's capability to carry out development
programs in LRAs, inputs would be provided which would enable ALRO to
implement the proposed project as well as to improve its ability to execute a
series of similar projects in the future. The subproject approach to be
adopted would ease the immediate implementation burden and also establish a
framework for the future by introducing the project concept as an integral
part of ALRO's ongoing program of activities, by employing consultants in a
manner designed to maximize ALRO's capacity, and by providing for the maximum
involvement of other agencies.
3.09      ALRO would retain specialists to assist with project implementation
and train its staff. These specialists would assist ALRO staff in super-
vising consultants engaged for specific activities, in reviewing subproject
proposals for each of the LRAs, and in implementing the proposals as
approved. An agriculturalist/soil conservationist, a rural works engineer,
and a rural development economist each would be retained for a three-year
period. In addition, provision would be made for six man-months of
miscellaneous specialist assistance. These specialists would work with all
ALRO units, but particularly the Foreign Loan Project Office (FLPO) and the
Operations Division (Chart C4). At the end of their terms, ALRO would be
expected to carry on without further assistance of this type.



12 -
3.10      A subproject proposal for each LRA would be prepared by a multi-
disciplinary team of loca' consult:ants. Normally, the team would include
individuals with expertise in land reform, agriculture, rural engineering,
and economics. The subproject would be expected to meet the usual viability
criteria, including a satisfact:ory economic rate of return. These criteria
would be agreed between ALRO and the Bank. After review and, where appro-
priate, modification by ALRO, the Bank would review and approve a selection
of subproject proposals. Assurances on these matters were obtained at
negotiations.
3.11      ALRO would assign a 1:otal of 56 professional staff full-time to
the project, of which 11 would be in FLPO, 9 would be in the Operations
Division and the remaining 36 would be assigned to the field offices (Table
T3). Training for this staff would include courses on various subjects
relevant to the project and foreign study tours. In order to ensure adequate
mobility for the staff, 35 vehicles consisting of 3 cars, 20 pickups, and 12
motorcycles (125 cc) would be provided. Field offices would be constructed
and equipped in six of the seven project provinces (Chiang Rai has adequate
facilities) and related housing would be provided. The road maintenance
units of these offices would be equipped with dump trucks, wheeled tractors,
rollers, drags, and plate compactors to carry out minor maintenance. Office
equipment would be provided for FLPO.
3.12      Mapping is fundamental to ALRO's land distribution and physical
development work, and assistance in this field has been provided since 1978
by France and, more recently, by IJNDP. The project would provide for
additional staff (included in tihe above figures), training, photogrammetric
and field equipment, vehicles (included above), and a photogrammetric
specialist (two years). The resu:Lting increase in ALRO's mapping capacity
should be adequate to satisfy the needs of the organization through the end
of the project period.
3.13       The investment in roads proposed for the project underscores the
importance of access in the LRAs. Thus, it is necessary for the roads to be
well-designed, constructed, and maintained. Since there is no satisfactory
arrangement for maintenance of roads in the LRAs, ALRO would need to assume
this function during the project period. In order to expand ALRO's capacity,
consultants would be retained to assist with the final design and the
supervision of construction of the roads and tracks, and the establishment
and operation of the maintenance units in the project LRAs.
3.14      To provide further guidance for the design and implementation of
later subprojects and for future projects, consultant assistance for
carrying out studies on topics of particular importance would be provided
under the project. These studies would be undertaken to ascertain the
patterns of encroachment on public lands by squatters, determine the status
of landless and marginal farmers, formulate criteria for selection of land
reform areas, and establish standards for development of land reform areas.



-13 -
3.15      Monitoring and evaluation would be an important element of the
project. Prompt, informative feedback woula be essential to successful
project implementation, particularly because of the project's complexity
ALRO's relative inexperience. Information would be compiled on inputs su,'.t!
as staffing, training, and vehicles and equipment; outputs such as area ni:
land distributed, length of roads constructed, and area covered by soil con-
servation works; and project impact on farm income, school enrollment,
utilization of health services, etc. ALRO would retain consultants to
design the monitoring and evaluation system and to assist in implementing
the monitoring element. Evaluation would be undertaken by the consultants.
Data processing services would be provided in support of these activities.
3.16      In order to assist ALRO in adjusting its organizational structure
and procedures to increase its effectiveness in performing its role as the
agency responsible for the country's land reform program, ALRO would retain
a team of consultants to undertake a study of the agency's existing structure
and procedures and recommend appropriate modifications. Two specific
aspects of the exercise would be the strengthening of ALRO's accounting
system to facilitate the identification of project costs and the upgrading
of ALRO's disbursement procedures. The consultant team would consist of
specialists in management, land reform, engineering, and accounting.
3.17      For the various tasks cited above, ALRO would retain consultants
in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank whose
qualifications and experience, terms of reference, and conditions of
employment were agreed upon with the Bank. It is expected that about 75% of
these consultants would be local. Employment of the agriculturalist/soil
conservationist, rural works engineer, and rural development economist would
be a condition of loan effectiveness. The consultants for design of the
monitoring and evaluation system would be retained by January, 31, 1983, and
ALRO would, by May 31, 1983, provide the Bank, for its review and comment,
its proposals for monitoring and evaluation. For the organizational study,
ALRO would retain consultants by December 31, 1983, and provide a copy of
the report, together with its proposals for modifying its structure and
procedures, for review by the Bank by December 31, 1984. ALRO would take
the Bank's comments into consideration in implementing the proposals.
Assurances on these matters were obtained at negotiations.
Land Reform and Compensation ($4.3 million)
3.18      This component is the focus of the development package.  Its aim
is to achieve a reasonably equitable pattern of landholdings within the
project LRAs and to provide security of tenure to farmers in accordance with
that pattern. The approach which would be adopted and the activities which
would be implemented are based on ALRO's own experience and the recom-
mendations of a study, undertaken by consultants, which draws on the experi-
ence of the various agencies in Thailand which have carried out settlement
programs. It has been found that squatters, recognizing the illegality of



- 14 -
their occupation of the land, are willing to participate in a land distribu-
tion program involving reasonable tenure rights and reasonable compensation
for land which is transfered, when it is accompanied by infrastructure
development.
3.19       In order to minimize the dislocation caused by land transfers,
recognize differences in family' requirements, and still achieve a reasonably
equitable distribution, a range of holding sizes would be allowed.  The
maximum size would be 8 ha, as established in the land reform legislation.
The minimum would vary among LFAs, depending on the holding size which would
be found economically viable urder the conditions of the particular LRA
(generally 4-5 ha). Thus, only farmers with holdings above the maximum would
be subject to loss of land (with compensation), while all other landholders
would either remain unchanged or gain land.  Farmers losing land would be
allowed to choose which part of their original holding they wished to retain,
and new holdings would be designated with a minimum change of existing
boundaries.
3.20       In addition to the 8 ha portion of their original holding, farmers
over the maximum would be allowed to retain a minimum-sized block for each
adult son and daughter working on the farm. Minimum-sized blocks would also
be allocated to tenants.  In terms of remaining land available for distribu-
tion, the first to benefit would ble small farmers, whose holdings would be
raised to the minimum viable size, and next would be landless laborers.  Once
the new pattern had been established, ALRO would issue land-use certificates
to the farmers. Compensation to farmers losing land would be set at about
65% of current market value, which surveys indicate is acceptable to land-
holders.  Farmers receiving land wrould obtain credit to cover the compensa-
tion amount from BAAC. The studies to be undertaken (para. 3.14) would
provide additional guidance for the later stages of the land distribution
program and for the selection and development of future LRAs.
3.21       The total area of the project LRAs which would be subject to land
distribution is about 173,000 ha (the agricultural area).  Cadastral and
other surveys undertaken in the project LRAs one to three years ago indicate
that, out of an estimated 35,000 households in total, about 28,300 (81%)
claimed landholdings while the rem,aining 6,700 (19%) were primarily tenants
and laborers. Among the landholders, about 6,200 (22%) claimed holdings
above the 8 ha maximum, 9,600 (34%) had holdings between the minima and 8
ha, and 12,500 (44%) had holdings below the minima. The area distribution
pattern was approximately 86,500 ha (50%) claimed by landholders with plots
above 8 ha, 36,300 ha (21%) claimed by those with holdings between the
minima and maximum, and 50,200 (29%) claimed by those with holdings below
the minima.  The aggregate amount of land estimated to be in excess of the
8 ha maximum was 38,000 ha (22%, of the total).  If the land distribution
program were to be implemented under unchanged conditions, ALRO's data
suggest that the number of households with land would rise from 28,300 to
about 33,000 (95%) and the number of landless would drop from 6,700 to
approximately 2,000 (5%). Among landholders, the 6,200 (19%) large
landholders would have lost land, the 9,600 (29%) medium landholders would



- 15 -
have remained unchanged, 11,700 (357) smallholders would have had their
plots increased to the minima, 4,800 (15%) landless families would have
received minimum-sized holdings, and perhaps 700 (2%) smallholders with
plots below the minima would remain. However, fragmentary evidence from the
small land distribution schemes currently being implemented in the project
LRAs suggests that a substantial number of private land transfers have
occurred since the time of the initial surveys. It appears that relatives
and tenants of large landholders are the primary beneficiaries of these
private arrangements, but some laborers and families from outside the LRAs
also appear to be benefitting.  It is not clear what pattern ALRO eventually
will encounter, but as a rough estimate, perhaps 9,500 ha (25%) of the
38,000 ha of excess land indicated by the surveys will remain available for
distribution under ALRO supervision.
3.22      The ALRO land distribution program would be implemented in blocks
of about 4,800 ha containing approximately 920 farms each, in order to
permit completion of operations in each block during a single dry season.
The development program in each block would be conducted in three phases:
initial investigations and surveys, implementation of land distribution, and
infrastructure construction.
3.23      ALRO's new approach to land distribution would involve, in
general, initial investigations and brief surveys to determine the politi-
cal, social, economic, and landholding structures in each block and to
formulate a strategy for land distribution in each block. At the same time,
training of ALRO field staff and local officials would be undertaken. Next,
a census would be taken of all persons residing in the block, together with
a cadastral survey of all claimed landholdings. Cadastral and topographic
maps would be prepared for use in the revision of the landholding pattern
and for the planning and design of infrastructure. A socioeconomic survey
would be undertaken and the results utilized in the determination of the
minimum economically viable holding for that block and in the preparation of
proposals for infrastructure development. In all of the initial surveys,
perceived needs of the residents and their priorities would be recorded.
Meetings then would be held with village leaders, groups of farmers, and
farm families on an individual basis to explain the proposed land distribu-
tion and infrastructure development plans, and to obtain reactions. Plans
would be modified as feasible to accommodate additional suggestions arising
during this process.  The land distribution program as agreed with the
farmers then would be implemented in the second phase, with the cadastre
being revised to show the new lots and boundaries being permanently marked
with concrete posts.  Land-use certificates corresponding to the new land-
holding pattern would be provided.  These certificates contain ambiguities
which appear to limit the occupants' rights to stay on the land.  During
negotiations it was agreed that ALRO would have consultants review the pro-
visions of the certificates and recommend appropriate modifications. After
the land distribution program is completed, the third phase of infrastructure
development would be initiated. An assurance was obtained that parameters
and procedures for land distribution and titling would be agreed between
ALRO and the Bank.



- 16 -
3.24      In the case of t-- project LRAs, the cadastral and socioeconomic
surveys have already been undertaken, and cadastral and topographic maps
prepared. Land claimants have been registered. Small land distribution
schemes in areas of the order of 1,000 ha have been initiated by ALRO in six
of the nine project LRAs. Therefore, after some additional survey work to
investigate the power structures and formulate strategies, full-scale land
distribution could begin in the project LRAs.
3.25      Approximately 60 man-months of input of Bangkok-based ALRO teams
would be required to implement the land distribution program in each block,
in addition to the participation of the full-time staff of the relevant
field office (para. 3.11). A team of two from the Research and Planning
Division would be involved in the initial surveys and meetings. A five-
person team from the Legal Division would participate in the negotiation of
land transfers, register occupants according to the new landholding pattern,
and issue land-use certificates. The Operations Division would send a team
of nine surveyors to revise the cadastres. In total, about 200 man-years of
such input would be required to carry out the program in all nine project
LRAs. The project makes provision for the direct input of these teams,
including salaries and travel costs, vehicle operation and maintenance, and
materials. The respective divisions have adequate vehicles to provide
transportation for the teams. ALRO would be assisted in this work by
consultants with experience in land reform activities in Thailand.  About
72 man-months of assistance. over three years from short-term consultants
would be provided.
Roads ($5.8 million)
3.26      Roads have the greatest impact on production in the LRAs.  While
there is at least one all-weather road providing main access to each LRA,
the density and quality of village access roads is low in comparison with
surrounding areas. These village roads provide only difficult access during
the dry season and are frequently impassable during the wet season.
Harvested crops must be stored until conditions permit access by trucks.
High value crops requiring timeLy inputs and ready access to market can be
grown only by a few farmers near the existing all-weather roads.
3.27      Project road investments would upgrade the road netwTorks in the
LRAs to the level of neighboring areas, thus improving access substantially.
Two types of roads would be constructed or rehabilitated: all-weather
village access and dry-weather service tracks. Generally they would follow
existing tracks. The requirements for village access roads have been
specified for each LRA. Service tracks for two of the initial LRAs to be
developed have been identified and corresponding estimates for the other
LRAs have been prepared.
3.28      A total of 223 km of village access roads would be constructed and
76 km rehabilitated. Criteria used to select these roads are basically
those of the Accelerated Rural Development Office (ARD): the road should



- 17 -
not be closer than 5 km to another all-weather road, it should service major
population densities, and it should avoid difficult terrain to the maximum
extent possible. A modified version of ARD design standards would be used.
The roads would be 4 m wide with a 15 cm laterite surface (Chart C5);
culverts would be provided where necessary.  Crossings would be submersible
rock causeways in most cases (Chart C6).  Only in exceptional circumstances,
where water flow conditions dictated, would single-lane concrete bridges be
constructed.  Service tracks would connect lower population densities to
existing or proposed all-weather roads. A total of 131 km of tracks would
be constructed. They would be 4 m wide and would not be surfaced. A
typical village access road would be about 8 km long and have about 3
service tracks of 1 km each connected to it. The combination would serve
about 10 villages.
3.29      The initial roads have been designed by ALRO.  Consultants would
be retained by ALRO to assist with the design of the rock causeways and with
the final design of the remaining roads and tracks. The consultants also
would assist in the supervision of construction of roads and tracks and
setting up and operating the six small maintenance units which ALRO would
establish to undertake minor maintenance. Remedial maintenance would be
carried out by contract. An assurance was obtained at negotiations that
ALRO would utilize road and track design standards agreed with the Bank and
would provide adequate maintenance for roads and tracks in the project LRAs
during the project period. Subsequently, maintenance would be provided by
the provinces, which would assume general responsibility for the project
LRAs.
Soil Conservation ($0.5 million)
3.30      A principle fostered by the project would be improved land use.
The LRAs themselves are parts of forest land which are primarily suited to
agriculture and thus are being developed for agriculture. Within the LRAs,
there are sloped areas which are susceptible to erosion. For the project
IRAs of Petchaboon, Nakhon Sawan, Lopburi, Saraburi, and Nakhon Ratchasima
I, the project would provide a soil conservation package on about 4,500 ha,
the maximum area that the implementing agencies could cover during the
project period. The remaining 65,000 ha which might require soil conserva-
tion measures would be covered under future projects and, to a limited
extent, by farmers themselves with investment credit.
3.31      Sheet, rill, and gully erosion resulting from high intensity
rainfall during the main growing season is evident in the sloped areas of
the project LRAs. Loss of soil causes a reduction in fertility and
increased rockiness, leading to higher land preparation costs, lower yields,
and a decrease of cultivable area in extreme cases. The approach which
would be adopted for the project would involve a lowe-cost package of soil
conservation works adapted to the conditions and cultivation practices in
the LRAs.  It would combine reasonable protection against soil erosion with
maximum likehood that the works would be maintained through incorporation in



-. 18 -
the far-mers' normal cultivation operations.  The packas,e has been tested
under typical conditions found in project LRA.s (see Working Paper C3).  It
would be developed further during the course of project implementation, as
additional experience is gained.
3.32      The works proposed for the project are diversion ditches and
broad-based graded banks. The ditches would be constructed at the upper
limit of land suitable for agr,tculture (roughly at the 12% slope boundary).
The banks would be spaced at 1 to 2 m vertical intervals, depending on the
slope.  The ditches and banks would discharge into natural waterways, which
are prevalent in the sloped areas.  Check structures would be placed in the
waterways to help control the flows. As a result of prevailing cultivation
practices, soil erosion between banks would cause terraces to form over
time.
3.33      The Land Development Department (LDD) would implement this compo-
nent under an agreement with ALRO.. LDD would hire contractors to install
the works. Soil conservation technicians attached to LDD's provincial
centers would lay out the lines for the ditches and banks and would supervise
the work of the contractors. Cont:ractors would employ heavy tractors to
construct the diversion ditches, while the farmers' normal plowing con-
tractors would be hired to construct the banks at the time of land prepara-
tion for the main season crop. 'nTe latter procedure is feasible since the
banks can be constructed using farm tractors with disk plows. The procedure
would allow the training of farm contractors in both the construction of
soil conservation works and the plowing of fields containing such works,
facilitating future maintenanee of the banks.  The Department of Agricultural
Extension (DAE) would provide advice to farmers on the maintenance of
conservation works and on agronomic conservation practices through its
normal extension network, strengthened by additional staff inputs on the
soil conservation side.
3.34      Maintenance of the diversion ditches would be undertaken by LDD by
contract during the project period and by benefitting groups of farmers
thereafter. Banks would be maintained by farmers through incorporation in
their plowing contracts, financed with production credit from BAAC. These
arrangements are considered feasible because farmers are demonstrating an
increasing awareness of soil erosion problems and because maintenance of the
banks would cost little in relation to plowing (about 10% of normal plowing
cost). Assurances were obtained at negotiations that LDD would maintain
the diversion ditches during the project period, that LDD and ALRO would
assist the formation of farmer groups for maintenance of the diversion
ditches after the project period, and that BAAC would provide credit for
bank maintenance.



- 19 -
3.35      LDD would provide a senior soil conservationist to oversee the
program and a maximum of 16 soil conservation teams, each consisting of a
technician and two laborers. The project would include the direct cost of
their involvement, including salaries and travel. Ten pickups and survey
equipment would be provided. DAE would provide five subject-matter
specialists in soil conservation for these project provinces, and their
direct salary and travel costs also would be included. Five pickups and
survey equipment would be provided for DAE.
Irrigation ($1.7 million)
3.36      The rolling terrain of the LRAs generally is not suitable for
irrigation, and since there are few favorable dam sites, extensive
distribution systems would be required to deliver water to scattered plots
of land which would require levelling. However, in those parts of the LRAs
having appropriate conditions, some very small surface water and groundwater
schemes would be viable. Since these schemes would provide significant
benefits to specific groups of farmers, the beneficiaries would be required
to contribute labor for construction or to finance installations on credit.
3.37      Two types of small irrigation schemes would be constructed under
the project. About 75 rock weirs (Chart C7) would be established in seven
of the LRAs where conditions are suited to this type of structure. Small
weirs constructed by farmers have demonstrated the feasibility of such
structures. In the Pichit LRA, 500 shallow tubewells (Chart C8) would be
drilled under the project. Surveys and test drillings have confirmed that
this LRA is underlain by a substantial aquifer which can be tapped for
irrigation purposes and some tubewell development already has occurred.
3.38      The rock weirs would be constructed in perennial streams and would
provide channel storage for supplementary wet-season and limited dry-season
furrow irrigation. Each rock weir would provide water for an average of
about six farmers bordering the stream, each cultivating 0.8 ha of mungbeans
or other grain legumes during the dry season. Water would be lifted out of
the stream channel with a small centrifugal pump driven by a diesel engine.
The weirs would be designed by ALRO with the assistance of its rural works
engineering adviser, and would be constructed by the beneficiary farmers
under the supervision of ALRO and the adviser. Materials other than rock
would be provided by ALRO. Farmers would finance pumps with credit from
BAAC. Maintenance of the weirs would be undertaken by the beneficiary
farmers under the supervision of ALRO. An assurance on ALRO supervision of
maintenance was obtained at negotiations.
3.39      Tubewells would be owned by individual farmers who would be able
to provide supplemental wet-season irrigation for 3.8 ha of rice and maize
and dry-season irrigation for 2.6 ha of grain legumes. The wells would be 4
inches in diameter and about 15 m deep. They would be equipped with a
turbine pump driven by a diesel engine. The tubewells would be financed by
credit from BAAC. Construction on the basis of standard designs would be
undertaken by contractors.



20 -
Water Supply ($0.1 million)
3.40      While there are relatively few locations in the project LRAs which
suffer from severe water shortages for domestic purposes, the density of
water supply points is not as high as in surrounding areas and inhabitants
often must carry water from rather distant sources.  Furthennore, increasing
shortages occur toward the end of the dry season.  In most locations, the
groundwater table is close enough to the surface to permit extraction by
dugwell, but shallow tubewells would be necessary in a few cases. Facilities
would be constructed only where the cost did not exceed $25 per person
served. This criterion was confirmed at negotiations. The quality of
groundwater is adequate for drinking purposes without treatment.
3.41      In order to meet the estimated shortfall in water supply, 130 dug-
wells and 20 tubewells would be constructed. The tubewells would be
installed in those areas where the groundwater table was not high enough,
within a reasonable distance of the village, to allow extraction by dugwell.
There is considerable experience with both types of wells and standard
designs would be used.
3.42      The dugwells would be about 1 m in diameter and up to 10 m deep.
They would be lined with concrete rings and have a concrete apron which
would prevent surface water from contaminating the well water. Water would
be extracted by bucket, and each well would serve about 10 families. Wells
would be constructed by force account by ALRO. They would be maintained by
users under the supervision of ALRO.
3.43      Because of their higher capacity, the tubewells would supply about
40 families each. The wells would be 4 inches in diameter and about 40 m
deep. Water would be extracted by hand pump. Construction of the wells
would be by contract, under the supervision of ALRO. The users would
maintain the wells, also under AIRO's supervision. An assurance on ALRO
supervision of dugwell and tubewell maintenance was obtained at negotiations.
3.44      The project also would provide for pilot programs involving the
sealing of wells with assistance from the Ministry of Public Health, and
possibly cisterns for rainwater storage.
Schools ($1.7 million)
3.45      As in the case of other types of infrastructure, the density of
schools in the LRAs is lower than in other areas.  Construction of primary
schools under the project would raise the density to the national standard.
Schools have been proposed for villages where they would draw at least 150
potential students.  The site selection criteria recently adopted by the
Ministry of Education (MOE) would be employed during implementation of this
component; this practice was confirmed at negotiations.
3.46      A total of 115 schoolrooms (including equipment and staff housing)
would be constructed under the project according to MOE's normal standards and



- 21 -
designs for rural areas.  They would be established, operated, and main-
tained by lIOE under terms of an agreement with ALRO.  Construction of the
schools would be by contract, according to MIOE's normal procedures.
Health Centers ($0.3 million)
3.47      Health centers are another type of high-priority infrastructure
which is underrepresented in the LRAs.  Inhabitants often have to travel
long distances to obtain health care. Establishment of health centers
under the project would raise the density of facilities in the project LIRAs
to the national standard.   The centers would be established according to
the location and site selection criteria for rural health facilities
adopted for the Bank-financed Population Project (Credit 767-TH) and would
be built to standard MOPH designs. The use of these criteria and designs
was confirmed at negotiations.
3.48      A total of 10 health centers (including equipment and staff
housing) would be constructed under the project, beginning with the one
planned for the Petchaboon LRA. Each center would be staffed by one male
and one female mid-level health worker. The former, a sanitarian, would
hielp promote proper hygienic practices with regard to the water supply
activities described above. The centers would be constructed and maintained
and health services provided, including the extension of priority health
services into surrounding communities, by MOPH under terms of an agreement
with ALRO. MOPH would construct the centers by contract, according to its
normal procedures.
Project Preparation ($1.5 million)
3.49      In the field of agriculture and rural development in Thailand, the
sectoral and subsectoral framework for development, the capability of govern-
ment agencies to formulate projects, and the preparation of projects suitable
for international financing require strengthening. The project would address
these needs by providing support for sectoral and subsectoral studies,
strengthening of the project preparation capability of Government agencies,
and preparation of specific projects suitable for international financing.
3.50      Various studies have been carried out at the sectoral and
subsectoral levels, including those on land policy and marketing undertaken
as part of the Fifth Plan preparation.  These studies have helped form part
of thie development framework and have also indicated the need for further
studies to explore particular issues.  Project funds therefore would be
provided for consultant services to undertake additional studies in such
areas as production incentives, land policy, and marketing, as agreed
between the Government and the Bank.
3.51      To date, government agencies dealing with agriculture and rural
development hiave had relatively little experience in preparing projects of
the type which could be considered for international financing. Some exper-
ience has been gained from the growing number of projects supported by



- 22 -
international agencies, but it is still rather limited and few government
entities are capable of prepar:Lng projects which can be submitted directly
to international agencies. The proposed project therefore would support the
strengthening of the project preparation capability of selected agencies in
agriculture and rural development., The Government and the Bank would agree
on the agencies to be supported and the proposal for each agency. Funds
would be provided for minor civil works, vehicles and equipment, materials,
consultants, and data processing services as agreed for each proposal.
3.52      The strengthening of government agencies in project preparation
would have an impact over time, but there is an immediate need to identify
and prepare a high priority projects which would be suitable for inter-
national financing.  Included might be projects in fields such as agricul-
tural support services, rural development, and forestry. The project would
include funds for consultant services to assist executing agencies in the
preparation of such projects. In each case, the Government and the Bank
would agree on the project preparation proposal and the agency or agencies
which would receive funds.
3.53      Consultants for implementing this component would be employed
according to principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank and would
have qualifications and experience, terms of reference, and conditions of
employment which are agreed upon by the Bank. Assurances on the above
matters were obtained at negotiations.
D. Project Cost
3.54      Total project cost is estimated at $31.0 million, of which
$7.8 million, or 25%, represents foreign exchange requirements. Construction
costs are based on quantity andl unit price estimates prepared by ALRO and
other implementing agencies; unit prices are in line with those of recent
contracts.  Detailed engineering cf the roads for the initial LRA (Petchaboon)
is virtually complete, and other construction works are based on standard
designs (e.g., water supply wells, schools, and health posts) or will be
introduced later in the project period, after appropriate designs have been
prepared (e.g., weirs). Vehicle and equipment costs are based on recent
suppliers' quotations. Prices have been updated to mid-1982. Physical
contingencies of 15% have been added for civil works and 10% for vehicles and
equipment. The price contingency amounts to 37% of total base cost plus
physical contingencies, assuming the following rates of price increase (in %).



Table 3.2: PROJECT COST
Foreign
Propor-   exchange
tion of   require-
Local   Foreign   Total   Local   Foreign   Total  base cost    ment
-    (B million) -----($ million)------  ------- (%) --
Component
Land reform                   41.4          -     41.4      1.8         -       1.8        9
Land compensation             57.9          -     57.9      2.5         -       2.5       13          -
Roads                         90.0       41.4    132.3      4.0       1.8       5.8       29         31
Soil conservation              8.2        3.2      11.4     0.4       0.1       0.5        2         28
Irrigation                    25.1       14.4     39.5      1.1       0.6       1.7        9        37
Water supply                   2.6        0.7      3.3      0.1         _       0.1        1         21
Schools                       29.5        9.8     39.3      1.3       0.4       1.7        9         25
Health centers                 5.9        2.0      7.9      0.2       0.1       0.3        1         25
Institutional development   79.9        44.3    124.2       3.5       2.0       5.5       27         36
Total Base Cost           341.4      115.8    457.2    14.9        5.0      19.9      100         25
Contingencies
Physical                      24.2       11.5     35.7      1.1       0.5       1.6        -         32
Price                        147.0       37.4    184.4      6.4       1.6       8.0        -         20
Total Contingencies       171.2      48.9    220.1       7.5       2.1       9.6        _        22
Project preparation           19.0       15.5     34.5      0.8       0.7       1.5        -         45
Total Project Cost        531.6     180.2    711.8    23.2         7.8     31.0                  25



- 24 -
1983    19 84    1985    1986   1987   19 88
Domestic           12       10       9        8      8       8
Foreign             7.5      7.5     7.5      6.0    6.0    6.0
Taxes of about $1.5 million, or 5%, are included in project costs.  The
project cost is summarized in Table 3.2 and presented in further detail in
Annex 2.
E. Financing
3.55      The proposed Bank loan of $17.0 million, amounting to 5% of
project cost net of taxes, would be equivalent to the $7.8 million foreign
exchange requirement plus $9.2 million of local cost. Local currency
financing is justified in order tc, give the Bank a significant share in
project financing and to achieve a desirable level of resource transfer.
The Government would provide $7.2 million, or 24% of net project cost, which
includes a contribution of $0.6 million to BAAC as a guarantee fund for the
land compensation credit. BAAC would provide $5.3 million, or 18% of net
project cost, in the form of credit to beneficiaries for land compensation
and irrigation tubewells and pumps. This amount is net of the Government's
guarantee fund contribution. Beneficiaries would make a noncash contribu-
tion of $0.4 million in the form cf labor valued at market prices.
3.56      The Government would make available to ALRO and the other partici-
pating agencies the full amount: of budgetary funds required for each year of
the project. On average, the Government's contribution to the project would
require an increase of 33% in the annual budget allocations of ALRO during
the project period and 5% after the project period, compared to current
allocations.
3.57      BAAC's contribution to project cost would be provided at its normal
terms. Its current interest rate is 14%, and it is expected to stay at this
level, which is about 2% in real terms, during the project. Interest rate
policy is being discussed by BAAC and the Bank in the context of the
Agricultural Credit Project (Loan 1816-TH) and the forthcoming Rural Credit
Project. Credit would be provided to beneficiaries at maturities up to 15
years and grace periods up to 5 years. In the case of land compensation
credit, the impact on a typical beneficiary of the land distribution program
in the low-income Pichit LRA is indicated in Table T4. His farm size would
increase from 1.6 ha to 4.0 ha as a result of the land distribution program,
and his net annual inflow, in real terms, would increase from about $435
under pre-project conditions to a'bout $600 the first year after receiving
the additional land, even without any grace period on his land compensation
credit. Thus the repayment capacity for such credit is adequate.



- 25 -
3.58      In addition to its contribution to the financing of project cost
indicated above, BAAC would provide credit at its normal terms to project
beneficiaries for production inputs and miscellaneous agricultural invest-
ments. Short-terr production credit would be made available to beneficiary
farmers in a timely manner and would include the cost of bank maintenance
for those farmers with soil conservation works. The maximum annual require-
ment of about $4.0 million for short-term credit is expected to be reached
in year 5 of the project. Medium-term investment credit would be made
available to project beneficiaries to finance items such as motor tillers,
tractors, implements, ox carts, trucks and tree crops. The total amount of
loan funds required for these items over the five-year period of the project
is estimated at $0.8 million. The credit arrangements for the project would
be stipulated in an agreement between BAAC and ALRO satisfactory to the
Government and the Bank, which would be signed as a condition of loan
effectiveness. Assurances on these matters were obtained at negotiations.
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Organization and Management
4.01      General Structure.  The project would be implemented by ALRO with
the participation of other Government agencies.  ALRO would undertake the
land reform aspects of the project, and would execute civil works when the
timilg of such investments in relation to land distribution activities would
be particularly crucial or in cases when there would be insufficient
assurance of timely performance by another agency. In fields where adequate
performance can be expected, other agencies would undertake project
activities under written agreements with ALRO. These other agencies would
be LDD and DAE for the soil conservation component, MOE's Office of the
National Primary Education Commission (ONPEC) for the schools component, and
MOPH's Department of Health for the health centers component.  The draft
agreements with these agencies were reviewed at negotiations. An assurance
was obtained that these agreements would be satisfactory to the Government
and the Bank and that the agreements would be signed prior to disbursement
for the respective components.
4.02      Project implementation would be coordinated by means of committees
to be set up at four different levels of Government, with representatives of
the implementing agencies and BAAC included in each committee (see Chart C3).
This would allow the formulation of policy and coordination of project
activities at the various levels. Foremost would be the Project Executive
Committee, chaired by the Undersecretary of MOAC and including the Secre-
taries General of ALRO and ONPEC, the Directors General of LDD, DAE and the
Department of Health, the General Manager of BAAC, and the Project Director
of ALRO as secretary.  At the next level, the Project Coordinating Committee,
chaired by the Project Director, would include the Directors of ALRO's
Divisions, the Chiefs of the Provincial Land Reform Offices (PLROs) in the



- 26 -
project provinces, and corresponding representatives of BAAC, LDD, DAE,
ONPEC, and the Department of Health. ALRO's Project Manager would serve as
secretary. Reporting to the Project Coordinating Committee would be the
Project Working Committee chaired by the Project Manager and including
representatives of the implementing agencies, with the Manager of ALRO's
Foreign Loan Project Office (FLPO) as secretary. At the field level, the
Project Field Working Committees, chaired by ALRO's Project Field Managers
(the Provincial Land Reform Officers), would include provincial or district
representatives of participating agencies. The Project Assistant Field
Managers would serve as secretaries. This committee structure has been
proposed by Government as the best means of ensuring coordination of the
various levels. An assurance was obtained at negotiations that these
committees would be established by January 31, 1983.
4.03      ALRO.  ALRO would implenment the project through its existing
Divisions, with the Director of the Operations Division serving as initial
Project Manager. Subsequent appointments to the position of project manager
would continue to have powers, functions, qualifications, and experience
satisfactory to the Bank, and an assurance on this matter was obtained at
negotiations. In the project LRAs, field offices would be established for
implementation of project activit:Les at the base level. These offices would
be under the direction of Project Assistant Field Managers who would be
responsible to the Project FieLd Managers on administrative matters and the
Project Manager on technical matters. The offices would have full-time
personnel as well as part-time personnel from the head office in Bangkok.
4.04       FLPO would have general responsibility for planning, training,
budgeting, procurement, disbursement, coordination, and monitoring. Assisted
by the ALRO advisers, FLPO wouLd retain teams of consultants to prepare
subproject proposals for the project LRAs, review the proposals, retain
consultants for other purposes such as land distribution and special studies,
design and implement the training program for project staff, prepare budget
requests for project activities, implement local competitive bidding proce-
dures for procurement of project inputs, secure release of budget allocations
and external funds to finance project inputs, work with other ALRO units and
with other participating agencies to achieve coordinated development of LRAs,
and monitor project activities to provide the basis for modifications as
necessary. The Research and Planning Division, would undertake surveys of the
project LRAs and would second staff to FLPO for project monitoring. The Legal
Division would negotiate transfers of land and issue land-use certificates in
accordance with the new landholding pattern.  The Operations Division would
undertake surveying, mapping, design of works, contracting and supervision of
construction, and road maintenance. ALRO's organizational arrangements and
procedures for execution of the project would be set forth in implementation
guidelines to be agreed with t'he Bank as a condition of loan effectiveness.
These guidelines would include the subproject viability criteria (para. 3.10),
the land distribution parameters and procedures (para. 3.23), the road design
standards (para. 3.29), and the water supply cost criterion (para. 3.40).
Assurances on the above were o'btained at negotiations.



- 27 -
4.05      ALRO would assign a total of 56 full-time staff to the project, of
which 36 would be in the field offices, 9 in the Operations Division, and 11
in FLPO (Table T3). An assurance on the staffing schedule was obtained at
negotiations. In addition, teams from the various divisions would provide
an average input of 40 man-years per year for project activities on a
part-time basis. To the maximum extent possible, a division would assign
the same staff to work periodically on a particular LRA until the division's
activities in the LRA were completed. Informal training for project staff
would be provided by the ALRO advisers. Selected staff also would be
assigned to participate full time with the consultant teams retained to
prepare the subproject proposals for the LRAs. Formal training would be
provided through courses and foreign study tours.
4.06      ALRO would retain specialists to act as its advisers in implement-
ing the project and in directing the work of other consultants retained for
specific tasks. These advisers would consist of a rural development
economist, an agriculturalist/soil conservationist, and a rural works
engineer (each for a period of three years). Miscellaneous specialists also
would be provided (6 man-months). The specialists would work with all ALRO
units, but particularly FLPO on planning and coordination and with the
Operations Division on execution. They would assist ALRO in such matters as
introducing the subproject approach (including the review of subproject
proposals), preparing terms of reference for and providing guidance to the
consultants engaged for specific activities, designing and implementing the
training program, preparing procurement documentation and evaluating bids,
executing project works, coordinating the efforts of other agencies, and
monitoring project implementation.
4.07      Various consultants would be utilized for special tasks.  Teams of
consultants would be retained to prepare the subproject proposals for the
LRAs. In order to take advantage of the considerable experience with land
reform activities existing in the Thai academic community, ALRO would retain
consultants from this community periodically (72 man-months total) to assist
with particular aspects of the land distribution exercise. Because of
ALRO's limited experience with design and construction, consultants would be
retained to assist with the final design and supervision of road construc-
tion. A photogrammetry specialist would be retained for two years to assist
with the mapping work. For monitoring and evaluation, consultants would be
retained to design the system, assist ALRO with monitoring, and undertake
the evaluation of the project.  In order to provide a basis for adjusting
ALRO's structure and procedures to enable it to fulfill its role most
effectively, consultants would be retained to undertake a study of the
agency and formulate recommendations for consideration by its management.
Finally, to establish guidelines for the later stages of the proposed
project and for future projects, consultants would be retained to carry out
studies of selected aspects of the land reform effort.



- 28 -
B.  Procurement
4.08      Because of the relatively small unit size, varied timing and geo-
graphical dispersal of procurement expected for the project, international
competitive bidding would not be appropriate. Roads ($8.6 million total,
$300,000 average contract size), drilled water supply wells ($0.1 million
total, $35,000 average), schools ($2.5 million total, $80,000 average),
health centers ($0.4 million total, $50,000 average), and miscellaneous
buildings ($0.5 million total, $90,000 average) would be constructed by
contract on the basis of competitive bidding advertised locally in accord-
ance with procedures acceptable to the Government and the Bank. A substan-
tial number of local construction fiLrms, tractor contractors, and drilling
contractors are capable of undertaking these types of works, and they have
adequate capacity to meet projecl: requirements. To the extent practicable,
works would be grouped into contracts of the sizes indicated above for
purposes of efficient execution and supervision. Rock weirs and dugwells
would be constructed by beneficiaries under the supervision of ALRO.
4.09      Purchases of vehicles ($0.8 million, $65,000 average) and equip-
ment ($0.6 million, average in the order of $9,000) would be varied in type
and of small unit size. Therefore, contracts would be awarded on the basis
of competitive bidding advertised locally in accordance with procedures
acceptable to the Goverrnment and the Bank. Major manufacturers of equipment
to be utilized in the project have plants in Thailand (as in the case of
vehicles) or are represented in Thailand.
4.10      In order to provide a measure of flexibility in the case of small
civil works (including soil conservation works of $740,000 total, $13,000
average), items of equipment, or quantities of materials (including
materials for the rock weirs and dugwells), prudent shopping, involving a
minimum of three quotations where possible, would be applied for items
costing less than $20,000 each and $700,000 in the aggregate. When bids are
estimated to exceed $300,000 for civil works or $100,000 for vehicles and
equipment, the Bank's prior approval would be required before invitations to
bid are issued and before contracts are awarded.
4.11      Procurement of irrigation tubewells and pumps for use with rock
weirs would be carried out under standard BAAC procedures.  Assurances on
procurement procedures were obtained at negotiations.
C. Disbursement
4.12      Disbursements would be made at the rate of 100% of the foreign
exchange costs of directly imported equipment, 100% of the ex-factory cost of
equipment manufactured locally or 65% of other locally procured equipment.



- 29 -
The rate of disbursement would be 85% of expenditure for civil works and
100% for consultants, training and data processing services. Agreed
proposals would be required prior to disbursement for the project
preparation component, and the signature of approved agreements would be
required prior to disbursement for the soil conservation, school, and health
center components. Furthermore, disbursement for activities specific to a
particular LRA will be made only after degazettement of that LRA. It is
expected that disbursements would be completed by December 31, 1988. An
estimated schedule of disbursements is given in Table T9. (The disbursement
schedule is based on the profile for Thailand agricultural projects.)
D. Accounts and Auditing
4.13      ALRO, LDD, DAE, MOE, and MOPH would establish separate accounts
covering all financial transactions related to project activities and would
prepare annual statements of receipts and expenditures based on these
accounts. The existing internal control systems are adequate for the
project. Auditors satisfactory to the Bank would audit the project accounts
and financial statements. The audit reports and audited financial statements
would be sent to the Bank within nine months of the close of each fiscal
year. An assurance on the above was obtained at negotiations.
V. MARKETING AND PRICES
A. Output
5.01      Most of the incremental agricultural output of the project would
be marketed. Mungbean, cassava and rice would contribute to Thailand's
exports, while cotton would substitute for imports. The incremental produc-
tion from the project would constitute only a small portion of national
output and would have no significant impact on prices. Annual incremental
production at project full development (year 10) is shown below (see Table
T5 for farm level data). There is a well-established and reasonably
efficient private sector marketing network.



- 30 -
Table 5.1: ANNUAIL INCREMENTAL PRODUCTION
OF MAJOR COMMODITIES
Full development
Product                        (tons)
Cassava                        10,000
Mungbean                        4,000
Cotton                          4,000
Rice                            3,000
5.02      Cassava production has increased at about 9% p.a. from 1976 to 1980,
when it reached 10 million tons. Exports have been growing at about 5% p.a.
and reached 5.5 million tons in 1980. MOAC estimates that, during the next
five years, production will increase to 15 million tons p.a. and exports will
reach 6 million tons p.a. At full development, incremental annual cassava
production in the project LRAs wouLd amount to about 10,000 tons p.a. which
would account for less than 1% of the total estimated cassava production in
the country.  Cassava is chipped and dried in small processing centers within
the growing areas, and is then peLleted in nearby provincial towns.  Most of
the pelletizing mills are joint ventures with Bangkok exporters. There are
sufficient processing plants to handle incremental project output.
5.03      Mungbean.  Over half of the country's total mungbean production of
700,000 tons is exported. Production of mungbean has increased at about 5%
p.a. during the last decade, while domestic demand has also sharply increased
over the same period and is expected to continue to grow rapidly in the
future.  Incremental annual product'ion of mungbean under the project at full
development would amount to about 4,000 tons p.a. and account for less than
1% of total national production. After harvesting and shelling on the farm,
mungbean usually is sold to local merchants who ship the production to
wholesalers or exporters in Bangkok.
5.04      Cotton.  Annual cotton requirements in the country are around
1 million tons, of which 30% is produced domestically. Incremental annual
production of cotton under the project at full development would amount to
about 4,000 tons p.a. and would substitute for less than 1% of current
imports. Cotton is sold directly after harvesting to local merchants in the
project LRA's and is generally ginned in Bangkok.
5.05      Rice.  Incremental rice production at full development would
amount to approximately 3,000 tons p.a. and would be consumed locally. It
is normally retained for home consumption and for seed for the following
season in the project LRAs. Any surplus is readily marketed in nearby
towns.



- 31 -
5.06      Prices of crops other than paddy and cassava have been rising as a
result of increasing export demand. According to Bank projections, crop
prices are generally expected to increase by 3-9% p.a. during 1981-85 and
1-4% during 1985-90. Cassava prices, however, are expected to decrease by
about 1% p.a. during 1981-90, largely due to EEC measures to support domestic
grain prices through higher import tariffs on cassava. A summary of financial
prices for project crops is given below.
Table 5.2: FINANCIAL CROP PRICES /a
(B/ton)
1981          1985            1990
Cassava          585             570             530
Mungbean       6,300           7,240           8,585
Cotton        10,920          13,955          14,330
Rice           3,020           3,520           3,660
/a Farmgate, in constant terms.
B. Production Inputs
5.07      At present, purchased production inputs are little used in the
project LRAs. However, farmers have begun to use improved seed for maize,
and it is generally available from dealers. Agrochemicals are widely used
for cotton when pests occur. As a result of the improvement of the rural
road network, use of fertilizer for cassava and rice, agrochemicals for
mungbean, sorghum and cotton and improved seed for maize are expected to
increase. At project full development, approximately 1,000 tons of
fertilizer, 56,000 liters of agrochemicals for cotton, mungbean and sorghum.
and 900 tons of improved seed for maize would be used annually by farmers in
the project LRAs. The existing network of dealers would be able to provide
these supplies without difficulty.
VI. BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION AND RISK
A. Benefits
6.01       The project would strengthen ALRO to enable it to implement this and
succeeding projects eventually affecting roughly 4 million ha of encroached
public lands suitable for agriculture and 0.8 million mostly low-income



- 32 -
families. The proposed project would cover 9 LRAs, 192,000 ha and 35,000
families.  Squatters in ti-- LRAs would be affected in varying degrees, but
generally the improvement of infrastructure and provision of security of
tenure would increase agricultural productivity and incomes, and land distri-
bution would provide a relative increase in the assets and incomes of the
poorest farmers. Project water supply, education, and health facilities would
have a direct impact on the quality of life of beneficiaries. Appropriate
land use would be promoted by the release of these areas from forest reserve
status through degazettement and by the introduction of soil conservation
works on sloping land. Security of tenure would encourage proper maintenance
of land resources, including the adoption of soil conservation measures.
Release of the areas from forest reserve and improvement of infrastructure
would facilitate the integration of the LRAs into the provincial administra-
tions, thus furthering decentralization of development management. This
land reform and development model, suitably modified on the basis of
experience, would be incorporated into succeeding projects on encroached
public lands. Other project benefits include the environmental impact of
soil conservation and a higher rate and improved standard of project
preparation.
6.02      Roads.  Most of the 35,000 families in the project LRAs would
benefit from road investments, and the impact on farm production and income,
and on passenger transport cost, has been quantified. After the completion
of the access roads and service tracks, the reduction in the cost of
transporting output would result in an increase in the farm-gate price of
approximately B 0.03/kg (50% reduction in transport cost). Passenger
transport cost savings would amount to approximately B 3.1 per vehicle
kilometer and an aggregate of B 10 million p.a. at full development.
6.03      Road investment would result in increased cropping intensity,
yields and crop diversification by providing farmers greater access to
markets and extension services. Local consumption of incremental rice and
part of the incremental mungbean production would raise nutrition standards
in the project LRAs. Off-farm sale of cassava, mungbean, maize, sorghum, and
cotton would provide higher incomes to beneficiary farmers and would increase
export earnings.
6.04      Project beneficiaries have incomes averaging approximately $780
per family, which is close to the absolute poverty level of $740 /1 per
family ($148 per capita). At full development in year ten of the project,
their income would be in the vicinity of the relative poverty level of
$1,300 per family.  Table 6.1 shows estimated present and future incomes for
typical farmers who would participate in the project.
/_ Assuming five members/family.



- 33 -
Table 6.1: FAMILY INCOME BY TYPICAL FARM TYPE /a
($)
Future/b          Incremental
with    without               Per
Typical farm type               Present   project  project   Family  capita/c
Maize/Cotton
Gross value of production       1,155     2,428    1,917       511      102
Farm operating income             885     1,973    1,565       408       82
Off-farm income                    43         43       43        -        -
Net Income                        876     2,001    1,543       458       92
Cassava
Gross value of production         967     1,203       777      426       85
Farm operating income             801       934       612      322       64
Off-farm income                   130        130      130        -        -
Net Income                        899      1,055      710      345       69
Rainfed Rice
Gross value of production         788     1,349    1,088       261       52
Farm operating income             518       989       807      182       36
Off-farm income                   109         65       65        -        -
Net Income                        576      1,042      819      223       45
/a  Models demonstrate agricultural impact of road development.  No change
in farm size. Values in constant terms. See Table T5 for additional
details.
/b  In year 10.
/c  Assuming 5 members/family.
6.05      Irrigation.  The rock weirs and tubewells to be constructed under
the project would serve a total of about 1,000 families. The increase in
family income resulting from irrigation would range from $210 to $715 p.a.,
but the beneficiaries represent only about 3% of the total farm population of
the project LRAs. Financial rates of return are over 25%.
6.06      Soil Conservation.  The soil conservation works would increase the
production of about 1,000 beneficiary farmers through improved water
retention and reduction of soil losses. External benefits would accrue to
the downstream population as a result of the moderation of the water run-off
pattern and the lowering of siltation levels in rivers, and to the total
population from the preservation of an important natural resource.



- 34 -
6.07      Social Infrastructure.  The schools to be provided under the pro-
ject would benefit approximately 3,500 children who would be provided with a
basic education. The health centers to be constructed under the project
would be centrally located in villages and would serve approximately 10,000
families, including those in surrounding villages who would be visited on a
regular basis. Health education would be provided in disease prevention,
nutrition and family planning. The water supply facilities to be construc-
ted under the project would provide potable water to approximately 2,100
families.
6.08      Employment.  Labor in the project LRAs generally has been well
utilized, although there is underemployment during the dry season. A
normal seasonal shortage of labor prevails, particularly during planting and
harvesting, and provides considerable income opportunities to small farmers
and landless laborers. Infrastructure introduced under the project (espe-
cially rock weirs, dugwells, roads, schools, health centers and offices)
would generate short-term employment opportunities during the dry season.
Increases in cropping intensity and high-value crop diversification would
allow more labor utilization.  A substantial reduction in underemployment is
expected, and at full development total incremental labor requirements would
be approximately 3,500 man-years/year of which 2,700 would be supplied by
family labor and 800 by hired labor. No labor supply constraints are
anticipated.
B.  Environmental Impact
6.09      The project area is part of the rainfed uplands which have been
developed as a result of increasing population pressure in the lowlands.
Sections of the areas have sufficient slope to require soil conservation
measures, but such measures generally have not been adopted. The project
would begin to correct this deficiency by introducing soil conservation
works on 4,500 ha. The works would help retain topsoil on farmers' fields,
and downstream flooding would be reduced through moderation of the water
run-off pattern. Depending on the experience gained, the works would be
extended in future projects to cover the total area requiring such measures.
C. Role of Women
6.10      Women play important roles in food and cash crop production in the
project area. Whereas off-farm employment is typically the domain of male
family members, women have important roles in farm activities. Training in
soil conservation and health would be provided to women, as well as men.
Efforts would be made by the implementing agencies to ensure that women in
beneficiary families are provided with the opportunity to participate in,
and benefit from, all project activities, but especially health and
education services.



- 35 -
D. Economic Returns
6.11      A single economic rate of return (ERR) was calculated for the
project as a whole because of the interrelated nature of the components.
The benefits which were included were those resulting from the impact of
project roads on agricultural production and on passenger costs. While new
and improved roads could be expected to have some effect on all farms in the
project LRAs, simplifying assumptions were made to facilitate the calcula-
tion. Road networks in the LRAs would about double under the project, and
the command area of the roads was taken to be 50% of the total area.
Within the command area, half of the farmers were assumed to receive 100% of
the benefits described above, and the other half were assumed to receive
50%. Benefits from soil conservation and irrigation investments are minor
and were ignored. Costs which were excluded from the ERR were those for land
compensation, social infrastructure, and project preparation. Land compen-
sation costs were excluded because they are transfer payments. Social
infrastructure costs (i.e., for water supply, schools, and health centers)
were excluded because of the difficulties of estimating social benefits and
on the assumption that the benefits to be derived from these facilities
would at least equal the costs.  Costs of project preparation are related to
other projects. Thus 74% of total project costs were included. Conversion
factors were used to convert both costs and benefits from a financial to an
economic basis (see Table T6).
6.12      The net present value (NPV) of the project with benefits and costs
discounted at 10% would be $2.8 million. The best estimate of the project's
ERR is about 14% (see Table T6 for the economic prices used and Working
Paper C.5 for the details of the analysis). Project returns are moderately
sensitive to changes in the levels of the benefit and cost streams. A
decline of benefits of 13% or a cost increase of 15% would decrease the NPV
to zero or, equivalently, the ERR to 10%. A 10% decline in output or prices
would lower the project's ERR to about 11% and the NPV to $0.7 million while
a 10% increase in costs would result in an ERR of about 11% and an NPV of
$0.9 million. A decrease in the command area of roads from 50% to 40% of
the total area would result in an ERR of about 11% and an NPV of $0.4 million,
while a 50% increase in the costs of roads would set the ERR at 10% and the
NPV at $0.4 million, all other costs and benefits being equal. A 50%
increase in the cost of institutional development would decrease the ERR to
11% and the NPV to $1.2 million. No significant variation in the relative
timing of costs and benefits is expected.
E. Cost Recovery
6.13      Costs would be recovered to the maximum extent feasible and, since
the income of project beneficiaries would be in the vicinity of the relative
poverty level at full development, some subsidies are considered acceptable.



- 36 
In the case of land compensation, the subsidy resulting from the current
interest rate (2% in real tey. s) is the same as that received by BAAC's
other borrowers.  There would be no special terms for project beneficiaries.
Neither would there be any special arrangements for recovery of road costs.
For soil conservation works, the relatively small establishment cost (about
$290 for a farm of 5 ha) would not be recovered. (There are significant
benefits which do not accrue to the participating farmers, and the
Government proposes to use the subsidy as an inducement for farmers to adopt
appropriate soil conservation works and practices.)  Farmers installing
irrigation tubewells would receive the same interest subsidy as other BAAC
borrowers, and the small cost for rock weirs materials (about $25 per
farmer) would not be recovered. No recovery would be sought for the costs
of water supply facilities, schools, health centers, or institutional
development.
F. Risks
6.14      The project would deal with sensitive issues of land reform, and
there are differing opinions withiin the Government on the most appropriate
way to treat these issues.  While there is considerable support for the
approach proposed for the project, there is also support for other
approaches. The Government is dealing with these difficult policy issues of
land use and land tenure through its National Land Policy Committee.
Dialogue on these issues is also being pursued under the Bank's Structural
Adjustment Loan.
6.15       ALRO is a young (founded 1975) and relatively inexperienced organ-
ization. Because of this situation, the project was designed to utilize a
subproject approach and includes considerable consultant input which would
permit project execution and simultaneously strengthen ALRO's ability to
implement future projects through the training of ALRO staff. The subpro-
ject approach provides a mechanism which facilitates the use of consultants
for preparation, enables ALRO to analyze and implement manageable sections
of the project with assistance from its own advisors, and allows the Bank to
review parts of the project to the degree appropriate.  Nevertheless, con-
siderable effort would be required from ALRO, particularly on land distri-
bution and contract supervision.  If ALRO is unable to mount the required
efforts, project implementation would be slower than anticipated.
6.16      Security of tenure is important in the realization of project
benefits by providing a stable environment free of land disputes and giving
farmers confidence to invest in and improve their land. These conditions do
not presently exist in forest reserves. By agreeing to degazette all LRAs
according to a pre-determined tinetable and to issue land use certificates,
to be followed subsequently by full titles, the Government will provide the
security necessary to ensure the attainment of project benefits.  Lack of
security of tenure has been a major factor in the past holding up land
development but this risk has now been substantially reduced.



- 37 -
6.17      Maintenance of soil conservation works is often a problem.  For
this project, the difficulty would be minimized through incorporation of bank
formation and maintenance into the arrangement which farmers normally make
with tractor contractors for plowing services. The cost of maintenance is
relatively small ($4 per ha) compared to the plowing cost of about $40 per
ha. Farmers also would be trained in soil conservation practices and
instructed in the benefits of soil conservation. Still, soil conservation
is never easy and risks of inadequate maintenance remain.
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
7.01      During negotiations, agreements were reached on the following:
(a) Government would degazette all LRAs according to an agreed
timetable and each LRA would be integrated into the local
administrative framework at the end of its development period
(para. 3.02);
(b) ALRO would review subproject proposals according to criteria
agreed with the Bank and would send the Bank a selection of
subproject proposals for its review and approval (para. 3.10);
retain consultants in accordance with principles and procedures
satisfactory to the Bank whose qualifications and experience,
terms of reference, and conditions of employment were agreed upon
by the Bank; retain consultants for design of the monitoring and
evaluation system by January 31, 1983, and send their report by
May 31, 1983, for the Bank's review; retain consultants for the
organizational study by December 31, 1983 and provide a copy of
the consultants report, together with its proposals, for review by
the Bank by December 31, 1984; and consider Bank comments in
implementing the study recommendations (para. 3.17); have
consultants review the provisions of the land-use certificates
and implement land distribution and titling according to
parameters and procedures agreed with the Bank (para. 3.23);
utilize road and track design standards agreed with the Bank and
provide adequate maintenance for roads and tracks in the project
LRAs during the life of the project (para. 3.29); supervise the
maintenance of rock weirs and water supply wells (paras. 3.38 and
3.43); and apply a cost criterion for water supply wells (para.
3.40);



- 38 -
(c) LDD would maintain diversion ditches during the project period,
LDD and ALRO would assist the formation of farmer groups for
maintenance of the diversion ditches after the project period, and
BAAC would provide credit for maintenance of banks (para. 3.34);
(d) project preparation proposals would be agreed between Government
and the Bank, and consultants for project preparation would be
employed according to principles and procedures satisfactory to
the Bank and would have qualifications and experience, terms of
reference, and conditions of employment which were agreed upon
by the Bank (paras. 3.51 and 3.53)7
(e) BAAC would provide adequate credit in support of the project under
an agreement with ALRO satisfactory to the Government and the Bank
(para. 3.58); LDD, DAE, MOE and MOPH would implement their parts
of the project under agreements with ALRO satisfactory to the
Government and the Bank to be signed prior to disbursement for the
respective components (para. 4.01); and MOE and I4OPH would employ
appropriate site. selection criteria (paras. 3.45 and 3.47)
(f) the project committees wrould be established by January 31, 1983
(para. 4.02); appointments to the position of project manager
would have qualifications and experience agreed with the Bank
(para. 4.03); and ALRO would assign staff to the project according
to an agreed schedule (para. 4.05);
(g) procurement would be according to agreed arrangements (para. 4.11);
and
(h) ALRO, LDD, DAE, MOE and MOPH would have their project accounts
audited annually by auditors satisfactory to the Bank and submit
audit reports to the Bank within nine months of the close of each
fiscal year (para. 4.13).
7.02      Degazettement of the first project LRA (para. 3.02); employment of
agriculturalist/soil conservationist, rural engineer., and rural economist
(para. 3.17), signature of an agreement between ALRO and BAAC (para. 3.58);
and agreement of the Bank to ALRO's implementation guidelines (para. 4.04)
are conditions for effectiveness of the loan.
7.03      Subject to the above assurances, the proposed project would be
suitable for a Bank loan of $17 million, with a 25-year maturity, including a
grace period of 6 years. The Borrower would be the Royal Thai Government.



- 39 -                          ANNEX 1
F 4,t 1
THAILAND
LAND REFORM AREAS PROJECT
Consultants' Terms of Reference
1.        The terms of reference for consultants would include the points
indicated below.
Land Reform
2.        The senior specialists should have graduate degrees in economics,
sociology, anthropology or other related subjects and should have field
experience with land reform or settlement activities both in Thailand and in
other countries. The junior specialists should have at least an under-
graduate degree in the above subjects and at least two years' experience in
land reform or settlement activities, part of which should be in the field.
All specialists should have demonstrated an ability to work with small
farmers and large landholders. The principal responsibilities of the
specialists would be as follows:
(a) training of ALRO staff in the implementation of the land distri-
bution model, especially in the techniques of securing the
cooperation and participation of farmers and in dealing with
large landholders; and
(b)   assisting ALRO staff in the implementation of the project,
particularly with respect to:
(i)  adaptation of the proposed land distribution model to fit the
particular circumstances of each project LRA;
(ii) preparing farmers, landholders, and local officials for land
distribution;
(iii) preparing and implementing the socio-economic surveys and the
censuses;
(iv) organizing local committees to participate in planning and
implementing the subproject for each LRA;
(v)  negotiating land transfers from large landholders to small
farmers and landless laborers; and
(vi) assisting BAAC in the preparation of loan packages for project
beneficiaries.



-40 -                            ANNEX 1
Page 2
Agriculture/Soil Conservation
3.        The agriculture/soil conservation specialist should have an academic
background in agricultural science, including soil conservation. He should
have at least five years' field experience with rainfed annual crops and
soil/water conservation under tropical or semi-tropical conditions.  At least
part of his experience should be in East Asia, preferably in Thailand. He
would advise ALRO on all agricultural and soil conservation aspects of the
project, and his principal specific responsibilities would be as follows:
(a) training ALRO staff;
(b) assisting ALRO staff in the implementation of the project,
particularly with respect to:
(i)  detailed planning of project activities;
(ii)  estimating budget requirements;
(iii)  preparing procurement documentation and evaluating bids;
(iv) selecting and supervising other consultants, such. as the teams
retained to prepare the subproject proposals;
(v) appraising the subproject proposals;
(vi)  implementing the subprojects;
(vii)  coordinating the project activities of LDD and DAE; and
(viii) monitoring relevant project activities.
Rural Works Engineering
4.        The rural works specialist should have an academic background in
civil, agricultural or irrigation engineering and at least seven years'
experience, including field experience, in the design and construction of
small rural works, particularly roads and irrigation schemes of the scale and
standard of those proposed for the project. At least part of his experience
should be in East Asia, preferably in Thailand. He would have principal
responsibilities similar to those listed above for the agriculture/soil
conservation specialist, and he would also assist ALRO staff in supervising
contractors and in reviewing dlesign standards for the various types of rural
works.
Rural Development Economics
5.        The rural development economist should have a graduate degree in
economics and at least five years' experience in rural development activities,
some of which should have involved small farmers. His experience should



-41-                               ANNEX 1
Page 3
include the preparation and implementation of investment projects, and at
least part of his experience should be in East Asia, preferably in Thailand.
He would advise ALRO on all economic aspects of the project, and his principal
specific responsibilities would include those enumerated above for the
agriculture/soil conservation specialist.
Photogrammetry
6.        The photogrammetry specialist should have an academic background in
surveying and should be familiar with surveying and cartographic techniques.
He should have at least five years' practical experience in all aspects of
topographical and cadastral mapping utilizing photogrammetric and computer
techniques, preferably in a rural development context. Part of his experience
should be in East Asia, preferably in Thailand. He would advise ALRO on all
aspects of mapping, and his principal specific responsibilities would be as
follows:
(a) training ALRO staff in field survey, photogrammetric and computer
techniques; and
(b) assisting ALRO staff with project implementation, particularly
with respect to:
(i)  preparing topographic and cadastral maps using photogrammetric
and computer techniques;
(ii)  utilizing maps in designing and implementing land distribution
models and in planning infrastructure development; and
(iii)  reorganizing and programming the work of the survey unit to
take full advantage of the latest photogrammetric and computer-
ized mapping techniques.
Subproject Preparation
7.        The teams of consultants to be recruited to prepare subproject
proposals for the LRAs might include ad hoc groups of specialists, groups
from academic institutions, and private consultant firms. The composition
of the teams might vary according to the circumstances of a particular LRA,
but they normally would include specialists in land reform, agriculture, rural
engineering and economics. Each specialist should have appropriate academic
training and field experience. He should be familiar with the concept of an
investment project and have experience in project design and implementation.
At least part of his experience should be in East Asia, preferably in
Thailand. The subproject proposals would be presented in reports roughly
similar to the appraisal report. Each report would describe the activities
proposed for thie LRA, the inputs required to implement the activities, the
costs of the inputs, and the necessary organizational arrangements and
procedures. The subproject would conform to the guidelines agreed for the
project as a whole, and the facilities proposed generally would be of the



ANNEX 1
42 -
types agreed for the project.  The report would demonstrate the technical,
commercial, organizational, financial and economic viability of the proposed
subproject. Some of the aspects ofE the subprojects to be given particular
attention are listed below.
(a) Land Distribution. The land distribution model proposed for a
given LRA would be based on the recommendations of ALRO's land
reform advisors. The minimum holding size proposed would be based
on the farm model analysis (see below).
(b)  Infrastructure.  Investment in infrastructure would not exceed that
needed to reach national or area standards and also would not
exceed the amount which would be economically viable.  The design
standards would be the mlnimum necessary to achieve the objectives.
(c)  Cost.  Capital and current costs of the subprojects would be
estimated, down to the level of unit costs and quantities wherever
feasible.  Detailed engineering would be undertaken on a
representative sample of proposed facilities in order to provide a
satisfactory basis for cost estimation. As a corollary to minimum
design standards for infrastructure, the cost of infrastructure
works would be kept to the minimum required to meet the objectives.
(d)  Organization and Management.  Any special organizational arrange-
ments, procedures or agreements would be proposed as part of the
subprojects. Particular attention would be devoted to the
arrangements for operation and maintenance of facilities to be
constructed under the subprojects, in light of experience gained to
that point. Training provisions would be described in detail.
At least one ALRO staff member would participate full time with
each consultant team preparing a subproject.
(e) Financial Analysis. Farm models would be prepared showing the mini-
mum financially viable farm size for each of the major cropping
patterns of the particular LRA. These models would be an important
ingredient in the land diLstribution program for that LRA, and they
would be used to demonstrate the cash flow of a typical land
beneficiary. They would be utilized to determine appropriate
credit amortization schedules for medium-term credit, as well,
and they also would be used to calculate financial rates of return
on any irrigation investments.
Appropriate cost sharing and recovery arrangements would be
specified for all subproject investments. In the case of irrigation
investments, normally 100% of cost would be covered by beneficiar-
ies, through initial contributions plus credit.
(f)  Economic Analysis.  The production impact of the subprojects would
be calculated on the basis of the farm models. Additional benefits
such as passenger cost. savings also would be considered. Factors
to convert financial benefits and costs into economic benefits and
costs would be those used for the appraisal report or others agreed
between ALRO and the Bank. The economic rate of return calculated



- 43 -                             ANNFX 1
Page 5
with the economic benefits and costs should exceed 10% for the
subproject to be considered economically viable.
Road Design and Supervision
8.        The consultants should have appropriate academic training in civil
engineering and experience in the design and construction of roads and tracks
of the standards proposed for the project.  Part of the experience should be
in field supervision of construction of such facilities by contractor. At
least part of the experience should be in Thailand. The primary responsi-
bilities of the consultants would be to assist ALRO staff in the following:
(a) the final design of roads and tracks; (b) preparation of procurement
documentation for contracting; (c) supervision of construction by contractors
(including the training of ALRO staff in contract supervision); and (d)
establishment and operation of the maintenance units.
Monitoring and Evaluation
9.        The consultants should have appropriate academic training in fields
relevant to the project and experience in the design and operation of
monitoring systems for rural development projects in Thailand involving small
farmers. They should also have experience in the evaluation of such projects.
The principal responsibilities of the consultants would include the
following:
(a) design of a monitoring system to provide information promptly on
project inputs such as staffing, training and equipment, and on
outputs such as area of land distributed, length of roads con-
structed, and area covered by soil conservation works;
(b) assistance to ALRO in establishing and operating the monitoring
system; and
(c) midterm and final evaluation of project impact in terms of
farm income, school enrollment, health center utilization, etc.
Organization and Management
10.       The consultant team would consist of specialists with appropriate
academic training and practical experience in management, land reform,
engineering and accounting. The team would review ALRO's organizational
structure and operational procedures in light of its primary focus on land
reform and formulate recommendations designed to enable ALRO to fulfill its
role more effectively and efficiently. The team would assist ALRO in
implementing those recommendations accepted by ALRO. As part of its assign-
ment, the team would design an accounting system which would provide relevant
financial information to ALRO management in a timely manner and facilitate
processing of disbursements. The team would assist ALRO in introducing and
operating the system, and would train ALRO staff as appropriate.



-44 -                               ANNEX 2
Table Ti
THAILAND
LAND REFORM AREAS PROJECT
Project Land Reform Areas: Location and Size
(ha)
Total         Agricultural
Land reform area               Region                    area              area
Petchaboon                   North                      13,000            12,300
Nakhon Sawan                 North                      24,000            21,400
Pichit                       North                      56,000            51,200
Lopburi                      Central                    35,000            32,700
Saraburi                     Central                    31,000            29,300
Chiang Rai                   North                       4,000             3,700
Nakhon Ratchasima I          Northeast                   4,000 )
Nakhon Ratchasima II         Northeast                  18,000 )          22,400
Nakhon Ratchasima III        Northeast                   7,000 )
Total                                             192,000           173,000



iN :  v
45 -                                      Table T2
THAILAND
LAND REFOR4 AREAS PROJECT
Project Facilities by Province
Water
Land    Roads    Soil       Irrigation      Supply
distri-    and    conser-  Rock   Tube-  Dug-   Tube-  School-  Health
bution/a  tracks  vation   weirs  wells  wells  wells   rooms   centers
(ha)     (km)    (ha)    ------------------ (no.) -------------------
Petchaboon           12,300      56      1,920    26         -     16       -       11       1
Nakhon Sawan         21,400      93      1,200    12         -     17       -       16       2
Pichit               51,200    161           -      -     500      10      15       20      3
Lopburi              32,700      51        640      8        -     12       -       28       1
Saraburi             29,300       -        640    20         -     30       -       17       1
Chiang Rai            3,700       9          -      -       -      17       5       10      1
Nakhon Ratchasima   22,400       60         80      8        -     28       -       13       1
Total          173,000    430      4,480    74       500    130      20      115       10
/a Area covered by program. Consists of total agricultural area of project IRAs.



- 46 -
ANNEX 2
Table T3
THAILAND
LAND REFORM AREAS PROJECT
Staffing Schedule
Project year
Position and grade                                  1      2       3        4       5
Operations Division
Engineering supervisor (PC6)                      1      1        1        1        1
Foreign Loan Project Office
Chief (PC6)                                       1      1        1        1       1
Assistant chief (PC5)                             1      1        1        1       1
Land distribution officer (PC5/PC4)               1      1        1        1       1
Agriculturalist (PC5/PC4)                         1      1        1        1       1
Soil conservationist (PC5/PC4)                    1      1        1        1       1
Credit pfficer (PC5/PC4)                          1      1        1        1       1
Engineer (PC5/PC4)                                1      1        1        1       1
Education/health officer (PC5/PC4)                1      1        1        1       1
Economist (PC5/PC4)                               1      1        1        1       1
Finance officer (PC5/PC4)                         1      1        1        1       1
Accountant (PC5jPC4)                              1      I        1        1       1
Clerk (PC2)                                       2      2        2        2       2
Typist (PC2)                                      2      2        2        2       2
Driver (UG)                                       4      4        4        4       4
Subtotal                                     19      19       19      19       19
Mapping Unit
Mapping technicians (PC3)                         8      8        8        8       8
Field Offices /a
Assistant field project managers (PC5) /b         3      5        6        6       6
Land distribution officers  (PC5/PC4)             3      5        6        6       6
Agriculturalists  (PC5/PC4)                       3      5        6        6       6
Engineers (PC5/PC4) /c                            -      1        3        5       6
Surveyors (PC5/PC4)                               3      5        6        6       6
Surveyors (PC2)                                   3      5        6        6       6
Clerks (PC2)                                      3      5        6        6       6
Typists (PC2)                                     3      5        6        6       6
Drivers (UG) /d                                   6     11       15       16      17
Vehicle operators (UG) /e                         -      2        8       10      12
Janitors (UG)                                     3      5        6        6       6
Laborers (UG) /e                                  -      2        8       10      12
Subtotal                                     30      56       82      89       95
Total                                        58      84      110     117      123
/a  One in each project province, except Chiang.Rai.  Staff indicated are full-
time staff only. Other staff assigned periodically as required.
/b Field project managers are provincial land reform officers, located at pro-
vincial land reform offices.
/c Saraburi has no road construction, but engineer is provided in Year 4 for
other works. Chiang Rai has no-incremental staff requirement.
/d  One driver/chainman included for each engineer.
/e Two additional vehicle operators and laborers provided for second Pichit
maintenance unit in Year 3.



THAILAND
LAND REFORM AREAS PROJECT
Land Compensation Repayment /a
(baht)
Year
0        1       2        3        4        5        6        7        8     9-15
Inflow
Operations           10,421  15,030  15,697  17,994  20,182  20,776  21,892  23,090  23,819  24,131
Credit
Short-term         2,479   6,241   6,291   6,646   7,548   7,643   7,739   7,825   7,852   8,277
Long-term               -  15,000         -       -        -        -        -        -        -        -
Total          12,900  36,271  21,988  24,640  27,730  28,419  29,631  30,915  31,671  32,408
Outflow
Land compensation         -  15,000         -        -        -        -       -        -        -        -
Credit
Short-term         2,900   6,303   6,354   6,712   7,623   7,719   7,816   7,903   7,931   8,360
Long-term               -   1,167   1,167   1,167   1,167   1,167   1,167   1,167   1,167   1,167
Total           2,900  22,470   7,521   7,879   8,790   8,886   8,983   9,070   9,098   9,527
Net                    10,000  13,801  14,467  16,761  18,940  19,533  20,648  21,845  22,573  22,881
/a  Illustrates situation for typical land distribution beneficiary in Pichit LRA with net income
of about B 10,000 derived from farming 10 rai and working as a laborer. All values in real
terms. Agricultural data based on Pichit farm model (see Table T5). Farmer receives an addi-
tional 15 ral of land in year 1, witlh compensation value of B 1,000/rai. Credit in pre-project
situation (year 0) consists of short-term production credit for a six-montlh period from
noninstitutional sources at a nominal annual rate of 50%, or a real rate of about 34% at an
inflation rate of 12%. Beginning in year 1, the farmer receives production credit from BAAC at
a nominal rate (currently 14%) which is expected to remain about 2% in real terms.  The land                            -
compensation credit also is provided by BAAC at an assumed real rate of 2% and a maturity of
15 years.  Although grace periods of up to 5 years are provided, no grace period is assumed for                        X x
this illustration.                                                                                                     z 
.4-



- 48 -
ANNEX 2
Table T5
Page
THAILAND
LAND REFORM AREAS PROJECT
FARM MODEL BASIC DATA/a
Cropping Patterns, Yields and Production
Development               Development
Base Year          w:Lthout project (year 10)   with project (year 10)
Crop            Area  Yield  Production   Area  Yield  Production   Area  Yield  Production
(ha) (kg/ha)    (kg)      i(ha) (kg/ha)    (kg)        (ha) (kg/ha)    (kg)
Maize/Cotton   Farm Model (4.3 ha)
Maize           4.16   2,500   10,400    :3.84   2,750   10,560         3.36   2,875   9,660
Mungbean        1.12     563       630      :1.44    625       900      1.92     688   1,320
Sorghum         0.48   1,875       900     0.48   2,188    1,050       0.48   2,188   1,050
Cotton             -       -         -     0.32   1,250        400      0.80   1,312   1,050
Cassava Farm Model (3.2 ha)
Cassava         3.04  12,500   38,000       3.04  11,094   33,725       3.04  16,250  49,400
Rainfed Rice Farm Model (4.0 ha)
Rice            2.56   1,563    4,000       2.56   1,750    4,480       2.56   2,000   6,120
Maize           1.28   1,406    1,800       1.28   1,531    1,960       1.28   1,688   2,160
Mungbean        0.64      625      400      0.64     688       440      0.96     750      720
/a  Models demonstrate impact of road development. No change in farm size.



THAILAND
LAND REFORM AREAS PROJECT
Farm Model Basic Data/a
Gross Production Values, Operating CoEts and Incomes
(baht)
Maize/                                              Rainfed
cotton model (4.3 ha)   Cassava model (3.2 ha)    rice model (4.0 ha)
year                      year                        year
Item                        1       5         10        1      5         10       1      5         10
Gross production value - w   26,569 44,195   55,837   22,230 29,640   27,664  18,120 25,355   31,033
w/o 26,569 38,049   44,096   22,230 20,577   17,874  18,120 21,698   25,023
Operating cost           - w    1,144  9,312   10,465    3,800  6,104    6,175   6,197  7,548    8,277
w/o  1,144  7,908    8,094    3,800  3,800    3,800   6,197  6,368    6,472
Farm operating income  - w   20,344 34,883   45,372   18,430 23,536   21,489  11,923 17,807   22,756
w/o 20,344 30,141   36,002   18,430 16,777   14,074  11,923 15,330   18,551
Off-farm income          - w    1,000  1,000    1,000    3,000  3,000    3,000   2,500  2,500    1,500
W/o  1,000  1,000    1,000    3,000  3,000    3,000   2,500  2,500    1,500
Interest /b              - w    1,058    186        209       646    122        124   1,053    151        166
w/o  1,058  1,344    1,376         646    646       646   1,053  1,083    1,100
Land tax                 - w       135    135       135       100    100        100      125    125        125
w/o    135    135        135       100    100        100     125    125        125
Net income               - w   20,151 35,562   46,028   20,684 26,314   24,265  13,245 20,031   23,965
w/o 20,151 29,662   35,491   20,684 19,031   16,328  13,245 16,622   18,826
Incremental net income               -  5,900   10,537          -  7,283    7,937          -  3,409    5,139
/a  Models demonstrate impact of road development.  No change in farm size.                                                 O ||
/b  Without project, interest rate of informal market is about 34% in real terms.  With project,
interest rate of BAAC is expected to be about 2% in real terms.                                                           H S



THAILAND
LAND REFORM AREAS PROJECT
FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC PRICES
Price Structure for Cassava
(ton)
1981                                1985                                1990
Conversion                          Conversion                          Conversion
Financial    factor    Economic  Financial    factor    Economic  Financial    factor    Economic
f.o.b. Bangkok, pellet
US$ /a                       127                      127        125                       125        115                       115
Baht                       2,550                    2,550      2,500                    2,500       2,300                    2,300
Sale and municipal tax /b       55                         -         55                                  50 
Exporter's margin /c           320        0.69           220        310        0.69          210        285        0.69           195
Wholesale price-Bangkok    2,175                      2,330      2,135                     2,290      1,965                     2,105
Pelletizer's margin /d         405        0.72           290        400       0.72           290        365        0.72           260
Ex-chipping mill price       1,770                    2,040      1,735                     2,000      1,600                     1,845   o
Chipping mill-s margin /e    105          0.72            75        100       0.72            70         95        0.72            70
Input price of chip /f       1,665                    1,965      1,635                     1,930      1,505                    1,775
Input price of root            665                      785        650                       765        600                       705
Merchant's margin /g            80        0.69            55         80        0.69           55         70        0.69            50
Farm-gate price /h             585                      730        570                       710        530                       655
/a Thai Tapioca Trade Association, adjusted to 1981 price levels.
7b 2.2% of the f.o.b. price.
77 Approximately 12% of the f.o.b. price.
/d Including costs of transport from chipping mill to pelletizing mill and to port, handling, pelletizing and profits.
77e Approximately 5% of the ex-chipping mill price.
7f  Conversion ratio of root to chip at 2.5 to 1.
7   Approximately 12% of the import price of root at chipping mill.
71  Without project.  With project situation adds 0.03 B/kg.                                                                          XX



- 51 -                                            ANNEX 2
Table T6
THAILAND                                           Page 2
LAND REFORM AREAS PROJECT
FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC PRICES
Price Structure for Cotton
(ton)
1981                                1985                                 1990
Conversion                          Conversion                           Conversion
Financial    factor    Economic  Financial    factor    Economic  Financial    factor    Economic
c.i.f. Northern Europe-
lint (US$) /a                2,100                   2,100       2,680                    2,680       2,750                   2,750
Freight and insurance
Bangkok to Europe (US$)         40                      40          45                       45          50                       50
c.i.f. Bangkok
US$                          2,140                   2,140       2,725                    2,725       2,800                    2,800
Baht                       42,800                   42,800      54,500                  54,500       56,000                  56,000
Less quality discount 5%/b 40,660                     40,660      51,775                   51,775      53,200                   53,200
Import duty /c                   400                        -         510                       -         520                        -
Sale and municipal tax /d        600                        -         765                       -         780                        -
Importer's margin /e           1,400       0.69          965       1,;80        0.69        1,230       1,850       0.69         1,275
Ex-ginnery price
Lint                        38,260                  39,695      48,720                   50,545      50,050                  51,925
Cotton /f                   14,150                  14,680      18,020                   18,195      18,510                  19,200
Ginning tax /g                    65                        -          90                       -          85                        -
Ginning factory's margin/h  2,165          0.72        1,560       2,760        0.72        1,990       2,850       0.72         2,050
Import price of seed
cotton at ginnery           11,920                  13,120      15,170                   16,205      15,575                  17,150
Merchant's margin /i           1,000       0.69          690        1,215       0.69          840       1,245       0.69           860
Farm-gate price of seed
cotton /j                   10,920                  12,430      13,955                   15,365      14,330                  16,290
/a  Based on World Bank's commodity price projections, adjusted to 1981 price levels.
/b  Approximately 5%, assuming Thai cotton is grade A and B.
/c  Approximately 1% of the c.i.f. price.
/d  Approximately 1.5% of the c.i.f. price.
/e  Approximately 3.5% of the c.i.f. price.
If  Ginning rate of 33% for lint plus value of seeds and ginning tax.
/g  Approximately 0.5% of the ex-ginnery price of seed cotton.
/h  Approximately 15% of the ex-ginnery price of seed cotton.
/i  Including costs of transport, handling and profit.
/7j Without project. With project situation adds 0.10 B/kg.



THAILAND
LANI REFOPR AREAS PROJFCT
FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC PRICES
Price Structure for Mungbean
(ton)
1981                               1985                               1990
Conversion                         Conversion                         Conversion
Financial    factor    Economic  Financial    factor    Economic  Financial    factor    Economic
f.o.b. Bangkok (baht)      10,500                   10,500    12,050                   12,050    14,300/d                  14,300
Sale and municipal tax /a    230                         -        260                       -        310                        -
Exporter-s margin /b        1,345        0.69          930      1,540       0.69        1,060      1,830        0.69        1,26f0
Merchant-s margin Ic        2,625        0.69        1,810      3,010n      0.69        2,075      3.575        0.69        2,465
Farm-gate price /e          6,300                    7,760      7,240                   8,915      8,585                   10,575
llf
/a Approximately 2.2% of the f.o.b. price.
lb Approximately 13% of the f.o.b. price.
/c Including costs of local assembly, grading, storage and transport to port.
/d Assumed to increase proportionately with the projected price increase for soybeans.
/e Without pro,ject. With project situation adds 0.10 B/kg.
ItD I1I
UDZ 
I4 I'



- 53 -                                               ANNEX 2
Table T6
THAILAND                                               Page 4
LAND REFORM AREAS PROJECT
FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC PRICES
Price Structure for Rice
(ton)
1981                                1985                                1990
Conversion                          Conversion                          Conversion
Financial    factor    Economic  Financial    factor    Economic  Financial    factor    Economic
Export price Thai 5%
broken f.o.b. Bangkok
USS /a                     545                      545        620                       620        635                      635
Baht                    10,900                     ' OqO    12,400                   12,400    12,700                     12,700
Grade differential /b        9,270                     9,270    10,540                    10,540    10,800                    10,800
Port charge                     100                      100        125                      125        150                      150
Rice premium /c                600                         -        600                        -        600                        -
Export duty /d                 435                         -        495                        -        540                        -
Sale and municipal tax /e        10                        -         10                        -         10                        _
Reserve requirement loss/f 1,200           -           1,200      1,275                        -      1,350                        -
Exporter's margin /g           920        0.69           635      1,045        0.69          720      1,070        0.69          735
Wholesaler's margin /h         460        0.69           315        520        0.69          360        540        0.69          370
Ex-mill price of rice        5,545                     7,020     6,470                     9,335      6,540                    9,545
Ex-mill price of paddy /i  4,100                      5,190      4,780                     6,895      4,840                    7,065
Milling tax /j                  100                        -        120                        -        120                         -
Miller's margin /k             560        0.72           400        650        0.72          470        660        0.72          475
Import price of paddy at
mill                       3,440                    4,790      4,010                     6,425      4,060
Merchant's margin /1            420       0.69           290        490        0.69          340        400        0.69          275
Farm-gate price /m           3,020                     4,500     3,520                     6,085      3,660                    6,315
/a  Based on World Bank's commodity price projections, adjusted to 1981 price levels.
Tb  Weighted average price of exported rice is assumed to be 85% of the price of 5% brokens (assuming 48% is 5% brokens
and 52% is 10-45% brokens).
/c  Weighted average as in /b of B 700 for 5% brokens and B 500 for 10-45% brokens.
7T  5% of the f.o.b. price.  Same relationship to the future.
/e  0.1% of the f.o.b.j price.  Same relationship to the future.
7f  Exporters are required to reserve 0.6 ton of special mixed grade of rice for each ton of rice they export and to sell
this rice to the Government at a price about 30% below the market price. This is equivalent to an export tax of about
B 1,200/ton.
/g  Approximately 10% of the f.o.b. price.
/h  Approximately 5% of the f.o.b. price.
/i  Milling rate of 66% plus value of bran and milling tax.
Tj  Approximately 2.5%.  Same relationship to the future.
71k Approximately 14% of paddy output before tax.
!1  Includes transport, handling and profit.  Assumed to be 10% of import price of paddy at the mill.
/m  Without project.  With project situation adds 0.10 B/kg.



THAILAND
LAND REFORM AREAS PROJECT
FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC PRICES
Price Structure for Sorghum
(ton)
1981                              1985                                1990
Conversion                         Conversion                         Conversion
Financial    factor    Economic  Financial    factor    Economic  Financial    factor    Economic
L.o.b. US Gulf Port
No. 2 (US$) /a              153                      153       223                      223       225                      225
Freight and insurance
to Japan                     32                       32        35                       35        40                       40
c.i.f. Japan                  185                      185       258                      258       265                      265   >
Freight and insurance
Bangkok-Japan                17                       17        20                       20        22                       22
f.o.b. Bangkok
US$                         168                      168       238                      238       243                      243
Baht                      3,360                   3,360      4,760                    4,760     4,860                    4,860
Less 5% quality discount   3,190                     3,190     4,520                    4,520     4,615                    4,615
Sale and municipal tax /b      70                        -       100                        -       100                        _
Export's margin /c            415        0.69          285       590        0.69          405        600       0.69          415
Merchant's margin /d          685        0.69          470       950        0.69          655        970       0.69          670
Farm-gate price /e          2,020                    2,435.    2,880                    3,460     2,945                    3,530
/a Based on the World Bank's commodity price projections, adjusted to the 1981 price levels.
7i Approximately 2.2% of the f.o.b. price.
72 Approximately 13% of the f.o.b. price.
72  Including cost of local assembly, grading, storage, transport to port and profit.
7e  Without project.  With project situation adds 0.10 B/kg.
0 i I-
I0IX



THAILAND
LAND REFORM AREAS PROJECT
FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC PRICES
Price Structure for Maize
(ton)
1981                               1985                               1990
Conversion                         Conversion                         Conversion
Financial    factor    Economic  Financial    factor    Economic  Financial    factor    Economic
f.o.b. US Gulf ports,
No. 2 yellow (US$) /a       160                      160       215                      215        220                     220
Freight to and insurance
to Japan                     32                       32        35                       35         40                      40
c.i.f. Japan (US$)             187                     187        250                     250        260                     260
Freight and insurance
Bangkok-Japan                17                       17        20                       20         22                      22
f.o.b. Bangkok
uS$                         175                      175       230                      230        238                     238 @
Baht                      3,500                    3,500     4,600                    4,600      4,750                   4,750
Less 10% quality discount  3,150                     3,150      4,140                   4,140      4,275                   4,275
Sale and municipal taxes /b   70                         -         90                       -         95                        -
Exporter's margin /c           410       0.69          280        540       0.69          370         55        0.69          380
Merchant's margin Td           680       0.69          470        870       0.60          600        895        0.69          615
Farm-gate price /e          1,990                    2,400     2,640                    3,170      2,730                   3,280
/a Based on the World Bank-s commodities price projections, adjusted to 1981 price levels.
7   2.2% of the f.o.b. price.  Same relationship to the future.
77 Approximately 13% of the f.o.b. price.
'7T  Including costs of local assembly, gradings, storage, transport to port and profit.
7e Without project. With project situation adds 0.10 B/kg.
n3 



ANNEX 2
-    -                                                       able T6
Page 7
THAILAND
LAN_ REFORM AREAS PROJECT
Financial and Economic Prices
Summary of Economic and Financial Prices of Project Inputs
lQ81                               1985                                1990
Conversion                         Conversion                          Conversion
Financial    factor    Economic  Financial    factor    Economic  Financial    factor    Economic
Seeds /a (B/kg)
Maize lb                  2.0,12.0      1.21      2.4,14.5   2.6,16.0       1.21      3.1,19.4   2.7-16.5       1.21     3.3-20.0
Cotton                     11.0         1.14       12.5        13.9         1.14      15.8        14.2         1.14       16.2
Mungbean                    6.3         1.23        7.7         7.1         1.23        8.7         8.5         1.23      10.5
Sorghum                     2.0         1.21        2.4         2.8         1.21       3.4         2.9         1.21        3.5
Cassava                     0.585       1.25        0.731       0.570       1.25       0.713       0.530        1.25       0.663
Paddy                       3.0         1.52        4.56        3.4         1.52        5.17        3.6         1.52       5.47
Fertilizer (B/kg)           3.8           0.92        3.5
Agrochemicals (1)                           -
Paddy                     140.0         0.88      123.0                                           140.0        0.88      123.0
Mungbean and sorghum    100.0           0.88       88.0                                           100.0         0.88      88.0
Cotton                    180.0         0.88      158.0                                          180.0         0.88      158.0
Tractor Services (B/hr)
Land Preparation
Paddy                    20.0         0.88       18.0                                           20.0         0.88       18.0
Maize                   200.0         0.88      180.0                                          200.0         0.88      18(.0
Mungbean and
sorghum              160.0         0.88      140.0                                           160.0         0.88      140.0
Cassava                200.0          0.88      180.0                                          200.0         0.88      180.0
Cotton                  180.0         0.88      160.0                                          180.0         0.88      160.0
Threshing
Mungbean and paddy    125.0           0.88      110.0                                           125.0        0.88      110.0
Sorghum                 100.0         0.88      88.0                                           100.0         0.88       88.0
Draft Animals (B/hr)        125.0         1.01      126.0                                           125.0         1.01      126.0
/a  Conversion factor for seeds are the ratios of the economic and financial prices in the crop tables.
Th Prices are for local and improved varieties.



THAILAND
LAND REFORM AREAS PROJECT
Economic Benefits and Costs
(B million)
Benefits                                                    Costs
Production            Passenger              Land              Soil
Maize  Cassava  Rice         vehicle              distri-          conser-  Irriga-  Institutional               Net
Year   area    area    area         cost savings Total  bution   Roads  vation    tion          development   Total  benefits
I     -        -                                  -      1.0       -       0.3       -           22.4        23.7    (23.7)
2     0.3      -       -              -           0.3    5.7       3.8    2.5        -           25.8        37.8    (37.5)
3     1.2      -        0.2           0.2         1.6   10.5      22.4    3.5        6.5         22.8        65.7    (64.1)
4     4.2      -        0.2           1.6         6.0   17.2      28.8    3.1       13.0         11.9        74.0    (68.0)
5    .13.2     -        1.4           3.2        17.8    -        48.8    4.0       13.1         13.9        79.8    (62.0)
6    18.4      0.9      3.4           5.9        28.6    -        15.0    -          -            -          15.0      13.6
7    24.0      3.6      8.6           6.1        42.3    -         2.3    -          -            -           2.3      40.0
8    21.1      4.6    14.8            6.4        46.9    -         6.8    -          -            -           6.8      40.1 1
9    21.2      5.7    19.4            6.6        52.9    -         8.2    -          -            -           8.2      44.7
10    27.8      5.6    21.5            6.9        61.8    -         9.4    -          -            -           9.4      52.4
11    33.1      5.8    22.6            7.2        68.7    -        15.0    -          -            -          15.0      53.7
12    36.4      6.0    23.7            7.5        73.6    -         2.3    -          -            -           2.3      71.3
13    40.1      6.2    24.1            7.8        78.2    -         6.8    -          -            -           6.8      71.4
14    40.9      6.4    24.2            8.1        79.6    -         8.2    -          -            -           8.2      71.4
15    40.9      6.4    24.2            8.4        79.9    -         9.4    -          -            -           9.4      70.5
16    40.9      6.4    24.2            8.7        80.2    -        15.0    -          -            -          15.0      65.2
17    40.9      6.4    24.2            9.1        80.6    -         2.3    -          -            -           2.3      78.3
18    40.9      6.4    24.2            9.4        80.9    -         6.8    -          -            -           6.8      74.1
19    40.9      6.4    24.2            9.8        81.3    -         8.2    -          -            -           8.2      73.1
20    40.9      6.4    24.2           10.2        81.7    -         9.4    -          -            -           9.4      72.3
I-1
NDl



-58 -                                 ANNEX 2
Table T8
Page 1
THAILAND
LAND REFORM AREAS PROJECT
Project Cost Details and Phasing
Land Distribution
(B'000)
Project year
Item                 1         2          3          4       5       Total
Incremental Operating Cost
Salaries                       662    3,972       7,282    11,916       -    23,832
Travel and subsistence         375    2,250      4,125      6,750       -    13,500
Materials                       28       168        308        504      -      1,008
0&M                             85       510        935     1,530       -      3,060
Total                     1,150    6,900    12,650    20,700         -     41,400



THAILAND
LAND REFORM AREAS PROJECT                                              -
Project Cost Details and Phasing
Roads
(km, B'OO0)
Project year
Unit       1           2           3             4             5            Total           FX
Item                            cost  No.  Amt.  No.  Amt.  No.  Amt.   No.  Amt.   No.   Amt.   No.    Amt.    %   Amt.
Village Access
New                            451    -.   -    8  3,608  41  18,491  63  28,413  111  50,061  223  100,573  30  30,172
Rehabilitation                 112    -    -    -        -  27   3,024  20   2,240   29   3,248   76    8,512  30   2,554
Service tracks                   114    -    -    8    912  41   4,674  35   3,990   47   5,358  131   14,934  30   4,480
Petchaboon Access
Crossings                      500    -    -    4  2,000   4   2,000   -            -    -         -    8    4,000  40   1,600
Bridges                        850    -    -    2  1,700   3   2,550   -            -    -         -    5    4,250  60   2,550
Total                         -    -    -    -  8,220   -  30,739   -  34,643    -  58,667    -  132,269  31  41,356
mx
I 3



ANNEX 2
Table T8
Page 3
THAILAND
LAND REFORM AREAS PROJECT
Project Cost Details and Phasing
Soil Conservation
(Amounts in 8'000)
Project year
Unit         1                2                3              4                 5               Total              FX
Item                             cost    No.    Mnt.    No.    kt.    No.    Amt.   No.    amt.              No.    Amt.       No.    Amt.       %      Amt.
LDD
Civil Works
Ditches (km)                  6.5       -        -       1       9       3       20      7       46       11       72       22      147      30       44
Banks ('000 rai) /a            80       -        -  1,600      128  4,000       320 9,200       736  13,200   1,056  28,000   2,240          30      672
Bunds (rai) /b                 20       -        -  1,600       32  4,000        80 9,200       184  13,200       264  28,000       560       -        -
Silt traps (no.)            7,000       -        -       4      28       8       56    18       126       26      182       56      392      30      118
Check structures (no.)        675       -        -    130       88    330       223   730       493   1,050       709   2,240   1,513        30     454
Land levelling (rai)           80       -        -    160       13    400        32   900        72   1,340       107   2,800       224      30       67
Bench terraces (rai)        2,600       -        -       3        8      7       18    16        42       24       62       50      130      30       39
Subtotal                  -       -        -       -      306       -     749      -   1,699         -   2,452         -   5,206       27   1,394
Vehicles & Equ.uipmant
Pickups (no.)                 123       1      123       2     246       3      369      4      492        -        -       10   1,230       65      800
Dumpy levels (no.)             15       2       30       3      45       6       90      5       75        -        -       16      240      80      192
Survey equipment (sets)    4.5          2        9       3       14      6       27      5       23        -        -       16       73      80       58
Subtotal                       -       -      162      -      305       -      486      -      590        -        -        -   1,543       68   1,050
Incremental Operating Cost
Salaries (LS)                   -       -        -       -      82       -      206      -      454        -      648        -   1,390        -        -
Travel subsistence (LS)         -       -        -       -       26      -       65      -      143        -      208        -      442       -        -
8O&M (LS)                       -       -        -       -       16       -      39      -       81        -      125        -      261      60      157
Subtotal                       -       -        -       -     124       -      310      -      678        -      981        -   2,093        8      157
Total                          -       -      162       -     735       -   1,545       -   2,967         -   3,433         -   8,842       29   2,601
DAE
'Vehicles & Equipment
Pickups (no.)                 123       5      615       -        -      -        -      -        -        -        -        5      615      50      308
Survey equipment (sets)    4.5          5       23       -        -       -       -      -        -        -        -        5       23      80       18
Subtotal                       -       -     638        -        -      -        -      -        -        -        -        -      638      51      326
Increm aentalOperating Costs
Salaries (tS)J                  -       -      194      -      194       -      194      -      194        -      194        -      970       -        -
Travel subsistence (LS)         -       -      125       -     125       -      125      -      125        -      125        -      625       -
0&M (LS)                        -       -'      65       -       65       -      65      -       65        -       65        -      325      80      260
Subtotal                        -       -      384       -     384       -      384      -      384        -      384        -   1,920       14      260
Total                           -       -   1,022        -      384       -     384      -      384        -      384        -   2,558       23      586
GRAND TOTAL                     -       -   1,184        -   1,119       -   1,929       -   3,351         -   3,817         -  11,400       28   3,187
/a  B 3.2/m, 25 m/rai.
7b  B 4/m. 5 m/rai.
/c Five soil conservationists.



THAILAND
LAND REFORM AREAS PROJECT
Project Cost Details and Phasing
Irrigation
(Amounts in B'000)
Project year
Unit      1           2            3            4              5           Total          FX
ltem                   cost  No.  Amt.  No.  Amt.  No.   Amt.  No.   Amt.   No.   Amt.   No.   Amt.    %   Amt.
Rock Weirs
Materials              4.9   -    -      4    20      9      44   26      127   35      172   74      363  10        36
Pumps                15.7   -    _    24   377    54    848  156   2,449  210   3,297  444   6,971  40   2,788
Total             20.6   -    -      -   397       -    892    -   2,576    -   3,469    -   7,334  39   2,824
Tubewells
Construction         25.2   -    -       -      -   100  2,520  200   5,040  200   5,040  500  12,600  30   3,780
Pumps                39.2   -    -       _     -   100  3,920  200   7,840  200   7,840  500  19,600  40   7,840
Total             64.4   _-       -         -      -  6,440    -  12,880    -  12,880    -  32,200  36  11,620
GRAND TOTAL           -     -     -       397      -               157,456    -  16,349    -  39,534  37  14,444
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~O    a-
mt1 
Hf'D 
4-N



THAILAND
LAND REFORM AREAS PROJECT
Project Cost Details and Phasing
Water Supply, Schools and Health Centers
(Amounts in B'000)
Project year
Unit       1           2          3           4           5          Total           FX
Item             cost  No.  Amt.  No.  Amt.  No.  Amt.  No.  Amt.  No.  Amt.  No.   Amt.    %   Ant.
Water Supply
uwe',''t'lls /a  11   -    -     5    5.5  13    143  32    352  80    880  130   1.430  10    143                            
whewells       93   -    -       -     -    4    372   5    465  11  1,023   20   1,860  30    558
'ota1          -   -    -      -    55    -    515   -    817   -  1,903    -   3,290  21    701
Sclhools /b
Schoolrooms    342   -    -       2   684   13  4,446  37 12,654  63 21,546  115  39,330  25  9,833
Health Centers/b 794   -    -        1   794    2  1,588   4  3,176   3  2,382   10   7,940  25  1,985
/a Materials cost.
/b Including equipment and staff housing.
00Ir z 
m >4
0o.



-63 -                                ANNEX 2
Table T8
Page 6
THAILAND
LAND REFORM AREAS PROJECT
Project Cost Details and Phasing
Institutional Development (ALRO)
(B'000)
Project year                               FX
Item                     1        2        3       4        5      Total   %    Amt.
Incremental Current
Cost
Staff                2,323   3,200   3,921   4,115   4,258   17,817   -            -
Travel                 802   1,276   1,690   1,805   1,889    7,462   -            -
Materials               100     200      250     300      300    1,150   -         -
Operation & main-
tenance              835   1,475   2,200   2,445   2,640    9,595  63   6,045
Total             4,060   6,151   8,061   8,665   9,087   36,024  17   6,045
Capital Cost
Training             1,255   1,005       250        -       -    2,510  40   1,007
Consultants         14,888  19,162  13,887   3,589   6,135   57,661  39  22,379
Vehicles             2,397   1,848   3,236   1,097        974    9,552  58   5,534
Equipment            7,603      616      486      73       73    8,851  77   6,853
Buildings            5,535   2,690   1,345         -        -    9,570  25   2,421
Total            31,678  25,321  19,204   4,759   7,182   88,144  43  38,194
GRAND TOTAL      35,738  31,472  27,265  13,424  162269  124,168  36  44,239



- 64 -
ANNEX 2
Table T9
THAILAND
LAND REFORM AREAS PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
t                              ~~~~~~~~~~(IJS $000)
Bank fiscal year and semester                                  Cumulative disbursement
FY83 - 2nd semester                                                     100
FY84 - 1st semester                                                     700
- 2nd semester                                                  1,300
FY85 - 1st semester                                                   2,400
- 2nd semester                                                  3,500
FY86 - 1st semester                                                   5,200
- 2nd semester                                                  7,100
FY87 - 1st semester                                                   9,200
- 2nd semester                                                 11,500
FY88 - 1st semester                                                  13,900
- 2nd semester                                                 16,000
FY89 - 1st semester                                                  17,000



- 65 -
ANNEX 2
THAI LAND                                                          Chart Cl
LAND REFORM AREAS PROJECT
Implementation Schedule
PROJECT YEAR
AGENCY         ITEM AND SUB-ITEM                               1                 2                 3                 4       S        5
- ~~~ -   -   _ _                                            _   t-    -                   
ALRO         LAND DISTRIBUTION
Community Studies                                                        m  in
Socioeconomic Survey
Census and Cadastral Survey                    D
Negotiation of Land Transfer
Cadastral Revision and Boundary Marking   a        E        D                                          mm
Issuance of Land Use Certificates                                                        Y
ALRO         ROADS                                        I
Planning and Design         l       i               -
Construction
LDD/DAE        SOIL CONSERVATION
Planning and Design -|
Construction
ALRO/BAAC       IRRIGATION
Planning and Design                        _ -
Construction
ALRO         WATER SUPPLY
Planning and Design                        m      I 1        - i.
Construction
MOE   SCHOOLS                                ~
Planning and Design                    m  miinn
Construction
MOPH          HEALTH CENTERS
Planning and Design -
Construction
ALRO          INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT
Planning
Training                               -   -   -   -   -   -   -
Consultant Recruitment and Services                      -                -
Procurement                                              -                -                                            _ _
Monitoring- - -- - - -                                                             -        n        -        - -          -
-                                                                                                      a.t ...:VII    -   -   B              22a
World Bank -22982



THAI LAND
LAND REFORM AREAS PROJECT
Organization of Agricultural Land Reform Office
Agricultural Land Reform Committee
MOAC Minister
Agricultural Land Reform Office
Secretary General
0%
| Deputy Secretary    ll                                   Deputy Secretary l
|General, Agricultural |lGeneral, Engineeringl
.oegnonProject        Research and Planning    f Land Reform Fund                  Oerations                     Legal                Office of the Secretary
Ofice                    Division                    Division                    Division                    Division
Pro vncial                                                                                          . 
Offices0 
(32)                                                                                                                                                         Worki Bank-23005           rt X
World Bmnk-23005           r-t >4
Ni



ANNEX 2
67  -Chart C3
THAILAND
LAND REFORM AREAS PROJECT
Project Committee Structure
CHAIRMAN                     MEMBERS                    SECRETARY
Project                    MOAC                      Directors and                   Project
Executive                U ndersecretary                Secretaries                  Director
Committee                                                 General
Project                     Project                     Division                     Project
Coordinating                  Director                      Chiefs                     Manager
Committee
Prorict                     Project                     Division                     FLPO
Working                     Manager                  ReDresentatives                 Manager
Commi ttee
Pject PrProvincial                                                                   Project
Field Working               Project Field                and District                  Assistant
Committee                    Manager                  Representatives               Field Manager
World Bank-23004



-  158 -                                                ANNEX  2
Chart C4
THAI LAND
LAND REFORM AREAS PROJECT
ALRO Project Organizational Structure
LP        Project
Director
Consultants                   Specialist                 Foreign Loan                    Project
Advisors                  Project Office                  Manager
|                                       Project
-  -  -  -  -  -  -  -                   Field
I                            ~~~~~~~~Manager
I                                       V
I  .                          ~~~~~~~~~Projiect
__      _      _      _            Assistant
E  J                                  Field Manager
I
L      -                                  F ield
Staff
World Bank-23003



- 69 -
ANNEX 2
Chart C5
THAI LAND
LAND REFORM AREAS PROJECT
TYPICAL ROAD CROSS SECTIONS
10.00
_  1.00-_                           _1.00_ _
EXISTING GROUND ELEVATION
_0.15 M (LATERITE OR SOIL AGGREGATE)
VI LLAGE ACCESS ROAD
10.00 RIGHT OF WAY
__1.00_               4 00        -    1 00--
EXISTING GROUND ELEVATION
MATERIAL CUT FROM SIDE DRAINS
AND TOPPED WITH SELECTED FILL MATERIAL
SERVICE TRACK
World Bank - 22846



THAI LAND
LAND REFORM AREAS PROJECT
ROCK CAUSEWAY CROSS SECTION
MORTAR SURFACE
JOINTSP                                         OCOI
\                                          b         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MORTAR SURFACE JOINTS
\                                                  / ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(PROVIDE WEEP HOLES
~~~~~~~~~~~~CROSS SECTIO
1.0'~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
STREAM BED
-PLACED ROCK FILL
C B
CROSS SECTION                                                              ">
World Bank -22847



THAI LAND
LAND REFORM AREAS PROJECT
ROCK WEIR CROSS SECTION
1.00           1.00      -    1.00
TIMBER FRAME
CRIBS                                                                                            F .    LOW
SET UPSTREAM       .>~40
COURSES IN MORTAR  l     E                 w4.00                                                                                       F
STREAM BED
/ Z ~PLACED ROCK
DRIVEN TIMBER STAKES                                                                   World Bank -22848
.12



72 -                                             ANNEX 2
Chart C8
THAI LAND
LAND REFORM AREAS PROJECT
TUBEWELL 'CROSS SECTION
DELSVERY I; L
W BX
.st;      ;*,STEEL WELL    ,f,    X   /,   _.. ',
t;_STAINLE5sS.,.     e
'.,'STEEL SCF:EEN                *;   ,-*,'.       l p
^ . ' -  , ' !]           GRAVEL PACK    '
World Bank -22959



73 -                                     ANNEX 2
ChFartC9
THAI LAND
LAND REFORM AREAS PROJECT
DUGWELL CROSS SECTION
CONCRETE RINGS
CONCRETE                            M    CONCRETEPLUGR
APRON         ----                                   GROUWND
L                  <                 ~~~~~~~~~~~LEVEL
A;~~~~~~~ ID0
, * ./ t , O o < u o [,,PERFORATED /
P  ,;   - hsi    O   s  o    o    10  ' .DEPTH  OF  ...................
f; , *, * @  s ;85        o ot QO j  :f:AQUIFER,:'-
: .^  ',; , ;:,' ., '  ,   ,t, * MASS CONCRETE PLUG. 
VVorld Bank -23047



ANNEX 3
- 74 -
THAILAND
LAND RE]FORM AREAS PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
A. Selected Reports and Studies on the Sector and Subsector
A.1   World Bank, Thailand: Toward a Development Strategy of Full
Participation, May 5, 1978.
A.2   World Bank, Thailand: Coping with Structural Change in a
Dynamic Economy, December 1980.
A.3   World Bank, Thailand: Agricultural Development Strategy Review,
November 25, 1980.
B. Selected Reports and Studies Relating to the Project
B.1   Richard Sandler, Pilot Projects in Land Reform Areas, March 1979.
B.2   Agricultural Land Reform Office and FAO/IBRD Cooperative
Programme, Land Reform Areas Development Project, October 1980.
C. Selected Working Papers
C.1   Land Distribution
C.2   Roads
C.3   Agriculture
C.4   Social Infrastructure
C.5   Economic Analysis



.ELP O9SA   -<               C
-200'> flA 'i> <                                     f                                                    1    6 bTHA LA'D 
V     Lit /:< g          <  S      -             -'      ,f                                              \ ) 4       SAM          (
0       <472 >yti<:N                   j( 8,  'XLAO  PEOPLE'S DEM. REP                                        :         r
!                >
-160          0\;78-40                             <                (' 4t  0LNAA   5  0' 
V  h    LAYARNBAAf$IN>  ~~~~                                        To
N' J0NIS' A  0t<j  S  (E .,0SX\, R :
Ito                      N'          4; ,1 4N%(t,                                                                             OONSA ._\ _1  5 IIOAPORE
S?'7              NO-N4-                   LJ*Iaod'g gN XX                                                                      -        0;;f
,,,C',,.                 I   PAuAhoRAai     hr
14"~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.
v~~ ~ ' '  ''' 't'NA                             HONSA  AN'                                         N'          Sho'         3
Ph.           tr   -                                                  CO-o) '                     4.
-10 ~        ~~~~~~~  lv                                                   Nakiofl          K   4ariflao4            .S             / oS!_ 
CJTA 2%          s      .          NAKO>       ACAIAr
/~~~~~Sra 40, V7                   *1 r   AsODEIRATHAM 0         1        2.-                                                >
11 -,5,0 -OUH                 Pr-a      cOo _-i                                       DEMOCRATIC-,
r ., .'"T 'f         t   iTa mr
16~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~41
P XhuW LnE                          ,~  ROJECTQAREAS
000550e = OTHER L AND SUIT                     $OR 0         K
h t t > ( > _._ INT~~~~~~~~~~ERTIONALiOUO0RS                                                          S
-14-                          j~~~~~~~~~~~  Th,I,, ~ o S RA LII                                                                                         O
7j-   N.kh.   -   N-1h.bu ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~      ~     ~     ~    ~     "' 
N                                  NAN-ION RATORASIMANGK
ARVION HATODEMOCORAMA
P-h- Kh,-                                                         TAIAN
40                                                                                                               LAN   REFORM  ARA   PROEC   60       tf-aa 
'Tnanq                                                                 N. OROCECTRAREA
NAKHON SAWIN ~ ~ ~     ~     ~     ~     REEVD OET ADSLNAREFR DILITA
-lo,                                 6 SARABURI~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~TERAD UTBL  ORARCOTR
55  104 MILES                           V                  onoEooaStT
O                 A~~~~~~~\   ~~~~~   ~~~  ' ~                 ~     ~    ~     LA D REFIONAL RNARIEAS               P OE T
f   <~~~\     N                -   -   INTEROATIONA  BOUNDARIJEST   'REAS
N   LAy~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EEVDFOETLN
445 10                  20000  KU140                                                                                                                       -
I                  SRILAY



