CI       LOAN NUMBER 2198 Til
Loan Agreement
(Land Reform Areac Project),
between
KINGDOM OF THAILAND
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated                        ,p'     1982


﻿LOAN NUMBER 2198 TH
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                            , 1982, between
KINGDOM OF THAILAND (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTER-
NATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter
called the Bank).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Gua-
rantee Agreements of the Bank, dated October 27, 1980, with the
same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agree-
ments of the Bank being hereinafter called the General Condi-
tions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the Gen-
eral Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following adlitional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "ALRO" means the Agricultural Land Reform Office within
the Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives of the Borrower;
(b) "DOH" means the Department of Health within the Minis-
try of Public Health of the Borrower;
(c) "ONPEC" means the Office of National Primary Education
Commission within the Ministry of Education of the Borrower;
(d) "LDD" means the Land Development Department within the
Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives of the Borrower;
(e) "DAE" means the Department of Agricultural Extension
within the Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives of the Bor-
rower;
(f) "Implementing Agencies" means ALRO, DOH, ONPEC, LDD and
DAE collectively;
(g) "BAAC" means the Bank for Agriculture and Agricultural
Cooperatives established pursuant to the Borrower's Bank for


﻿-2-
Agriculture and Agricultural Coope atives Act, B.E. 2509 (1966);
and
(h) "Project Area" means the area encompassing the nine
land reform areas specified in Schedule 5 to the Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or
referred to, an aount in various currencies equivalent to seven-
teen million dollars ($17,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for expendi-
tures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, pro-
curement of the goods and civil works to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1988 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commit-
ment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn
from time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate of
eleven and three-fifths per cent (11-3/5%) per annum on the prin-
cipal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on May 1 and November 1 in each year.


﻿-3-
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set
forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out the Project
through the Implementing Agencies with due diligence and effi-
ciency and in conformity with appropriate agricultural, admin-
istrative and financial practices, and shall provide, promptly as
needed,  the  staff, funds,   facilities, services   and  other
resources required for the purpose.
(b) Without limitation to the generality of paragraph (a)
above, the Borrower shall cause ALRO to carry out Part A of the
Project and the other Implementing Agencies to assist ALRO as
follows:
(i) LDD and DAE, in the carrying out of Part A.4;
(ii) ONPEC, in the carrying out of Part A7; and
(iii) DOH, in the carrying out of Part A.8.
(c) Without limitation to the generality of paragraph (a)
above, the Borrower shall cause ALRO to employ at all times: (i)
a Project Manager whose powers, responsibilities, qualifications
and experience shall be satisfactory to the Bank; and (ii)
qualified and experienced personnel in sufficient numbers to
enable ALRO to carry out Part A of the Project, substantially in
accordance with Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall:
(a) cause ALRO: (i) to prepare and furnish to the Bank, for
its approval, a set of measures (hereinafter called ALRO's
Guidelines) to be applied in the carrying out of Part A of the
Project, including inter alia the criteria for appraisal of
sub-projects, land reform parameters and procedures and road
design standards; and (ii) upon the Bank's approval thereof, to
carry out said Part A of the Project substantially in accordance
with ALRO's Guidelines, and the Borrower shall not change or
permit any change to be made in said Guidelines without prior
approval of the Bank; and


﻿(b) cause the other Implementing Agencies to carry out
their respective participation in the Project in accordance with
plans, schedules and other arrangements as specified in a written
agreement, satisfactory to the Bank, to be entered into between
ALRO and each Implementing Agency.
Section 3.03. (a) In order to assist the Borrower in carry-
ing out the Project, the Borrower shall etiploy or cause the
Implementing Agencies to employ consultants whose selection,
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment
shall be satisfactory to t i Bank in accordance with the princi-
ples and procedures described in the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as
Executing Agency", published by the Bank in August 1981.
(b) Without in any way limiting the generality of paragraph
(a) above, the Borrower shall cause ALRO to employ:
(i) not lateL than January 31, 1983, consultants to
assist in the design of a monitoring and evalua-
tion system and to undertake the evaluation of the
Project; and
(ii) not later than December 31, 1983, consultants for
a study of its organizational structure and
procedures.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall:
(a) cause ALRO to complete and furnish to the Bank, for its
comments, not later than May 31, 1983, the monitoring and
evaluation system referred to in Section 3.03 (b) (i) above; and
(b) (i) cause ALRO to furnish to the Bank, not later than
December 31, 1984, a copy of the study referred to in Section
3.03 (b) (ii) above and ALRO's proposals with respect to the
findings thereof, and (ii) thereafter carry out or cause ALRO to
carry out such measures as the Borrower, ALRO and the Bank may
agree on the basis of such proposals.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall cause BAAC to meet
adequately the reasonable credit needs of farmers under the
Project.


﻿-5-
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall establish by January 31,
1983, and thereafter maintain and operate the following commit-
tees, with membership, powers and responsibilities satisfactory
to the Bank: a Project Executive Committee, a Project Coordina-
tion Committee, a Project Working Committee and, in each of the
seven provinces in which the nine land reform areas are located,
a Project Field Working Committee.
Section 3.07. (a) The Borrower shall insure or cause the
Implementing Agencies to insure, or make adequate provision for
the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan against hazards incident to the acquisition,
transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or
installation, and for such insurance any indemnity shall be pay-
able in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to replace or
repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.08. (a) The Borrower shall cause the Implementing
Agencies to furnish to the Bank, promptly upon their preparation,
the plans, specifications, reports, contract documents and work
and procurement schedules for the Project, and any material modi-
fications thereof o- additions thereto, in such detail as the
Bank shall reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower shall cause the Implementing Agencies to:
(i) maintain records and procedures adequate to record and moni-
tor the progress of the Project (including its cost and the bene-
fits to be derived from it), to identify the goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, and to disclose their
use in the Project; (ii) enable the Bank's accredited representa-
tives to visit the facilities and construction sites included in
the Project and to examine the goods financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan and any relevant records and documents; and (iii)
furnish to the Bank at regular intervals all such information as
the Bank shall reasonably request concerning the Project, its
cost and, where appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it,
the expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan and the goods and
services financed out of such proceeds.
(c) Upon the award by the Borrower of any contract for
goods or services to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan,


﻿-6-
the Bank may publish a description thereof, the name and nation-
ality of the party to whom the contract was awarded and the con-
tract price.
(d) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Bank, the Borrower slaall, or shall cause ALRO to,  pre-
pare and furnish to the Bank a report, of such scope and in such
detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, on the execution and
initial operation of the Project, its cost and the benefits
derived and to be derived from it, the performance by the Bor-
rower and the Bank of their respective obligations under the Loan
Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan.
Section 3.09. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken
all such action as shall be necessary to acquire as and when
needed all such land and rights in respect of land as shall be
required for carrying out the Project and shall furnish to the
Bank, promptly after such acquisition, evidence satisfactory to
the Bank that such land and rights in respect of land are avail-
able for purposes related to the Project.
Section 3.10. Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall cause ALRO to: (i) furnish to the Bank for its
concurrence sub-projects proposals for the nine land reform
areas; and (ii) implement such sub-projects taking into account
any modifications thereof or additions thereto that the Bank may
propose.
Section 3.11. In order to carry out Part B of the Project,
the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank for its approval proposals
for the: (i) agricultural sector and sub-sector studies; (ii)
strengthening of the project preparation capacity of selected
agencies of the Borrower; and (iii) preparation of future proj-
ects suitable for international financing.
Section 3.12. (a) The Borrower specifically undertakes that
reclassification of all nine land reform areas, referred to in
Schedule 5 to this Agreement, as land lying outside the national
reserved forest, in accordance with Article 7 of the National
Forest Reserve Act BE 2507 (1964), will be carried out not later
than the following dates:
(i) Petchaboon, by December 31, 1982;


﻿-7-
(ii) Chiang Rai, Pichit and Nakhon Sawan, by September
30, 1983;
(iii) Lopburi and Saraburi, by September 30, 1984; and
(iv) Nakhon Ratchasima, (I, II and III) by Septem-
ber 30, 1985.
(b) The Borrower shall ensure that all nine land reform
areas will be fully integrated into the provincial administration
of the Borrower promptly upon completion of the development of
each area.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in
normal circumstances, special security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority
over its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of
foreign exchange held under the control or for the benefit of
such member. To that end, if any lien shall be created on any
public assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for any
external debt, which will or might result in a priority for the
benefit of the creditor of such external debt in the allocation,
realization or distribution of foreign exchange, such lien shall,
unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso facto and at no cost
to the Bank, equally and ra&ably secure the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the Borrower, in
creating or permitting the creation of such lien, shall make
express provision to that effect; provided, however, that, if for
any constitutional or other legal reason such provision cannot be
made with respect to any lien created on assets of any of its
political or administrative subdivisions, the Borrower shall
promptly and at no cost to the Bank secure the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan by an equivalent lien on
other public assets satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely
as security for payment of the purchase price of such property or
as security for the payment of debt incurred for the purpose of


﻿-8-
financing the purchase of such property; and (ii) any lien aris-
ing in the ordinary course of banking transactions and securing a
debt maturing not more than one year after its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets" means
assets of the Borrower, of any political or administrative sub-
division thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by, or
operating for the account or benefit of, the Borrower or any such
subdivision, including gold and foreign exchange assets held by
any institution perfotming the functions of a central bank or
exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions, for the Bor-
rower.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records adequate to reflect in accordance with con-
sistently maintained sound accounting practices the operations,
resources and expenditures, in respect of the Project, of the
Implementing Agencies.
(b) The Borrower shall cause the Implementing Agencies to:
(i) have their accounts and financial statements of receipts and
expenditures in respect of the Project for each fiscal year
audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles con-
sistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Bank; (ii) furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any
case not later than nine months after the end of each such year,
(A) certified copies of the financial statements for such year as
so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of
such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
requested; and (iii) furnish to the Bank such other information
concerning the accounts and financial statements and the audit
thereof as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall maintain or cause the
Implementing Agencies to maintain the facilities constructed
under the Project in accordance with sound engineering and main-
tenance practices, and shall provide or cause to be provided all
funds and facilities required for the purpose.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement


﻿-9-
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Condi-
tions:
(a) BAAC has entered into a written agreement with ALR0 on
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, providing for -AAC
arrangements for extending credit to the farmers in the Project
Area;
(b) the Bank has approved ALRO's Guidelines referred to in
Section 3.02 (a) (i) hereof;
(c) the following consultants have been employed by ALRO
pursuant to Section 3.03 (a) hereof; a rural development econo-
mist, an agriculturalist/soil conservationist, and a rural works
engineer; and
(d) the Petchaboon land reform area has been reclassified
pursuant to Section 3.12 (a) (i) hereof.
Section 5.02. The dateQe444vAA   029 /IK2, is hereby speci-
fied for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following address s are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Bangkok 2, Thailand
Cable address:                    Telex:
MINANCE                         82823 MINANCE-TH
Bangkok


﻿- 10 -
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction an,d Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                    Telex:
INTBAFRAD                        440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                 248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
KINGDOM OF THAILAND
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By4       f
Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated         % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category                Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) ALRO-Part A
of the Project
(a) Civil works              7,180,000       85%
(b) Equipment,                 700,000        100% of for-
vehicles and                             eign expendi-
construction                             tures; or
materials                                100% of local
expenditures
(ex-factory)
or 65%
(c) Consultants'             3,490,000        100%
services,
training and data
processing
(2) LDD-Part A of the Project
(a) Civil works                260,000        85%
(b) Equipment                   60,000        100% of for-
and vehicles                             eign expendi-
tures; or
100% of local
expenditures
(ex-factory);
or 65%


﻿- 12 -
Amount of the
Loan Allocated         %of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category                Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(3) DAE-Part A of the Project
Equipment and vehicles          30,000        100% of
foreign
expenditures;
or 100% of
local expendi-
tures (ex-
factory); or
65%
(4) ONPEC-Part A of the Project
(a) Civil works              1,450,000       85%
(b) Equipment                  370,000       100% of for-
eign expendi-
tures; or
100% of local
expenditures
(ex-factory);
or 65%
(5) DOH-Part A of the Project
(a) Civil works                290,000       85%
(b) Equipment                   70,000       100% of for-
eign expendi-
tures; or
100% of local
expenditures
(ex-factory);
or 65%
(6) Part,B of the Project
(a) Civil works                100,000       85%


﻿- 13 -
Amount of the
Loan Allocated        % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category               Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(b) Equipment                 200,000        100% of for-
and vehicles                            eign expendi-
tures; or 100%
of local ex-
penditures
ex-factory);
or 65%
(c) Consultants'            1,100,000        100%
services,
training and
data processing
(7) Unallocated                  1,700,000
TOTAL        17,000,000
2.. For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for goods
or services supplied from the territory of any country other than
the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The  disbursement  percentages  have, been  calculated  in
compliance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the
Loan shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or
on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof;
to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in
respect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan decreases or increases, the Bank may, by notice to the
Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such item as required to be consistent with the
aforementioned policy of the Bank.


﻿- 14 -
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
(a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of
this Agreement;
(b) payments made for expenditures in respect of any
Implementing Agency, until such Implementing Agency shall have
entered into a written agreement with ALRO pursuant to Section
3.02 (b) of the Loan Agreement providing for the terms of said
Implementing Agency's participation in the Project; and
(c) payments made for civil works expenditures in respect
of any land reform area, until such land reform area shall have
been reclassified pursuant to Section 3.12 (a) of the Loan
Agreement.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph
1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the amount of
the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insufficient to
finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that Cate-
gory, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate to
such Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated
shortfall, proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated to
another Category and which in the opinion of the Bank are not
needed to meet other expenditures, and (ii) if such reallocation
cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the disburse-
ment percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order
that further withdrawals under such Category may continue until
all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the pro-
curement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expend-
itures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting or limiting
any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under the Loan
Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of the
Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents the amount
of such expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for
financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 15 -
SCMEDUE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is designed to assist the Borrower in carrying
out a land reform program in the Project Area and in strengthen-
ing the Borrower's capacity for the preparation of future proj-
ects in agriculture and rural development. The Project consists
of the following parts:
Part A:   Land Reform and Development    The provision of staff,
vehicles, equipment, materials, civil works, training,
and consultants and data processing services for the
carrying out of the following:
(1) Expansion of ALRO's capacity to carry out its central
role of land reform through the introduction of a sub-
project approach, the strengthening of its mapping
capability, the establishment of a monitoring and eval-
uation system, the undertaking of land reform studies
and the carrying out of a study of its organizational
structure and procedures.
(2) The carrying out of land reform, including land distri-
bution and improved security of tenure in about 173,000
ha.
(3) Construction, rehabilitation and maintenance of about
300 km of village access roads and about 130 km of ser-
vice tracks.
(4) Introduction of soil conservation structures and prac-
tices on about 4500 ha.
(5) Extension of the irrigated area through the construc-
tion of about 75 small weirs and the drilling of about
500 shallow tubewells.
(6) Expansion of the water supply system through the con-
struction of about 130 dugwells and the drilling of
about 20 tubewells..
(7) Expansion of the education system through the construc-
tion of about 115 schoolrooms.


﻿- 16 -
(8) Improvement of the health delivery system through the
construction of about 10 health centers.
Part B:   Agriculture and Rural Development: Sector Studies and
Project Preparation
(1) The carrying    out of sector and subsector     studies
through the provision of consultants' services.
(2) Strengthening   the  project  preparation  capacity  of
selected agencies through the provision of vehicles,
equipment, materials, minor civil works, training and
consultants and data processing services therefor.
(3) Preparation, through    the provision  of consultants'
services, of future projects by selected agencies.
The Project is expected to be completed by March 31, 1988.


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (expressed in dollars)*
On each May 1 and November 1
beginning May 1, 1989
through   May 1, 2007                        445,000
On November 1, 2007                               535,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a
currency other than dollars (see General Conditions, Section
4.04), the figures in this column represent dollar equiva-
lents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 18 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums pay-
able on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the
principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the
General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                         Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                             1.40%
More than three years but not
more than six years before
maturity                                    2.80%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                             5.10%
More than eleven years but not
more than sixteen years
before maturity                             7.40%
More than sixteen years but not
more than twenty-one years
before maturity                             9.75%
More than twenty-one years but
not more than twenty-three
years before maturity                       10.65%
More than twenty-three years
before maturity                             11.60%


﻿- 19 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   General Procedures
1.   Except as provided in Part A.2 hereof, goods and civil works
shall be let on the basis of competitive bidding advertised
locally under procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
2.   Equipment, vehicles and materials and contracts for civil
works, each estimated to cost the equivalent of $20,000 or less,
up to an aggregate amount of $700,000 equivalent, may be procured
through prudent shopping on the basis of at least three price
quotations wherever possible.
B.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   Review of invitLIins to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to contracts for goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of $100,000 or more and contracts for civil works
estimated to cost the equivalent of $300,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid
and the specifications and other bidding documents, together with
a description of the advertising procedures to be followed for
the bidding, and- shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request. Any
further modification to the bidding documents shall require the
Bank'..; concurrence before it is issued to the prospective
bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Bank of the,name of the bidder to which it intends to award
the contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time
for its review, a detailed report on the evaluation and compari-
son of the bids received, and such other information as the Bank
shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that
the intended award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines or
this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons
for such determination.


﻿- 20 -
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those on
which bids were asked.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the submis-
sion to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of funds
from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after
its execution and prior to the submission to the Bank of the
first application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account
in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such con-
tract, together with the analysis of the respective bids, recom-
mendations for award and such other information as the Bank shall
reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the
award of the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines or
this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons
for such determination.
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or issu-
ing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 15% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform
the Bank of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or
change order and the reasons therefor. The Bank, if it determines
that the proposal would be inconsistent with the provisions of
this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower and state the
reasons for its determination.


﻿- 21 -
SCHEDULE 5
Project Area
Land
reform                             Total            Agricultural
areas              Region           area               area
(ha)                (ha)
Petchaboon         North           13,000            12,300
Chiang Rai         North            4,000              3,700
Pichit             North           56,000             51,200
Nakhon Sawan       North           24,000            21,400
Lopburi            Central         35,000            32,700
Saraburi           Central         31,000            29,300
Nakhon
Ratchasims I      Northeast        4,000)
Nakhon                                   )
Ratchasima II     Northeast       18,000)           22,400
Nakhon                                   )
Ratchasima III    Northeast        7,000)
Total                         192,000            173,000


﻿- 22 -
SCHEDULE 6
Staffing of ALRO
Project year
Position and grade
1    2    3    4    5
Operations Division
Engineering supervisor (PC6)              1    1    1    1   1
Foreign Loan Project Office
Chief (PC6)                               1    1    1   1    1
Assistant chief (PC5)                     1    1    1   1    1
Land distribution officer (PC5/PC4)       1    1    1   1    1
Agriculturalist (PC5/PC4)                 1    1    1   1    1
Soil conservationist (PC5/PC4)            1    1   1    1    1
Credit officer (PC5/PC4)                  1    1   1    1    1
Engineer (PC5/PC4)                        1    1    1   1    1
Education/health officer (PC5/PC4)        1    1    1   1    1
Economist (PC5/PC4)                       1    1    1   1    1
Finance officer (PC5/PC4)                 1    1    1   1    1
Accountant (PC5/PC4)                      1    1    1   1    1
Clerk (PC2)                               2   2    2    2    2
Typist (PC2)                              2    2    2   2    2
Driver (UG)                               4    4   4    4    4
Subtotal                               19   19   19  19   19
Mapping Unit
Mapping technicians (PC3)                 8    8    8   8    8
Field Offices
Assistant field project
managers (PC5)                          3    5    6    6   6
Land distribution officers (PC5/PC4)      3    5   6    6    6
Agriculturalists (PC5/PC4)                3    5    6   6    6
Engineers (PC5/PC4)                       -    1   3    5    6
Surveyors (PC5/PC4)                       3    5   6    6    6
Surveyors (PC2)                           3    5   6    6    6


﻿- 23 -
SCHEDULE 6
Staffing of ALRO
Project year
Position and grade                             Project_year
1    2    3    4    5
Clerks (PC2)                             3    5    6    6    6
Typists (PC2)                             3    5   6    6    6
Drivers (UG)                              6   11   15  16   17
Vehicle operators (UG)                    -    2   8    10  12
Janitors (UG)                             3    5   6    6    6
Laborers (UG)                             -    2    8  10   12
Subtotal                               30   56  82   89   95
Total                                  58   84  110  117 123


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Intern a-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this  o.4t    day of  9a1 , 198   .
FOR SECRETARY


