Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 14762
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
HIGHER EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2944-IND)
JUNE 30, 1995
Population and Human Resources Operations Division
Country Department III
East Asia and Pacific
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Rupiah
At Appraisal in 1988
US$1.00 = Rp. 1,660
Rp. million = US$602
Annual Average
1989         1990         1991         1992         1993
1,770        1,843        1,950        2,030        2,080
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
ABBREVIATIONS
APHE              -  Action Plan for Higher Education
BAPPENAS          -  National Development Planning Agency
CPIU              -  Central Project Implementation Unit
DGHE              -  Directorate General of Higher Education
DIP               -  Development Budget
GOI               -  Government of Indonesia
HEDP              -  Higher Education Development Project
HEMES             -  Higher Education Monitoring and Evaluation System
HEPG              -  Higher Education Program Guidelines
MES               -  Monitoring and Evaluation System
MIS               -  Management Information System
MOEC              -  Ministry of Education and Culture
MOF               -  Ministry of Finance
PCR               -  Project Completion Report
PEDC              -  Polytechnic Education Development Center
PIU               -  Project Implementation Unit
PPI               -  Accelerated Engineering Program
PTN               -  Public Higher Education Institution
Repelita          -  National Five-Year Development Plan
SAR               -  Staff Appraisal Report
SINAS             -  Prototype MIS
UKKP              -  Library Activities Coordination Unit



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-General
Operations Evaluation
June 30, 1995
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:   Project Completion Report on Indonesia
Higher Education Development Project (Loan 2944-IND)
Attached is the Project Completion Report (PCR) on the Indonesia: Higher
Education Development project (Loan 2944-IND, approved in FY88). The PCR was prepared
jointly by the East Asia and the Pacific Regional Office (Parts I and III) and the Borrower
(Part 11). The report gives a satisfactory and consistent account of the project experience.
The project, which supported the development of higher education (HE), had
multiple objectives: improvement of HE planning and management; resource mobilization
through, inter alia, a greater involvement of the private sector; betterment of quality and
efficiency; selective strengthening of study programs in line with perceived manpower needs;
and broadening the role of HE in regional development. Inputs included civil works;
equipment and furniture; books and other instructional materials; consultant services and
training; and financial support for research, operation and administration.
The project was implemented between 1988 and 1993, and the Loan closed in
FY94 with a delay of two years, mainly because of the complexity of the project and of the
decision making process (involving, e.g., 59 different budget units). The compliance with
Loan Covenants was good. Total project cost came to US$219.5 million (vs. an appraisal
figure of US$257.3 million), and US$133.3 million (or 95 percent of the Loan amount of
US$140.3 million) was disbursed.
The project outcome is rated as satisfactory in the attainment of intermediate
goals (provision of inputs); the longer-term effects on HE performance are not yet known.
Institution Development is rated as substantial even if falling short of the unrealistic appraisal
expectations. Sustainability is rated as likely, with some uncertainties about specific aspects,
such as the adequacy of Operations & Maintenance budgets.
No audit is planned.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their official
duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFCIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
HIGHER EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 2944-IND)
TABLE OF CONTNTS
Page No.
Preface   ...............................................                                               i
Evaluation Sunmmary  .......................................                                           iii
Part 1: PROJECT REVIEW  FROM  THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE  ...                                  ......       1
Project Identity    ...................................                                     1
Project Background  .................................                                       1
Government Subsector Strategy ..........................                                    2
Linkages between Project, Sector and Macro Policy Objectives                   ......       3
Project Objectives and Description ........................                                4
Project Design and Organization  .........................                                  5
Project Implementation  ...............................                                     5
Major Results of the Project ............................                                   8
Project Sustainability   ................................                                 10
Bank Performance  ..................................                                      11
Borrower Performance  ...............................                                     12
Project Relationship  .................................                                   13
Consulting Services  .................................                                    13
Project Documentation and Data  .........................                                 14
Part II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE  ....   15
1. Policy  ........................................                                       15
2. Project Design ...................................                                     15
3. Implementation  ..................................                                     17
4. Lessons Learned   .................................                                    20
Miscellaneous .......           ...........              ...................              30
Part III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION   .........................                                         22
Related Bank Loans  .................................                                     22
Project Timetable   ..................................                                    24
Loan Disbursements .24
Project Costs .25
Project Financing .26
Project Implementation and Results .27
Status of Covenants .36
Use of Bank Resources .37
MAP   IBRD 20718
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






INDONESIA
HIGHER EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 2944-IND)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PRACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Higher Education
Development Project in Indonesia, for which Loan 2944-IND in the amount of US$140.3
million was approved on May 31, 1988. The project was implemented from 1988 to 1993.
The Loan was closed on December 31, 1993, two years behind schedule. Total loan
disbursement amounted to US$133.3 million and the last disbursement was on April 20, 1994.
The PCR was prepared jointly by the Population and Human Resources
Operations Division, Country Department 3, East Asia and Pacific Regional Office (Preface,
Evaluation Summary and Parts I and III) and the Borrower (Part II).
Preparation of this PCR was started during the final supervision mission in
November 1993 and is based on the Staff Appraisal Report, the Loan Agreement, supervision
reports, annual progress reports, correspondence between the Bank and the Borrower and the
project files of the Bank.






- iii -
INDONESIA
HEGHER EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 2944-IND)
PROJECT COMPEHION REPORT
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Project Objectives
1.           The project was a sectoral loan with specific investments designed to strengthen
the entire development program of the Directorate General for Higher Education (DGHE) of
the Government of Indonesia (GOI). The objectives of the Project were to assist the
Government in implementing its higher education program through: (a) improving sectoral
planning; (b) improving both sectoral and institutional management in higher education; (c)
increasing resource mobilization, including reinforcing the role of private higher education
institutions; (d) improving educational quality and efficiency; (e) strengthening selected fields
of study reflecting manpower needs; and (f) increasing the contribution of universities to
regional development, particularly in the Eastern Islands (para. 3). The objectives were to be
implemented by an Action Plan for Higher Education (APHE) which contained priority actions
to be taken by the Government during the life of the project.
Implementation Experience
2.           The project made a number of important investments in fellowships for
academic and administrative staff, civil works, and procurement of equipment, books, and
furniture. The Government was not as successful in implementing its APHE.
3.           Fellowships for in-country and overseas training of academic and administrative
staff accounted for 21 percent of total project cost; civil works, including construction activities
in a number of public universities and four Growth Centers to support private higher
education, accounted for 20 percent of project cost; and procurement of equipment, books, and
furniture accounted for 19 percent (paras. 5.2 - 5.4). Other major categories of project costs
were the salaries of university staff affected by the project activities (25 percent of project cost)
and normally budgeted operations and maintenance for universities where project activities took
place (7 percent of project cost) (rable 4A, Part I11).
4.           The project was completed on December 31, 1993, two years behind schedule.
The two major factors responsible for the delays were the complexity of the project and
complexity of the decision making process. The project supported 59 separate development
budgets (DIPs). It took time for many university PIU (project implementation unit) personnel
to learn to operate efficiently with this level of complexity. The complexity in decision making
was largely a result of the project's broad scope: the project involved many parties of the



- iv -
Borrower including National Development Planning Agency (BAPPENAS), the Ministry of
Education and Culture (MOEC), the secretariat of Joint Ministers Committee, and to a lesser
extent, the Ministry of Finance (MOF). In many cases, there was no one in the GOI with
clear authority to coordinate the decision making agencies when it came to matters concerning
the project, and the task was often left to the Central Project Implementation Unit (CPIU).
(paras. 5.5 - 5.7)
5.           Actions suggested under the Action Plan for Higher Education (APHE) that
have been taken include: (a) raising the status of university librarians and integrating private
and public university libraries into a national network; (b) improving the teaching of basic
science and mathematics; and (c) improving university management. Actions applying to
resource mobilization, university finance and evaluation often proved to be more difficult to
implement (paras. 6.1 - 6.3).
Project Results
6.           To a large extent intermediate goals were met: budget constraints were
alleviated, not only out of the project but also from increased resource mobilization; private
sector growth took place; a number of steps and investments were made to improve
management; and a large amount was successfully invested in quality-enhancing inputs, such
as libraries, laboratories, and post-graduate fellowships for academic staff (para. 7.2).
7.           The project alleviated supply constraints in engineering and technology by
supporting: (a) the training of qualified staff; (b) the physical expansion of engineering
technical education; and (c) the accelerated engineering program. The loan probably helped
GOI make good decisions about expansion of technical education, but it would perhaps have
been more useful if the project had been designed to encourage reallocation of Government
resources: to, for example, at least partially fund the increase in technical education by shifting
university resources away from subjects less in demand (para. 7.3).
8.           The project contributed to the strengthening of research capacity. The project
set aside almost three percent of total project cost (about five percent of the loan amount) to
improve university-based research, by financing small grants for researchers to acquire on a
competitive basis and disseminating outstanding results through publications and workshops.
This program has been well received by the academic community. Research proposals
receiving grants more than doubled from 314 in 1985 to 695 in 1992. The quality of research
appeared to have improved as the number of articles accepted for presentation in the annual
DGHE seminar increased. This is a remarkable result given the relatively modest resources
allocated for this purpose (para. 7.4). On the other hand, the project found it very difficult
to get quality work done for its own small research program for policy analysis. Eight major
studies were done; only one was deemed up to academic standard (para. 7.5).
9.           The ultimate goals of the project were improvements in quality, relevance,
efficiency, and equity. The extent to which these goals have been met is not known. A long
list of possible performance indicators were included in the SAR, but none of them is
available. The on-going tracer study system that was part of the APHE has never been
implemented; and information about the costs of public higher education never been compiled.
Only signals about the ultimate success of the project are available and these are mixed (para.
7.6).



Sustainability
10.          The growth in private university enrollment contributed to increased resource
mobilization for higher education, as did higher student fees and increased income generation
at the public higher education institutions (PTN); all of these initiatives were part of the
APHE.  Increased resource mobilization should contribute to the sustainability of the
investments made in the project (para. 8. 1).
II.          On the other hand, the signals described in paragraph 7.6 indicate that
sustainability is still an important issue. Resource mobilization for the PTN is occurring
through increased fees and other kinds of income generation but it appears very little of this
is going to support the quality enhancing inputs-the libraries and laboratories-that the schools
were provided under the project. Some of the resources that have been mobilized probably
are going to salary supplements; it is not known the extent to which these salary supplements
are used to support higher quality and more relevant teaching, research, and public service
(para. 8.2).
12.          Another issue about sustainability is regarding the investments in Growth
Centers, made to enhance private sector education. The centers are to be maintained from user
fees charged to private universities using the facilities. Start-up utilization of these centers has
been low, which if continued will threaten their self-sustainability. These centers have only
been in operation for a few months; it is critical at this stage that they receive the benefit of
a concrete action plan from the DGHE for their operations.(para. 8.3)
Lessons Leared
13.          The main advantages of a sector loan are that it provides the Government with
a greater degree of budgetary certainty and stability for its sectoral planning and decision-
making, it places greater responsibility for policy development and implementation on the
Government, and it allows for a constructive policy dialogue between the Government and the
Bank. An important disadvantage is that decision makers within the Ministry have less of a
budget constraint: reallocation decisions to fund a desired expansion do not have to be made
by the Government, the expansion can be financed out of the loan. Another disadvantage is
that the very scope and complexity of the project makes it more difficult for the Bank to
maintain an adequate degree of supervision, especially the monitoring of achievement of
project objectives (paras. 7.3 and 8.2).
14.          The Project maintained effective central coordination of the various
components/institutions. The central unit serves as a link between various Government offices,
the parties affected by the project, and the Bank. Effective central coordination is needed if
a project is to proceed smoothly. For this loan, the dedicated role played by the CPIU in
facilitating the implementation of the project deserves mention (para. 10.3 (a)).



- vi -
15.          The commitment and concrete guidance of the Government is crucial to the
sustainability of many components of the project. It is important to ensure there are sufficient
resources to operate, maintain, and supply facilities and equipment and to support the high
level staff in which investments are made. This includes the need for and support of users'
involvement in decision making about who is being educated in what and about selection,
installation, maintenance and operation of facilities and equipment. In particular it seems
clear, for both public and private universities, that quality-enhancing inputs-such as
equipment, training facilities, and post-graduate education for staff-should only be provided
when there is clear demand (i.e., willingness to pay for the services of these inputs) from
potential users (para. 10.3 (b) and (e)).
16.          In the area of enhancing the quality of university teaching and research,
consideration of the following issues would reinforce the achievements mentioned earlier: What
incentives are there for lecturers to allocate more time to teaching and research than to hold
multiple teaching jobs at various institutions? What incentives are there for authors to
maximize the quality of their teaching research work? Does the system compensate for high
quality work, and how? Is it adequate? (para. 10.3 (c)).



INDONESIA
HIGHER EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 2944-IND)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PART I. PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANKS PERSPECTIVE
1.    Project Identity
Project Name            Higher Education Development
Loan Number             Loan 2944-IND
Loan Amount             US$ 140.3 million
RVP Unit          .     East Asia and Pacific
Country           :     Republic of Indonesia
Sector            :     Education
Subsector         :     Higher Education
2.    Project Background
2.1         This project was first discussed in 1985, identified in 1986, and appraised in
1987. The project represented a shift by the Bank to a sectoral approach to lending for higher
education in Indonesia. Up to this time higher education lending had been support for
concentrated assistance, either to create new programs or to raise standards and/or increase the
output of graduates in certain programs. This project gave place to a wider sub-sector loan
designed to strengthen the entire development program of the Directorate General for Higher
Education (DGHE) of the Government of Indonesia (GOI). This project was the first sector-
type lending operations for higher education in Indonesia and was to lay the foundation for a
transition from project to sector-type operations. It was expected tnat the project would be
followed by subsequent time-slice operations to help GOI achieve its sector objectives.
2.2         At the time the project was being developed GOI had already made considerable
progress in building the country's education system. Since the period of economic and social
chaos of the mid-1960s, the system had achieved universal primary education,1/ was
continuing to expand secondary participation, and gradually strengthen its post-secondary
subsector. Underfinancing had been a major issue of the higher education subsector. This
subsector only received 5 percent of total public educational expenditure in 1976 (compared
with an average of 15-20 percent in most Asian countries) and cost recovery was still modest
for public higher education, with about 90 percent of recurrent expenditures provided by the
Government.
1/  The primary gross enrollment ratio as a percent of school age population in 1987-92 reached
116 percent (Social Indicators of Development 1994).



- 2 -
2.3          Continued expansion and improvement in higher education were considered
important for the countrys development. By the late 1970s, a shortage of high level
manpower, especially mid-level technicians, was thought to be seriously undermining the
growth potential of the country. Less than one percent of the labor force then held post-
secondary qualifications. Only a small proportion of tertiary teachers held post-graduate
degrees (about 15-21 percent).2/ Moreover, universities were thought to be not producing
the mix of skills most relevant to the needs of the economy. Enrollments were concentrated
in degree programs in the social sciences despite projected shortages of graduates from
polytechnics, engineering, economics, science, agriculture,  accounting, post-graduate
education, and teacher-training. And there were problems of quality. Added to this list of
problems were the overall budgetary cutbacks arising in the mid 1980C, made necessary by
macroeconomic adjustments in response to a series of external shocks.
2.4          The challenges faced by the higher education subsector were analyzed in joint
sector work which fed into the formulation of the GOI's ten-year higher education development
plan (covering 1986-1995).3/ This work identified the main issues that the higher education
subsector had to address as: (a) alleviation of budgetary constraints; (b) development of the
private sector; (c) improvement of planning and management; and (d) improvement of quality,
relevance, efficiency and equity.
2.5          During the final phases of the sector work initial discussions on this project took
place. The DGHE drafted a set of Higher Education Program Guidelines (HEPG),4/
described in the following paragraphs, which served as objectives for the proposed project.
The sector work thus had not only contributed to a sustained policy dialogue but it also
brought about a shift in lending approach by the Bank exemplified by this project. The
project, in turn, has, over the years, strengthened this dialogue which has helped build a
positive relationship between the Bank and the GOI.
Government Subsector Strategy
2.6          The Higher Education Program Guidelines (HEPG) addressed the medium-term
needs of the higher education subsector. The HEPG included the following major elements:
Quality and efficiency. Preserving and improving educational quality in state
higher education institutions by:  (a) investing in staff development and
libraries; (b) increasing operational support for salaries and operations and
2/ Staff Appraisal Report,. No. 7085, April 12, 1988, para. 1.6.
3/ The sector work was conducted jointly by the GOI, UNESCO, and the World Bank. The results
were discussed in the Final Status Report on Higher Education Sector Study in Indonesia, World
Bank, July 1986. This sector work helped foster the systematic policy dialogue between the Bank
and the GOI which was started in the mid-1970s thanks largely to the Education Sector Survey
Report of 1975.
4/ Staff Appraisal Report, No. 7085, April 12, 1988, Appendix 4.



- 3 -
maintenance; and (c) improving university procedures, such as establishing a
semester credit system to accelerate student graduation rates.
*     Resource Mobilization. Increase resources going into higher education by
(a) stimulating the development of the private universities, particularly in areas
where there are critical national manpower needs; and (b) increasing non-
governmental funds for public universities by: (i) increasing student fees (about
one-fifth of operational budget per student at public universities at the time of
appraisal); and (ii) allowing universities to earn income from services to the
community.
*     Planning and management. Improve planning and management, including:
(a) developing the new management information system (MIS) and the
monitoring and evaluation system (MES); and (b) improving educational
statistics.
*     Manpower needs. Develop further capacity to supply critical scientific and
technical manpower for the higher education sector as well as the national
economy to sustain industrial development and to support agricultural self-
sufficiency and development of marine resources.
*     Regional development.  Support the needs of higher education where
universities are still relatively young, especially the Eastern Islands.
*     Implementation. Improve the implementation of ongoing projects.
2.7         At the time of appraisal GOI had already begun to implement many difficult
policies to improve the quality, efficiency, management or financing of higher education or
improve implementation such as doubling student fees for incoming students and upgrading the
status of university library directors. The project was to help the Government preserve and
expand on the progress already made. The objectives to be served by the project, spelled out
in the HEPG summarized above, were to be implemented by an Action Plan for Higher
Education (APHE) which contained priority actions to be taken during the life of the project,
along with target dates.
Iinkages Between Project, Sector and Macro Policy Objectives
2.8         This loan assisted the GOI implement its HEPG by supporting policy actions
and maintaining recurrent and investment spending. Therefore, the main benefit of this project
was to allow the GOI to pursue its strategy by alleviating part of its budgetary problems that
might otherwise constrain its activities. Without the financing provided by this project, the
implementation of many on-going projects and priority activities would have been delayed or
even abolished due to budgetary reductions. Moreover, by contributing to the alleviation of
the shortage of higher level manpower, the project was instrumental in the longer term
development-of the country that is making a transition toward a higher productivity economy.



- 4 -
3.    Project Objectives and Description.
Project Objectives
3.1          The Bank agreed to define a three-year time-slice of the DGHE's expenditure
program for inclusion in this loan. Consistent with the sector objectives, the project assisted
the Government implement its higher education strategy through: (a) improving sectoral
planning; (3,) improving both sectoral and institutional management in higher education;
(c) increasing resource mobilization, including fostering the role of private institutions;
(d) improving educational quality and efficiency; (e) strengthening priority fields of study; and
(f) increasing the contribution of universities to regional development, especially in the Eastern
islands.
Project Components
3.2          Components of the project included:
(a)   To improve planning, management and implementation capabilities, the project
supported: (i) the development and delivery of a training program in university
management and finance for selected DGHE and university staff; (ii) expansion
of the new management information system (MIS) and monitoring and
evaluation system (MES); (iii) a series of higher education planning and
management studies and evaluations; and (iv) operational costs for carrying out
the project.
(b)   To improve quality and efficiency, the project supported: (i) overseas and
domestic staff development programs; (ii) quality and efficiency improvements
for priority undergraduate programs; (iii) research programs at public higher
education institutions; (iv) development of a national university library network;
and (v) provision of equipment, educational materials, and maintenance of
laboratories.
(c)   To promote the further development of private higher education, the project:
(i) supported regional coordination and quality supervision of private
institutions; (ii) provided fellowships for academic staff and management
training for administrators; (iii) supported the establishment of common-use
facilities to be shared by private universities on a charge-back basis (growth
centers or science and technology centers); and (iv) strengthened accreditation
procedures.
(d)   To assist selected physical developments, the project supported:  (i) the
development of fishery (at Riau University) and agriculture facilities (at
Tadulako and Cenderawasih Universities); (ii) the development of the campuses
of the universities of Indonesia, Gadjah Mada and Andalas; (iii) the
construction of science labs and libraries at the universities of Cenderawasih
and Mataram and IKIP Malang; and (iv) and the purchase equipment for 11
polytechnics located at the universities of Syiah Kuala, Andalas, Hasanuddin,
Sam Ratulangi, Pattimura, Lambung Mangkurat, Tanjungpura, Mulawarman,



Udayana and Nusacendana, the Surabaya Institute of Technology and the
Polytechnic Education Development Center (PEDC).
(e)   To ensure adequate levels of supportfor operation and maintenance of higher
education institutions, the project included incremental staffing and operating
budgets.
4.    Project Design and Organization
4.1         The conceptual foundation for the project was very clear. It was a slice of the
overall strategy for higher education development, with inputs from Bank staff, by the DGHE
of the Ministry of Education and Culture (MOEC). The project was designed to assist the GOI
implement its plan of action and expenditure program specified in the HEPG, and the project's
timing conformed with the GOI's planning horizon, namely, it covered the final year of
Repelita IV (1988/89) and the first two years of Repelita V (1989/90 and 1990/91). Since the
project took 21 months to prepare, the details of the project were shared and understood by
all parties involved.
4.2         The scope of the project, however, may have been too ambitious. It was to
affect directly, in various ways, 35 of the 45 public universities and 59 of the 72 annual
development projects (DIPs). On the one hand, many of its components could neither be
addressed within the time frame nor with the resources allocated to the project. As a
consequence, some parts of the project were rolled-over onto the second time-slice loan.5i/
On the other hand, by its nature of being a sub-sectoral loan, the project was not meant to be
targeted. In the final analysis, it laid the foundation for subsequent sectoral loans.
4.3         In retrospect, the aspect that most contributed to the success of the project was
the extremely close collaboration between the Bank and the GOI in its design. The borrower
was the principal designer in that the project was essentially a slice of the DGHE's sub-sectoral
strategy. This high level of collaboration was the result of the healthy policy dialogue that has
been forged for many years between the Bank and the GOI.
5.    Project Implementation
5.1          The project closed on Dec. 31, 1993, after two one-year extensions. At the time
of closing, implementation of the project was largely satisfactory. While all investments in the
expenditure program were made there were some delays. While this is not unusual for a broad
sectoral loan, it is worthwhile to identify two major factors responsible for the delay:
complexity of the project and complexity of the decision making process. (Paras. 5.5 - 5.7.)
5/ As examples: the development of the management information system has been taken up
by the second time-slice loan. (at the time of completion of the first time-slice, the DGHE
was implementing a prototype MIS (SINAS) at one university which, if successful, would
be disseminated to all universities); and funding for construction of the remaining growth
center, at Ujung Pandang, continued under the second loan as did the library automation
component.



-6-
Expenditure Program
5.2         All investments in the expenditure program were made. Fellowships were a
major component of the project, accounting more than 21% of project cost. The project
financed both in-country and overseas education of academic and administrative staff. The
total number of fellows surpassed the number expected in the SAR, (Table 5B, Part III).6/
The fellows, with very few exceptions, successfully completed their studies. Fellowships are
among the most effective methods of transferring technology and the project fellowships, in
time, are expected to enhance the quality and efficiency of the sector. The project had a very
successful experience with its implementation of the overseas fellowship program. This was
largely due to the efficiency and dedication of the fellowship manager, who, sometimes, had
to carry a very heavy work load.
5.3         Civil works were another important investment component accounting for over
20% of project cost). The project successfully supported various construction activities at
UGM, UNAND, IK1P Malang, various facilities at 10 IKIPs, UNRAM, UNTAN, UNLAM,
UNTAD, UNCEN, UNRI, and construction of four Growth Centers to support private higher
education in Medan, Semarang, Surabaya, and Ujung Pandang. (Some activities for the Ujung
Pandang center were completed during the second time-slice loan.) There were some problems
of coordination between the fellowship program and investments in physical development.
Some fellows, having returned from overseas education before physical developments such as
buildings and laboratories were ready, became discouraged with the lack of facilities and
sought jobs elsewhere.
5.4          The other large investment component of the loan was procurement of
equipment, books, and furniture (accounting for 19% of the total project cost). At the final
mission, it was reported that all equipment and books had been dispatched to the relevant
institutions.
5.5         Many of the 59 DIPs supported by this project entailed contracting of civil
works, involving domestic consultants, and procurement of books, laboratory equipment, and
furniture. It took time for many local PIU personnel to learn to operate efficiently with this
level of complexity, especially, to deal with the various aspects of competitive bidding and
procurement such as developing bidding documents, ensuring that all administrative
requirements are satisfied in order to avoid a re-tender of the procurement process, and testing
and installing the materials Oaboratory equipment) when the shipments arrived.7/
6/ By March 1993, a total of 167 fellows (exceeding the 135 originally planned) had been
sent abroad to earn Masters and higher degrees through this project. Among this
group, 20 were selected for a doctorate program. For the university library
development component, 15 candidates were sent to the UK for a Masters degree in
library science; and 13 have successfully returned. As for in-country training, 9334
grants were reserved for S2 and 1440 for S3 degrees.
7/ In a number of cases, in particular, in cases concerning imported equipment, many
suppliers did not either make test runs or install the equipment when they delivered the
goods. Although this was a breach of contract, many buyers had to accept the goods for
fear of having to wait for many more months before the next shipments arrived.



- 7 -
5.6         Book procurement also experienced a slow start. Indeed, no journals were
procured under this project.  Staff at the CPIU (central project implementation unit)
acknowledged that, for reasons of lack of resources, it was not able to monitor as closely as
it would like book procurement handled by local university PIUs.8/  At the start of the
national higher education library network component, because of the lengthy ordering process,
inadequate information by university libraries about books in print, and in the absence of a
clause in the contract with the book vendor forbidding substitution of titles when books that
were ordered were not available, many unneeded titles were provided as substitutes for out-of-
print titles. This situation was later rectified. As the loan was closing, books have been
purchased with a total value of US$1.2 million, with all books received and cataloged in the
union catalog data base maintained by the UKKP (library activities coordination unit), and
available in the 49 universities.
5.7          The complexity in decision making was also a major factor contributing to the
delay in implementation. Because of its broad scope, the project involved many parties of the
Borrower including Bappenas, MOEC, the secretariat of Joint Ministers Committee, and to a
lesser extent, MOF. In many cases, there was no one in the GOI with clear authority to
coordinate the decision making agencies when it came to matters concerning the project, and
the task was often left to the CPIU.
6.    Gradual Modification of Policies
6.1         The APHE was a set of actions to be undertaken by the DGHE which, together
with the activities included in the project, were to implement the policies reflected in the
HEPG. The APHE was designed, not as a binding agreement between the Bank and the GOI,
but as a road map for gradual modifications of the GOI's policies in this subsector. Most, but
not all, actions listed under the APHE have been taken. (See Table 5D for details of what was
done under the APHE.) Actions that were all or partially implemented included: (a) raising
the status of university librarians and integrating private and public university libraries into a
national network; (b) implementing recommendations of a teacher training study to improve
teaching of basic science and mathematics;2/ (c) professionalizing university management by
developing a functional stream of university managers; (d) operationalizing a management
information system (SINAS); (e) strengthening management capacity of university
administrators; (f) preparing an annual report on implementation of all World Bank assisted
DGHE projects; (g) carrying out a joint annual review of current and forthcoming years
expenditure program and implementation of action planl0/; and (h) holding a yearly project
implementation workshop.
8/ See Part II of this Project Completion Report, p. 13.
2/ The first action was to implement a three-year training course for senior high school
science and math teachers by non-IKIP universities. Later, after IKIP science and
mathematic programs had been improved, the three-year training program was replaced
by an improved TIKP S 1 for basic science and math teachers.
IO/ The joint review was ongoing until 1993, when it was stopped. Procedures for
Government auditors has been changed making the joint review less necessary.



- 8 -
6.2         Items in the APHE applying to resource mobilization and finance have proved
to be difficult to implement. For example, the action calling for expanding the student loan
program and extending it to private university students was not taken. Indeed the loan
program for public university students has been abolished completely because of the problem
of loan defaults. The APHE called for the preparation of a strategy for the development of
private higher education; this did not take place under this project, but was started under the
second time-slice loan. One of actions called for in the APHE, the very significant one of
granting of self-autonomy to public institutions for the use of their own privately raised funds,
was carried out by the DGHE in principle but has proved to be difficult to implement in
practice. Universities have been very reluctant to become self-autonomous for fear of losing
government subsidies. Finally, the APHE called for the preparation and dissemination of
information to the public on state university costs, government subsidies, and levels of student
fees. Two attempts at developing a unified method for computing university costs have been
made, one under HEDP I and another HEDP II, but neither one was completed. There is
simply no data on university expenditures on education. The goal of measuring costs of public
education probably cannot be realized until a new accounting system is introduced that permits
the appropriate consolidation of actual education expenditures.
6.3  ,      And finally there is a set of activities in the APHE dealing with evaluation. The
APHE called for the Higher Education Monitoring and Evaluation System (HEMES), which
had been developed and pre-tested in three universities, to be extended to all public
universities, and for annual tracer studies. Data collection and reporting software for HEMES
was made available to each PTN. However HEMES in 1993 was halted, for two reasons:
(a) HEMES would be a duplication of efforts if the prototype MIS (SINAS) were implemented;
and (b) HEMES is an evaluation system, and people are very reluctant to be evaluated. As
for tracer studies, a one-time tracer study of the accelerated engineering program was done
under HEDP I and a tracer study of ten PTN was completed under HEDP II, but plans to
extend these studies system-wide or to regularize them have not yet been made.
7.    Major Results of the Project
7.1          The main subsector issues to be addressed were: (a) alleviation of budgetary
constraints, (b) development of the private sector, (c) improvement of planning and
management, and (d) improvement of quality, relevance, efficiency, and equity. The first
three were intermediate goals. The final issue, improvements of quality, relevance, efficiency,
and equity, was what the whole effort was all about. The steps taken to accomplish or move
toward these goals were: (i) project investments in additional quality and quantity enhancing
inputs, as described above in paragraphs 5.2 - 5.4; and (ii) gradual modification of policies by
the DGHE, as spelled out in the APHE, as described above. (Paras. 6.1 - 6.3).
7.2          To a large extent the intermediate goals were met: budget constraints were
alleviated, not only out of the project but also from increased resource mobilization; private
sector growth took place; a number of steps were taken and investments made to improve
management; and a large amount was successfully invested in quality-enhancing inputs, such
as libraries, laboratories, and post-graduate fellowships for academic staff.
7.3         One major objective of the project was to address the imbalances between
higher level manpower needs and the composition of graduates from higher education
institutions, that is improve the relevance of higher education to the needs of the labor market.



- 9 -
The imbalance was considered to be especially acute in the fields of engineering and
technology. The loan supported the training of qualified relevant staff as well as the physical
expansion of engineering and technical education, thereby alleviating the supply constraints,
and should help correct this imbalance. Moreover, this project supported the accelerated
engineering program (PPI) which reduced the average length of time required for graduation
from 6.9 years (in 1985) to 6.2 years (in 1989).11/ As a result of a study supported by this
project, the GOI decided to continue this program throughout the second time-slice loan. The
loan probably helped GOI implement good decisions about expansion of technical education,
but it would perhaps have been more useful if the question of reallocation had also been raised:
whether to, for example, at least partially fund the increase in technical education through a
shift in resources away from subjects less in demand.
7.4          The project contributed to the strengthening of research capacity. The weakness
of research in Indonesia, as in many other developing countries, is rooted in a lack of an
academic tradition of competing for research resources and professional recognition. This
project set aside almost three percent of total project cost (about 5 percent of the loan amount)
to improve university-based research. This amount was for the DGHE to use mainly to
finance small grants for researchers to acquire on a competitive basis, to disseminate
outstanding results through publications and workshops. This program has been well received
by the academic community. Research proposals receiving grants more than doubled from 314
in 1985 to 695 in 1992. The quality of research appeared to have improved as the number of
articles accepted for presentation in the annual DGHE seminar increased. 12/ This is a
remarkable result given the relatively modest resources allocated for this purpose.
7.5          On the other hand, the project found it very difficult to get quality work done
for its own small research program for policy analysis: the eight major education sector
planning and management studies sponsored by the project were severely criticized for various
reasons, including poorly designed terms of reference and management inexperience in the
conduct of the studies. Only one study, the evaluation study of the polytechnics, was deemed
up to academic standard.
7.6          The private sector grew substantially during the life of the project: the share
of the private sector (in total enrollment) increased from 50 percent in the early 1980s to
65 percent in 1989. The growth in the private sector did not come as a result of the project.
Rather it was a result of the Government's decision to restrain enrollment expansion in public
universities and allowing private universities to accommodate the excess demand for higher
education. The growth in private sector enrollment carried with it an important implication
about financing of public universities: the strong social demand and individual willingness to
pay for private higher education suggested that a greater reliance on student fees for cost
recovery in public institutions should be encouraged, not only for budgetary reasons, but also
for equity purposes.
11/ The project supported PPI in electrical, chemical, electronics, and metallurgy and
mechanical engineering.
12/ In 1989, only 33 researchers were invited for presentation; in 1991, 252 presented.



- 10-
7.7         The ultimate goals to which the project was to contribute were improvements
in quality, relevance, efficiency, and equity. The extent to which these goals have been met
is not known. A long list of possible performance indicators were included in the SAR, but
none of them are available. The agreed upon on-going tracer study system has never been
implemented; and financial records have never been compiled. Only signals about the ultimate
success of the project are available and these are mixed.
*     Libraries and laboratories were improved and stocked, but supervision reports
sometimes found that these quality enhancing inputs were not always being
fully maintained and utilized;
*     A large number of university staff were upgraded through domestic and
overseas graduate education. However, it is the university staff with the
quality enhancing post-graduate education who are the more likely to be
working elsewhere and spending less time in teaching, research and public
service; and
*     A tracer study of ten PTN conducted in 1994 found that, among graduates who
had been out of school two, three, and four years, 16 percent were
unemployed, half of whom had not held a job since leaving school. Such
results are a sign that some of the education received is not very relevant to the
needs of the labor market. Whether the relevance situation is improving or
getting worse is not known.
8.    Project Sustainability
8.1         The growth in private university enrollment contributed to increased resource
mobilization for higher education, as did higher student fees and increased income generation
at the PTN; all of these initiatives were part of the APHE. Increased resource mobilization
should contribute to the sustainability of the investments made in the project.
8.2         On the other hand, the signals described in the paragraph 7.7 above, indicate
that sustainability is still an important issue. Supervision reports indicated that many teaching
and research laboratories constructed and/or equipped under this loan are running the risks of
becoming inoperable both because of a shortage of inputs and a lack of adequate maintenance.
There are no additional funds for the budget line items for these purposes. As for local
support, resource mobilization for the individual PTN is occurring through increased fees and
other kinds of income generation but it appears very little of this is going to support the quality
enhancing inputs-the libraries and laboratories-that the schools were provided under the
project. Some of the resources that have been mobilized probably are going to salary
supplements; it is not known whether these salary supplements are used to support higher
quality and more relevant teaching, research, and public service.
8.3         Another issue about sustainability is regarding the investments in Growth
Centers, made to enhance private sector education. Three of the four centers began operation
in the second half of 1993, but without the benefit of detailed implementation plans nor the
strong assistance from the DGHE in implementation planning. The reason for the centers is
clear: private universities do not have incentives to get into providing technical training
because of the capital requirements to set up and furnish laboratories. These centers,



- 11 -
containing instructional and communal facilities which many small universities cannot afford
such as libraries and laboratories, were designed to be shared by private universities. They
are to be maintained from user fees charged to private universities using the facilities. At
present low utilization of these centers threatens their self sustainability. There may be a
demand for these Growth Centers, but right now no one seems to be responsible for them.
These centers have only been in operation for a few months; it is critical at this stage that they
receive the benefit of a concrete action plan from the DGHE for their operations. I/
9.    Bank Performance
9.1         Major Strengths and Weaknesses. Bank staff contributed to the success of
the project through supportive working relationships and professional advice. They have been
working closely with the GOI from the identification stage toward completion of the project.
Clear and well specified guidelines by the Bank have made the implementation task easier.
In addition, detailed aide-memoires have been very helpful, especially to the CPIU, since these
documents are considered by the DGHE as objective evaluations of the progress made on the
implementation of the project. It was suggested that the review and supervision missions be
scheduled early enough so to allow the CPIU sufficient time to develop or modify its proposed
plan of activities using Bank funds submitted annually to the DGHE every October in
preparation for the next fiscal year that begins April 1 of the fbllowing year.
Lessons Learned
9.2         The main lessons learned from the experience during both the implementation
phase and preparation of the Project Completion Report (PCR) are summarized in the
following.
(a)   Given that this was the first example of a sectoral approach to lending for
higher education in Indonesia, lessons can be drawn from the advantages and
disadvantages of this loan. The main advantages are that it provides the
Government with a greater degree of budgetary certainty and stability for its
sectoral planning and decision-making, it places greater responsibility for policy
development and implementation on the Government, and it allows for a
constructive policy dialogue between the Government and the Bank. An
important disadvantage is that decision makers within the Ministry have less of
a budget constraint: reallocation decisions to fund a desired expansion do not
have to be made; the expansion can be financed out of the loan. Another
disadvantage is that the very scope and complexity of the project may weaken
13/ At the time of the completion report mission, each center operated on a daily basis under
the management of the Regional Private Higher Education Associations (BMPTS) and
under the general policy guidance and supervision of the DGHE's Regional Coordinator.
The DGHE made capital contribution to these shared-use facilities, and has yet to develop
a clear strategy for their implementation. The Regional Coordinators, awaiting a strategy
from the DGHE, did not take initiatives on their own even though one Regional
Coordinator had expressed his willingness to mandate usage of these centers by private
universities for accreditation purposes.



- 12 -
the Bank's input into decisions on the allocation of project fundsl4/; and it
certainly made it more difficult for the Bank to maintain an adequate degree of
supervision, especially regarding the achievement of project objectives.
Supervision reports were full of problem solving regarding procurement and
administratior. of the project; issues about monitoring of project objectives were
often brought up as actions to be taken, but just never seemed to get
addressed.15/
(b)   Equipment  procurement  and  operation  have  often  suffered  from
underutilization, ineffective installation, insufficient maintenance, and
inadequate choice of equipment. Three lessons are drawn from this experience.
First, the experience of many inadequately maintained laboratories suggests that
resource allocation for the operation and maintenance of equipment should be
clearly specified. Second, the experience with the Growth centers suggests that
sufficient technical support should be provided to potential users, not only in
the selection of the right equipment, but also in making test runs, installing,
and maintaining the equipment. Third it seems clear that quality-enhancing
inputs--such as equipment, training facilities, and post-graduate education for
staff--should only be provided when there is clear demand (i.e., willingness to
pay for the services of these inputs) from potential users. This is true for both
PTN and PTS.
10. Borrower Performance
Major Strengths and Weaknesses
10.1         The borrower's sectoral strategy for Repelita IV (1984/85 to 1988/89) and V
(1989/90 to 1993/94) out of which this project was developed was well designed in terms of
identifying the sector's needs and constraints. By helping alleviate those constraints in meeting
the sector's needs and by providing the necessary ingredients for upgrading the quality and
efficiency of the sector, the loan was essential to the execution of the GOI's sectoral strategy.
The implementation, despite some delays, has largely led to a successful completion.
10.2         This project involved many governmental decision makers. This gave rise to
a rather heavy amount of paper work and procedures. As mentioned earlier (paragraph 5.7),
in many cases, the CPIU had to devote much effort to foster a decision agreement among
various agencies, even though its main responsibility was to implement decisions. In the area
of staff remuneration, as another example, Bappenas refused to pay allowances to PIU staff
that would have allowed them to dedicate their full time to project implementation.
14/ For instance, the actual spending on studies and evaluations more than tripled the
estimated amount of US$0.57 million; nevertheless there has been very little study of the
extent to which the ultimate objectives of project have been reached.
15/ As described earlier, many items in the APHE were not fully implemented, although
progress to various extent have been made.



- 13 -
Lessons Learned
10.3         The principal lessons learned from the strengths and weaknesses above highlight
the importance of the following factors.
(a)    Effective central coordination is needed if the various components/institutions
are to proceed smoothly. This central unit serves as a necessary link between
various Government offices, the parties affected by the project, and the Bank.
For this loan, the dedicated role played by the CPIU, in the face of the
complexity of the project and the complexity of the decision making process
(paras. 5.5 - 5.7), deserves mention.
(b)   The commitment and concrete guidance of the Government is crucial to the
sustainability of many components of the project, in particular, the Growth
centers and the laboratories constructed and/or equipped under the project.
(c)   In the area of enhancing the quality of university research, consideration of the
following issues would reinforce the achievements mentioned earlier: What
incentives are there for professors to allocate more time to research than to
hold multiple teaching jobs at various institutions? What incentives are there
for authors to maximize the quality of their research work? Does the system
compensate for high quality work, and how? Is it adequate?
(d)   The importance of building upon and enhancing the effectiveness of existing
capabilities. Great care should be exercised when establishing an entirely new
type of institution.
(e)    The importance of allocating sufficient resources for operation and maintenance
of facilities and equipment; and the need of and support for users' involvement
in decision making concerning selection, installation, maintenance and operation
of these facilities and equipment. In addition, quality-enhancing inputs--such
as equipment, training facilities, and post-graduate education for staff--should
only be provided when there is clear demand (i.e., willingness to pay for the
services of these inputs) from potential users. This is true for both PTN and
PTS.
11. Project Relationship
11.1         The success of this project, despite some delay in implementation and shortfalls,
hinges on the positive working relationship between the Bank and the Borrower, and between
the various participating institutions. The high level of professionalism of all parties involved,
in particular the CPIU, was instrumental to bringing the project to a satisfactory closure.
12. Consulting Services
12.1         Domestic consultants were employed as needed during the implementation
period, especially in the areas of conducting policy studies, assisting in the library



- 14 -
development, writing and translating textbooks, developing state examinations, and conducting
feasibility studies to expand the Growth Centers. The actual use of the local consultants (624
staff-months) came close to the planned figure (676 staff-months).
12.2        The use of foreign consultants was extremely limited. This was partly due to
the decision to select only those consultants who are familiar with the project in order to ensure
quality and relevance.
12.3        Another factor affecting the use of expatriate consultants was the encouragement
by the DGHE that, whenever an expatriate consultant was to be utilized, a local counterpart
must be found to collaborate with this expatriate consultant and to continue his/her work at the
end of the contract. This requirement was to ensure that the benefits of technology transfer
from an expatriate consultant are maintained in the long run. One effect has been that the use
of expatriate consultants has been very restricted.
13. Project Documentation and Data
13.1        Original documentation for the project was adequate. The SAR provides a
useful framework both for supervising implementation and for writing the project completion
report. The data and the clear description of the main issues related to the higher education
sector in Indonesia have been helpful in the preparation of the PCR.



- 15 -
PART II. PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
More comprehensive reports have already been submitted by the Government in the form of
six-monthly Reports preceding each regular Bank Mission visit. A draft Project Completion
Report has been submitted to the Bank. Sets of Tables, which are the supporting data of the
Report, are still in Bahasa Indonesia and are filed at the CPIU.
Part IH is the executive summary, and was prepared by the Borrower.
1. POLICY
The objective of the loan is in support of Higher Education sectoral implementation of the
educational program. It has been designed to improve the performance of Higher Education
planning, management, resource mobilization, and the improvement of selected fields of study
relevant to national development needs. Some funds are reserved to assist the Private
University system. The loan also provides for funding to help improve university contribution
to regional development, emphasizing on the Eastern universities which are generally still in
need of technical assistance and investment input. The CPIU has been careful in monitoring
the DGHE changes in plans and policies, which is the best way to quickly respond to any
possible changes in priority setting.
2. PROJECT DESIGN
Almost forty percent (21 of the total funds have been allocated for human resource
development, followed by procurement of laboratory equipment, library collections and
hardware for a nationwide university library network totalling 19 % of the loan funds. About
20 percent was allocated to Civil Works.
As a sectoral supplementary budget, the loan funds had to be managed through 49 university
annual budgets (DIPs), four Kopertis DIPS, and six central HEPC Administration DIPS. In
addition to the reviewed Higher Education Program Guidelines (HEPC), it was agreed during
the negotiations of the loan that an Action Plan for Higher Education (APHE) be effectively,
implemented together with a set of policy studies.
This Executive Report shall attempt to answer to such issues whenever relevant. Performance
indicators were suggested through the SAR document to be implemented in measuring output
quality. However, the HEMES which was intended to measure such achievements on a
sectoral scale, was abolished and changed with a single DGHE MIS (SINAS DlKTI).
Consequently, the project will make comparisons of outputs with original targets stated in the
SAR document or in the financial spreadsheet.
2.1 Underestimated Project duration
Three years to complete all project objectives has been very optimistically set. Although
theoretically possible, two major components are in need of more time. The components are
overseas degree training, and overseas procurement of laboratory equipment and library
collections. For example, to select fellowship candidates jointly with overseas professors from
among 45 universities at the beginning of the project life, which eventually became 49



- 16 -
universities, on a competitive basis, can be costly and time consuming due to the widespread
location of the universities.
This procedure was followed at the beginning of the project. Consequently, the first batch of
fellows did not depart overseas until September 1989. The selection procedure has now been
simplified, by involving the Rectors of Universities participating in selecting their own staff,
before a centrally held selection is conducted. The centrally held selection
relied heavily on the language ability of the candidate.
In the case of procurement from overseas vendors, the constraint is that the university
laboratory personnel do not always know the complete specifications of goods to procure. As
procurement is done by tender, the CPIU needs to make sure all operational mechanisms are
in compliance, not only with the university wishes and the GOI's regulations but also
conducted in line with the Bank's guidelines for procurement.
2.2 Self managed overseas staff development, a daring venture
Past experience of peer groups in doing graduate study overseas, has urged the CPIU together
with the DGHE to select and place students in overseas universities without the services of
overseas academic consultants.   Consequently, monitoring of student progress and
administration of scholarship money directly to students and finance officers of overseas
universities needs to be done by the project CPIU as routine activities. Self management of
the scholarship program is possible, because the number of needed candidates in priority fields
for each university has already been mapped out in the DGHE plans. It then becomes the
Rector's responsibility, to submit only names of candidates who have a high chance of success
in their overseas study. The same procedure was later adopted in the performance of HEDP
I Loan No. 3311-IND.
2.3 Project funds reaocation and time extension
(1) Table 4 of PART In indicates the greatest change occurring in the Civil Works component
(59% increase,) compared to Appraisal estimate. Aside from increasing material and labor
cost as the result of two years extension, this significant increase is also attributed to two major
reasons. There is the demand for more offices, laboratories and classrooms among the
universities, and this became more apparent when in-country and overseas trained faculty
members (including other projects funded) successfully reentered their institutions with a higher
degree, between 1987-1993, when the project was in operation. Some Universities had no
facilities and were receiving investment in relatively massive quantities at the same time.
(2) Secondly, replanning of physical facilities became inevitable, because of increasing
numbers of students enrollment in some of the participating universities.
(3) The second largest, and still considerable, reallocation change occurred in Administrative
and Operational Support (minus 34%). This was due to GOI regulation to limit excessive
funding of management, or projects utilising foreign currency supported project management.
However, although the percentage is large, nominally it is relatively small (from $8.5 million
to $5.6 million) for the 5 year project duration.



- 17 -
(4) Considerable saving/reallocation occurred in overseas and in-country staff training (minus
18% or a decrease by about US$10 million). Yet the results have shown, that within the
project time and its capability to manage the scholarship program, more graduates were turned
out compared to the original SAR estimate. Indeed, a large number of degree earners,
especially among the PhD and other Doctor degree holders were pick-up fellowship recipients
from other sponsors. The project may have ceased to provide financial support before study
completion because of project termination or the student needed more time than was originally
allocated to earn the degree objective. Much of the successful effort in assisting on-going
pick-up students, in overseas universities was contributed to the extended project duration.
2.4 Book translation
Earlier conducted surveys to university libraries indicate that textbooks in the English language
(or any other foreign language) were seldom consulted by undergraduate students. Translation
of foreign textbook into Bahasa Indonesia was, initiated by the HEDP I (Loan no. 1904-IND)
since 19-85. The response has been good, not only among students, but also the general public
because the printed books are now sold by bookstores. This urged the project to escalate its
text-book translation program, rather than to hire difficult to find original textbooks writers
in Bahasa Indonesia. Figures in Part III, table 5A of this report clearly indicate that faculty
members were very responsive to this invitation. Over 300 staff-months was spent to hire
faculty members who have achieved the status of qualified translators to translate textbooks
already selected by the academic consortia. The assignment to translate is made after official
permission has been obtained from the overseas publisher. Subsequently, the books are printed
in university printshops, using printing equipment which were also purchased through this
loan. The books are now sold to the public, including to private university students. The
illustrationshows, there are numerous parties involved in making scientific textbooks available,
and used by students.
3. iMPLEMENTATION
3.1 OveraU Perfonnance
The project has been successful in providing universities with the supporting facilities needed
to implement Higher Education Sectoral development. The biggest investment made has been
in human resource development through overseas and in-country training, whether leading
towards an advanced degree or for a short duration. During the project lifetime, the DGHE
main emphasis was still on training in the field of Agriculture. Forty-five awards, out of total
135 originally planned to study overseas leading to the Masters degree was set aside for
Agriculture related fields (dry-land farming, fisheries and forestry). The other awards were
reserved for candidates in Library or Information Science (15), the Basic Natural Sciences and
Mathematics (20) and other fields (55).
The project followed to the best of its ability, the directives given by the DGHE to search for
candidates from universities in the eastern part of Indonesia. It is a game that many good
candidates, based on their academic test, had to be turned down or delayed for departure,
because of their inability to communicate in a foreign language. Those who only needed six
months or less, of in-country English training were sponsored by the project. The project
holds the policy that prolonged training of English at the host university is not only costly, but
may end up in still studying after the project activity is ceased. This policy motivated the



- 18 -
fellowship recipients to get over the language barrier as quickly as possible, each in their own
ways. A Masters candidate will be sponsored for a maximum duration of 24 calendar months.
If an extension is strongly recommended by the academic advisor (Professor), and with the
approval of the Rector of his university, a six months extension may be considered. The
results were encouraging, very few had to return home before reaching the degree objective,
while many performed so well that efforts were made to obtain additional awards for the study
leading to the Doctors degree.
No problems were anticipated in the case of in-country postgraduate training, since this has
become a routine part of a team under the DGHE. The only exception was during the
beginning of the project. The first disbursement was late to start, while many ongoing students
studying in-country were already informed of the HEDP II second slice loan (IBRD No.
3311-IND). This is a good opportunity to remind everyone, to be very aware that by the end
of the HEDP II (Loan No. 3311-IND) in December 1995, many ongoing students both
in-country and overseas will be in need of timely financial support and tuition fees. Since the
size of monthly allowance was reviewed once during the project life, it would also be
necessary to review in-country fellowship amounts in the near future.
The project was also successful in conducting procurement, particularly in Civil Works. All
planned building facilities as stated in the SAR document were completed on time. Concerning
the criticism of the private University Growth Centers now already built at four Kopertis
regions, the Government feels that complete freedom was given to each related parties
(Kanwil, Kopertis, BMPTS and the Yayasan) to design the buildings according to the needs
of the nearby PTS. The total cost was made equal (SAR spreadsheet), and none of the
buildings are uniformly built. The Growth center concept is a first experience among the PTS.
Technical assistance was given by the project to get the best results out of every Center. All
contracts were signed with and at the Kopertis offices, providing 3,000 m2 floorspace to each
Kopertis. Two Kopertis were quick to react, and had their buildings completed by the end of
1990. One other was completed in medio 1991, while the one at Ujung Pandang took longer
to finish. The SAR document specifically mentioned "instructional and communal facilities
which many smaller private institutions cannot afford, such as libraries and laboratories".
Presumably, the choice of laboratory and type of equipment, also the library book collection,
were procured under the guidance of the four overseers of the PTS system. As most Growth
Centers were built in the metropolitan area, it would be understandable if the designer
suggested a three storey building holding 2,000 - 2,500 sqm floorspace. In Surdbaya, the
concept was designed as single storey buildings. Cooperation among Private Universities
(FTS) is a new concept. Normally they would compete strongly with other to get the best part
time teachers from State Universities (PTN), the best students who can afford to pay expensive
tuition fees, and compete in getting funding from sponsoring agencies or private companies.
It may be quite some time before PTS of the same region will closely cooperate with each
other in using the Growth Centers.
Aside from S2/S3 in country training, specific types and levels of in-country training received
support through this project. These are either new programs, efforts to accelerate the outputs
in certain fields, personnel training for specific work-units, skill improvement of translators,
and these include:
a.    Science Teacher Program at the D3 level, a temporary program while Basic
Science at IKIPs are readjusting



- 19 L
b.    Engineering/Technology undergraduate (SI) level.
c.    Technical/Vocational Teacher (SI) training.
d.    Librarian training at the SI and D2/D3 level and internship at large university
libraries.
e.    Textbooks translation short courses.
f.    Predeparture training for fellowship recipients to-study overseas.
g.    Training of new accountancy procedures for university personnel.
Short courses or visiting scholars programs were held overseas for senior faculty members of
the teacher training institute or natural science/maths departments of the other universities.
This 3 months program has the objective to expose the senior staff to current advances in his
area. The CPIU realizes the difficulty it would have to face in managing all these training
programs. However, with the cooperation of Academic Consortia of each disciplinary area,
it was possible to set up working groups, consisting of capable faculty members from various
universities. The project has had much success working with these groups and has been
maintained up to the present in managing HEDP II. In some cases, program support was
followed with Civil Works infrastructure or investment in the form of laboratory equipment
and material, books and journals, and printing equipment.
The final outcome of overseas training programs has been exemplary, not only in the
performance of students in getting higher degrees, but also the way in which the budget for
fellowships was managed to obtain maximum results. The SAR document states that funds are
available for 135 man-degrees of S2 training overseas in Fisheries, Forestry, Dry-land
Farming, Basic Natural Sciences and Mathematics, Library Science and some other areas.
About 500 man-months of support was reserved for 20 on-going/pick-up students from other
Higher Education projects which had ceased to operate.
In reality, the outputs surpassed project plans. Using the same available budget, 167 fellows
were sent abroad to pursue the S2 degree. Instead of 20 on-going students, the project
managed to provide for continued funding of 76 persons, 56 of whom eventually succeeded
in earning the PhD/Doctor degree. Funds for continuing/ongoing students and some of the S2
fellowships to the USA, England, ASEAN countries, and the Netherlands were managed
directly by the project. There seems to be some advantage in being able to manage our own
fellows.
3.2 University Research inpact on teaching quality
For almost three years (1985-1988), no funds were available to the DGHE to provide support
to university staff in conducting small research projects. The IBRD loan (No. 2944-IND) has
provided for such funds beginning in FY 1988/1989. Research by university staff is important
to warrant sustainable knowledge input, to keep them abreast with current knowledge and
consequently in order to improve their teaching. University staff research is important,
because the teaching staff can take their own initiative to propose research topics in their fields.
This is so much different from intersectoral contract research which was prevailing at this
time.
The HEDP n also provided for a budget for research administration. This allows the DGHE
to appoint a Selection and Review Board, to assist in the selection of proposals for research
award, monitoring of research activities on location, evaluation of research reports, hold



- 20 -
meetings with specific workgroups of the various disciplinary areas, and to conduct national
seminars of successful research outcomes. This is an important part of the HEDP II design,
because with the experience of managing a nationwide coordination of continually increasing
university research activities for 5 years, it has now become possible for the DGHE to attract
offers of considerable research funds from intersectoral sources. The DGHE knows where
strength of certain fields are being developed among the universities. Examples of the research
funds that now can be managed by the DGHE are the University Research for Graduate
Education (URGE), the Center Grants for research, OECF for environment studies, and
collaborative work with the National Research Foundation. There is positive indication from
the universities, that staff development through postgraduate study and regularly held staff
research activities, has improved their teaching performance.
3.3 Policy Studies and Evaluation
The SAR document showed 8 titles of policy study and evaluation to be conducted by the
project. It has been indicated that out of the eight topics only two were considered successfully
done, i.e. the evaluation study on the polytechnics, and the preparation for a Second time Slice
Loan from the IBRD. There has been mixed opinions on the cause of failure, which is
summarised as follows:
1. The Terms of References were poorly designed, and should have been reviewed by more
experienced experts.
2. The conduct of the CPIU during the studies showed inexperience in managing the process
on such a scale.
3. The quality of studies and evaluation is expected to be of such quality which makes it
publishable for dissemination to the international public. On the other hand DGHE officials
have only interest in readily applicable strategies, policies or procedures. Studies which show
early signs of becoming a failure should not be continued.
4. LESSONS LEARNED
The Government observed some major lessons that have come out of the HEDP II (IBRD)
Loan No. 2944-IND):
4.1   The sectoral loan is wide in its scope and dimension, much too large to be able to
concentrate fully on some of the important aspects. As a sectoral loan, it almost covered all
the functions of the Directorates under the DGHE.
4.2   Full-time and professional staffing is thus mandatory. On the other hand, many of the
problems require full knowledge of academic matters, which cannot be easily understood by
managers who have not been among the structural leaders of a university. Projects are only
temporary organizations, and thus not attractive to faculty members as a career job.
4.3   During the period of the HEDP II (Loan No. 2944-IND), there were strong restrictions
for short visits to related activities overseas. Direct monitoring was not always possible, and
yet it should be a routine part of any project with a human resource development component.



Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 14762
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
HIGHER EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2944-IND)
JUNE 30, 1995
Population and Human Resources Operations Division
Country Department III
East Asia and Pacific
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used bv recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Rupiah
At Appraisal in 1988
US$1.00 = Rp. 1,660
Rp. million = US$602
Annual Average
1989         1990         1991         1992         1993
1,770        1,843        1,950        2,030        2,080
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
ABBREVIATIONS
APHE              -  Action Plan for Higher Education
BAPPENAS          -  National Development Planning Agency
CPIU              -  Central Project Implementation Unit
DGHE              -  Directorate General of Higher Education
DIP               -  Development Budget
GOI               -  Government of Indonesia
HEDP              -  Higher Education Development Project
HEMES             -  Higher Education Monitoring and Evaluation System
HEPG              -  Higher Education Program Guidelines
MES               -  Monitoring and Evaluation System
MIS               -  Management Information System
MOEC              -  Ministry of Education and Culture
MOF               -  Ministry of Finance
PCR               -  Project Completion Report
PEDC              -  Polytechnic Education Development Center
PIU               -  Project Implementation Unit
PPI               -  Accelerated Engineering Program
PTN               -  Public Higher Education Institution
Repelita          -  National Five-Year Development Plan
SAR               -  Staff Appraisal Report
SINAS             -  Prototype MIS
UKKP              -  Library Activities Coordination Unit



FOR OFFICLAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-General
Operations Evaluation
June 30, 1995
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:   Project Completion Report on Indonesia
Higher Education Development Project (Loan 2944-IND)
Attached is the Project Completion Report (PCR) on the Indonesia: Higher
Education Development project (Loan 2944-IND, approved in FY88). The PCR was prepared
jointly by the East Asia and the Pacific Regional Office (Parts I and III) and the Borrower
(Part II). The report gives a satisfactory and consistent account of the project experience.
The project, which supported the development of higher education (HE), had
multiple objectives: improvement of HE planning and management; resource mobilization
through, inter alia, a greater involvement of the private sector; betterment of quality and
efficiency; selective strengthening of study programs in line with perceived manpower needs;
and broadening the role of HE in regional development. Inputs included civil works;
equipment and fumiture; books and other instructional materials; consultant services and
training; and financial support for research, operation and administration.
The project was implemented between 1988 and 1993, and the Loan closed in
FY94 with a delay of two years, mainly because of the complexity of the project and of the
decision making process (involving, e.g., 59 different budget units). The compliance with
Loan Covenants was good. Total project cost came to US$219.5 million (vs. an appraisal
figure of US$257.3 million), and US$133.3 million (or 95 percent of the Loan amount of
US$140.3 million) was disbursed.
The project outcome is rated as satisfactory in the attainment of intermediate
goals (provision of inputs); the longer-term effects on HE performance are not yet known.
Institution Development is rated as substantial even if falling short of the unrealistic appraisal
expectations. Sustainability is rated as likely, with some uncertainties about specific aspects,
such as the adequacy of Operations & Maintenance budgets.
No audit is planned.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their official
duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
HIGHER EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 2944-IND)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
Preface   ...............................................                                                      i
Evaluation Summary  .......................................                                                  iii
Part I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE ...                                          ......    1
Project Identity    ...................................                                           1
Project Background   .................................                                            1
Government Subsector Strategy  ..........................                                        2
Linkages between Project, Sector and Macro Policy Objectives                        ......       3
Project Objectives and Description  ........................                                     4
Project Design and Organization  .........................                                        5
Project Implementation  ...............................                                          5
Major Results of the Project ............................                                         8
Project Sustainability   ................................                                       10
Bank Performance  ..................................                                            11
Borrower Performance   ...............................                                          12
Project Relationship  .................................                                         13
Consulting Services  .................................                                          13
Project Documentation and Data  .........................                                       14
Part II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE ....   15
1. Policy  ........................................                                             15
2. Project Design ...................................                                           15
3. Implementation   ..................................                                          17
4. Lessons Learned .................................   20
Miscellaneous  ......           ............                 ...................                30
Part III:  STATISTICAL  INFORMATION   .........................                                              22
Related Bank Loans  .................................                                           22
Project Timetable   ..................................                                          24
Loan Disbursements  .................................                                           24
Project Costs   .....................................                                           25
Project Financing ...................................                                           26
Project Implementation and Results   .......................                                    27
Status of Covenants  .................................                                          36
Use of Bank Resources  ...............................                                          37
MAP   IBRD 20718
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
| official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without Worid Bank authorization.






INDONESIA
HIGHER EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 2944-IND)
PROJECT COMOPLETION REPORT
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Higher Education
Development Project in Indonesia, for which Loan 2944-IND in the amount of US$140.3
million was approved on May 31, 1988. The project was implemented from 1988 to 1993.
The Loan was closed on December 31, 1993, two years behind schedule. Total loan
disbursement amounted to US$133.3 million and the last disbursement was on April 20, 1994.
The PCR was prepared jointly by the Population and Human Resources
Operations Division, Country Department 3, East Asia and Pacific Regional Office (Preface,
Evaluation Summary and Parts I and m) and the Borrower (Part II).
Preparation of this PCR was started during the final supervision mission in
November 1993 and is based on the Staff Appraisal Report, the Loan Agreement, supervision
reports, annual progress reports, correspondence between the Bank and the Borrower and the
project files of the Bank.






- iii -
INDONESIA
HIGEER EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 2944-IND)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Project Objectives
1.           The project was a sectoral loan with specific investments designed to strengthen
the entire development program of the Directorate General for Higher Education (DGHE) of
the Government of Indonesia (GOI). The objectives of the Project were to assist the
Govermnent in implementing its higher education program through: (a) improving sectoral
planning; (b) improving both sectoral and institutional management in higher education; (c)
increasing resource mobilization, including reinforcing the role of private higher education
institutions; (d) improving educational quality and efficiency; (e) strengthening selected fields
of study reflecting manpower needs; and (f) increasing the contribution of universities to
regional development, particularly in the Eastern Islands (para. 3). The objectives were to be
implemented by an Action Plan for Higher Education (APHE) which contained priority actions
to be taken by the Government during the life of the project.
Implementation Experience
2.           The project made a number of important investments in fellowships for
academic and administrative staff, civil works, and procurement of equipment, books, and
furniture. The Government was not as successful in implementing its APHE.
3.           Fellowships for in-country and overseas training of academic and administrative
staff accounted for 21 percent of total project cost; civil works, including construction activities
in a number of public universities and four Growth Centers to support private higher
education, accounted for 20 percent of project cost; and procurement of equipment, books, and
furniture accounted for 19 percent (paras. 5.2 - 5.4). Other major categories of project costs
were the salaries of university staff affected by the project activities (25 percent of project cost)
and normally budgeted operations and maintenance for universities where project activities took
place (7 percent of project cost) (rable 4A, Part M).
4.           The project was completed on December 31, 1993, two years behind schedule.
The two major factors responsible for the delays were the complexity of the project and
complexity of the decision making process. The project supported 59 separate development
budgets (DIPs). It took time for many university PWU (project implementation unit) personnel
to learn to operate efficiently with this level of complexity. The complexity in decision maling
was largely a result of the project's broad scope: the project involved many parties of the



- iv -
Borrower including National Development Planning Agency (BAPPENAS), the Ministry of
Education and Culture (MOEC), the secretariat of Joint Ministers Committee, and to a lesser
extent, the Ministry of Finance (MOF). In many cases, there was no one in the GOI with
clear authority to coordinate the decision making agencies when it came to matters concerning
the project, and the task was often left to the Central Project Implementation Unit (CPIU).
(paras. 5.5 - 5.7)
5.           Actions suggested under the Action Plan for Higher Education (APHE) that
have been taken include: (a) raising the status of university librarians and integrating private
and public university libraries into a national network; (b) improving the teaching of basic
science and mathematics; and (c) improving university management. Actions applying to
resource mobilization, university finance and evaluation often proved to be more difficult to
implement (paras. 6.1 - 6.3).
Project Results
6.           To a large extent intermediate goals were met: budget constraints were
alleviated, not only out of the project but also from increased resource mobilization; private
sector growth took place; a number of steps and investments were made to improve
management; and a large amount was successfully invested in quality-enhancing inputs, such
as libraries, laboratories, and post-graduate fellowships for academic staff (para. 7.2).
7.           The project alleviated supply constraints in engineering and technology by
supporting: (a) the training of qualified staff; (b) the physical expansion of engineering
technical education; and (c) the accelerated engineering program. The loan probably helped
GOI make good decisions about expansion of technical education, but it would perhaps have
been more useful if the project had been designed to encourage reallocation of Government
resources: to, for example, at least partially fund the increase in technical education by shifting
university resources away from subjects less in demand (para. 7.3).
8.           The project contributed to the strengthening of research capacity. The project
set aside almost three percent of total project cost (about five percent of the loan amount) to
improve university-based research, by financing small grants for researchers to acquire on a
competitive basis and disseminating outstanding results through publications and workshops.
This program has been well received by the academic community. Research proposals
receiving grants more than doubled from 314 in 1985 to 695 in 1992. The quality of research
appeared to have improved as the number of articles accepted for presentation in the annual
DGHE seminar increased. This is a remarkable result given the relatively modest resources
allocated for this purpose (para. 7.4). On the other hand, the project found it very difficult
to get quality work done for its own small research program for policy analysis. Eight major
studies were done; only one was deemed up to academic standard (para. 7.5).
9.           The ultimate goals of the project were improvements in quality, relevance,
efficiency, and equity. The extent to which these goals have been met is not known. A long
list of possible performance indicators were included in the SAR, but none of them is
available. The on-going tracer study system that was part of the APHE has never been
implemented; and information about the costs of public higher education never been compiled.
Only signals about the ultimate success of the project are available and these are mixed (para.
7.6).



v -
Sustainability
10.          The growth in private university enrollment contributed to increased resource
mobilization for higher education, as did higher student fees and increased income generation
at the public higher education institutions (PTN); all of these initiatives were part of the
APHE. Increased resource mobilization should contribute to the sustainability of the
investments made in the project (para. 8.1).
11.          On the other hand, the signals described in paragraph 7.6 indicate that
sustainability is still an important issue. Resource mobilization for the PTN is occurring
through increased fees and other kinds of income generation but it appears very little of this
is going to support the quality enhancing inputs--the libraries and laboratories--that the schools
were provided under the project. Some of the resources that have been mobilized probably
are going to salary supplements; it is not known the extent to which these salary supplements
are used to support higher quality and more relevant teaching, research, and public service
(para. 8.2).
12.          Another issue about sustainability is regarding the investments in Growth
Centers, made to enhance private sector education. The centers are to be maintained from user
fees charged to private universities using the facilities. Start-up utilization of these centers has
been low, which if continued will threaten their self-sustainability. These centers have only
been in operation for a few months; it is critical at this stage that they receive the benefit of
a concrete action plan from the DGHE for their operations.(para. 8.3)
Lessons Learned
13.          The main advantages of a sector loan are that it provides the Government with
a greater degree of budgetary certainty and stability for its sectoral planning and decision-
making, it places greater responsibility for policy development and implementation on the
Government, and it allows for a constructive policy dialogue between the Government and the
Bank. An important disadvantage is that decision makers within the Ministry have less of a
budget constraint: reallocation decisions to fund a desired expansion do not have to be made
by the Government, the expansion can be financed out of the loan. Another disadvantage is
that the very scope and complexity of the project makes it more difficult for the Bank to
maintain an adequate degree of supervision, especially the monitoring of achievement of
project objectives (paras. 7.3 and 8.2).
14.          The Project maintained effective central coordination of the various
components/institutions. The central unit serves as a link between various Government offices,
the parties affected by the project, and the Bank. Effective central coordination is needed if
a project is to proceed smoothly. For this loan, the dedicated role played by the CPIU in
facilitating the implementation of the project deserves mention (para. 10.3 (a)).



- vi -
15.          The commitment and concrete guidance of the Government is crucial to the
sustainability of many components of the project. It is important to ensure there are sufficient
resources to operate, maintain, and supply facilities and equipment and to support the high
level staff in which investments are made. This includes the need for and support of users'
involvement in decision making about who is being educated in what and about selection,
installation, maintenance and operation of facilities and equipment. In particular it seems
clear, for both public and private universities, that quality-enhancing inputs-such as
equipment, training facilities, and post-graduate education for staff-should only be provided
when there is clear demand (i.e., willingness to pay for the services of these inputs) from
potential users (para. 10.3 (b) and (e)).
16.          In the area of enhancing the quality of university teaching and research,
consideration of the following issues would reinforce the achievements mentioned earlier: What
incentives are there for lecturers to allocate more time to teaching and research than to hold
multiple teaching jobs at various institutions? What incentives are there for authors to
maximize the quality of their teaching research work? Does the system compensate for high
quality work, and how? Is it adequate? (para. 10.3 (c)).



INDONESIA
HIGHER EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 2944-IND)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PART I. PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANKS PERSPECTIVE
1.    Project Identity
Project Name            Higher Education Development
Loan Number             Loan 2944-IND
Loan Amount             US$ 140.3 million
RVP Unit          :     East Asia and Pacific
Country           :     Republic of Indonesia
Sector            :     Education
Subsector         :     Higher Education
2.    Project Background
2.1          This project was first discussed in 1985, identified in 1986, and appraised in
1987. The project represented a shift by the Bank to a sectoral approach to lending for higher
education in Indonesia. Up to this time higher education lending had been support for
concentrated assistance, either to create new programs or to raise standards and/or increase the
output of graduates in certain programs. This project gave place to a wider sub-sector loan
designed to strengthen the entire development program of the Directorate General for Higher
Education (DGHE) of the Government of Indonesia (GOI). This project was the first sector-
type lending operations for higher education in Indonesia and was to lay the foundation for a
transition from project to sector-type operations. It was expected tnat the project would be
followed by subsequent time-slice operations to help GOI achieve its sector objectives.
2.2          At the time the project was being developed GOI had already made considerable
progress in building the country's education system. Since the period of economic and social
chaos of the mid-1960s, the system had achieved universal primary education,1/ was
continuing to expand secondary participation, and gradually strengthen its post-secondary
subsector. Underfinancing had been a major issue of the higher education subsector. This
subsector only received 5 percent of total public educational expenditure in 1976 (compared
with an average of 15-20 percent in most Asian countries) and cost recovery was still modest
for public higher education, with about 90 percent of recurrent expenditures provided by the
Government.
I/ The primary gross enrollment ratio as a percent of school age population in 1987-92 reached
116 percent (Social Indicators of Development 1994).



- 2 -
2.3          Continued expansion and improvement in higher education were considered
important for the countrys development. By the late 1970s, a shortage of high level
manpower, especially mid-level technicians, was thought to be seriously undermining the
growth potential of the country. Less than one percent of the labor force then held post-
secondary qualifications. Only a small proportion of tertiary teachers held post-graduate
degrees (about 15-21 percent).2/ Moreover, universities were thought to be not producing
the mix of skills most relevant to the needs of the economy. Enrollments were concentrated
in degree programs in the social sciences despite projected shortages of graduates from
polytechnics, engineering, economics, science, agriculture,  accounting, post-graduate
education, and teacher-training. And there were problems of quality. Added to this list of
problems were the overall budgetary cutbacks arising in the mid 1980s, made necessary by
macroeconomic adjustments in response to a series of external shocks.
2.4          The challenges faced by the higher education subsector were analyzed in joint
sector work which fed into the formulation of the GOI's ten-year higher education development
plan (covering 1986-1995).3/ This work identified the main issues that the higher education
subsector had to address as: (a) alleviation of budgetary constraints; (b) development of the
private sector; (c) improvement of planning and management; and (d) improvement of quality,
relevance, efficiency and equity.
2.5          During the final phases of the sector work initial discussions on this project took
place. The DGHE drafted a set of Higher Education Program Guidelines (HEPG),4/
described in the following paragraphs, which served as objectives for the proposed project.
The sector work thus had not only contributed to a sustained policy dialogue but it also
brought about a shift in lending approach by the Bank exemplified by this project. The
project, in turn, has, over the years, strengthened this dialogue which has helped build a
positive relationship between the Bank and the GOI.
Government Subsector Strategy
2.6          The Higher Education Program Guidelines (HEPG) addressed the medium-term
needs of the higher education subsector. The HEPG included the following major elements:
Quality and efficiency. Preserving and improving educational quality in state
higher education institutions by:  (a) investing in staff development and
libraries; (b) increasing operational support for salaries and operations and
2/ Staff Appraisal Report,. No. 7085, April 12, 1988, para. 1.6.
2/ The sector work was conducted jointly by the GOI, UNESCO, and the World Bank. The results
were discussed in the Final Status Report on Higher Education Sector Study in Indonesia, World
Bank, July 1986. This sector work helped foster the systematic policy dialogue between the Bank
and the GOI which was started in the mid-1970s thanks largely to the Education Sector Survey
Report of 1975.
4/ Staff Appraisal Report, No. 7085, April 12, 1988, Appendix 4.



- 3 -
maintenance; and (c) improving university procedures, such as establishing a
semester credit system to accelerate student graduation rates.
Resource Mobilization. Increase resources going into higher education by
(a) stimulating the development of the private universities, particularly in areas
where there are critical national manpower needs; and (b) increasing non-
governmental funds for public universities by: (i) increasing student fees (about
one-fifth of operational budget per student at public universities at the time of
appraisal); and (ii) allowing universities to earn income from services to the
community.
*     Planning and management. Improve planning and management, including:
(a) developing the new management information system (MIS) and the
monitoring and evaluation system (MES); and (b) improving educational
statistics.
*     Manpower needs. Develop further capacity to supply critical scientific and
technical manpower for the higher education sector as well as the national
economy to sustain industrial development and to support agricultural self-
sufficiency and development of marine resources.
*     Regional development.  Support the needs of higher education where
universities are still relatively young, especially the Eastern Islands.
*     Implementation. Improve the implementation of ongoing projects.
2.7         At the time of appraisal GOI had already begun to implement many difficult
policies to improve the quality, efficiency, management or financing of higher education or
improve implementation such as doubling student fees for incoming students and upgrading the
status of university library directors. The project was to help the Government preserve and
expand on the progress already made. The objectives to be served by the project, spelled out
in the HEPG summarized above, were to be implemented by an Action Plan for Higher
Education (APHE) which contained priority actions to be taken during the life of the project,
along with target dates.
linkages Between Project, Sector and Macro Policy Objectives
2.8         This loan assisted the GOI implement its HEPG by supporting policy actions
and maintaining recurrent and investment spending. Therefore, the main benefit of this project
was to allow the GOI to pursue its strategy by alleviating part of its budgetary problems that
might otherwise constrain its activities. Without the financing provided by this project, the
implementation of many on-going projects and priority activities would have been delayed or
even abolished due to budgetary reductions. Moreover, by contributing to the alleviation of
the shortage of higher level manpower, the project was instrumental in the longer term
development of the country that is making a transition toward a higher productivity economy.



3.    Project Objectives and Description.
Project Objectives
3.1          The Bank agreed to define a three-year time-slice of the DGHE's expenditure
program for inclusion in this loan. Consistent with the sector objectives, the project assisted
the Government implement its higher education strategy through: (a) improving sectoral
planning; (b) improving both sectoral and institutional management in higher education;
(c) increasing resource mobilization, including fostering the role of private institutions;
(d) improving educational quality and efficiency; (e) strengthening priority fields of study; and
(f) increasing the contribution of universities to regional development, especially in the Eastern
islands.
Project Components
3.2          Components of the project included:
(a)    To improve planning, management and implementation capabilites, the project
supported: (i) the development and delivery of a training program in university
management and finance for selected DGHE and university staff; (ii) expansion
of the new managerrent information system (MIS) and monitoring and
evaluation system (MES); (iii) a series of higher education planning and
management studies and evaluations; and (iv) operational costs for carrying out
the project.
(b)   To improve quality and efficiency, the project supported: (i) overseas and
domestic staff development programs; (ii) quality and efficiency improvements
for priority undergraduate programs; (iii) research programs at pub!ic higher
education institutions; (iv) development of a national university library network;
and (v) provision of equipment, educational materials, and maintenance of
laboratories.
(c)    To promote the further development of private higher education, the project:
(i) supported regional coordination and quality supervision of private
institutions; (ii) provided fellowships for academic staff and management
training for administrators; (iii) supported the establishment of common-use
facilities to be shared by private universities on a charge-back basis (growth
centers or science and technology centers); and (iv) strengthened accreditation
procedures.
(d)   To assist selected physical developments, the project supported:  (i) the
development of fishery (at Riau University) and agriculture facilities (at
Tadulako and Cenderawasih Universities); (ii) the development of the campuses
of the universities of Indonesia, Gadjah Mada and Andalas; (iii) the
construction of science labs and libraries at the universities of Cenderawasih
and Mataram and IKIP Malang; and (iv) and the purchase equipment for 11
polytechnics located at the universities of Syiah Kuala, Andalas, Hasanuddin,
Sam Ratulangi, Pattimura, Lambung Mangkurat, Tanjungpura, Mulawarman,



- 5 -
Udayana and Nusacendana, the Surabaya Institute of Technology and the
Polytechnic Education Development Center (PEDC).
(e)   To ensure adequate levels of supportfor operation and maintenance of higher
education institutions, the project included incremental staffing and operating
budgets.
4.    Project Design and Organization
4.1          The conceptual foundation for the project was very clear. It was a slice of the
overall strategy for higher education development, with inputs from Bank staff, by the DGHE
of the Ministry of Education and Culture (MOEC). The project was designed to assist the GOI
implement its plan of action and expenditure program specified in the HEPG, and the project's
timing conformed with the GOI's planning horizon, namely, it covered the final year of
Repelita IV (1988/89) and the first two years of Repelita V (1989/90 and 1990/91). Since the
project took 21 months to prepare, the details of the project were shared and understood by
all parties involved.
4.2         The scope of the project, however, may have been too ambitious. It was to
affect directly, in various ways, 35 of the 45 public universities and 59 of the 72 annual
development projects (DIPs). On the one hand, many of its components could neither be
addressed within the time frame nor with the resources allocated to the project. As a
consequence, some parts of the project were rolled-over onto the second time-slice loan.J/
On the other hand, by its nature of being a sub-sectoral loan, the project was not meant to be
targeted. In the final analysis, it laid the foundation for subsequent sectoral loans.
4.3         In retrospect, the aspect that most contributed to the success of the project was
the extremely close collaboration between the Bank and the GOI in its design. The borrower
was the principal designer in that the project was essentially a slice of the DGHE's sub-sectoral
strategy. This high level of collaboration was the result of the healthy policy dialogue that has
been forged for many years between the Bank and the GOI.
5.    Project hnplementation
5.1         The project closed on Dec. 31, 1993, after two one-year extensions. At the time
of closing, implementation of the project was largely satisfactory. While all investments in the
expenditure program were made there were some delays. While this is not unusual for a broad
sectoral loan, it is worthwhile to identify two major factors responsible for the delay:
complexity of the project and complexity of the decision making process. (Paras. 5.5 - 5.7.)
5/ As examples: the development of the management information system has been taken up
by the second time-slice loan. (at the time of completion of the first time-slice, the DGHE
was implementing a prototype MIS (SINAS) at one university which, if successful, would
be disseminated to all universities); and funding for construction of the remaining growth
center, at Ujung Pandang, continued under the second loan as did the library automation
component.



-6 -
Expenditure Program
5.2          All investments in the expenditure program were made. Fellowships were a
major component of the project, accounting more than 21% of project cost. The project
financed both in-country and overseas education of academic and administrative staff. The
total number of fellows surpassed the number expected in the SAR, (Table 5B, Part Hl)._/
The fellows, with very few exceptions, successfully completed their studies. Fellowships are
among the most effective methods of transferring technology and the project fellowships, in
time, are expected to enhance the quality and efficiency of the sector. The project had a very
successful experience with its implementation of the overseas fellowship program. This was
largely due to the efficiency and dedication of the fellowship manager, who, sometimes, had
to carry a very heavy work load.
5.3          Civil works were another important investment component accounting for over
20% of project cost). The project successfully supported various construction activities at
UGM, UNAND, IKIP Malang, various facilities at 10 IKIPs, UNRAM, UNTAN, UNLAM,
UNTAD, UNCEN, UNRI, and construction of four Growth Centers to support private higher
education in Medan, Semarang, Surabaya, and Ujung Pandang. (Some activities for the Ujung
Pandang center were completed during the second time-slice loan.) There were some problems
of coordination between the fellowship program and investments in physical development.
Some fellows, having returned from overseas education before physical developments such as
buildings and laboratories were ready, became discouraged with the lack of facilities and
sought jobs elsewhere.
5.4          The other large investment component of the loan was procurement of
equipment, books, and furniture (accounting for 19% of the total project cost). At the final
mission, it was reported that all equipment and books had been dispatched to the relevant
institutions.
5.5          Many of the 59 DIPs supported by this project entailed contracting of civil
works, involving domestic consultants, and procurement of books, laboratory equipment, and
furniture. It took time for many local PIU personnel to learn to operate efficiently with this
level of complexity, especially, to deal with the various aspects of competitive bidding and
procurement such as developing bidding documents, ensuring that all administrative
requirements are satisfied in order to avoid a re-tender of the procurement process, and testing
and installing the materials Oaboratory equipment) when the shipments arrived.7J
_/ By March 1993, a total of 167 fellows (exceeding the 135 originally planned) had been
sent abroad to earn Masters and higher degrees through this project. Among this
group, 20 were selected for a doctorate program. For the university library
development component, 15 candidates were sent to the UK for a Masters degree in
library science; and 13 have successfully returned. As for in-country training, 9334
grants were reserved for S2 and 1440 for S3 degrees.
7/ In a number of cases, in particular, in cases concerning imported equipment, many
suppliers did not either make test runs or install the equipment when they delivered the
goods. Although this was a breach of contract, many buyers had to accept the goods for
fear of having to wait for many more months before the next shipments arrived.



- 7 -
5.6          Book procurement also experienced a slow start. Indeed, no journals were
procured under this project.  Staff at the CPrU  (central project implementation unit)
acknowledged that, for reasons of lack of resources, it was not able to monitor as closely as
it would like book procurement handled by local university PlUs.j/  At the start of the
national higher education library network component, because of the lengthy ordering process,
inadequate information by university libraries about books in print, and in the absence of a
clause in the contract with the book vendor forbidding substitution of titles when books that
were ordered were not available, many unneeded titles were provided as substitutes for out-of-
print titles. This situation was later rectified. As the loan was closing, books have been
purchased with a total value of US$1.2 million, with all books received and cataloged in the
union catalog data base maintained by the UKKP (library activities coordination unit), and
available in the 49 universities.
5.7         The complexity in decision making was also a major factor contributing to the
delay in implementation. Because of its broad scope, the project involved many parties of the
Borrower including Bappenas, MOEC, the secretariat of Joint Ministers Committee, and to a
lesser extent, MOF. In many cases, there was no one in the GOI with clear authority to
coordinate the decision making agencies when it came to matters concerning the project, and
the task was often left to the CPIU.
6.    Gradual Modification of Policies
6.1         The APHE was a set of actions to be undertaken by the DGHE which, together
with the activities included in the project, were to implement the policies reflected in the
HEPG. The APHE was designed, not as a binding agreement between the Bank and the GOI,
but as a road map for gradual modifications of the GOI's policies in this subsector. Most, but
not all, actions listed under the APHE have been taken. (See Table SD for details of what was
done under the APHE.) Actions that were all or partially implemented included: (a) raising
the status of university librarians and integrating private and public university libraries into a
national network; (b) implementing recommendations of a teacher training study to improve
teaching of basic science and mathematics;9/ (c) professionalizing university management by
developing a functional stream of university managers; (d) operationalizing a management
information system (SINAS); (e) strengthening management capacity of university
administrators; (f) preparing an annual report on implementation of all World Bank assisted
DGHE projects; (g) carrying out a joint annual review of current and forthcoming years
expenditure program and implementation of action planl0/; and (h) holding a yearly project
implementation workshop.
I/ See Part II of this Project Completion Report, p. 13.
2/ The first action was to implement a three-year training course for senior high school
science and math teachers by non-IKIP universities. Later, after KIP science and
mathematic programs had been improved, the three-year training program was replaced
by an improved IKIP S 1 for basic science and math teachers.
IO/ The joint review was ongoing until 1993, when it was stopped. Procedures for
Government auditors has been changed making the joint review less necessary.



6.2         Items in the APHE applying to resource mobilization and finance have proved
to be difficult to implement. For example, the action calling for expanding the student loan
program and extending it to private university students was not taken. Indeed the loan
program for public university students has been abolished completely because of the problem
of loan defaults. The APHE called for the preparation of a strategy for the development of
private higher education; this did not take place under this project, but was started under the
second time-slice loan. One of actions called for in the APHE, the very significant one of
granting of self-autonomy to public institutions for the use of their own privately raised funds,
was carried out by the DGHE in principle but has proved to be difficult to implement in
practice. Universities have been very reluctant to become self-autonomous for fear of losing
government subsidies. Finally, the APHE called for the preparation and dissemination of
information to the public on state university costs, government subsidies, and levels of student
fees. Two attempts at developing a unified method for computing university costs have been
made, one under HEDP I and another HEDP II, but neither one was completed. There is
simply no data on university expenditures on education. The goal of measuring costs of public
education probably cannot be realized until a new accounting system is introduced that permits
the appropriate consolidation of actual education expenditures.
6.3  ,      And finally there is a set of activities in the APHE dealing with evaluation. The
APHE called for the Higher Education Monitoring and Evaluation System (HEMES), which
had been developed and pre-tested in three universities, to be extended to all public
universities, and for annual tracer studies. Data collection and reporting software for HEMES
was made available to each PTN. However HEMES in 1993 was halted, for two reasons:
(a) HEMES would be a duplication of efforts if the prototype MIS (SINAS) were implemented;
and (b) HEMES is an evaluation system, and people are very reluctant to be evaluated. As
for tracer studies, a one-time tracer study of the accelerated engineering program was done
under HEDP I and a tracer study of ten PTN was completed under HEDP II, but plans to
extend these studies system-wide or to regularize them have not yet been made.
7.    Major Results of the Project
7.1         The main subsector issues to be addressed were: (a) alleviation of budgetary
constraints, (b) development of the private sector, (c) improvement of planning and
management, and (d) improvement of quality, relevance, efficiency, and equity. The first
three were intermediate goals. The final issue, improvements of quality, relevance, efficiency,
and equity, was what the whole effort was all about. The steps taken to accomplish or move
toward these goals were: (i) project investments in additional quality and quantity enhancing
inputs, as described above in paragraphs 5.2 - 5.4; and (ii) gradual modification of policies by
the DGHE, as spelled out in the APHE, as described above. (Paras. 6.1 - 6.3).
7.2          To a large extent the intermediate goals were met: budget constraints were
alleviated, not only out of the project but also from increased resource mobilization; private
sector growth took place; a number of steps were taken and investments made to improve
management; and a large amount was successfully invested in quality-enhancing inputs, such
as libraries, laboratories, and post-graduate fellowships for academic staff.
7.3         One major objective of the project was to address the imbalances between
higher level manpower needs and the composition of graduates from higher education
institutions, that is improve the relevance of higher education to the needs of the labor market.



- 9 -
The imbalance was considered to be especially acute in the fields of engineering and
technology. The loan supported the training of qualified relevant staff as well as the physical
expansion of engineering and technical education, thereby alleviating the supply constraints,
and should help correct this imbalance. Moreover, this project supported the accelerated
engineering program (PPI) which reduced the average length of time required for graduation
from 6.9 years (in 1985) to 6.2 years (in 1989).11/ As a result of a study supported by this
project, the GOI decided to continue this program throughout the second time-slice loan. The
loan probably helped GOI implement good decisions about expansion of technical education,
but it would perhaps have been more useful if the question of reallocation had also been raised:
whether to, for example, at least partially fund the increase in technical education through a
shift in resources away from subjects less in demand.
7.4          The project contributed to the strengthening of research capacity. The weakness
of research in Indonesia, as in many other developing countries, is rooted in a lack of an
academic tradition of competing for research resources and professional recognition. This
project set aside almost three percent of total project cost (about 5 percent of the loan amount)
to improve university-based research. This amount was for the DGHE to use mainly to
finance small grants for researchers to acquire on a competitive basis, to disseminate
outstanding results through publications and workshops. This program has been well received
by the academic community. Research proposals receiving grants more than doubled from 314
in 1985 to 695 in 1992. The quality of research appeared to have improved as the number of
articles accepted for presentation in the annual DGHE seminar increased. 12/ This is a
remarkable result given the relatively modest resources allocated for this purpose.
7.5          On the other hand, the project found it very difficult to get quality work done
for its own small research program for policy analysis: the eight major education sector
planning and management studies sponsored by the project were severely criticized for various
reasons, including poorly designed terms of reference and management inexperience in the
conduct of the studies. Only one study, the evaluation study of the polytechnics, was deemed
up to academic standard.
7.6          The private sector grew substantially during the life of the project: the share
of the private sector (in total enrollment) increased from 50 percent in the early 1980s to
65 percent in 1989. The growth in the private sector did not come as a result of the project.
Rather it was a result of the Government's decision to restrain enrollment expansion in public
universities and allowing private universities to accommodate the excess demand for higher
education. The growth in private sector enrollment carried with it an important implication
about financing of public universities: the strong social demand and individual willingness to
pay for private higher education suggested that a greater reliance on student fees for cost
recovery in public institutions should be encouraged, not only for budgetary reasons, but also
for equity purposes.
11/ The project supported PPI in electrical, chemical, electronics, and metallurgy and
mechanical engineering.
12/ In 1989, only 33 researchers were invited for presentation; in 1991, 252 presented.



- 10-
7.7         The ultimate goals to which the project was to contribute were improvements
in quality, relevance, efficiency, and equity. The extent to which these goals have been met
is not known. A long list of possible performance indicators were included in the SAR, but
none of them are available. The agreed upon on-going tracer study system has never been
implemented; and financial records have never been compiled. Only signals about the ultimate
success of the project are available and these are mixed.
*     Libraries and laboratories were improved and stocked, but supervision reports
sometimes found that these quality enhancing inputs were not always being
fully maintained and utilized;
*     A large number of university staff were upgraded through domestic and
overseas graduate education. However, it is the university staff with the
quality enhancing post-graduate education who are the more likely to be
working elsewhere and spending less time in teaching, research and public
service; and
-     A tracer study of ten PTN conducted in 1994 found that, among graduates who
had been out of school two, three, and four years, 16 percent were
unemployed, half of whom had not held a job since leaving school. Such
results are a sign that some of the education received is not very relevant to the
needs of the labor market. Whether the relevance situation is improving or
getting worse is not known.
8.    Project Sustainability
8.1         The growth in private university enrollment contributed to increased resource
mobilization for higher education, as did higher student fees and increased income generation
at the PTN; all of these initiatives were part of the APHE. Increased resource mobilization
should contribute to the sustainability of the investments made in the project.
8.2         On the other hand, the signals described in the paragraph 7.7 above, indicate
that sustainability is still an important issue. Supervision reports indicated that many teaching
and research laboratories constructed and/or equipped under this loan are running the risks of
becoming inoperable both because of a shortage of inputs and a lack of adequate maintenance.
There are no additional funds for the budget line items for these purposes. As for local
support, resource mobilization for the individual PTN is occurring through increased fees and
other kinds of income generation but it appears very little of this is going to support the quality
enhancing inputs-the libraries and laboratories-that the schools were provided under the
project. Some of the resources that have been mobilized probably are going to salary
supplements; it is not known whether these salary supplements are used to support higher
quality and more relevant teaching, research, and public service.
8.3         Another issue about sustainability is regarding the investments in Growth
Centers, made to enhance private sector education. Three of the four centers began operation
in the second half of 1993, but without the benefit of detailed implementation plans nor the
strong assistance from the DGHE in implementation planning. The reason for the centers is
clear: private universities do not have incentives to get into providing technical training
because of the capital requirements to set up and furnish laboratories. These centers,



- 11 -
containing instructional and communal facilities which many small universities cannot afford
such as libraries and laboratories, were designed to be shared by private universities. They
are to be maintained from user fees charged to private universities using the facilities. At
present low utilization of these centers threatens their self sustainability. There may be a
demand for these Growth Centers, but right now no one seems to be responsible for them.
These centers have only been in operation for a few months; it is critical at this stage that they
receive the benefit of a concrete action plan from the DGHE for their operations. 1/
9.    Bank Performance
9.1         Major Strengths and Weaknesses. Bank staff contributed to the success of
the project through supportive working relationships and professional advice. They have been
working closely with the GOI from the identification stage toward completion of the project.
Clear and well specified guidelines by the Bank have made the implementation task easier.
In addition, detailed aide-memoires have been very helpful, especially to the CPIU, since these
documents are considered by the DGHE as objective evaluations of the progress made on the
implementation of the project. It was suggested that the review and supervision missions be
scheduled early enough so to allow the CPIU sufficient time to develop or modify its proposed
plan of activities using Bank funds submitted annually to the DGHE every October in
preparation for the next fiscal year that begins April 1 of the following year.
Lessons Learned
9.2          The main lessons learned from the experience during both the implementation
phase and preparation of the Project Completion Report (PCR) are summarized in the
following.
(a)   Given that this was the first example of a sectoral approach to lending for
higher education in Indonesia, lessons can be drawn from the advantages and
disadvantages of this loan. The main advantages are that it provides the
Government with a greater degree of budgetary certainty and stability for its
sectoral planning and decision-making, it places greater responsibility for policy
development and implementation on the Government, and it allows for a
constructive policy dialogue between the Government and the Bank. An
important disadvantage is that decision makers within the Ministry have less of
a budget constraint: reallocation decisions to fund a desired expansion do not
have to be made; the expansion can be financed out of the loan. Another
disadvantage is that the very scope and complexity of the project may weaken
IlN At the time of the completion report mission, each center operated on a daily basis under
the management of the Regional Private Higher Education Associations (BMPTS) and
under the general policy guidance and supervision of the DGHE's Regional Coordinator.
The DGHE made capital contribution to these shared-use facilities, and has yet to develop
a clear strategy for their implementation. The Regional Coordinators, awaiting a strategy
from the DGHE, did not take initiatives on their own even though one Regional
Coordinator had expressed his willingness to mandate usage of these centers by private
universities for accreditation purposes.



- 12 -
the Bank's input into decisions on the allocation of project fundsl4/; and it
certainly made it more difficult for the Bank to maintain an adequate degree of
supervision, especially regarding the achievement of project objectives.
Supervision reports were full of problem solving regarding procurement and
administratior. of the project; issues about monitoring of project objectives were
often brought up as actions to be taken, but just never seemed to get
addressed. 15/
(b)   Equipment  procurement  and  operation  have  often  suffered  from
underutilization, ineffective installation, insufficient maintenance, and
inadequate choice of equipment. Three lessons are drawn from this experience.
First, the experience of many inadequately maintained laboratories suggests that
resource allocation for the operation and maintenance of equipment should be
clearly specified. Second, the experience with the Growth centers suggests that
sufficient technical support should be provided to potential users, not only in
the selection of the right equipment, but also in making test runs, installing,
and maintaining the equipment. Third it seems clear that quality-enhancing
inputs--such as equipment, training facilities, and post-graduate education for
staff--should only be provided when there is clear demand (i.e., willingness to
pay for the services of these inputs) from potential users. This is true for both
PTN and PTS.
10. Borrower Performance
Major Strengths and Weaknesses
10.1         The borrower's sectoral strategy for Repelita IV (1984/85 to 1988/89) and V
(1989/90 to 1993/94) out of which this project was developed was well designed in terms of
identifying the sector's needs and constraints. By helping alleviate those constraints in meeting
the sector's needs and by providing the necessary ingredients for upgrading the quality and
efficiency of the sector, the loan was essential to the execution of the GOI's sectoral strategy.
The implementation, despite some delays, has largely led to a successful completion.
10.2         This project involved many governmental decision makers. This gave rise to
a rather heavy amount of paper work and procedures. As mentioned earlier (paragraph 5.7),
in many cases, the CPIU had to devote much effort to foster a decision agreement among
various agencies, even though its main responsibility was to implement decisions. In the area
of staff remuneration, as another example, Bappenas refused to pay allowances to PIU staff
that would have allowed them to dedicate their full time to project implementation.
14/ For instance, the actual spending on studies and evaluations more than tripled the
estimated amount of US$0.57 million; nevertheless there has been very little study of the
extent to which the ultimate objectives of project have been reached.
15/ As described earlier, many items in the APHE were not fully implemented, although
progress to various extent have been made.



- 13 -
Lessons Learned
10.3         The principal lessons learned from the strengths and weaknesses above highlight
the importance of the following factors.
(a)    Effective central coordination is needed if the various components/institutions
are to proceed smoothly. This central unit serves as a necessary link between
various Government offices, the parties affected by the project, and the Bank.
For this loan, the dedicated role played by the CPIU, in the face of the
complexity of the project and the complexity of the decision making process
(paras. 5.5 - 5.7), deserves mention.
(b)   The commitment and concrete guidance of the Government is crucial to the
sustainability of many components of the project, in particular, the Growth
centers and the laboratories constructed and/or equipped under the project.
(c)   In the area of enhancing the quality of university research, consideration of the
following issues would reinforce the achievements mentioned earlier: What
incentives are there for professors to allocate more time to research than to
hold multiple teaching jobs at various institutions? What incentives are there
for authors to maximize the quality of their research work? Does the system
compensate for high quality work, and how? Is it adequate?
(d)   The importance of building upon and enhancing the effectiveness of existing
capabilities. Great care should be exercised when establishing an entirely new
type of institution.
(e)    The importance of allocating sufficient resources for operation and maintenance
of facilities and equipment; and the need of and support for users' involvement
in decision making concerning selection, installation, maintenance and operation
of these facilities and equipment. In addition, quality-enhancing inputs--such
as equipment, training facilities, and post-graduate education for staff--should
only be provided when there is clear demand (i.e., willingness to pay for the
services of these inputs) from potential users. This is true for both PTN and
PTS.
11. Project Relationship
11.1         The success of this project, despite some delay in implementation and shortfalls,
hinges on the positive working relationship between the Bank and the Borrower, and between
the various participating institutions. The high level of professionalism of all parties involved,
in particular the CPIU, was instrumental to bringing the project to a satisfactory closure.
12. Consulting Services
12.1         Domestic consultants were employed as needed during the implementation
period, especially in the areas of conducting policy studies, assisting in the library



- 14 -
development, writing and translating textbooks, developing state examinations, and conducting
feasibility studies to expand the Growth Centers. The actual use of the local consultants (624
staff-months) came close to the planned figure (676 staff-months).
12.2        The use of foreign consultants was extremely limited. This was partly due to
the decision to select only those consultants who are familiar with the project in order to ensure
quality and relevance.
12.3        Another factor affecting the use of expatriate consultants was the encouragement
by the DGHE that, whenever an expatriate consultant was to be utilized, a local counterpart
must be found to collaborate with this expatriate consultant and to continue his/her work at the
end of the contract. This requirement was to ensure that the benefits of technology transfer
from an expatriate consultant are maintained in the long run. One effect has been that the use
of expatriate consultants has been very restricted.
13. Project Documentation and Data
13.1        Original documentation for the project was adequate. The SAR provides a
useful framework both for supervising implementation and for writing the project completion
report. The data and the clear description of the main issues related to the higher education
sector in Indonesia have been helpful in the preparation of the PCR.



- 15 -
PART H. PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
More comprehensive reports have already been submitted by the Government in the form of
six-monthly Reports preceding each regular Bank Mission visit. A draft Project Completion
Report has been submitted to the Bank. Sets of Tables, which are the supporting data of the
Report, are still in Bahasa Indonesia and are filed at the CPIU.
Part II is the executive summary, and was prepared by the Borrower.
1. POUCY
The objective of the loan is in support of Higher Education sectoral implementation of the
educational program. It has been designed to improve the performance of Higher Education
planning, management, resource mobilization, and the improvement of selected fields of study
relevant to national development needs. Some funds are reserved to assist the Private
University system. The loan also provides for funding to help improve university contribution
to regional development, emphasizing on the Eastern universities which are generally still in
need of technical assistance and investment input. The CPIU has been careful in monitoring
the DGHE changes in plans and policies, which is the best way to quickly respond to any
possible changes in priority setting.
2. PROJECT DESIGN
Almost forty percent (21 of the total funds have been allocated for human resource
development, followed by procurement of laboratory equipment, library collections and
hardware for a nationwide university library network totalling 19 % of the loan funds. About
20 percent was allocated to Civil Works.
As a sectoral supplementary budget, the loan funds had to be managed through 49 university
annual budgets (DIPs), four Kopertis DIPS, and six central HEPC Administration DIPS. In
addition to the reviewed Higher Education Program Guidelines (HEPC), it was agreed during
the negotiations of the loan that an Action Plan for Higher Education (APHE) be effectively,
implemented together with a set of policy studies.
This Executive Report shall attempt to answer to such issues whenever relevant. Performance
indicators were suggested through the SAR document to be implemented in measuring output
quality. However, the HEMES which was intended to measure such achievements on a
sectoral scale, was abolished and changed with a single DGHE MIS (SINAS DIKTI).
Consequently, the project will make comparisons of outputs with original targets stated in the
SAR document or in the financial spreadsheet.
2.1 Underestimated Projed duration
Three years to complete all project objectives has been very optimistically set. Although
theoretically possible, two major components are in need of more time. The components are
overseas degree training, and overseas procurement of laboratory equipment and library
collections. For example, to select fellowship candidates jointly with overseas professors from
among 45 universities at the beginning of the project life, which eventually became 49



- 16 -
universities, on a competitive basis, can be costly and time consuming due to the widespread
location of the universities.
This procedure was followed at the beginning of the project. Consequently, the first batch of
fellows did not depart overseas until September 1989. The selection procedure has now been
simplified, by involving the Rectors of Universities participating in selecting their own staff,
before a centrally held selection is conducted. The centrally held selection
relied heavily on the language ability of the candidate.
In the case of procurement from overseas vendors, the constraint is that the university
laboratory personnel do not always know the complete specifications of goods to procure. As
procurement is done by tender, the CPIU needs to make sure all operational mechanisms are
in compliance, not only with the university wishes and the GOI's regulations but also
conducted in line with the Bank's guidelines for procurement.
2.2 Self managed overseas staff development, a daring venture
Past experience of peer groups in doing graduate study overseas, has urged the CPIU together
with the DGHE to select and place students in overseas universities without the services of
overseas academic consultants.   Consequently, monitoring of student progress and
administration of scholarship money directly to students and finance officers of overseas
universities needs to be done by the project CPIU as routine activities. Self management of
the scholarship program is possible, because the number of needed candidates in priority fields
for each university has already been mapped out in the DGHE plans. It then becomes the
Rector's responsibility, to submit only names of candidates who have a high chance of success
in their overseas study. The same procedure was later adopted in the performance of HEDP
II Loan No. 3311-IND.
2.3 Projectfunds realocation and time extension
(1) Table 4 of PART III indicates the greatest change occurring in the Civil Works component
(59% increase,) compared to Appraisal estimate. Aside from increasing material and labor
cost as the result of two years extension, this significant increase is also attributed to two major
reasons. There is the demand for more offices, laboratories and classrooms among the
universities, and this became more apparent when in-country and overseas trained faculty
members (including other projects funded) successfully reentered their institutions with a higher
degree, between 1987-1993, when the project was in operation. Some Universities had no
facilities and were receiving investment in relatively massive quantities at the same time.
(2) Secondly, replanning of physical facilities became inevitable, because of increasing
numbers of students enrollment in some of the participating universities.
(3) The second largest, and still considerable, reallocation change occurred in Administrative
and Operational Support (minus 34%). This was due to GOI regulation to limit excessive
funding of management, or projects utilising foreign currency supported project management.
However, although the percentage is large, nominally it is relatively small (from $8.5 million
to $5.6 million) for the 5 year project duration.



- 17 -
(4) Considerable saving/reallocation occurred in overseas and in-country staff training (minus
18% or a decrease by about US$10 million). Yet the results have shown, that within the
project time and its capability to manage the scholarship program, more graduates were turned
out compared to the original SAR estimate. Indeed, a large number of degree earners,
especially among the PhD and other Doctor degree holders were pick-up fellowship recipients
from other sponsors. The project may have ceased to provide financial support before study
completion because of project termination or the student needed more time than was originally
allocated to earn the degree objective. Much of the successful effort in assisting on-going
pick-up students, in overseas universities was contributed to the extended project duration.
2.4 Book translation
Earlier conducted surveys to university libraries indicate that textbooks in the English language
(or any other foreign language) were seldom consulted by undergraduate students. Translation
of foreign textbook into Bahasa Indonesia was, initiated by the HEDP I (Loan no. 1904-IND)
since 19-85. The response has been good, not only among students, but also the general public
because the printed books are now sold by bookstores. This urged the project to escalate its
text-book translation program, rather than to hire difficult to find original textbooks writers
in Bahasa Indonesia. Figures in Part III, table 5A of this report clearly indicate that faculty
members were very responsive to this invitation. Over 300 staff-months was spent to hire
faculty members who have achieved the status of qualified translators to translate textbooks
already selected by the academic consortia. The assignment to translate is made after official
permission has been obtained from the overseas publisher. Subsequently, the books are printed
in university printshops, using printing equipment which were also purchased through this
loan. The books are now sold to the public, including to private university students. The
illustration shows, there are numerous parties involved in making scientific textbooks available,
and used by students.
3. iMPLEMENTATION
3.1 OveraU Performance
The project has been successful in providing universities with the supporting facilities needed
to implement Higher Education Sectoral development. The biggest investment made has been
in human resource development through overseas and in-country training, whether leading
towards an advanced degree or for a short duration. During the project lifetime, the DGHE
main emphasis was still on training in the field of Agriculture. Forty-five awards, out of total
135 originally planned to study overseas leading to the Masters degree was set aside for
Agriculture related fields (dry-land farming, fisheries and forestry). The other awards were
reserved for candidates in Library or Information Science (15), the Basic Natural Sciences and
Mathematics (20) and other fields (55).
The project followed to the best of its ability, the directives given by the DGHE to search for
candidates from universities in the eastern part of Indonesia. It is a game that many good
candidates, based on their academic test, had to be turned down or delayed for departure,
because of their inability to communicate in a foreign language. Those who only needed six
months or less, of in-country English training were sponsored by the project. The project
holds the policy that prolonged training of English at the host university is not only costly, but
may end up in still studying after the project activity is ceased. This policy motivated the



- 18 -
fellowship recipients to get over the language barrier as quickly as possible, each in their own
ways. A Masters candidate will be sponsored for a maximum duration of 24 calendar months.
If an extension is strongly recommended by the academic advisor (Professor), and with the
approval of the Rector of his university, a six months extension may be considered. The
results were encouraging, very few had to return home before reaching the degree objective,
while many performed so well that efforts were made to obtain additional awards for the study
leading to the Doctors degree.
No problems were anticipated in the case of in-country postgraduate training, since this has
become a routine part of a team under the DGHE. The only exception was during the
beginning of the project. The first disbursement was late to start, while many ongoing students
studying in-country were already informed of the HEDP II second slice loan (IBRD No.
3311-IND). This is a good opportunity to remind everyone, to be very aware that by the end
of the HEDP II (Loan No. 331 1-IND) in December 1995, many ongoing students both
in-country and overseas will be in need of timely financial support and tuition fees. Since the
size of monthly allowance was reviewed once during the project life, it would also be
necessary to review in-country fellowship amounts in the near future.
The project was also successful in conducting procurement, particularly in Civil Works. All
planned building facilities as stated in the SAR document were completed on time. Concerning
the criticism of the private University Growth Centers now already built at four Kopertis
regions, the Government feels that complete freedom was given to each related parties
(Kanwil, Kopertis, BMP'TS and the Yayasan) to design the buildings according to the needs
of the nearby PTS. The total cost was made equal (SAR spreadsheet), and none of the
buildings are uniformly built. The Growth center concept is a first experience among the PTS.
Technical assistance was given by the project to get the best results out of every Center. All
contracts were signed with and at the Kopertis offices, providing 3,000 m2 floorspace to each
Kopertis. Two Kopertis were quick to react, and had their buildings completed by the end of
1990. One other was completed in medio 1991, while the one at Ujung Pandang took longer
to finish. The SAR document specifically mentioned "instructional and communal facilities
which many smaller private institutions cannot afford, such as libraries and laboratories".
Presumably, the choice of laboratory and type of equipment, also the library book collection,
were procured under the guidance of the four overseers of the PITS system. As most Growth
Centers were built in the metropolitan area, it would be understandable if the designer
suggested a three storey building holding 2,000 - 2,500 sqm floorspace. In Surdbaya, the
concept was designed as single storey buildings. Cooperation among Private Universities
(PTS) is a new concept. Normally they would compete strongly with other to get the best part
time teachers from State Universities (PTN), the best students who can afford to pay expensive
tuition fees, and compete in getting funding from sponsoring agencies or private companies.
It may be quite some time before PTS of the same region will closely cooperate with each
other in using the Growth Centers.
Aside from S2/S3 in country training, specific types and levels of in-country training received
support through this project. These are either new programs, efforts to accelerate the outputs
in certain fields, personnel training for specific work-units, skill improvement of translators,
and these include:
a.    Science Teacher Program at the D3 level, a temporary program while Basic
Science at IKIPs are readjusting



- 19 -
b.    Engineering/Technology undergraduate (SI) level.
c.    Technical/Vocational Teacher (SI) training.
d.    Librarian training at the SI and D2/D3 level and internship at large university
libraries.
e.    Textbooks translation short courses.
f.    Predeparture training for fellowship recipients to-study overseas.
g.    Training of new accountancy procedures for university personnel.
Short courses or visiting scholars programs were held overseas for senior faculty members of
the teacher training institute or natural science/maths departments of the other universities.
This 3 months program has the objective to expose the senior staff to current advances in his
area. The CPIU realizes the difficulty it would have to face in managing all these training
programs. However, with the cooperation of Academic Consortia of each disciplinary area,
it was possible to set up working groups, consisting of capable faculty members from various
universities. The project has had much success working with these groups and has been
maintained up to the present in managing HEDP II. In some cases, program support was
followed with Civil Works infrastructure or investment in the form of laboratory equipment
and material, books and journals, and printing equipment.
The final outcome of overseas training programs has been exemplary, not only in the
performance of students in getting higher degrees, but also the way in which the budget for
fellowships was managed to obtain maximum results. The SAR document states that funds are
available for 135 man-degrees of S2 training overseas in Fisheries, Forestry, Dry-land
Farming, Basic Natural Sciences and Mathematics, Library Science and some other areas.
About 500 man-months of support was reserved for 20 on-going/pick-up students from other
Higher Education projects which had ceased to operate.
In reality, the outputs surpassed project plans. Using the same available budget, 167 fellows
were sent abroad to pursue the S2 degree. Instead of 20 on-going students, the project
managed to provide for continued funding of 76 persons, 56 of whom eventually succeeded
in earning the PhD/Doctor degree. Funds for continuing/ongoing students and some of the S2
fellowships to the USA, England, ASEAN countries, and the Netherlands were managed
directly by the project. There seems to be some advantage in being able to manage our own
fellows.
3.2 University Research impact on teaching quality
For almost three years (1985-1988), no funds were available to the DGHE to provide support
to university staff in conducting small research projects. The IBRD loan (No. 2944-IND) has
provided for such funds beginning in FY 1988/1989. Research by university staff is important
to warrant sustainable knowledge input, to keep them abreast with current knowledge and
consequently in order to improve their teaching. University staff research is important,
because the teaching staff can take their own initiative to propose research topics in their fields.
This is so much different from intersectoral contract research which was prevailing at this
time.
The HEDP II also provided for a budget for research administration. This allows the DGHE
to appoint a Selection and Review Board, to assist in the selection of proposals for research
award, monitoring of research activities on location, evaluation of research reports, hold



- 20 -
meetings with specific workgroups of the various disciplinary areas, and to conduct national
seminars of successful research outcomes. This is an important part of the HEDP II design,
because with the experience of managing a nationwide coordination of continually increasing
university research activities for 5 years, it has now become possible for the DGHE to attract
offers of considerable research funds from intersectoral sources. The DGHE knows where
strength of certain fields are being developed among the universities. Examples of the research
funds that now can be managed by the DGHE are the University Research for Graduate
Education (URGE), the Center Grants for research, OECF for environment studies, and
collaborative work with the National Research Foundation. There is positive indication from
the universities, that staff development through postgraduate study and regularly held staff
research activities, has improved their teaching performance.
3.3 Policy Studies and Evaluation
The SAR document showed 8 titles of policy study and evaluation to be conducted by the
project. It has been indicated that out of the eight topics only two were considered successfully
done, i.e. the evaluation study on the polytechnics, and the preparation for a Second time Slice
Loan from the IBRD. There has been mixed opinions on the cause of failure, which is
summarised as follows:
1. The Terms of References were poorly designed, and should have been reviewed by more
experienced experts.
2. The conduct of the CPIU during the studies showed inexperience in managing the process
on such a scale.
3. The quality of studies and evaluation is expected to be of such quality which makes it
publishable for dissemination to the international public. On the other hand DGHE officials
have only interest in readily applicable strategies, policies or procedures. Studies which show
early signs of becoming a failure should not be continued.
4. LESSONS LEARNED
The Government observed some major lessons that have come out of the HEDP II (IBRD)
Loan No. 2944-IND):
4.1   The sectoral loan is wide in its scope and dimension, much too large to be able to
concentrate fully on some of the important aspects. As a sectoral loan, it almost covered all
the functions of the Directorates under the DGHE.
4.2   Full-time and professional staffing is thus mandatory. On the other hand, many of the
problems require full knowledge of academic matters, which cannot be easily understood by
managers who have not been among the structural leaders of a university. Projects are only
temporary organizations, and thus not attractive to faculty members as a career job.
4.3   During the period of the HEDP II (Loan No. 2944-IND), there were strong restrictions
for short visits to related activities overseas. Direct monitoring was not always possible, and
yet it should be a routine part of any project with a human resource development component.



- 21 -
This has created much tension between the fellows overseas and the project fellowship officer
when study problems come up, and the need arises to take matters into hand.
4.4   Information of Project Annual Reviews should be clearly stated in advance, such as
what components are being focussed, and what material needs to be prepared ahead of time.
Much more discussion time is needed, rather than quick visits to locations, cornering people
where it is not expected. This is specially true at places where the host is not used to the rate
at which project officials and Bank personnel conduct their business.
4.5   Action plans are the local consequence of any project which falls under a govemment
institution. However, it is a matter which should be discussed directly with the office holders
in the government. Project staff are hired personnel, because of their skill and managerial
experience. Project Staff should not be made responsible for answering to questions pertaining
to Action Plans.



- 22 -
PART III. STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Table 1: RELATED BANK LOANS AND/OR CREDITS
J.anCredit                                                           Year of
Tite                              Purpose                        Approval      Status
Teacher Training   To assist formal basic education through a quantitative  1977    Closed
Project (Loan     expansion of the system as well as through improvements         June 1984
1433-IND)         of the skills, competence, and effectiveness of teachers
and educational administrators.
Polytechnic       To assist the Government's plans to increase the supply of    1979  Closed
Development       middle level manpower through the creation, expansion,          June 1985
Project (Credit    strengthening and diversification of the polytechnic
869-IND)          system. This project initiated a major program of
building a polytechnic system through the construction,
furnishing and equipping of six polytechnics, a Technical
Educator Development Center, and four Accountancy
Development Centers.
University        To be the first phase of a long-term program to strengthen  1980  Closed
Development       university management and raise the quality and number          September
Project (Loan     of graduates in engineering, science, agriculture, and          1988
1904-IND)         economics at three key universities. Among other things,
the project included technical assistance for developing
policies and improving management and teaching quality
at these universities.
Second Teacher    [See first Teacher Training Project above]             1982    Closed
Training Project                                                                  Jude 1990
(Loan 2101-lND)
Second            To increase the number and distribution of polytechnics,  1983  Closed
Polytechnic       broaden the curricula, and strengthen polytechnic planning      December
Development       and management capacities.                                      1990
Project (Loan
2290-IND)
University        To develop Indonesia's capacity to train its own university    1985  Closed
Development II    teachers and researchers through development of new             Decemmber
Project (Loan     graduate-level programs in selected field, initiation of five   1993
2547-IND)         specialized undergraduate fields of study, and
strengthening of overall university planning and
management.
Science and       To strengthen Indonesia's research and development     1985     Closed
Technology        capacity by developing a nucleus of well-trained                June 1993
Training Project   Indonesian scientific and technical manpower; to develop
(Loan 2599-IND)   effective policies and procedures for the implementation
and monitoring of overseas fellowship programs; to
develop and strengthen collaborative relationships between
Indonesian and foreign universities and research
institutions.
Accountancy       To improve accounting practices in the public and private  1988    Ongoing
Development       sectors; to support the Government's program to raise the
Project (Loan     quality of accounting faculty and teaching staff, and to
2940-IND)         prepare for future expansion of accountancy education and
training.



- 23 -
T nlCredit                                                          Year of
rtde                             Purpose                        Approval       Status
Professional      To improve HRD policy-making, planning and            1989    Ongoing
Human Resource   implementation, improve the quality of profeasional
Development       technical and managerial staff to ensure improved
Project (Loan     performance in critical areas of economic development,
3134-IND)         industrialization, privatization and decentralization, and
improve the quality of scientific and technological
research and development.
Second Higher     To improve quality and efficiency of higher education, to  1991    Ongoing
Education         alleviate human resource shortages, to improve planning
Development       and management, to increase mobilization of resources
Project (Loan     and to strengthen regional development.
3311-IND)
Primary School    To support GOI to produce well-trained primary school  1992    Ongoing
Teacher          teachers through a new tertiary level teacher diploma
Development       course to improve the quality of primary education.
Project (Loan
3496-ND)



- 24 -
Table 2: PROJECr TIMETAsz
Item                    Planned Date       Revised Date      Actual Date
Identification mission  October 1986      August 1986        May 11-21, 1986
Preparation mission     NA                NA                 Oct. 27 - Nov. 8, 1986
Preappraisal mission    November 1986    October 1986        June 28- July 17, 1987
Appraisal mission       March 15, 1987    January 1987       November 1-21, 1987
Loan negotiations       June 30, 1987     May 1987           March 24-29, 1988
Board approval          July 31, 1987     July 1987          May 31, 1988
Loan signature          NA                NA                 June 10, 1988
Loan effectiveness      September 30, 1987 September 1987    July 20, 1988
Loan completion         December 31, 1991 December 31, 1992 December 31, 1993
Loan closing            December 31, 1991 December 31, 1992 December 31, 1993
Table 3: LOAN DISBURSEMENTS
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disburseennts
(US$ million)
Bank FY                   1989      1990      1991      1992      1993      1994
Appraisal estimate        25.6      51.4      45.0      18.3         0         0
Cumulative (estimate)     25.6      77.0     122.0    140.3      140.3     140.3
Actual                    23.4      53.1      28.3      21.3       9.1      -1.9
Cumulative (actual)       23.4      76.5     104.8    126.1      135.2     133.3
Actual as % of estimate     91        99        86        90        96        95
Date of final disbursement: April 20, 1994



- 25 -
Table 4: PROJECr CorST AND FINANCNG
Table 4A. Project Costs
(US$ million)
Appraisal         Actual at            %
Category                        estimate La       completion          Change
Civil works                             27.9              44.4               59
Equipment, furniture, books, journals
and instructional materials            41.2               42.1               2
Consultant services (foreign and local)  4.3               3.7              -14
Overseas and in-country training        56.5              46.5              -18
Research                                 6.9               6.2              -10
Administrative and operational support   8.5               5.6              -34
Incremental staff salaries              66.2              55.4/b            -16
Incremental O&M                         45.8               15.6             -66
Total Project Cost                  257.3             219.5              15
/a Including contingencies.
/b Consists of salaries for university staff affected by project activities.



- 26 -
Table 4B. Project Financing
Planned (Loan Agreement)     Revised
(Ln. 2944-IND)        (January 1993)         Final
Source of Funds           Amount       %          Amount      %      Amount    %
(US$ '000)              (US$ '000)        (US$ '000)
JIBRD
Expenditure Categories
(1) Civil works         24,100         91        40,400       91     37,830     91
(2) Equipment, furniture
books, journals and
instructional materials   36,200  100/95/65   38,500   100/95/65  36,718  100/95/65
(3) Consultants' services  4,100       100        3,800      100      3,553    100
(4) Overseas and in-country
training             53,600        100        46,400      100    45,636    100
(5) Research             6,500         100        6,200      100      6,200    100
(6) Administrative and
operational support   7,200      100/90/80     5,000   100/90/80   3,380  100/90/80
(7) Unallocated          8,600                        0                  0
Total IBRD          140.30                   140.300            133.317     61
Government              117,000        45       100,700       42     86,200     39
Total Project Cost    257.300      100       241.000      10    219.517    100
Note: The amount of US$6,982,939.81 was cancelled as of April 20, 1994.



- 27 -
Table 5: PROJECr IMFAENTATION AND RESULTS
Table 5A: Technical Assistance Program (Staff-mend.)
Components                            Local consultants       Foreigconsultants
Planned    Actual       Planned     Actual
Planning and Management
Management training                    0           0           6           0
Management Information system          0           0          36           0
Monitoring and evaluation system       0           0          36           0
Higher education policy studies       90          90          36          12La
Quality and Efficiency
Science teacher training program       0           0         216           0/b
Library development                   18           6           9           0
Writing and translations             340         300           0           0
Private Higher Education
State examinations                   120         120           0           0
Feasibility studies                  108         108           0           0
Total                             664
La Six staff-months each for studies on the development of the polytechnic and on the education, job
sustenance and career development of primary school teachers.
A2 Cancelled and rolled over to the second time-slice loan (Ln 331 1-IND).



- 28 -
Table SB: Domestic and Oveneas Staff Development Programs by Components (Staff-months)
Domestic Training       Overseas Training
Components                          Planned     Actual         Planned     Actual
(S/M) (No.) (S/M) (No.)
Planning and Management
Management training                  315          59
Management Information system        528         156
Subtotal                                      215
Quality and Efficiency
Staff development
Predeparture preparation           4,500       5,310
Overseas fellowships
Fisheries                             -           -         360    15  103      4
Forestry                              -           -         360    15  126      4
Dryland farming                       -           -         360    15  868    32
Basic sciences                        -           -         480    20 1,140    42
Other                                            -        1,320    55 2,510    71
Newly added programs
Short term training for:
Basic science and math teachers      0        1,131           0         294
University teachers (basic science)  0         213            -
Library development
Overseas fellowships                                         360    15  339    15
Local training                        -         93
Workshops                           10           5            -
Internships                        180         226            -
Exchange of staff                  180           0            -
Diploma programs                   720        1,584           -
Degree programs                   1,080       1,026           -           -
Subtotal                        6 70        9-2Q         3240   135  3       167
Private Higher Education
Regional coordination                 90          45            -
Institutional support                900         690
Subtotal                          2Q7
Total                           8.503      10.538                            167



- 29 -
Table 5C: Projected Enrollments in Selected In-country Study Prog1n, 1988-91
Total enrollments
Program                                  Projected              Actual
S2 Programs
Univ Indonesia                          785                    942
EKIP Jakarta                            578                    561
Inst. Pertanian Bogor                  1,648                  1,642
Inst. Teknologi Bandung                1,561                  1,264
Univ. Padjajaran                         839                   889
IKIP Bandung                            532                    518
Univ. Gadjah Mada                      1,856                  1,805
Univ. Airlangga                         584                    587
IKIP Malang                             496                    509
Univ. Hasanuddin                        390                    405
Total                               9.269                 9.122
S3 Programs
Univ Indonesia                            82                    87
IKIP Jakarta                             148                    157
Inst. Pertanian Bogor                    294                   233
Inst. Teknologi Bandung                   94                    69
Univ. Padjajaran                         182                   224
IKIP Bnadung                             124                   120
Univ. Gadjah Mada                       207                    197
Univ. Airlangga                          147                   170
EKEP Malang                              91                     70
Univ. Hasanuddin
Total                               13                     1.327
Science Teacher Training Programs
Univ Indonesia                         1,080                  1,353
Inst. Pertanian Bogor                  1,170                  1,486
Inst. Teknologi Bandung                ,080                   1,443
Univ. Padjajaran                       1,170                  1,626
Univ. Gadjah Mada                      1,170                  1,767
Univ. Airlangga                        1,080                  1,318
Inst. Teknologi Surabaya                 810                  1,193
Univ. Sumatera Utara                   1,080                  1,415
Univ. Hasanuddin                       1,080                  1,709
Total                                20                   13.310
Engineering/Technology Programs
Univ Indonesia                         8,740                  7,250
Inst. Teknologi Bandung               13,190                 10,187
Univ. Diponegoro                       3,299                  3,303
Inst. Teknologi Surabaya               9,264                  9,354
Univ. Gadjah Mada                     11,827                  5,850
Univ. Brawijaya                        5,595                  3,319
Univ. Hasanuddin                       3,927                  3,810
Total                              55.842                43.073
Technical Teacher Training Progranu
IKIP Yogyakarta                        5,100                  4,921
IKIP Padang                            5,100                  3,797
Total                              10.200                L8:1



- 30 -
Table SD: ACrON PLAN FOR HIGHER EDUCATION
The Action Plan contained a set of priority actions to be taken by the Government during the life of the project.
Action           Target                               Status
|Imrovement of
Ouality and Efficiency
1. Raise status of     09/30/89   OPartially implemented. Nationally, librarians have achieved
university librarians             functional status in 1988, resulting in higher salaries, foilowing a
and integrate private             Decree of the Minister of State for Apparatus Efficiency No.
and public university             10/MENPAN/1988. Although the decree has now been
libraries into a national         implemented, only the regions with large universities have accorded
network.                          budget increase. The librarians trained overseas with a degree (SI,
S2, or D2) return as teaching staff. Others return to their university
libraries under almost the same status as they started out.
*The development of the national network of public university
libraries has made progress: the University Library Technology
Center has been established and all 51 public universities have been
linked to the network. At the moment there is no plan for inclusion
of private universities into the network.
2. Implement           09/30/90   Several recommendations of the study have been implemented,
recommendations of                including the implementation of a three-year training course for
teacher training study.           senior high-school science and math teachers. This program was
replaced by an improved Si program for basic science and math
teachers. The study has served as the basis for a new teacher
training project, which became effective in August 1992.
Resource Mobilization
and Finance
3. Prepare and         Annual/   oPartially implemented. A unified method for computing unit costs,
disseminate              June     subsidies, and fees has been developed with data from the Institut
information to the                Pertanian Bogor and is being reviewed. Issues have been raised as
public on state                   to whether the indirect costs and staff development costs were
university costs,                 correctly computed. As yet, no consolidated information program or
government subsidies,             document produced annually although the information is available in
and levels of student             a disaggregated form. This action is being pursued under the
fees.                             HEDP-2.
4. Expand student loan   09/30/88    OThis loan program for public university students has been abolished
scheme and                        because of the problem of loan defaults. No plan exists for its
extend it to private             implementation for private university students. The scholarship
university students.              program for needy students remains in existence.
5. Stimulate new       09/30/90   *The university self-autonomy decree of July 10, 1990 allows pubic
sources of funds/                 universities acquire self-autonomy status and to raise and use their
revenues for state                own funds. This action was carried out by the DGHE in principle
universities and                  but has proved to be difficult to implement in practice. Universities
encourage well-                   have been very reluctant to become autonomous for fear of losing
established ones to               government subsidies (in particular, developmental and operating
self-finance some of              costs).
their expenditures.



- 31 -
Action           Target                                Status
Plannin2 and                                                                                   l
Management of Hiuher
6. Adjust rate of       Annual/   *Partially implemented. A process of controlling implicitly based
expansion of state      October   on financial resource availability already exists. Each year, the
university enrollments            MOF sets the budget constraints based on pre-existing unit costs.
and study programs to             These constraints are passed on as guidelines regarding enrollment to
annual availability of            the universities. But, the feedback and annual adjustment process is
financial resources and           not explicit or clear. There is no analysis of the appropriateness of
qualified secondary               the unit cost figures since the method of computing unit costs is still
school leavers.                   under review. This is the subject of one of the studies under HEDP
II.
7. Establish and        Annual/   OPartially implemented. A one-time tracer study for engineering
operate an ongoing      October   students was completed. This study produced useful results: changes
tracer system for                 in the curriculum and the decision to continue the PPI program were
graduates of                      both based on this study findings. No ongoing study for this
institutions of higher            discipline has been established, although similar studies for other
education.                        disciplines have been either planned or being conducted. Eventually,
all major academic fields (12) would be included.
8. Prepare a strategy  09/30/88   *This item was not implemented under this project for many reasons
for the development of            including lack of know-how and resources. Because of its
private higher                    importance to higher education, the development of a strategy will be
education.                        undertaken as a study component under HEDP-II. The study is
expected to be completed in 1994.
9. Professionalize     12/31/88   OThis action has been implemented partially as part of the Decree
university manage-                No. 30, 1990 (article 35). The decree has been fully implemented
ment by developing a              only in the top ten universities. These include the centers of
functional stream of              excellence (ITB, UGM, UI, Univ. Airlangga, IPB) plus thee six
university managers,              largest universities, Universities of Sumatera Utara, Hasanuddin,
distinct from academic            Brawijays, Padjajaran, Diponegoro and Andalas).
administration
10. Operationalize the   09/30/89    OPartially implemented. This action would progress in three steps:
MIS (SINAS) in ail                (i) install a prototype MIS module (SINAS) at a university as a pilot
state universities and            test; (ii) evaluate the pilot test; then (iii) pending a favorable review
KOPERTIS.                         of the prototype, install and make the system available to all public
universities and the 12 Kopertis. Currently, the first two steps have
been successful. The last step is expected to be fully operational by
1999.
Data collection and reporting software for HEMES system,
developed for the management of university performance indicators,
were available in all 49 public universities, institutes and IKIPs in
1992. However, in 1993, the HEMES project was halted for (i) the
HEMES would be a duplication of efforts if the SINAS has been
implemented, and (ii) the HEMES is an evaluation system, and
people are very reluctant to be evaluated.
11. Strengthen        09/30/89    oFully implemented. Manuals on new procedures for higher
management capacity               education budgeting and accounting have been completed and a short
of university                     pilot training course conducted. 100 staff have been trained. The
administrators                    participants were senior financial officers appointed by the DGHE on
recommendation of the university rectors. Additional workshops
planned for 1994.



- 32 -
Action           Target                              Statu
12. Monitoring team    Annual/   DGHE produced a semi-sinal report on implenitation of all Bank
will prepar an annua    Dembe   aoed DOHE projects in both Bam  Indonea and English.
report on implmta-
tion all World Bank
aisted DGHE
projet
13. Joint annua        Amnu1/   Tle joint review of cunt and firthncoing year's expmadite
DGHE/IBRD review       January   progrm and implenation of action plan was caried anully.
of curut md
forthcoming year's
expenditur  prognm
and implinbtion of
action plan
14. A project         Annual     Ih implementation wodihops were held in October annually,
implematation                     atadod by all project dietors.
wodrshop will be held
ehyar. ,c.



- 33 -
Table SE: PROJEOr STUDIES
Studies and Evaluations          Tat                            Status
Ouality and Efficiency
1. Study to promote transferability of   06/30/89   Completed in June 1990; seminar presentation was made
semester credit units to order to increase          on 08/06/90. Report submitted in Bahasa only. The
efficiency in the distribution of students         study was conducted by LAPI-LTB and monitored by Jajae
among study programs.                               Koswara.
2. Study possible improvements to        06130/89   Completed in February 1990; seminar presentation on
accreditation procedures and standards for          February 9, 1990. Report submitted in both Bahasa and
public and private universities.                    English. The study was conducted by LP-USATKI and
monitored by Yuhara Sukra.
3. Study on the promotion of efficiency and  09/30/89   Completed in July 1990; seminar presentation on August
quality improvement of teacher training in          28, 1990. Report submitted in Bahasa only. The study
IKIPs and education faculties of universities       was conducted by LAPI-ITB and monitored by Bambang
(including a comparative evaluation of              Suhendro.
diploma programs for science teacher trining
and a feasibility study on integrating
education faculties which are physically
separated from the main campuses).
4. Evaluation of internal and external   09/30/89   Completed on schedule with seminar presentation. The
efficiency of polytechnic and diploma               report was submitted in both languages. Conducted
programs in engineering and commerce in            internally by the DGHE.
state and private universities.
Planning. Management and Finance
5. Calculate the unit operating costs,    Annual   Completed the pilot study for the Institut Pertanian Bogor;
government subsidies, and student fee levels       seminar presentation on February 27, 1990. As yet, no
in state universities.                             consolidated information program or document produced
annually although the information is available in a
disaggregated form.This is being pursued under the
HEDP-2.
6. Study on the development of new sources    03/31/89   Completed and presented in a seminar in January 1990.
of funding for higher education.                   The report was submitted in both languages. This study
was conducted by PUSLEM-UI and monitored by Esoch
Markum.
7. Study on recurrent costs of priority study  09/30/89   Completed in July 1990, seminar presentation on Sept. 3,
programs and of capital development projects        1990. The report was submitted in both languages. The
in higher education.                                study was conducted by LP-UNAIE and monitored by
Oetoko Djajanegara.
8. Prepare second slice of the higher    06/30/90   Report completed and submitted on Sept. 1, 1990 in both
education development program.                      languages. The study was conducted internally by the
_  DGHE under the monitoring of Sukadji Ranuvihardjo.



- 34 -
Studies and Evaluations          Target                           Status
l                                ~~~~~~~~~~~Date
Additional Studies.
Evaluations of the faculties, departments and  NA    All these evaluations of 11 fields were completed in
study programs were conducted by the                 December 1992 and presented in seminars.
Consortia of Higher Education on the
following 11 fields:
*Recommendation of the faculty of law evaluation to
1. The faculty of Law                                change the earlier curriculum into a general law
2. The faculty of Social Sciences                    curriculum plus one year of specialization has been
3. The faculty of Philosophy                         adopted.
4. The faculty of Economics
5. The faculty of Arts                               *The curriculum changes suggested in the evaluation of
6. The faculty of Education                         the faculty of Arts have been implemented.
7. The Faculty of Agriculture
8. The faculty of Technology and                     *Many curriculum changes suggested in the evaluation of
Engineering                                         the faculty of Education, in particular in Basic Science
9. The faculty of Mathematics and Science            and Mathematics Education, have been implemented.
10. The faculty of Health
11. The faculty of Psychology                        *The academic field of agriculture has the largest number
of related faculties. The report of the evaluation
contained many suggestions for this field in anticipation of
the changes leading toward the year 2000.
*The evaluation report of the faculty of Mathematics and
Science discussed new developments in this field. These
concepts have been incorporated in the teaching of natural
science and mathematics of first year Si classes.
12. Tracer studies of PPI (accelerated      NA       This study was conducted jointly by the Human Resource
enrineering education) graduates                     groups of BAPPENAS, Ministry of Manpower, and the
HEDP. This study was largely responsible for the
decision to continue to provide support for the PPI
throughout the second slice loan period.
13 & 14. Studies on University              NA       The following two manuals were developed in response to
Administration and Fundine                           the GOI law Number 30/1990 on Autonomy of Higher
Education Institutions:
*The manual on Development of University
Administration was developed by the UI Computer
Center. The final draft was submitted in December 1991.
Copies were distributed to public universities. The
implementation, however, is delayed, pending the
dissemination of the Manual of Accounting Procedures.
OThe manual of University Accounting Procedures for
public universities following the acquisition of financial
autonomy status was completed in December 1991. Its
dissemination through short courses did not start until the
following year.



- 35 -
Studies and Evaluations          Target                           Sta
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ D ate_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _
15. Study on the Development of the         NA       This study was conducted by Huddersfield University on
Polvtechnic                                         the rcommendation of the British Council. The report
was submitted to the DGHE in January 1991. The
recommendation to separate the administration of the
polytechnic from the universities has been implemented.
The report was also insbumntal in the development of
polytechnic curriculum and the procurement of laboratory
facilities.
16. Study on the Education. Job Sustenance.  NA      This study was conducted by the IKIP Jakarta in
and Career Development of Primary School             collaboration with two expatriate consultants.
Teachers
17. Policy Study on the Hich School         NA       This study was conducted by the Consortium of
Teachers                                             Education. It examined the education of high school
teachers, their appointment, placement at the school, and
their career development. The results have been
submitted to the DGHE.
Comments: As part of activities initiated by the DGHE to improve its planning, management, and implementation capacity,
the project allocated funds (SAR estimated at US$0.57 million) for eight major education sector planning and management
studies and evaluation. These eight studies were severely criticized for various reasons, including poorly designed terms
of reference and management inexperience in the conduct of the studies. Only one study, the evaluation study of the
polytechnics, was deemed up to academic standard. At the project closing, 17 additional studies were conducted, raising
the total cost funded for the studies to US$1.9 million.



- 36 -
Table 6: STATUS OF COVENANTS
Section/Covenant
Loan                                                      Status of Compliance
Sch.5, para l(a)    Carry out project in accordance with higher  In compliance; with
education guidelines and action plan satisfactory   modifications of the
to the bank                                 action plan
Sch.5, para 1(b)    By Dec. 31 each year, prepare report on      In compliance.
implementation of previous fiscal year's budget
for higher education, propose budget allocations
for next fiscal year and take account of bank's
comments to make required budgetary
allocations for following fiscal year.
Sch.5, para 1(c)    Prepare through DGHE and furnish to bank     Report covering 4/91
semi-annual progress and evaluation reports  to 10/92 received by
(October and April each year).              the end-of-92 mission
Sch.5, para l(d)    Maintain CPIU within DGHE, headed by         In compliance
qualified and experienced officers and with
appropriate functions, responsibilities, staffing
and funds to coordinate project activities
Sch.5, para 1(e)    Maintain the library planning and management   In compliance
unit headed by director of academic affairs, of
DGHE, with functions, responsibilities, staffing
and funds required for overall management of
higher education library network.
Sec. 3.01           Carry out project through DGHE in accordance   In compliance
with implementation program set forth in
schedule 5.
Sec. 3.02           Procurement of works, goods and consultants'   In compliance with
services in accordance with provision of    shortfalls in the use of
schedule 4.                                 foreign consultants
Sec. 3.03           Assign qualified and experienced officers on a    In compliance
full time basis as directors of CPIUs of loans
2102, 2290 and 2547 and senior staff for the
DGHE project implementation



- 37 -
Table 7: USE OF BANK RfsouRcES
Table 7A: Staff Inputs
Stage of Project Cycle             Planned           Actual
-(Staffweeks)
Preappraisal                         NA             109.0
Appraisal                            NA              19.2
Negotiations                         NA              6.4
Supervision                          NA             70.1
Completion                           NA              3.9
Total                                NA            208.6



- 38 -
Table 7B: Missions
Stage of       Month Number of Days in  Specialization Performance
Project Cycle   /Year persons   field     represented La status Lb     Types of problems
Through appraisal:
Identification    5/86  3         39      2EC,ED
Preparation    10-11/86  5        85      2EC,ED,2ST
Preappraisal    6-7/87    4       88      EC,2ED,ST
Appraisal      11/87    3         69      EC,ED,A
Supervision     10/88    2         24      EC,ED             1      --
1-2/89    3        25     A,EC,OO            1      --
10-11/89  2        12     A,OO               1      --
4/90     2          7      A,OO              1      --
10/90    3         14     A,MA,OQ            1      procurement progress
6/91     2          6      2A                1      procurement progress
10-11/91  8        36      A,MA,ED,ST,
2EC,EV,OO         2      project development objectives,
procurement progress
2-3/92    3        14      A,MA,OO           2      project development objectives,
procurement progress
10/92    6        24      A,MA,ED,
EV,EC,OO          2      project development objectives,
procurement progress
11/93 L   2      25      A,EC               2      project development objectives,
procurement progress
La EC=economist, ED=educator, A=architect, SC=science educator, UA=university administrator,
SO=sociologist, R=research specialist, SD=staff development specialist, EN= engineering scientist,
MA=management specialist, EV=evaluator, OP=operations analyst, ST=science and technology specialist,
00 = operations officer.
Lk 1 = minor or no problems; 2 = moderate problems; 3 = major problems.
L Completion mission.
INDOPcRA.P3A



BRBD 20718R
THAILAND
or                                      -7 j                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             INDONESIA
,   -                              ~~~~~~~~PHILIPPINES -       -
PHILIPPI-N,E ,-                                 HIGHER EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
BRUNEI           -'' 
MALAYSIA                                                                                  rUNEIt i                                / _o
OAU                                                                                                                        U. /0                                                                                                                                              Notiona  Capitols
' =Ue vA                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Citi.      T- \  /  -  citn ro
   -  \   MALAYSIA  )Ks.ALIAMANIAN                                                                     /             _                                                Intitrnotion-t a Boundari
r,...         &   K..           _ SINGiAPORf                                   -          I"'-         - __73TuA T                                         _-      SULAWESI        I      ,
0.              -                                                                                  KOUMALOTAN           ,L. A(U TARA.
-                                                                                                             ->ts                             - *3  eGTe,a.i .A -MANT                                              HALMAHERAA
 > ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 8~~~~~ARIT)|
UA LN7A NT rA                                         SULAWESI
BARA r)'                                                                                                                                                T -  S  /ENGAH   -
E     2                                                                                                   - p3    /                                                                                    -2                /        -                     -oa .n_-   /
-M 5   _ - o?-                 gLrC/a                -                /      KALIMANTAN                                                                             / '
/08/i-
;2 M/.O A"                 ~      t          ~          '    G        8 /  _                         - SEL rA t           _''I5u    I An  WESn                                                 IU       -U
R E N M C U L J >   , 0 1 /b             -   B E ,U T U N G                          '_ h      A L I M A N T U N             S U t A I N   ' S U t A W E S I          K EP_-AU   A N       A     -   -A      .          F A L                             IR IA       N   J AY A
i >"^5           J 4~                                          SEL A Y4                    SU M W ESI       /                                                     SENA-.
BELTUN                                                                                                                                      ul  -                                                                      ...... g  -' 
A34 O                          'SEIATAYA       SULAWESI                                       -IRI A N'                                                                  J A )`Al
^   1 _,5,i1o  V "     ,                                                                                        _  -o_ o       -                                                                                             /I
AMP                                                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~TEtWGARAA -rlu
: I JAKARTA                    -
aU     A             A-cA-a IY
N t   4   A I     JA W A   TE N ' g r " y                   -                                                                                                                                                                                                  /e
3 Solw Insw 7 r/r tu1It-  I  d       JM Io AAlt                                                                                                                                                                                                      )
DI YOGYoKARX   IT  --                7       Al              weo
ONES
374 SA 1,11-GARA,          LNSAqENGOARA             A.b.I
SO/AURA 04         ~TIMUR
---          ana..,,g      ~TIMOR TIMUR
PUBLIC oIHER EDUCAInON INSITUTONS                                                                                                                                      KOrEbTS                           TYPE OF INSTITUTIO-
I. U--,oy  tor,ed   ,                   a.  Un1n     .-.ry          y           31. M,la-         LUrnn-fly                  MB Q       LAIA                                                                        UNIVERSITY
2 IK/P lodn                            17 IKIP 3unInS 32.                                                S-o6 CnaO,UanYC  s,,a        - M     .       .       .     .      P.....                            P11,_._
31Bog., =roM   AnI Ug.Ia-             IAln.  Ieoy                              33  TKIP Oarnda                            ARA,..wa          .I. Jkr.                                                               ARdN-IUEr,.a.n,eo.VLNMIn
7 ~        ' C_c                                                                                                    D., dM U-                                 in Jk. Ano7                                 ART_X y  3SUdrt.ITEs
A Banana  nItaof Tekimnng,    9 Uy.nh Toni, UJ--n                     34  n.en-ddn. U-Ioe'o                      ASP49      1.~,ut                             n.I.e                                      KOFERTI5
P. WPnnorr U-a.MtY                     20 Uo.-A  at Non S--l                    33. 'KIP U n P-nA
TKIPKB-d.g                             21  TIP   d                               6P _          -                                                                         V. Yk                                      UNIVERSITY LIBRARY                              -     - U  Y                                 
7G-a  n             Ud-a U-07 n,                                                                                                                                         VI. Sene,n                                   TECHNOLOGY CENTER 40.                              - uCa   - aoo   .ra             n.. ...
I l . iodlahModa U_s, y22 r. oY  U -I-                                 37t W1 TJl      U.-Tfiy                                                                 'Al.S
82. IKIP PgornoUa.a                    23T  3mAo                                3B. &to.a,l  U-ooely                                                                     SWnD"-
I9 'IPISarargN                          2.   TU... IAY                           39. N_.-nmn       UnnU-a. y ..r,tY                                                       O
IO.AAarrhU.-Illeny                      25 J-6aaU-anlY                          .0. C.nA-,a.h U.-ua.Ty                                                                    H  P.&r,a                                                                                                   iS          nlA                  0
,II Ondo  ,InA  U-'*0y                  26. S--nnr  U--oat                       Al. Tnd.Inka U-1.noyXIWE
12. TIKP Yagykn-                        27 Wnp-g, U*-l,                         42. 14A    0-U-I/ ., 1 ocy                                                                IBernaalS
13-AIengU-ae.mi,                        28 TirpnUa.Y                             3. B,gkoal U--.rr                                                                       XI                                                                                                      o      enk3g               M    O
/4 Nn.e,rt_  II Inn 1 -1 Teoln-oY       29 Psnln-kr,o, U-1.aa/                  A-. Opn U3ennt                                                                                                                                                                                    C
'2 KIP SamoA-a                          30 Ln6-no MaRkamnl U--n,,y               A5 Yngpkan-  An lOIN/a                                                                                                                                                                                      KILO.EIERS
NMARH 1rITI












