Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Al    43 L/ ei/   / )
Report No. 7085-IND
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
INDONESIA
HIGHER EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
April 12, 1988
Country Department V
Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of April 1, 1988)
Current Unit = Indonesian Rupiah (Rp)
US$1.00      = Rp 1,660
Rp 1 million = US$602
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
ACADEMIC YEAR
July 1 - June 30
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
ADB          Asian Development Bank
APHE      =  Action Plan for Higher Education
BAPPENAS  =  National Development Planning Agency
BMPTS     =  Private Higher Education Association
CPIU      =  Central Project Implementation Unit
DGB       =  Directorate General of Budget, Ministry of Finance
DGHE      =  Directorate General for Higher Education
DIP       =  Development Budget
GOI       =  Government of Indonesia
HEMES        Higher Education Monitoring and Evaluation System
HEPG      =  Higher Education Program Guidelines
IKIP      =  Teacher Training University
IPIU      =  Institutional Project Implementation Unit
IUC       =  Inter University Center
JMO       =  Joint Management Office
KOPERTIS  =  Regional Coordinator for Private Higher Education
LNRC      =  Library Network Resource Center
LPMU      =  Library Planning and Management Unit
MIS       =  Management Information System
MOEC      =  Ministry of Education and Culture
MOF       =  Ministry of Finance
MT        =  Higher Education Project Implementation Monitoring Team
O&M       =  Operations and Maintenance
OTO       =  Overseas Training Office
PEDC      =  Polytechnic Education Development Center
P3T       =  University Development Office
PIMPRO    =  Project Leader
PTN       =  Public Higher Education Institutions
PTS       =  Private Higher Education Institutions
REPELITA  =  National Five-Year Development Plan
SO        =  Nondegree (Diploma level) Program
Si        =  Undergraduate Degree Program
S2        =  Two-Year (Master's level) Postgraduate Program
S3        =  Three-Year (PhD level) Postgraduate Program
SOE       =  Statement of Expenditures
SPi       =  Specialist (Medical Doctor) Postgraduate Program
SP4       =  Program, Planning and Budgeting System (PPBS)
SPP/DPP   =  Student Fees
ULTC      =  University Library Technology Center
UNINET    =  Interuniversity Computer Network



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
INDONESIA
HIGHER EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY ......................       ...........    iii
I.  THE HIGHER EDUCATION SUBSECTOR ...............................           1
A* Background  1o*oooe*.oeo.o***,eo*oo*
B.  The Higher Education Subsector............................e         2
C.  The Directorate General for Higher Educationcation...               3
D.  Planning and Budgeting Process in Higher Educationion.....          4
E.  Sectoral Issues, Policies and Actionst i o ns................       6
o.  Higher Education Development Strategyrat.....e          gy..........  10
1I.  THE PROJET.....................                                         16
A.  Project Objectiveso..............e.......*    e......e...  o...    16
B.  The Higher Education Expenditure Programr.......... m......        17
C.  Project Description ........ o  s*oS e**.......... .e .... ..o    19
D.  Project Implementation and Management............o.....            26
S.  Monitoring and Evaluation..oa l u a ti........     on........0.0    28
III.  PROJECT COSTS, FiltANCING, PROCUREMENT AND DISBURSEMMS .......    30
A* Costs                                                               30
B.  Fi    in..                  .      .n               g              33
C   Procurement* ..........o...... 66o****6**6* * 0  eeo 666666        35
DY   Disbursementsents.......o............. ...............e     36
E.  Accounts, Audits, and Reports p.. or                  ts.. e..................  38
IV.  BENEFITS AND RISKS..o.......66666666666 .......   . ........ ......     39
V.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AN  RECOMMENDATION.........ME  D....TION*...         40
This report is based on the findings of a preappraisal mission which visited
Indonesia in June/July 1987 comprising C. Valdivieso (economist, mission
leader), J. van Lutsenburg Maas (general educator), G. Huntirg (technical edu-
cator), and H.C.A. Somerset (general educator, consultant); and an appraisal
mission that visited Indonesia in November 1987 comprising C. Valdivieso
(economist, mission leader), J. van Lutsenburg Kaas (general educator), and
V.C. Demetriou (architect).
r This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
LIST OF TABLES IN MAIN REPORT
Table 1.1:  Implementation Problems and Actions Taken
Table 2.1:  Higher Education Expenditure Program, April 1988-March 1991
Table 3.1s  Summary of Project Costs by Component
Table 3.2:  Summary of Project Costs by Category of Expenditure
Table 3.3:  Financing Plan
Table 3.4:  Procurement Arrangements
Table 3.5:  Disbursement Forecast
ANNEXES
1. Comparative Education Indicators
2. Public and Private Higher Education Statistics
lable 1: Public Higher Education
Table 2: Private Higher Education
3. Higher Education Expenditures and Financing
4. Higher Education Program Guidelines
5. Action Plan for Higher Education
6. List of Studies and Evaluations
7. Technical Assistance Program
8. Staff Dsvelopment Program
Table 1: Domestic and Overseas Staff Development Programs
Table 2: Projected Enrollments in Selected In-Country
Study Programs
9.  Project Cost Estimates
Table 1:  Project Cost Suummary
Table 2:  Summary Accounts Cost Summary
Table 3:  Project Components by Year
Table 4:  Summary Accounts by Year
Table 5:  Summary Accounts by Project Component
Table 6: Breakdown of Sumary Accounts (Rp billion)
Table 7:  Breakdown of Suummary Accounts (US$ million)
10.  Implementation Schedule
11. Selected Documents and Data in Project Files
CHARTS
Chart 1: DGHE Organizational Structure
Chart 2:  Organizational Structure of Public Universities
Chart 3:  GOI Higher Education Expenditure Program
Chart 4:  Project Man,gement Organizational Structure
Chart 5:  Central Project Implementation Unit Organizational Structure
MAP
IBRD No. 20718



- iii -
INDONESIA
HIGHER EDUCATION DKEPNENT PROJECT
Loan and Project Su ary
Borrower:          Republic of Indonesia
Amount:            US$140.3 million equivalent
Terms:             Repayable in 20 years, including 5 years of grace, at the
standard variable interest rate.
Project
Description:     The objectives of the project are to assist the Government
in implementing its higher education program through
(a) improvement of sectoral planning; (b) improvement of
both sectoral and institutional management in higher
education; (c) increasing resource mobilization, including
reinforcing the role of private higher education
institutions; (4) improving educational quality and
efficiency; (e) strengthening selected fields of study
reflecting manpower needs; and (f) increasing the
contribution of universities to regional development,
particularly in the Eastern Islands. The proposed project
would finance: civil works, equipment, books, furniture,
training, consultant services, research, and administrative
and operational support. It would lay the foundation for
transition from project to sector-type operations for
higher education in Indonesia. The proposed project would
finance about 55Z of a three year higher education
expenditure program excluding those projects which are
either entirely GOI financed or assisted by other World
Bank loans or other donors by supporting selected
activities based on GOI's medium term subsector giidelines
and action plan. To improve planning and management,
support would be given to: (a) the development :snd
delivery of a training program in university management and
finance; (b) expansion of the management information and
monitoring and evaluation systems for higher education; and
(c) higher education studies and evaluation-. To improve
quality and efficiency, support would be given to:
(a) overseas and domestic postgraduate staff development
programs for university teachers; (b) incremental
operational support for selected undergraduate programs;
(c) university research programs; and (d) equipment,
educational materials, and maintenance of laboratories.
Private higher education would be supported through:
(a) enhanced regional coordination; (b) fellowships for
academic staff and management training for institutional



- iv -
administrators; (c) establishment of comon-use facilities
to be shared by private institutions on a charge-back
basis; and (d) improvement of accredi- cion standards. The
project would support selected physical development
through: (a) development of fishery (at Riau University)
and agriculture (at Tadulako and Cenderawasi universities)
facilities; (b) development of the campuses of the
universities of Indonesia, Gadjah Nada and Andalas;
(c) construction of library and science laboratory
accommodations at IKIP Malang and Cenderawasih and Kataram
universities; and (d) provision of equipment for eleven
polytechnics supported under Loan 2290-IND and the
Polytcchnic Education Development Center (PEDC). The
project would support the provision of adequate levels of
operations and maintenance for higher education
institutions, including the provision of additional
staffing and operating budgets.
Benefits:          The benefits of Bank assistance under the proposed project
would be widespread throughout the subsector, and would
lead to better cost recovery through increased student fees
and university income from services, improved planning and
management, better educational quality, and improved
project implementation. Implementation of the specific
time-buund actions to support subsectoral strategy would
lead to the development of a more efficient and financially
self-sustaining higher education system.
Risks:             The main risks are that some of the universities which have
not had prior implementation experience may perform at a
slower pace than what is required to implement the project
on schedule. These risks are being addressed by providing
technical assistance for planning and management, planning
to undertake intensive p'oject supervision, supporting the
higher education project implementation monitoring team,
and training managers at all universities.



Ewtimeted Costs                                       Local    Foreign  Total
Planning and management                           3.3        2.2     5.5
Quality and efficiency                           49.2       25c4    74.6
Streangthening of private higher education        2.2        1.8     4.0
Physical development at selected universities  19.0         27.9    46.9
Increoental salaries and operations and
maintenance                                   89.0        8.0    97.0
Total Base Costs                           162.7       65.3   228.0
Physical contingencies                            8.8        2.7    11.5
Price contingencies                              15.0        2.7    17.7
Total Costs                               186.6       70.7   257.3/a
financing Plant
Government of Indonesia                             108.1       8.9   117.0
Proposed IBID loan                                   78.5      61.8   140.3
Total                                      186.6       70.7   257.3
lstimated Disbursementat
Bank FY                                     1989   1990   1991       '992
Annual                                    25.6   51.4   45.0       18.3
Cumulative                                25.6   77.0  122.0    140.3
Rate of Returns Not applicable
MbR IBRD 1o. 20718
/a     Includts US$4.2 million in identifiable taxes.



I. THE HICHER EDUCATION SUBSECTOR
A. Background
1.1       Severe budget limitations and inadequacies of higher-level manpower
are currently among the most important constraints to sastained economic
development in Indonesia. In spite of the general slowdown in the economy,
there are serious higher-level manpower shortages, especially professional,
technical, managerial, and scientific. The higher education subsector is not
yet fully developed to provide the trained manpower required to serve the
country's development needs. Consequently, Indonesia has been forced, in the
short term, to rely on overseas fellowships to overcome domestic highet educa-
tion deficiencies.
1.2       Drops in oil prices resulted in severe cuts in the development
budget for all sectors, including higher education, during the last two years,
slowing down the implementation of ongoing projects and priority activities,
while delaying the initiation of other necessary investments. The Government's
tight budgetary situation can be expected to continue. In the state-operated
sector, this underscores the need for consolidation of uneconomic programs and
better use of existing facilities; for adequate provision of operation and
.aintenance funds rather than continued rapid growth of development expendi-
tures; and for better planning and management to improve the efficiency and
relevance of existing study programs. After a period of rapid growth in
higher education, the time has come to consolidate previous gains, to prevent
the deterioration of quality, to assist private higher education, and to
improve finance, planning and management at all levels, especially at the
6hreshold of Repelita V (1989-94).
1.3       The educational system as a whole has made very significant gains
during the last ten years in expanding access to education and improving the
skills of the labor force. At the primary level, enrollments grew from 13.0
million in 1972 to 30.8 million in 1986; universal access to grade one of
primary school has virtually been achieved; and dropout and repetition rates
have declined during the last decade despite rapid enrollment increases.
Enrollment at the junior secondary level increased from 1.4 million in 1971 to
6.0 million in 1986, and the enrollment rate has reached 52X of the age
cohort. At the senior secondary level, enrollment grew from 0.6 million in
1971 to 3.7 million in 1986, resulting in an enrollment rate of 35%. These
improvements, however, were obtained while Indonesia devoted a lower percent-
age of CDP to education than any other country at a similar stage of develop-
ment, as shown by the Comparative Education Indicators (Annex 1).



B. The Higher Education Subsector
1.4       The higher education system in Indonesia has groxmn rapidly during
the last ten years. As Annex 2 shows, there are now 45 public universities 1
with an enrollment of about 535,000 in undergraduate (S1), nondegree (80), and
graduate programs, which include Master (S2), PhD (93), and Medical Doctor
(SP) programs.  Even though this figure includes 110,000 students in the Open
University, enrollments in public higher education institutions are now about
four times as large as a decade ago. Other than the Open University, which
began operations in 1984, the COX intends to create new public universities
only if a new province is created in the country. The number of full-time
public university teachers increased from 13,000 to 31,000 and the student/
teacher ratio increased from 9 to 17 during the last decade. The number of
private institutions increased from about 350 in 1975 to 665 in 1986, and have
an enrollment of about 750,000 students (see Annex 2). The Repelita IV target
was to raise the higher education enrollment rate from about 5X in 1984 to
8.2X of the University age cohort by 1989. It is about 6.8S at present. The
target proved to be too ambitious, not only for budgetary reasons, but also
because of the low academic quality of many of the candidates graduating from
secondary schools.
1.5       About 150,000 students were admitted last year into state-run insti-
tutions of higher education, or about 191 of the graduates from general senior
high school. Additionally, about 213,000 were admitted into private higher
education institutions, indicating an unusually high transition rate into
highe- education overall (about 45). One important consequence of the rapid
expansion of enrollments in higher education has been that suitable candidates
for university admission are not always available in the Outer Islands,
especially in the East. As a result, some of the universities in the Outer
Islands have admitted student who scored in the bottom quarter of the
national pool of candidates.-' The shortage of suitable candidates in the
Outer Islands is due to the limited capacity of their secondary schools.
1.6       Rapid enrollment growth and the admission of inadequately prepared
candidates have led to a fall in standards. In addition, teaching staff lack
postgraduate qualifications (between 15X and 211 hold advanced degrees); full
1/   Here and in the remainder of this report the term "universities" is used
generically to include IKIPs (Teacher Training Universities) and Insti-
tutes of Technology. It also subsumes the polytechnics which are
faculty-level units within universities which offer diploma level study
programs in engineering and commercial subjects. Courses in universities
are otganized into nondegree (80, or diploma) programs, which take
between one and three years to complete; and degree programs, which are
either undergraduate (81) or graduate (82, S3, or SPI) programs. Chart 2
presents a schematic diagram of the organizational structure of
Indonesian public universities.
2/   See H.C.A. Somerset, "Recent Administrative Changes in Indonesia's
Admissions' Procedures," April 1986, mimeo.



- 3 -
tim teaching staff are scarce; there are serious shortages of textbooks in
the Indonesian language library holdings are very limited both in number and
scope and are inadequately managed; and laboratory facilities are poor. These
factors have resulted in low internal efficiency at most Indonesian
unlversities.
1.7       Although there is no legal discrimination against women in access to
education or employment in Indonesia, relatively few women occupy higher level
positions in government or the private sector. This situation is expected to
change as the number of highly educated women increases. At present, about
481 of primary school pupils, 42% of junior secondary school students, 40X of
senior secondary school students, and 311 of university students are female
(32Z cf 81 students, ad 42Z of SO students). The relative participation of
female students in Indonesian universities is increasing, as shown by admis-
sions data: in 1985/86, about 431 of new entrants to public universities were
female (401 of new 51 students, and 451 of new S0 students). The participa-
tion of wome students is higher in the faculties of education, social
science, economics, and law. In 1986 there were about 5,400 female teachers
in Indonesian public universities (about 21X of the total). There are women
teachers in almost every field, with the largest numbers in medicine,
educatione and agriculture.
C. The Directorate Ceneral for Higher Education
1 s       The Directorate General for Higher Education (DCGH) in the Ministry
oi Jucation and Culture (WOEC) is responsible for the development of the
hiiar education system, including both public and private institutions, and
for implenenting national higher education policy. It is comprised of a
Secretariat and four Directorates oft Academic Affairs, Student Affairs,
Research and Community Service, and Private Institutions (Chart 1). The
Secretariat provides technical and administrative services to all organiza-
tional units within the DCGE, and coordinates the planning and budgeting pro-
cess for the DOGE and public higher education institutions. The Directorate
for Academic Affairs is charged with formulating technica. policies and manag-
ing academic affairs (including curriculum, academic staff, teaching equip-
ment, and university organization) for higher education and coordinates
scholarships and other student financial assistance. The Directorate of
Student Affairs provides policy guidance for extracurricular activities. The
Directorate of Research and Community Service coordinates and finances
research programs at public higher education institutions.
1.9       The Directorate of Private Institutions is assisted by nine regional
KOPERTIS (Coordinators for Private Higher Education) under the Directorate of
Private Higher Education in the DWRE. These are the Government agencies that
oversee private higher education development: they implement state examina-
tions and accreditation of private universities, award government subsidies,
and commicate government policies to the private higher education institu-
tions (PTS). Several ty,es of assistance are provided to PTS by the Govern-
mento financing for building construction and educational materials, courses
for private university staff, and civil service status and funding for some
full tie private university lecturers. At present, emphasis is on improving
the quantity and quality of PTS staff, improving the curriculum, and providing



- 4 -
books and libraries. There are Regional and National Private Higher Education
Associations (BMPTS) which ate nongovernmental organizations to promote the
development and interests of private institutions of higher education by pro-
viding a forum in which to discuss common problem., organize training activi-
ties for their members, and provide a meehanism by which the PTS can speak to
the GOI with a common voice.
1.10      In addition, the DCHE is assisted by twelve Consortia.  These
nonstructural boards operate in the following academic disciplines: education,
psychology, mathematic3 and natural sciences, engineering, medical sciences,
economics, law, social sciences and humanities, language And philosophy, agri-
culture, religious studies, and art. Each consortium has a chairman, an exe-
cutive eecretary, and a peer group who are consulted when the DCGE needs
advice on planning or evaluating existing programs and structures. The full
and effective operation of the consortia is important for the academic
planning and development of the system. After two years of virtual
standstill, the consortia need to be strengthened through adequate budget and
administrative and technical support.
D. Planning and Budgeting Process in Higher Education
1.11      Public higher education in Indonesia is financed from the routine
budget, the development budget (composed of 72 development projects, or DIPS),
student fees (SPP/DPP), and foreign aid (see Annex 3 for a description of the
composition and recent evolution of the expenditure program and financing
sources for higher education). Within the framework of the DGHE's Program,
Planning and Budgeting system (SP4), programming for each fiscal year starts
around May, when universities prepare initial proposals for their DIPS and
routine budgets, which are evaluated by the DGHE according to the following
priorities: (a) to provide counterpart funds for foreign-assisted projects;
(b) to provide funding for priority national programs; and (c) to provide
funds for the regular programs of the universities. The three-year
development plans of the universities are reviewed to verify whether the
proposed development projects fit into their medium-range plans. After a
series of revisions by the DGHE and the individual universities, and taking
into account the budget ceilings set by BAPPENAS and the Ministry of Finance
(MOF), the DGHE prepares draft routine and development budgets and sends them
to each university. These are made final when the budget is passed by
Parliament in March, and go into effect April 1 each year.
1.12      There are 72 higher education DI?s in 1987/88: 45 for the public
universities and institutes, 4 for art academies, 9 for the KOPERTIS, 9 for
national projects which are managed by DGHE Directorates, and 5 for Central
Project Implementation Units (CPIUs) for ongoing World Bank and Asian
Development Bank (ADB) financed projects (see para. 1.34-1.38 and Chart 1).
The DIP proposals at each university are formulated within the SP4 system by a
team of staff from the university's development office, or P3T (Chart 2) and
academic staff appointed ad hoc by the Rector. The team brings together and
prioritizes plans from the different units in the university. Very little
planning is undertaken by the universities for their routine budget, as they
have very little say in their routine budget allocations: they merely gather
information on employees by civil service grade level, materials used, utility



- 5 -
costs, floor space, number of students by field of study, etc., and pass this
information to the DGHE, where the routine budget is prepared based on overall
allocations and standardized unit costs.
1.13      The routine expenditures of state universities and institutes are
supplemented by SPP/DPP funds (student fees), which are used to finance recur-
rent expenditures such am academic equipment and materials, .esearch, commu-
nity service, honoraria, student activities, and general campus maintenance.
These funds are not included in either the routine or the development budgets,
yet represent an increasingly important source of funding to universities.
The average contribution per student is about Rp 85,000 (about US$50) per
year, or a total of Rp 36 billion (US$21.8 million) in FY87188, representing
about a fifth of the operational budget per student at public universities.
Student fees are expected to reach about Rp 80 billion (US$48 million) by
FY90/91.
1.14      Other sources of income, such as income from other central govern-
ment departments and agencies, provincial governments, parastatal and private
corporations, and private individuals or trusts is known to be minor and
mainly ad hoc for most universities. However, in a handful of the more pres-
tigious and higher-quality universities, contract research sometimes generates
significant income for individual faculties or departments.
1.15      Foreign financing has heretofore been mainly concentrated on
specific investment projects at selected institutions. Foreign aid has become
increasingly important as a source of funds during the last few years, mainly
due to the startup of operations of large new projects and to the improved
implementation of existing projects. The execution of foreign assisted proj-
ects has typically committed the Government to contributing large counterpart
capital funds.
1.16      Public universities are not given a large degree of autonomy in
their planning and budgeting decisions. University managers wait to be given
resources, and are not allowed to collect and manage them. Even the amounts
and uses of student fees are highly regulated, and the amouats of income that
a university receives from services provided to the community have so far been
small, although there is interest in increasing revenues from this source.
1.17      A recent study on higher education costs and finance in three
Indonesian universities estimated average unit recurrent costs per student
year to be between Rp 400,000 and Rp 390,000 per year (US$240 to US$300) at
both public and private universities.- These costs are low when compared to
unit costs in other countries, to per capita income, and to the unit costs of
primary and secondary education. Even though low costs may be desirable
financially, in the case of Indonesia they do not necessarily indicate greater
efficiency in the provision of educational services. On the contrary, they
3/   R.W. McMeekin, "Higher Education Costs and Finance in Indonesia", March
1986, mimeo. The report was based on a case study of three universities:
Gadjah Mada, Parahyangan, and Satya Wacana.



probably indicate low levels of educational quality. It is extremely diffi-
cult, however, to obtain unit costs for different field. of study at
Indonesian public universities, as the prevailing centralized accounting sys-
tem does not readily identify cost items by university operating units. This
makes planning for expansion in priority fields difficult at both the central
and university levels.
1.18      The standard unit costs used to estimate nonpersonnel expenditures
in the routine budget are not realistic, and do ntot differentiate by type or
size of university, or by regional location. Therefore, the preparation of the
routine budget receives little professional attention. Instead, most planning
effort goes into preparing development budget requests, but the actual budget
allocations are often very dif f,rent.  At the same time, they are classified
into very detailed categories.4  Universities are not free to move funds
between categories in response to their needs, but must justify proposals for
change through budget revisions. Financial autonomy at the university level is
also constrained by the poor data gathering and use, as the university
management information systems (MIS) have so far concentrated mostly on
teacher and student head counts, and lack vital information such as equipment
inventories and the needs for maintenance and consumable materials, library
holdings, teaching equipment, graduates by field by year, etc. These problems
both reflect and are compounded by the lack of a cadre of professionally
trained and motivated university administrators.
E. Sectoral Issues, Policies and Actions
1.19      The challenges which the higher education subsector faces were
analyzed in a series of studies which were carried out by Indonesian teams
over the last three years, with advisory support from the UNESCO/IBRD Coopera-
tive Program. The sector work process generated a continued and sustained
policy dialogue, fed directly into the drafting of the second ten-year higher
education development plan (1986-95), and led to the identification of the
main issu5ss which the Indonesian higher education subsector needs to
address.-41 These include: alleviation of budgetary constraints; development
of the private sector; improvement of planning and management; and improvement
of quality, relevance, efficiency, and equity.
Alleviation of Budgetary Constraints
1.20      The pressure to increase enrollment in Indonesian public universi-
ties led, for a number of years, to a rapid growth of the development budget
4/   There are two annual budgets in Indonesia: the Routine and the Develop-
ment budgets, which roughly correspond to recurrent and capital expendi-
tures. Although the development budget has historically included some
recurrent expenditures, this practice was sharply cut back in the last
two budget years.
5/   These are discussed in the Final Status Report on the Higher Education
Sector Study in Indonesia, World Bank, July 1986.



- 7 -
for higher education, but with a virtual stagnation of the routine budget,
although some recurrent types of expenditures were frequently included in the
development budget. Since 1986/87, however, most recurrent expenditures have
been dropped from the development budget, but have not been transferred to the
routine budget. Between 1980 and 1985, the operational budget per student
(including not only routine budgets but also the recurrent portions of the
development budget) declined a total of 22Z in constant 1980 prices. Since
there were no substantial efficiency gains or increases in extrabudgetary
funds (student fees), the quality of higher education probably declined during
those years.
1.21      A major shift in the financing of public higher education is already
underway (Annex 3). Whereas in the earlier years, funding was largely fr3m
government budgets and especially the development budget, in the past twj
years a new emphasis on cost recovery, which emerged during Bank-MOI hignxer
education sector work discussions, has taken hold in higher education.
Student fees have become an increasingly important source of finance, after
they were doubled in September 1986 for all incoming students. They will keep
increasing steadily for the nezt three or four years, as graduating students
currently paying lower fees are replaced with new entrants. The sharp reduc-
tion in the development budget for 1987/88 clearly indicates that earlier
plans for expanding the state sector while providing operation and maintenance
funds from within the development budget have become unrealistic. The MOEC
will now need to focus on improving financial management in higher education,
allocating its resources to the highest priority objectives and expanding cost
recovery.
1.22      In order to address these issues, the following policy actions are
needed:
(a) Increase Funding for Operations and Kaintenance. The declining
trend in unit operational expenditures in Indonesian public univer-
sities must be reversed. Universities should have funds to provide
themselves with better maintenance of facilities and equipment,
better instructional materials, additional staff development,
library books, etc. A study needs to be conducted to determine
appropriate future levels of operation and maintenance expenditures
by field of study, given the existing capital stock, enrollment
levels, and desired educational quality levels, as well as to esti-
mate the operation and maintenance requirements for new projects as
they are completed. Adequate mechanisms for providing these levels
should be incorporated into the planning, programming and budgeting
system for universities during Repelita V.
(b) Cost Recovery. Additional sources of financing for operation and
maintenance must be developed, with the aim of generating a more
self-sustaining system, with less reliance on central government
allocations. Public universities should be able to supplement the
funds they receive through the development and routine budgets with
higher levels of cost recovery from students, is well as from
charges for services. In addition, the DCHE should develop a mecha-
nism for periodically raising student fees (which revert back to



individual universities), at rates which would not only match cost
of living increases, but which would also allow universities to
increase their reliance on user fees to finance their recurrent
expenditures, thereby reducing their heavy dependence on the central
government budget for their operations. Decisions on increasing
student fees, however, must be taken jointly with the MOF. This
should be accompanied by improved student aid programs (such as
expansion of the banking system's existing student loan scheme) for
needy students. An analysis of the current fee st;s4cture and of the
socioeconomic distribution of university students Of shows that
student fees in public universities are low in relation to total
costs. Students in private universities pay substantially higher
tuition and admissions fees, even though there is little difference
in the income distribution of families of students in public vs.
private institutions. The costs of tuition fees are only 10 of
students' total reported monthly expenditures (including room and
board) in public universities and less than 20Z for private
university students. Thus, there is ample opportunity to increase
the level of cost recovery, with provision for scholarship or loan
assistance for needy students, without negative equity effects.
Development of the Private Sector
1.23      The higher education subsector in Indonesia is viewed as a system in
which both state and private institutions of higher learning are partners.
The private sector currently enrolls over 50Z of all tertiary level students
in Indonesia, and its role is expected to become even more important in years
to come. The GOI expects private universities to meet most of the increase in
demand for higher education, and is willing to provide incentives for its
development, given that investments in private higher education do not commit
the GOI to fund future operational costs. The challenge lies in stimulating
the growth of private higher education institutions while obtaining in return
a minimum acceptable quality of education, relevant to the development needs
of the country. While most recent investment in the state sector has gone
into the natural sciences and engineering, in general, private higher educa-
tion institutions have concentrated on economics, accountancy, social science,
law, and education. Quality varies greatly among institutions, but most con-
centrate their activities in teaching, and regular research is generally not
undertaken. Private institutions rely on part-time teaching staff, although
the number of full time staff and government aided staff has been increasing,
and now stands at about 5,000 out of a total of 16,000 private university
teachers. Full-time managerial and administrative staff are scarce. In an
effort to improve staff quality, the GOI recently began to offer overseas and
domestic graduate fellowships to private university teachers.
6/   McMeekin, op. cit. and Oey Meesook, "Financing and Equity in the Social
Sectors in Indonesia," World Bank Staff Working Paper No. 703, Chapter
II.



1.24      In order to strengthen private universities, the following policy
actions are needed:
(a) Provision of seed money for capital expansion and staff development
at private institutions. This would revitalize a worthwhile program
that was carried out through the KOPERTIS in recent years. These
funds could be channeled for increasing enrollment capacity and
encouraging quality improvements in fields regarded as important for
national development.
(b) Provision of regional Growth Centers with common-use educational
facilities such as libraries and laboratories which could be uti-
lized by private universities in the region, which would be respon-
sible for all running costs.
(c) Extension of existing scholarship and student loan programs to
students in private higher education institutions.
Improvement of Planning and Management
1.25      The present planning system for higher education lacks flexibility
and adaptability to changing circumstances. Planning targets, like the
Repelita IV target of a higher education enrollment rate of 8.2X by 1988/89
were not revised in spite of sharp budgetary cutbacks. With Repelita V fast
approaching, it will be crucial to estimate realistic enrollment and other
planning targets for the period, decide on appropriate resource allocation
mechanisms and criteria (among disciplines, among individual public universi-
ties, between public and private institutions, etc.) and not waste scarce
investment and managerial resources trying to achieve impossible targets.
Public universities need to develop their administrative and managerial
capabilities, and to obtain greater managerial and financial autonomy. Unless
adequate management information systems are pul in place at each university,
university managers will not be able to make rational plans and requests for
resources, or to manage and monitor effectively the resources which they do
receive, since information-producing systems are a necessary condition for
enhancing the responsibility and accountability of universities.
1.26      In order to address these issues, the following policy actions are
needed:
(a) Administrative bureaus of the universities should be professional-
ized by creating a functional stream of university managers.
(b) Enrollment expansion in the state institutions should be related to
the availability of key resources: operating funds, qualified
teaching and administrative staff, and qualified secondary school
graduates.
(c) Improvements to the planning and budgeting system for higher
education should continue. There has been substantial progress in
streamlining the DGHE's three-year planning mechanism, which is now
based on a set of operational programs and policies to achieve them.



- 10 -
(d)  Emphasis should be given to the development of the higher education
management information system as a useful management tool for
universities and at the DGHE level.
(e)  The labor market performance of various types of graduates should be
monitored periodically as a basis for evaluating the benefits of
various higher education programs.
Improvement of Quality, Relevance, Efficiency and Equity
1.27      Even though there have been improvements, the overall quality in
both public and private institutions is still low, due to factors such as the
low academic caliber of some of the students admitted into universities, the
low percentage of full-time teaching staff and of teachers holding advanced
degrees, and the lack of sufficient laboratory equipment, library materials
and facilities. Future growth and development of higher education should be
directed towards fields related to national development needs and resource
limitations, including the development of closer ties with industry. Economic
development needs suggest that the growth pattern should emphasize the follow-
ing fields of study: engineering, sciences, management, and teacher education.
Internal efficiency is low by various criteria: a low proportion of the cohort
entering university graduate; the average number of years it takes a student
to graduate is about twice the theoretical requirement; and there are few
research papers and publicatious, especially in the sciences. Issues related
to individual and regional equity need to be addressed. The individual equity
issues will relate mainly to the provision of adequate levels of financial aid
to needy students as fees rise. The data on university admissions suggest
that the problem of regional equity in the education sector as a whole can
only be tackled in the long term by improving the effectiveness of primary and
secondary schools off Java and Bali, and, in the short term, by consolidating
scattered resources in order to strengthen quality inputs and processes in
higher education institutions.
1.28      The 00I has already taken significant steps to address some of these
issues, such as eliminating unproductive study programs and courses, estab-
lishing overseas and domestic staff development programs for university
teachers and for academic vice-Rectors, developing student loan assistance
programs, and fostering research in a variety of academic disciplines, and is
presently developing a longer-term program for improvements in these areas
through the planning process for Repelita V, as well as through policy studies
and institution-building efforts. These efforts need to be accompsnied by
policies to improve capacity utilization in Indonesian universities, which is
too low at present.
F.  Higher Education Development Strategy
Government Strategy
1.29      The GOI has demonstrated its interest and concern for solving sub-
sectoral issues through the frankness of their sectoral dialogue and through
their willingness to implement difficult policies that would improve the



quality, efficiency, management or financing of higher education, or improve
the implementation of projects in the subsector. Some of the significant
policy changes recently taken by the GOI are: doubling of student fees for
incoming university students, implementing the semester credit systems elimi-
nating unproductive study programs and courses, awarding overseas fellowships
for university teachers, developing the domestic postgraduate education
system, creating Inter University Centers (IUCs) for research and in-service
training, developing a mandatory upgrading seminar for university teachers
(ARTA V), starting to upgrade the status of university library directors in
order to attract more senior professionals to that position, providing a
training program for university academic administrators, expanding the student
loan program, encouraging the development of the private higher education sub-
sector, and establishing a Higher Education Project Implementation Monitoring
Team (MT) to expedite the implementation of all foreign assisted projects in
the subsector.
1.30      The implementation of these policies is resulting in tangible
improvements in quality and efficiency, cost recovery, and implementation of
foreign assisted higher education projects, although much remains to be done.
The DGHE's interest in further policy improvements is reflected in the Higher
Education Program Guidelines and the Action Plan for Higher Education which
are contained in Annexes 4 and 5 and are summarized in paras. 2.2 and 2.3.
The GOI will still need to develop a longer-term program for yet further
improvements in these areas through studies and institution-building efforts
leading to changes in the regulatory environment for the sector. These should
include increased university administrative and financial autonomy, special
evaluations of major areas of higher education curricula such as the polytech-
nics, science teacher training, and a strengthening of the process for accre-
ditation of both public and private universities. The overall goal would be
to develop a higher education subsector whose state and privately owned
components meet required standards and are financially viable for the long
term.
Bank Strategy
1.31      Bank assistance to Indonesia's higher education sector began
modestly in 1977 by providing support for upgrading of teacher training pro-
grams at the IKIPs. The purpose of Bank assistance from that time to the
present has been to improve the quality of selected curricular areas in higher
education and, where needed, to finance the creation of entirely new types of
programs, most notably the diploma level polytechnics and the Interuniversity
Centers (IUCs) at the postgraduate level. These selected interventions were
intended to fill obvious and strategic gaps in the curricular framework of
higher education. Assistance was also provided to strengthening key under-
graduate programs in universities and IKIPs, in particular in the subject
areas of agriculture, engineering, science, accountancy, economics, and
teacher training. In summary, the Bank's strategy was to identify specific
curricular programs which were either nonexistent or grossly deficient, and
provide concentrated assistance either to create new programs or to raise
standards and/or increase the output of graduates. Bank loans typically were
used for importing equipment and foreign expertise in teaching and curriculum
development, and to develop future Indonesian academic staff through overseas



- 12 -
fellowships. Little attention was given to strengthening the management of
resources to sustain these programs on a long-term basis. Each new investment
placed a heavy demand on government counterpart resources.
1.32      The impact of the Bank's contribution is beginning to be felt in the
sector and is bound to be felt on the economy at large. Six polytechnics are
fully operational and producing diploma-level graduates who are in high demand
in industry. The annual output of polytechnic diploma holders is expected to
increase from about 1,500 in 1985 to around 6,000 in 1989. Another eleven
polytechnics will come on stream in 1989, thereby establishing a sound basis
for further development of an education system to meet industry's requirements
for technician level manpower. Their demonstrated effectiveness has been an
incentive for the private sector to begin to create similar institutions in
recent years. The main contribution of the Bank's assistance to the IKIPs has
been to help them to absorb a tremendous growth in enrollments which otherwise
would have resulted in a very severe fall in standards. The main effect of
Bank assistance to undergraduate programs in the universities has been to
raise the qualifications of academic staff especially through overseas study,
and to assist in the development of new curricula in selected undergraduate
fields. Bank support for postgraduate programs is just beginning and its
impact on the quality of instruction and research is yet to be felt. Imple-
mentation experience and lessons learned are discussed in paras. 1.34-1.39.
1.33      The Bank continues to play a key role in strengthening Indonesia's
higher education sector both through ongoing projects and through a continuing
dialogue with the GOI on the resolution of key institutional, policy and
implementation issues. In recent years the dialogue on these issues has
included both a joint GOI-Bank analysis of sectoral issues and policies
(para. 1.19) and a parallel joint review of education project implementation.
The preparation and appraisal of further higher education projects by the Bank
were postponed until the sector analysis and implementation review were
completed. Together, the sector analysis and project implementation review
led to an agreement to bring a sectoral approach to bear in the next higher
education project to be financed by a Bank loan. Whereas each of the previous
loans focused on the expansion and improvement of clearly identified and
targeted curricular programs, like polytechnic education, teacher education,
or postgraduate education, and were restricted to public institutions of
higher education, it was agreed that a new series of time-slice loans would
take a different approach. This new series of projects would seek to support
and strengthen the higher education program of DCHE as a whole, and, in
particular, shift the focus of attention to strengthening the financial,
institutional and policy frameworks of the entire higher education system. As
the Government's major external source of capital for the development of the
higher education sector, the Bank is well placed to participate in this
broader approach to investment planning.
Project Implementation Experience in Higher Education
1.34      The Bank has supported the development of the higher education
subsector in Indonesia with six loans to date: two polytechnic development
projects (Credit 869-IND and Loan 2290-IND), two teacher training projects
(Loan 1433-1ND and Loan 2101-1ND), and two university development projects



- 13 -
(Loan 1904-IND and Loan 2547-IND). In addition, to strengthen the quality of
output from secondary schools, the Bank is currently financing the first of a
series of secondary education projects, with emphasis on science, mathematics,
and language, and encompassing the Outer Islands as well as Java and Bali. An
Accountancy Development Project has been appraised and will begin implementa-
tion in mid-1988. Three of the higher education projects have been completed:
the First Polytechnic Development Project (Credit 869-IND), the First Teacher
Training Project (Loan 1433-IND), and the First University Development Project
(Loan 1904-IND).
1.35      Lessons Learned from Implementing Education Projects.  Seven
education projects have been completed in Indonesia to date, and OED Project
Performance Audit Reports (PPARs) have been prepared for five of them. The
following lessons learned from past experience have been identified as rele-
vant to the design of the proposed project, even though some of them were in
subsectors other than higher education:  (a) make provisions for predeparture
language training for prospective overseas graduate fellows;7 (b) avoid
creating a variety of new and separate project implementation units, but
rather have implementation activities at each institution undertaken by the
existing institutional project implementation units;- (c) locate the project
in only one directogyate general, and undertake regular in-depth project imple-
mentation reviews;- (d) make provisions for fellowships for academic staff
development, and for management training for institutional a 'nistrators, and
make early appointments of key project implementation staff;%) (e) emphasize
advanced pryli/ect preparation, and do not overestimate the need for technical
assistance,_   and (f) schedule overseas stafl development programs in advance
of construction or equipping of facilities._
7/   Project Performance Audit Report:  Indonesia - Fifth Education (First
Teacher Training Project) (Loan 1433-IND), SecM86-878, July 23, 1986.
8/   Project Performance Audit Report: Indonesia - Fourth Education Project
(Loan 1237-IND), SecM86-858, July 18, 1986.
9/   Project Performance Audit Report: Indonesia - First Nonformal Education
Ptoject (Loan 1486-IND), Report No. 6304, June 30, 1986.
10/ Project Performance Audit Report: Indonesia - First Education Project
(Credit 219-IND), Report No. 2998, June 2, 1980.
11/ Project Performance Audit Report: Indonesia - Second Education Project
(Credit 288-IND), June 30, 1980.
12/ Project Completion Report: Indonesia - Seventh Education Project -
Polytechnics Project (Credit 869-IND), November 17, 1987.



- 14 -
1.36      Teacher Training.  The first aM second Teacher Training Projects
were oesigned to assist primary and secondary education through a quantitative
expansion of the systems for training primary and secondary school teachers as
well as through improving the skills of school administrators. The first
project was closed in May 1985. Aside from some delays, implementation expe-
rience war generally good, and there were no substantial procurement problems.
The second Teacher Training Project is still under implementation, but the
higher education portion for training secondary school teachers at IKIPs was
completed on schedule and without any major problems.
1.37      Polytechnics.  The two polytechnic projects were designed to assist
the GOI's plans to increase the supply of middle-level manpower through the
creation, ezpansion, strengthening and diversification of the polytechnic
system (para. 1.4). The first polytechnic project was closed on time and all
funds were utilized, and iLs educational objectives were met satisfactorily.
The second polytechnic project is lagging in disbursements against appraisal
estimates, but major contracts for equipment have recently been signed, and
disbursements have recently accelerated.
1.38      University Development.  The first University Development Project
was intended to raise the quality and number of graduates in engineering,
science, agriculture and economics and to strengthen university management at
three key universities. The second University Development Project was
designed to develop Indonesia's capacity to train its own university teachers
and researchers, through the development of graduate-level programs and the
initiation of five new specialized undergraduate fields of study. Loan funds
for the first project have been fully committed, and are expected to be fully
disbursed by June 1988. Project implementation was slow during the first
three project years, but picked up after a change in project manager and new
project management arrangements at the three universities. After a slow start
due to inadequate budgetary provisions, implementation of the second project
picked up substantially during 1987.
1.39      Implementation Problems in Higher Education.  Performance in higher
education projects began to manifest implementation problems around 1983,
following a rapid portfolio buildup. These were reflected in slower than
expected disbursements from Bank loans, problems which were caused par ly by
the Government's inabili>! to provide adequate counterpart funding. The joint
Bank/GOI review in 1985 _  identified and analyzed a set of major education
project implementation problems for which specific action needed to be taken.
Problems and actions particularly relevant to the MOEC are summarized in Table
1.1. The actions taken by the Bank and the GOI resulted in a noticeable
improvement in implementation performance in all education projects during the
last two years. The backlog of undisbursed funds has been noticeably reduced,
and disbursements are proceeding at a significantly faster pace than before.
13/ The results of this review are summarized in Indonesia - Implementation
of Education Projects - Points for Discussion, World Bank, Vovpmber 18,
1985.



- 15 -
Table 1. 1 IMPLEIEBTATION PROBLEMS AND ACTIONS TAKEN
Problem                                   Action Taken
1.  Part-time CPIU managers.                  Appointment of full-time managers.
2. CPIU anagers/staff not accumulat-   a.  Training of CPIU managers/staff,
ing project implementation skills         with Bank staff assistance.
or learning from each other.
b. Creation of a Higher Education
Project Implementation Monitoring
Team to advise and monitor the
implementation of foreign assisted
projects under DCHE.
3.  Inadequate qualifications of proj-        Appointment of more qualified and
ect managers,                             higher level staff to manage proj-
ects.
4.  Project management duplicated and         Integration of local PIUs for
separated from existing management        ongoing Bank-financed projects
structure*                                into university development
offices, or P3Ts (Chart 3).
5. Project design not incegrated into         Integration of the preparation and
OI budget cycle and procedures4          design of Bank financed projects
into the GOI annual Program Plan-
ning and Budgeting System, or PPBS
6.  Organization of some earlier Bank-   a.  Proposed project will operate
financed projects too complex,            entirely under single Directorate
straddling multiple DCs and CPIUs.        General.
b. Proposed project will have single
CPIU and will strengthen the P3Ts.
7.  Disbursement forecasts too opti-          Make more conservative disburse-
mistic in early Bank-financed             ment forecasts through use of
projects.                                 standard disbursement profiles.
8.  Bank staff's project review               Intensification of Bank staff's
function was too limited.                 project review function, giving
special attention to institutional
constraints on project implementa-
tion.
9.  Projects lacking budgetary adjust-        Annual Bank review of operational
ments on an annual basis.                 plans and COI response to Bank
recommendations.
10. Insufficient counterpart funds.           Increased Bank financing in
critical categories.



- 16 -
II. THE PROJECT
2.1       Origin of the Project.  Initial discussions on the proposed project
took place in July and October 1985, during the final stages of the GOi's
sector study of higher education (paras. 1.19 to 1.28), and during the joint
Bank-GOI review of the implementation of all Bank-financed education projects.
The proposed project was identified in February 1986 during a Bank mission
which also reviewed the results of the higher education sector study with the
GOI. A plan and schedule for project preparation was agreed in May 1986, and
carried out subsequently by the GOI. The DGHE's annual program, planning and
budgeting system (SP4) was adopted as the basic framework in which to prepare
and later implement the proposed project with suitable modifications. The
DCHE then drafted a new set of guidelines for its higher education program to
serve as objectives for the proposed project. In October 1986 a Bank mission
reviewed these draft Higher Education Program Guidelines (HEPG) and a related
draft action plan, and agreed to define a three-year time-slice of the higher
education expenditure program for inclusion in the proposed project. In July
1987 a Bank preappraisal mission reviewed the GOI's expenditure plans for
higher education for the three-year period covering GOI fiscal years 1988/89
through 1990/91. Activities having relatively lower priority were either
liminated from the proposed program or postponed. The revised three-year
erogram was appraised in November 1987 as the proposed project.
A. Project Objectives
2.2       The Higher Education Program Guidelines (HEPG).  The objectives of
the proposed project are contained in the Higher Education Program Guidelines
(Annex 4), which include the following policy objectives:
(a) improvement of sectoral planning, by making enrollment growth
targets and the number of study programs more contingent on the
availability of both public and private resources needed to sustain
them at acceptable levels of quality;
(b) improvement of both sectoral and institutional management in higher
education, by strengthening the higher education management informa-
tion systems and fostering the development of a cadre of profes-
sional managers in the universities who can increase the financial
sustainability and internal efficiency of their institutions;
(c) increasing resource mobilization, by reinforcing the role of private
higher education institutions, providing them with incentives and
guidance to raise the quality of their instruction, and by increas-
ing the revenues of public higher education institutions by raising
student fees (while expanding student loan schemes to help offset
adverse equity effects on access to higher education), and by find-
ing suitable ways to help these institutions increase their income;
(d) improving educational quality and efficiency, by increasing the
funds made available for staff development, instructional materials
and operations and maintenance, and by eliminating course offerings



- 17 -
which are no longer in demand by the labor market, or which are
duplicated within the institution;
(e) strengthening selected fields of study reflecting manpower needs,
especially in high demand fields such as engineering and science
teacher training, and in fields of knowledge which, when applied,
can help to diversify production in the economy by exploiting some
of Indonesia's rich but underdeveloped natural resources;
(f) increasing the contribution of universities to regional development,
especially in the Eastern Islands.
As portrayed schematically in Chart 3, the HEPG will be implemented by an
action plan (para. 2.3), as well as by the activities and studies to be
included in the higher education expenditure program to be financed directly
by the proposed loan (paras. 2.8 to 2.25).
2.3       Action Plan for Higher Education (APHE).  The   tion Plan for Higher
Education, contained in Annex 5, includes a set of actioni to be undertaken by
DGHE which, together with the activities and studies included in the proposed
project, will effectively implement the policies reflected in the HEPG.
According to the APHE, the GOI will: expand enrollments and numbers of study
program in public universities only as fast as their financial resources also
expand; encourage public universities to seek additional sources of finance
for their operations and maintenance expenses; undertake a thorough evaluation
of secondary school teacher education programs in both the universities and
the IRIPs with a view to eliminating inefficiencies and improving the training
of future secondary school teachers; expand the present student loan system;
prepare and disseminate to the public information on the level of government
subsidy for university education per student; and reform the system for accre-
diting institutions and professional study programs. Assurances were obtained
at negotiations that the proposed project will be implemented in accordance
with the HEPC and the APHE.
B. The Higher Education Expenditure Program
2.4       Total estimated Higher Education expenditures for the period between
April 1988 and March 1991 will be about US$927 million e4uivalent as shown in
Table 2.1. About US$670 million equivalent of these expenditures will consist
of previously committed foreign aid, the Government's contribution of counter-
part funds for that aid, the continuation of small, purely Government-funded
projects (para. 2.6) and levels of recurrent expenditures required by current
operations. The remaining US$257 million equivalent will come from the
proposed Bank loan, from increases in the Government's routine budget, or from
increases in student fees which are levied and controlled by the Government.
The activities to be financed directly by the proposed Bank loan will be
located in over 80X of the Government projects (DIPs) in the DGHE's annual
higher education investment program. Therefore, the proposed project will
essentially support the higher education expenditure program as a whole. At
negotiations, understandings were reached with the GOI on the three-year
expenditure program composition and costs.



-18-
Table 2.1: HIGHER EDUCATION EXPENDITURE PROGRAM,
APRIL 1988 - MARCH 1991
(US$ million)
Source                   Previous commitments    Proposed program    Total
Development Expenditures             310.0                  145.3           455.3
GOI counterpart funds               90.0                     -             90.0
Purely local projects               15.0                                   15.0
Selected new activities               -                   145.3/c         145.3
Other external finance /a          205.0                     -            205.0
Recurrent Expenditures               359.9/b                112.0           471.9
Salaries                           294.6/b                 66.2           360.8
Operations and maintenance          65.3/b                 45.8           111.1
Total                           669.9                  257.3           927.2
/a Existing commitments including ongoing Bank loans.
/b Assuming recurrent expenditures stay constant at FY87/88 levels.
/c Includes US$4.2 million In taxes.



- 19 -
C. Project Description
2.5       The proposed project will encompass a three-year time-slice out of
Indonesia's higher education expenditure program, excluding previously
comitted foreign assisted and purely GOI-financed projects, for a total of
U8$257.3 million equivalent (para. 2.1 and Table 2.1). It will cover the
final year of Repelita IV and the first two years of Repelita V, or the
Indonesian government fiscal years 1988/89 to 1990/91. It is envisaged that
this project will be followed by further Bank support of subsequent time-
slices of the GOI higher education program.
2.6       The proposed project will include selected activities which will
take place within 59 of the 72 annual development projects (DIPs), which
together make up the investment or development portion of the GOI's higher
education program (Chart 1 and para. 1.12). Of the 13 higher education DIPs
which will not receive any support from the proposed project, five will pro-
vide funding for five CPIUs for ongoing World Bank and ADB-financed projects
(paras. 1.34-1.38 and 2.27-2.30). Another four DIPs are for developmental
activities in four small Government-operated art academies. The four
remaining DIPs provide funding for four relatively small national projects
which the Government and the Bank agreed to leave outside the scope of the
proposed project; they absorb about 3% of the Government's development budget
for higher education.
2.7       Chart 3 presents a schematic diagram of the higher education pro-
gram. In particular, it shows the relationships between: the Higher Educa-
tion Program Guidelines (which sets overall objectives for the program), the
Action Plan for Higher Education (through which some of the policies in the
HEPG will be implemented), and the GOI higher education expenditure program
(which is made up of both the development program, which includes the new
activities which will receive direct financing from the proposed loan, and the
routine/recurrent expenditure program). The various elements which make up
the expenditure program are also indicated, including the proposed program and
previous conmitments.
Project Components
2.8       The proposed loan would provide the necessary funds to permit the
DGHE to initiate the following activities:
(a)  Improve Planning, Management and Implementation Capacity.  The
proposed project would finance (i) the development and initial
delivery of a training program in university management and finance,
for DCE) and university staff; (ii) expansion of management informa-
tion and of monitoring and evaluation systems for higher education;
(iii) a set of higher education planning and management studies and
evaluations; (iv) operational costs for carrying out the proposed
project.
(b) Improve Quality and Efficiency. The proposed project would finance
i) overseas and in-country postgraduate university staff develop-
ment programs; (ii) quality and efficiency improvements for priority



- 20 -
undergraduate study programs; (iii) implementation of research
programs in public universities; (iv) development of a national
university library network; (v) provision of equipment, acquisition
and production of educational materials, and improved maintenance of
laboratories.
(c) Develop Private Higher Education. The proposed project would (i)
support regional coordination and quality supervision of private
universities; (ii) provide fellowships for academic staff and
management training for institutional administrators; (iii) support
the establishment of common-use facilities for private universities;
(iv) strengthen institutional and academic accreditation procedures.
(d) Develop Selected Physical Facilities. The proposed project would
finance (i) the construction of fishery (at Riau University) and
agriculture facilities (at the universities of Tadulako and
Cenderawabih); (ii) development of the campuses of the universities
of Indonesia, Cadjah Mada and Andalas; (iii) construction of library
and science laboratories in the universities of Cenderawasih and
Mataram, and in IKIP Malang; and (iv) a4i4tional equipment for
eleven polytechnics located at the wuiversities of Syah Kuala,
Andalas, Institut Teknologi Surabaya, Baast-addin, Sam Ratulangi,
Pattimura, Lambung Mangkurat, Tanjungp_ra, Mulawarman, Udayana and
Nusa Cendana as well as for the Polytechnic Education Development
Center (PEDC).
(e) Provide Adequate Levels of Operations and Maintenance. The proposed
project would support the provision of adequate levels of operation
and maintenance for institutions of higher education, including
incremental staffing and operating budgets.
The provision for these activities in the draft FY88/89 higher education
budget was reviewed at negotiations.
Planning, Management and Implementation Capacity
2.9       Strengthening Management of DGHE and Public Higher Education Insti-
tutions (US$4.75 million). In order to strengthen the planning and management
capacities of the universities, and thereby increase their accountability and
responsibility for the management of their resources, the proposed project
will provide training for 630 vice-Rectors for administrative and student
affairs, administrative bureau chiefs and their staff in all public universi-
ties and selected private universities, and for mid-level administrative and
professional staff of DGHE. Particular attention will be given to training in
the following areas: accounting, budget preparation and management, direct
and indirect cost analysis, financial reporting, procurement, records
management, space management, program scheduling, personnel administration,
services contracting, student financial aid, institutional and specialized
accreditation, and program evaluation. A team in the DCHE has prepared a
training plan for this component, which includes provision for a training
needs assessment, preparation of training materials, identification of foreign
and local expert trainers, and a tentative course schedule. Under the plan,



- 21 -
the DGHE will prepare training materials and try them out on a limited scale
during the initial year of project implementation. The regular training
program will commence in the second year of the time-slice. The program will
become permanent as there will always be new clientele in need of training
arising from normal turnover and replacement of university personnel. Some of
the training will be conducted at the Ministry's new staff training center
near Jakarta financed by the Second Teacher Training Project (Loan 2101-
IND). At negotiations, understandings were reached on the summary training
plan for this component and its implementation schedule.
2.10      In order to improve the information basis for sectoral planning and
decision-making, the proposed project would support the strengthening of
management information and monitoring and evaluation systems in DCHE and the
universities. This will be accomplished by prxviding DGHE's computing center
and 43 public universities with computing equipment and related hardware
support, as well as funds for their initial operation and maintenance. These
computing facilities will form a national Interuniversity Computer Network
(UNINET) linking all public universities. The network will provide electronic
mail, file transfer, data-base access, and other capabilities to member insti-
tutions. The proposed project will provide three staff-years of expert ser-
vices and about 44 staff-years of training to ensure technical mastery of
these resources.
2.11      Under the proposed project, the Higher Education Monitoring and
Evaluation System (HEMES) will be extended to all public universities. This
system, which was developed and tested in three universities under the First
University Development Project (Loan 1904-IND), will allow universities, and
faculties within them, to evaluate their performance on a regular basis
according to a set of indicators including inputs, outputs, operating costs,
staff profiles, workload, contact hours, and utilization of key resources.
The proposed project will provide three years of operational support for each
university and for DGHE, and three staff-years of expert services for the
sector.
2.12      The twelve academic subject Consortia play an important role in
advising DGHE on academic and curricular matters (para. 1.10). Whereas their
effectiveness has been constrained in recent years, under the proposed project
they will each receive sufficient funding to carry out their advisory func-
tions for the DGHE, including the evaluation of existing or proposed study
programs at universities.
2.13      Studies and Evaluations (US$0.57 million).  The DCHE will organize
eight major education sector planning and management studies and evaluations
(Annex 6). The studies will focus on: higher education costs and financing,
promotion of efficiency and quality in teacher training and polytechnic study
programs, reform of accreditation procedures, the transferability of semester
credit units, and preparation of the next time-slice higher education loan.
The proposed project will provide funds for local and foreign expert services
to conduct these studies. At negotiations, understandings were reached on
summary terms of reference for the studies.



- 22 -
2.14      Project Management (US$0.82 million).  The DCHE is establishing a
CPIU to coordinate the implementation of the proposed project. Details on the
orEanization and functions of the unit are described in paras. 2.27-2.29 and
presented schematically in Charts 4 and 5. The proposed project will provide
the necessary funds to allow the unit to employ full-time domestic consultants
who can actively organize and conduct major national project meetings, super-
vise and advise local project units on site and carry out extensive corres-
pondence with various GOI agencies, local project units, and the Bank. These
funds will permit the DCHE to pay the CPIU Director and his four senior staff
honoraria at GOI-approved rates for domestic consultants.
Quality and Efficiency
2.15      The proposed project will support the improvement of educational
quality and efficiency through: a staff development program for public and
private universities, support of priority undergraduate programs, provision of
adequate funds for university-based research, provision of equipment and
educational materials, improved maintenance of laboratories, and the
establishment of a national higher education library network.
2.16      Academic Staff Development (US$41.77 million).  The proposed project
will support DCHE's academic staff development program by financing the full
cost of 125 overseas fellowships for higher degree studies in priority fields
such as fisheries, forestry, dryland agriculture, and basic sciences (Annex 8)
and an additional 500 man-months so selected overseas fellows can complete
ongoing programs. Predeparture language training would be provided for about
800 candidates, including overseas fellows supported by bilateral aid as well
as by the proposed project. In addition, the proposed project will support
about 7,000 student-years distributed among about 5,000 S2 (master's) degree
candidates, and about 1,200 student-years distributed among about 720 S3
(doctoral) degree candidates.  The proposed project will also improve the
quality and supply of equipment and instructional materials for these domestic
S2 and S3 programs.  Both the overseas and domestic staff development programs
will be open to candidates from both private and public universities.  The
implementation of the overseas portion of this component will be assisted by
the Joint Management Office (JMO) which was created under the Second Univer-
sity Development Project (Loan 2547-IND), and in which officials from both
DGHE and the Overseas Training Office (OTO) of BAPPENAS join forces to select
and place university academic staff in higher degree programs overseas.
Mechanisms are already in use for the selection and overseas placement of the
initial groups of fellows. At negotiations, understandings were reached on
the final implementation plan for domestic and overseas staff development, and
on candidate lists for the first year.
2.17      Priority Undergraduate Study Programs (US$27.75 million).  In order
to improve the quality of instruction in high-priority undergraduate fields of
study in public universities, the proposed project will increase the utiliza-
tion and improve the operation and maintenance (O&M) of facilities through
providing enhanced education quality inputs. These will include preparation
of new curricula, provision of additional teaching and laboratory equipment,
stocks of consumable items, and spare parts, all of which are needed to



- 23 -
increase the portion of student time devoted to conducting supervised experi-
ments and other practical exercises. 41though this "active" method of
instruction is costlier than conventional lecture methods, it produces
superior learning and professional qualifications. These quality enhancement
measures will benefit about 16,000 S1 students in engineering and technology
programs in seven universities, about 3,000 three-year diploma-level secondary
school science teacher trainees in nine universities; and about 3,000 Si tech-
nical teacher trainees in two teacher education universities (IKIPs). These
22,000 students in high priority undergraduate study programs constitute an
important 4% of the undergraduate population in public universities
(para. 1.4). In addition, the proposed project will improve instructional
facilities for training about 10,000 SI students in 12 public institutions to
become secondary school science and math teachers. To accomplish this
objective the project will supply laboratory equipment, books and supporting
curriculum development at 12 institutions, expand basic science laboratories
in six institutions, and provide 18 staff-years of local consultant services
to assist science curriculum modernization and staff development.
2.18      Improvement of University-Based Research (US$7.40 million).  To
stimulate more university-based scientific research, and improve its quality,
the proposed project would finance the national university research program of
the Directorate for Research and Community Service in DCHE (Chart 1 and
para. 1.8). The purpose of this program is to give qualified university-based
researchers the resources with which to conduct basic and applied scientific
research in order to improve and update their instruction as well as to
contribute to fields of knowledge. The program is managed by the Director for
Research and Community Service who also represents the DGHE in coordinating
research funding policy with other GOI agencies which finance research,
including line Ministries (such as Agriculture and Industry) and coordinating
bodies such as the Agency for the Assessment and Application of Technology
(BPPT) and BAPPENAS. This program is organized around research grants to
university academic staff which are awarded on the basis of competitive sub-
mission and peer evaluation of research proposals against a schedule of
criteria. The size of the program is modest in proportion to the size of the
public university system, with about US$50,000 equivalent available per uni-
versity per year on average. Likewise, the size of each research grant is
modest, about US$6,800 equivalent on average for between 250 and 400 research
projects taking place each year. At negotiations, understandings were reached
on the final implementation plan for university research improvement.
2.19      National Higher Education Library Network (US$3.03 million).  The
proposed project will support the establishment of a network of university
library resource centers, in which libraries at major universities will be
designated as Library Network Resource Centers (LNRC) for the development of
collections, services and facilities for particular disciplines such as
medicine, technology, agriculture, marine science, basic sciences, social
sciences, education, economics, and law. Each LNRC will provide library and
information resources in their discipline to the other universities in the
network. The proposed project will strengthen the network's infrastructure
for the generation, storage, retrieval, and data-transmission of informaticn
and/or documents among network members, building on the existing UNINET system



- 24 -
(para. 2.10). The proposed project will develop the library collections of
the network institutions as follows: abstracts, indexes, and three-year
journal subscriptions for ten LNRCs; basic collections at 20 universities; and
two model university library collections. The proposed project will also
support library staff development by providing: 15 two-year overseas fellow-
ships; 60 domestic SO level and 30 Si level student-years in library science,
information management and related disciplines; 180 staff-months of intern-
ships; 180 staff-months of staff exchanges between network institutions; and
ten training workshops. Within the member universities, network functions
will be carried out by the central libraries, in accord with DGHE policy to
centralize library management within universities.
2.20      Because university library systems and technologies in Indonesia are
in great need of modernization, a University Library Technology Center (ULTC)
will be established under the proposed project at the University of Indonesia.
The ULTC will provide a development, demonstration, training, and consultation
ceater for technological applications in the library subsector, with particu-
lar emphasis on computers and communications.  To establish the ULTC, the
proposed project would provide equipment, local and foreign expert services,
and consumable supplies. Overall management of the entire Library Network
component of the proposed project will be provided by a library working group
chaired by the Director for Academic Affairs of DGHE, and supported by a new
Library Planning and Management Unit (LPMU) operating under the Director. The
proposed project will finance operating costs for the LPMU and the working
group overseeing it. The February 10, 1988 decree establishing the LPMU was
reviewed at negotiations.
2.21      Other Educational Quality Inputs (US$4.25 million).  In order to
increase instructional quality across the broad spectrum of study fields in
public universities, the proposed project will also support the maintenance
of: basic science laboratories in all public universities, language labora-
tories in 35 institutions, and printing plants at 26 institutions. In
addition, the proposed project would import about 22,500 copies of university
library books, finance 750 journal subscriptions, and support the writing or
translation of about 120 book titles.
Private Higher Education
2.22      Regional Coordination (US$0.61 million).  Severe budget constraints
in recent years have reduced the capacity of the DCHE's nine Regional Coordi-
nators for Private Higher Education (KOPERTIS) either to provide financial and
material assistance or to perform a quality supervision function for the
private higher education institutions (para. 1.9). To reverse this trend, the
proposed project would support the operational cost of more intensive coordi-
nation of private institutions by each KOPERTIS, the preparation of 40 sets of
state examinations each year for private university students, and about 100
staff-months of in-country management training for the Regional Coordinators
and their senior staff, the leaders of the BMPTS (the regional Private Higher
Education Associations), and staff of the Directorate for Private Higher
Education in DOHE.



- 25 -
2.23      Support to Private Institutions (US$3.83 million).  To strengthen
the private institutions of higher education more directly, the proposed
project would provide fellowships for both overseas and domestic higher degree
training for academic staff, and would provide managewent training for insti-
tutional administrators of the nearly 700 recognized private institutions. It
will also support the establishment of a Growth Center for private higher
education in four of Lhe nine KOPERTIS regions (para. 1.9). These Growth
Centers will include instructional and communal facilities which many smaller
private institutions cannot afford, such as libraries and laboratories.
Besides the GOI's capital contribution to these shared-use facilities through
the proposed project, better established private institutions in each region
are also expected to contribute either buildings or staff. The proposed
project will support the Centers with financing for buildings, furniture, and
equipment. Each Growth Center will operate on a day-to-day basis under the
management of the regional BMPTS and under the general policy guidance and
supervision of DGHE's Regional Coordinator. Operating costs of the Growth
Centers will be recovered from the private universities which use them on a
charge-back basis (para. 1.24). The four Centers included in the proposed
project will be monitored and evaluated as experiments in anticipation of
their replication in other KOPERTIS regions at a later date. At negotiations,
understandings were reached on the management plans for the development and
operation of the Growth Centers included in the proposed project. The abun-
dance of private institutions in the vicinity of the first four Centers should
help ensure their success. The proposed project will also carry out feasibil-
ity studies for two more Growth Centers in other regions which could be estab-
lished under a later project if the first centers have a successful start; and
on the possible expansion of facilities for engineering programs at four pri-
vate universities. The proposed project will also provide about Rp 1.2 bil-
lion worth of books, equipment, and furniture to other selected private insti-
tutions.
Selected Physical Facilities
2.24      Facilities Upgrading and Campus Development (US$50.56 million).  The
proposed project would increase the output of public university graduates in
selected priority fields of study, including fishery, agriculture, and educa-
tion, in four universities off Java and one on Java, by providing buildings
(library and science laboratory facilities), furniture, books and equipment,
and improving related infrastructure. It would also support the continuation
of campus development (including buildings, furniture, and equipment) for
which master plans were developed and approved at three major public
universities (the Universities of Gadjah Mada, Andalas, and Indonesia) in the
First University Development Project (Loan 1904-IND). Updated design
proposals for Gadjah Mada and Andalas Universities as well as for all civil
works and equipment to be procured during the first year of the proposed
project were reviewed at negotiations. The proposed project will also finance
additional equipment for 11 polytechnics and the Polytechnic Education
Development Center (PEDC) which were supported under Loan 2290-IND.



- 26 -
Incremental Salaries and Operations and Maintenance
2.25      Provide Adequate Levels of Operations and Maintenance (US$111.97
million). The HEPG and the APHE state that future expansion of public
universities is contingent on growth in financial resources for running costs
(paras. 2.2 and 2.3). The Government will ensure the contribution of these
resources to the proposed project both directly through its own routine
budget, and by setting student fees at necessary levels. The routine budget
will be utilized primarily to pay for salaries of academic and administrative
staff in both the public universities and DGHE offices, as well as for
maintenance, materials, and travel. Due to the limitations placed by the
Government on the growth of the routine budget, student fees will increasingly
provide the revenue necessary for supplementing the routine budget and thereby
provide adequate funds for day-to-day operation of the universities (see
para. 1.13). The proposed project includes provision of incremental salaries
and operations and maintenance for the higher education system, over and above
their 1987/88 levels.
D. Project Implementation and Management
2.26      Status of Project Preparation.  A Bank appraisal mission in November
1987 gave a final review to the entire project package-the HEPG (para. 2.2),
the APHE (para. 2.3), the three-year higher education expenditure program
(para. 2.4 and Table 2.1), its sources of funds, the selected activities to be
financed by the proposed loan (paras. 2.8-2.25), the studies and evaluations
to be undertaken during the project period, and the organizational, personnel,
and budgetary arrangements necessary for managing the proposed project effi-
ciently, which take into account the experience of earlier Bank-financed
projects (paras. 2.27-2.29). The overall expenditure program and the draft
budget for the first year, FY1988/89, were reviewed at appraisal for soundness
and to ensure that provisions for investments and operations and maintenance
are in accordance with long-term policies and reflect the agreed medium-term
priorities. Most new construction under the proposed project has been
designed under previous projects, including the first University Development
Project; and most master lists, cost estimates, specifications and bid docu-
ments for equipment to be procured during the first year of the project have
likewise already been prepared. Bid documents for all equipment to be pro-
cured in the first year of the project, and evidence of the selection and
appointment of  architectural consultants for all new building construction to
be undertaken in the first year of the project were reviewed at negotiations.
The amount of foreign technical assistance to be procured under the
loan-about 1Z of the loan amount--is relatively small (Table 3.2 and Annex
7). However, large amounts of such assistance for this sector are being
obtained either through bilateral assistance or through ongoing loans.
2.27      Project Orlanization and Management.  The management of the proposed
project has been designed around the organization and management of the DGOE's
annual higher education budget. The new design for project implementation is
a product of the joint Bank-GOI reassessment of education project implementa-
tion conducted in 1985 (para. 1.39) and would be a significant change from
earlier standard practice where almost all responsibility for implementing a



- 27 -
Bank-financed education project was given to a Central Project Implementation
Unit (CPIU), which tended to operate parallel and separate from the normal
lines of authority. In contrast, the proposed project will have a more,
thougq4ot entirely, decentralized structure. Under Indonesian law, since
1984,s4- responsibility for day-to-day project management rests with the
project leaders (PIMPROs) of the 72 development projects (DIPs) which make up
the annual higher education development program (para. 1.12). The PIMPROs and
their staff report to either University Rectors, Directors within DCHE itself,
or the KOPERTISs as the case may be. Over half of the PIMPROs already have
some experience with implementing portions of World Bank-financed education
projects.
2.28      To compensate for the relative inexperience of many institutional
PIMPROs, the proposed project will have a CPIU. The basic structure of the
proposed project (Chart 4) includes a CPIU and 58 institutional project imple-
mentation units (IPIUs) at the various institutions which participate directly
in the GOI's higher education program: the public universities, KOPERTISs,
and the DGHE Directorates which manage several national projects. Each year,
the goods and services which will be purchased for each of the project insti-
tutions will be included in the annual budget of the IPIU of that institution,
even though the CPIU would be involved in the procurement of many of those
goods and services, especially when ICB procedures are used. Responsibility
for overall coordination of all activities in the proposed project and for
liaison with the Bank will rest with the CPIU. The CPIU would: (a) monitor
and coordinate overall progress and disbursement of the Bank loan; (b) report
semesterly to the MOEC and the Bank on the status of progress; (c) raise
issues needing attention; (d) give technical advice to project units; (e)
assist in management of procurement under ICB procedures; (f) submit with-
drawal applications to the Bank; (g) arrange for timely audits of project
accounts; and (h) prepare the project completion report. In addition, the
CPIU will also participate directly in executing certain activities to be
financed under the proposed loan, such as: the overseas staff development
program; the studies and evaluations; the management training program; and the
university library system development program. The internal organization of
the CPIU is depicted in Chart 5. The proposed project includes components of
training and technical assistance that would strengthen the implementation
capacity of the CPIU and IPIUs. Furthermore, the Higher Education Project
Implementation Monitoring Team, or MT (para. 1.29), will monitor the perfor-
mance of the CPIU and provide advisory support as needed. Finally, under the
APHE, the CPIU, with support from the MT, will convene a Project Implementa-
tion Workshop each year, to review implementation performance and problems,
and provide opportunities for technical advice and feedback between the senior
management of DGHE, the MT, the CPIU and the IPIUs. Whenever feasible Bank
staff will attend and contribute to these workshops. The February 10, 1988
decree to establish the CPIU was reviewed at negotiations.
14/ Presidential Decree No. 29 of 1984 on The Implementation of the State
Budget.



- 28 -
2.29      The organization of each IPIU is influenced by the nature of the
specific components of the particular project it is implementing. Staffing
reflects the skills required to implement project activities for: (a) aca-
demic development--for the training and related consulting services in aca-
demic fields; (b) civil works--for design and contracting of construction of
physical facilities; (c) procurement of equipment and goods; and (d) financial
administration, budget control and accounting. In addition, each IPIU can
hire the services of consultants to supervise major civil works contracts.
2.30      Implementation Schedule.  The proposed project would be implemented
over a period of about three years, starting April 1, 1988 and ending
March 31, 1991, fitting with the Indonesian government fiscal year calendar.
A detailed project implementation schedule is shown in Annex 10. This
implementation schedule and the cost schedules for the various project
components (Annex 9) will serve as a basis for project implementation planning
and will be updated annually by CPIU staff, in cooperation with the IPIUs.
The proposed project is expected to be completed by March 31, 1991, and the
closing date will be December 31, 1991.
2.31      Related Implementation Experience in Subsector. The DGHE has agreed
to appoint full-time managers supported by adequate full-time staff to ensure
effective implementation of each of the ongoing World Bank-financed projects
under the DGHE (Loan 2101 (Unit B), 2290, and 2547-IND). It has also
reconfirmed the continuing role of the MT, and it has provided evidence of a
satisfactory rate of implementation of the key activities in each ongoing
project financed by a Bank loan. Assurances were given at negotiations that
full-time directors for CPIUs which implement projects financed by the Bank
loans listed above, and of senior staff for the MT will be maintained at all
times.
E. Monitoring and Evaluation
2.32      Monitoring and evaluation of implementation and performance would be
a critical project activity, to assist efficient implementation of the pro-
posed project and to provide a tool for management of the system and internal
university management. Three aspects of university development and operations
would be monitored regularly: (a) implementation of the APHE; (b) implementa-
tion of the expenditure program; (c) implementation of the priority activi-
ties; and (d) the performance of the higher education sector and of its major
institutions.
2.33      The Action Plan.  The APHE will be monitored according to the dates
agreed for each of the actions in the Plan (Annex 5). Reasons for deviation
would be identified, modified plans agreed and action taken to overcome
bottlenecks and facilitate achievement of the Plan.
2.34      Annual Review of Expenditures.  To ensure smooth implementation and
a forum for both ex post and ex ante Bank comment of annual expenditure, the
proposed project will include an annual Bank-DGHE project review. The timing
of the annual reviews would be coordinated advantageously with the GOI's
annual budget preparation cycle. At negotiations, assurances were given
that: (a) as preparation for this review, the GOI would submit to the Bank by



- 29 -
December 31 of each year commencing in 1988, for its review and comment, a
retrospective review of the implementation of the previous and ongoing years'
budgets for the higher education program, and a forward plan and budget for
the next fiscal year, and (b) thereafter carry out such budgetary alloca-
tions, assisted by the proceeds of the proposed loan, and taking reasonable
account of the Banks comments.
2.35      Project Activities.  The retrospective review would indicate how
much of each activity had been completed and how much remained to be carried
out by each implementing unit. It would also show the corresponding annual
budget proposals for these activities, both overall and within each project
(DIP). The implementation of the program would be monitored in terms of
actual enrollments in, and outputs from, the priority courses compared with
plans; the achievement of building work and equipment and materials procure-
ment compared with the planned implementation schedule and the actual develop-
ment of planned new courses and curricula.
2.36      Performance Indicators.  The development and implementation of a set
of measures of the costs, efficiency and effectiveness of university perfor-
mance would be a key component of the improvement of university planning and
management. Over the three-year period performance indicators such as the
following would be developed, implemented and refined:
applicants:places ratio
average entrance examination scores
private enrollments as proportion of total enrollments
relative growth of enrollments in priority fields
undergraduate wastage rates
postgraduate pass rates
quality of graduates
female student participation rates
utilization rates for accommodations
annual costs per undergraduate
annual costs per postgraduate
expenditure breakdown
students to staff ratio
administrative staff to academic staff ratio
quality and =iount of research
research and other incomes earned by departments/universities
student fees as proportion of recurrent budget
relative number of students receiving financial assistance
The performance indicators would be used by DGHE to monitor the performance of
public universities, and by public university managers to monitor and compare
the performance of departments within the university. A subset of performance
indicators would be used to monitor the performance of groups of private uni-
versities. After their validity has been established, the key performance
indicators would eventually be used as a major factor in the allocation of
Government-controlled resources to the higher education sector. The perfor-
mance indicators would also provide the basis for setting goals for short- and
long-term improvement in efficiency.



- 30-
2.37      Progress Reports.  Assurances will be sought at negotiations that
the CPIU will prepare semiannual project progress reports and submit them to
the Bank by April 30 and October 31 of each year. These will focus on the
implementation of the project activities and of the Action Plan. The first
progress report after the start of each 001 fiscal year will also include a
section showing movements in the performance indicators for the higher educa-
tion sector (para. 2.36).
III. PROJECT COSTS, FINMNCINC, P0ROCUREMENT AND DISBURSEMENTS
A. Costs
Summary of Costs
3.1       The total cost of the three-year higher education program, as
defined for purposes of this project (excluding previous coumitments on
foreign-assisted and purely 00I-financed projects) is estimated at Rp 427.1
billion (US$257.3 million equivalent) including identifiable taxes and duties.
Tables 3.1 and 3.2 summarize the estimated costs by project component and
category of expenditure. Detailed costs are presented in tables in Annex 9.
Basis of Cost Estimates
3.2       Base Costs and Contingencies.  Base costs are expressed in MIarch
1988 prices. Civil works costs were based on approved bnilding proposals for
the various components with acceptable area allocations. Furniture costs were
based on lists of standard locally available items, and, where lists were not
available, on 10Z of related civil works. Equipment costs were based on lists
priced for similar imported or locally available items. Books and instruc-
tional materials were based on similar items recently procured in other educa-
tion projects in Indonesia. Overseas training was estimated at US$19,,800 per
staff-year, and domestic training ranging from US$2,500 to US$3,000 per
student-year for S2 and S3 programs, and US$230 to US, 70 per student-year for
diploma and S1 courses, based on the costs of living alLowances, materilsti/
books, research, and operation. Costs of foreign consultants were estimated
at an average of US$10,000 per staff-month, and for local consultants at
US$1,500 per staff-month. Research awards were based on experience from the
Second University Development Project and incLude various categories of inputs
(services as well as materials). Operational costs were based on standard
allowances for salaries, consumables, travel and honoraria. Physical and
price contingencies were based on project expenditures excluding operations
and maintenance, which already contain built-in contingencies. Physical
contingencies (US$11.5 million) represent 5.5Z of base costs. Price
contingencies (US$17.7 million), about 8Z of bass costs plus physical
contingencies, were estimated on the basis of the implementation schedule
(Annex 10) and expected Annuaml price increases as follows: local-5Z for
1988-90 and 61 for 1991; foreign--3Z for 1988-90 and 41 for 1991.



-31-
Table 3.1: SUSIAZY 0 PROJECT COSTS BY COMPONENT
Rp billion              USS uIllion        S
For-                    For-          for-
Local    elgu   Total   Local   eign  Total  elgn
Planning and management                     5.5     3.6      9.1    3.3    2.2    5.5   40
Quality and efficiency                     81.7    42.1   123.8   49.2   25.4   74.6   34
Strengthenlag of private higher
education                                 3.6     3.1      6.7    2.2    1.8    4.0   47
Physical development at selected
universities                             31.6    46.3    77.9   19.0   27.9   46.9   59
Incremental salaries and
operations and saintenance              147.7    13.4   161.1   89.0    8.0   97.0    8
Total Base Costs la                 270.1   108.5   378.6  162.7   65.3  228.0   29
Physical contingencies                     14.7     4.4    19.1    8.8    2.7   11.5   23
Prlce contingencies                        25.0     4.5    29.5   15.0    2.7   17.7   15
Total Costs /a                       309.8   117.4   427.2  186.6   70.7  257.3   27
/a Includes US$4.2 million In identifiable taxes.



-32-
Table 3.2:  S UIARY O  PROJECT COSTS BY CATEGORY OF EXPENDITURE
RP bllllon             USS million            I
Local Foreign Total Local Foreign Total forelgn
Civil works                            29.0    12.5    41.5   17.5      7.5    25.0    30
Equipment, books, journals and
instructional materials               6.0    54.3    60.3    3.6    32.7    36.3    90
Furniture                               2.8      1.2     4.0    1.7     0.7      2.4    30
Overseas training                       0.5      9.7    10.2    0.3      5.9     6.2    95
In-country training                    61.7    10.9    72.6   37.2      6.6    43.8    15
Foreign consultants                     0.2      1.8     2.0    0.1      1.1     1.2    89
Local consultants                       3.7      0.7     4.4    2.2     0.4      2.6    15
Research                                8.5      1.5    10.0    5.1     0.9      6.0    15
Administrative and operational
support                               9.9     2.5    12.4    6.0      1.5      7.5    20
Incremental staff salaries /a          94.9      -      94.9   57.1      -      57.1     0
Incremental 0&M /b                     52.9    13.4    66.3   31.9      8.0    39.9    20
Total Base Costs /c              270.1   108.5   378.6  162.7    65.3   228.0    29
Physical contingencies                 14.6     4.4    19.0    8.9      2.7    11.6    23
Price contingencies                    25.0     4.5    29.5   15.0      2.7    17.7    15
Total Costs /c                   309.7   117.4   427.1  186.6    70.7   257.3    27
/a From GOI routine budget.
/b Includes materials, maintenance, travel, and other operational expenditures from GOI
routine budget and student fees.
/c Includes US$4.2 million In identifiable taxes.



- 33 -
3.3       Foreign Exchange Costs.  Direct and indirect foreign exchange costs
are estimated at about Rp 117.4 billion (US$70.7 million equivalent) including
contingencies. Based on detailed analysis of ex-pnditures of similar projects
in Indonesia, the foreign exchange component for the major categories was
estimated as follows: (a) civil works 30S; (b) equipment and books 90X;
(c) furniture 30X; (d) overseas training 951; (e) foreign consultants 881;
(f) in-country training, local consultants and research 151; and (g) admini-
strative and operational support and other operations and maintenance 201.
3.4       Taxes and Duties.  Identifiable taxes were estimated at about Rp 6.9
billion (US$4.2 million equivalent). Estimated taxes were based on the cur-
rent practice of about 10X value added tax on all contracts for civil works
and goods. Imported instructional equipment is exempt from import duties.
B. Financing
3.5       The proposed loan of US$140.3 million will finance about 551 of the
US$257.3 three-year time-slice. The Government will finance US$117 million in
salaries and other operations and maintenance from increases in its annual
routine budget and student fees, as well as an increasing percentage of the
administrative and operational support to be provided under the project.
Expenditures on previous commitments either on purely GOI-financed projects
(US$15 million) or on other externally financed projects (US$90 million in GOI
development budget for counterpart funds, and US$205 million of foreign
financing, including disbursements for ongoing World Bank higher education
loans for US$165 million), and ongoing levels of recurrent expenditure (US$360
million) are not included in the project (Table 2.1).
3.6       The financing plan and loan allocations by category of expenditure
are presented in Table 3.3.
3.7       Recurrent Costs.  Additional annual recurrent expenditures generated
after the third year of the program are estimated at about US$24 million (at
1988 prices) in 1990/91, the last year of the program, about 101 of the pro-
jected DGHE budget (development and routine) for that year and about 21 of the
NOEC budget. Considering the priority given to higher education development,
and the relative underfinancing of higher education in recent years, this is
not an unreasonable addition to the DGHE budget, while it constitutes a prere-
quisite for the development of higher education. Moreover, increased finan-
cing is expected to be offset by increased cost recovery obtained through
higher student fees and the development of sources of income for universities.
This should result in a gradual increase in real terms in budgetary and
nonbudgetary allocations for operations and maintenance in higher education.
3.8       Budget Allocations.  Although the proposed project activities
constitute support for ongoing programs, budget allocations will be made
available to the project on an annual basis, in accordance with Indonesian
fiscal policy. Considering that the proposed loan will disburse almost 100S
net of taxes and duties for selected program activities, the government should
have little difficulty in providing the necessary funding, which is required
mainly for its ongoing programs, especially operations and maintenance.



-34-
Table 3.3: FINANCING PLAN
(US$ million)
Government     Proposed IBRD loan      TotalV/
Civil works                           2.4                24.1               26.5
Equipment, books, journals and
instructional materials             3.8                33.7               37.5
Furniture                             0.1                 2.5                2.6
Overseas training                      -                  6.5                6.5
In-country training                    -                 47.1               47.1
Foreign consultants                    -                  1.3                1.3
Local consultants                      -                  2.8                2.8
Research                               -                  6.5                6.5
Administrative and operational
support                             0.8                 7.2                8.0
Incremental staff salaries           62.7                  -                62.7
Incremental O&M                      43.4                  -                43.4
Total Base Costs               113.2               131.7              244.9
Unallocated                           3.8                 8.6               12.4
Total                          117.0               140.3              257.3
/a Totals represent base costs plus price contingencies only. This accounts
for the discrepancy between these values and the amounts shown in
Table 3.4 which are base costs plus price and physical contingencies.



- 35 -
EzpGnditure allocations will be reviewed annually by the Bank and DCHE and
will be adjusted as necessary by the DCGE to ensure that the agreed annual
plans are implemented without delay.
C. Procurement
3.9       The loan proceeds would be used to finance procurement of the
following items during the three-year time-slice as follows:
(a) Civil Works totaling about US$27.9 million equivalent. Past experi-
ence in Indonesia has shown that contracts for civil works do not
attract foreign bidders unless they are packaged to form contracts
in excess of US$5 million. As this is not feasible under the pro-
posed project because of the geographical dispersion of project
sites, contracts for civil works (ranging from US$0.06 to US$3.4
million equivalent) would be awarded on the basis of local competi-
tive bidding procedures which are acceptable to the Bank.
(b)  Equipment. Furniture, Books, Journals and Instructional Materials
totaling about US$41.2 million equivalent. Bid packages for equip-
ment exceeding US$200,000 equivalent will be awarded on the basis of
international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank guidelines
(about US$30.6 million). Local manufacturers will be given a margin
of preference in bid comparison of 15S of the c.i.f. price of com-
peting imports or the actual custom duty, whichever is lower.
Equipment in smaller packages, and aggregating to a maximum of about
US$4.0 million, will be procured through LCB under government
procurement procedures acceptable to the Bank. Off-the-shelf items
not exceeding US$50,000 equivalent for each package and aggregating
to a maximum of US$2.0 million, could be purcL"sed through prudent
shopping on the basis of three competitive price quotations from at
least three suppliers eligible under Bank guidelines. Furniture
will be procured locally through competitive bidding; prudent shop-
ping procedures may be followed for contracts not exceeding
US$50,000 equivalent up to an aggregate of US$300,000 from at least
three suppliers eligible under Bank guidelines. Books, journals and
other instructional materials will be purchased through prudent
shopping procedures directly from publishers or local distributors
following procedures acceptable to the Bank (after negotiation for
best discounts).
(c) Overseas and In-Country Training totaling about US$56.5 million.
Placement of candidates in foreign institutions would be made on the
basis of relevance and quality of the programs offered, costs and
prior experience, and would be reviewed by the Bank. In-country
graduate and undergraduate training would receive support on a
student-year basis and would be financed by the loan on agreed
student enrollments. Other local training would be procured through
local procedures.



- 36 -
(d) Foreign and Local Consultant Services totaling about US$4.3 million
would be selected and employed in accordance with the "Guidelines
for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers."
(e) Research Awards totaling about US$6.9 million would be awarded
through local procedures and on agreed criteria for relevance of
topic and qualifications of the parties selected.
3.10      Procurement procedures to be used for the above categories are
indicated in Table 3.4.
3.11      Bank Review.  Preliminary architectural designs, draft bidding
documents and master equipment lists indicating proposed packaging and cost
estimates, and terms of reference for consulting services (local and foreign
consultants), and plans for overseas and in-country training will be reviewed
by the Bank prior to bid advertisement and contract awards. Prior approval of
the Bank will be required for the award of contracts for: (a) civil works
exceeding US$1.0 million equivalent (covering about 80% of the value and 50%
of the estimated number of contracts); (b) the purchase of equipment and other
goods exceeding US$0.7 million (covering about 75% of the value and 50% of the
estimated number of contracts). Other contracts will be subject to selective
post-award reviews.
D. Disbursements
3.12      The proposed loan of US$140.3 million will be disbursed over a
period of about three and a half years (Table 3.5), an average of US$10 mil-
lion per quarter, and includes up to US$5 million in retroactive financing for
expenditures on project activities taking place after April 1, 1988.
Disbursements are expected to be completed by December 31, 1991 (Closing Date)
and will be made against the following categories of expenditures covering the
selected activities to be financed under the proposed loan: (a) civil works-
91% of total expenditures; (b) equipment, books, journals, instructional
materials, and furniture--(i) 100% of foreign expenditures of directly
imported goods; (ii) 95% of local (ex-factory) expenditures of locally
procured goods; and (iii) 65% of local expenditures of locally procured goods;
(c) overseas and in-ccuntry training-100% of total expenditures; (d) profes-
sional and consulting services of local and foreign experts--100% of total
expenditures; (e) research awards-100% of total expenditures; and (f) admini-
strative and operational support would be on a declining scale as follows:
100% of total expenditures in project year 1, 90% in year 2, and 80% in
year 3.
3.13      As the disbursement forecast is based on a time-slice of planned
expenditures during the three-year project period, it does not reflect the
historical profile of other Bank-financed projects in Indonesia. The program
and disbursement forecast is feasible considering the DGHE's existing under-
takings, and the priority status of the major activities selected. Further-
more, the proposed activities are either part of ongoing plans or at an
advanced stage of preparation.



-37-
Table 3.4: PROCURDNT AIRRANGENENTS
(US$ million)
Category                              Procurem ent procedure           Total
of expenditure                       ICI      LCB    Other      N.A.     costs/a
Civil works                           -      27.9      -           -       27.9
(25.4)                        (25.4)
Equipment, books, journals aod      32.5      4.0     2.0          -       38.5
instructional saterlals          (32.0)    (3.7)   (1.7)/b              (37.4)
Furniture                             -       2.4     0.3          -        2.7
(2.2)   (0.3)/b               (2.5)
Overseas training                     -        -       -          6.8       6.8
(6.8)     (6.8)
In-country training                   -        -       -         49.7      49.7
(49.7)    (49.7)
Foreign consultants                                    1.4                  1.4
(1.4)                (1.4)
Local consultants                                      2.9         -        2.9
(2.6)                (2.6)
Research                              -        -       -          6.9       6.9
(6.9)     (6.9)
Administrative and operational        -                -          8.5       8.5
support                                                        (7.6)     (7.6)
Incremental staff salarles                     a       -         66.2      66.2
(0)       (0)
Incremental OSM                       -        -       -         45.8      45.8
(0)       (0)
Total                          32.5     34.3     6.6       183.9     257.3
-  2.     )       (67.0)     (0    (140.3)
/a  Totals represent total estimated costs per category including price and
physical contingencles.
/b  Dilrect purchase for proprletary items, or where justified by need for
standardization, and negotiated purchases for books.
Note: Figures In parentheses are tha respective munts financed by the Dank.



- 38 -
3.14      Documentation of Expenditures.  Withdrawal applications for goods
and services with a contract value of US$500,000 or more will be supported by
full documentation. Contracts below US$500,000 and other disbursements
against programs not undertaken by contract such as undergraduate programs, or
incremental operational support will be made on the basis of Statements of
Expenditure (SOE), for which supporting documents would be maintained by the
CPIU. The CPIU will be responsible for aggregating the eligible expenditures
under each DIP and for preparing withdrawal applications for submission to the
Bank. To the extent practicable, withdrawal applications will be aggregated
in amounts of US$200,000 or more, prior to submission to the Bank.
Table 3.5: DISBURSEMENT FORECAST
Disbursements
IBRD fiscal year             Semester        Cumulative
and semester                 -- (US$ million)- -  --                     Semester
1989
1st (Jul 88-Dec 88)          12.8             12.8             9            1
2nd (Jan 89-Jun 89)          12.8             25.3            18            2
1990
1st (Jul 89-Dec 89)          25.7             51.3            37            3
2nd (Jan 90-Jun 90)          25.7             77.0            55            4
1991
1st (Jul 90-Dec 90)          25.7            102.7            73            5
2nd (Jan 91-Jun 91)          19.3            122.0            87            6
1992
1st (Jul 91-Dec 91)          18.3            140.3           100            7
Closing Date: December 31, 1991.
3.15      Special Account.  To simplify disbursement of local expenditures,
the project would establish a Special Account in Bank Indonesia to be main-
tained by the Directorate General of Budget, MOP (DGB).  The Special Account
would be used against all disbursement categories for local currency payments.
UpoL. loan effectiveness and confirmation of the establishment of the Special
Account, the Bank would make an initial deposit of about US$10 million, repre-
senting a four-month requirement for local currency payments, upon receipt of
an application from the DGB. Subsequently, applications for replenishment
would be made on the basis of monthly statements submitted to the Bank (with
supporting documents wherever applicable) by the DGB. or when the Special
Account is reduced to one-:.alf of the initial deposit. Assurances were given
at negotiations that GOI would make satisfactory arrangements for the estab-
lishment of the Special Account and has set up the necessary organizational
structure for its operation including accounting and auditing procedures.



- 39 -
E. Accounts, Audits and Reports
3.16      Under. Indonesian law, all project units involved in project imple-
mentation prepare and maintain separate project accounts in accordance with
sound accounting practices. Accounts and documentation supporting statements
of expenditure will be maintained separately and will be readily available
centrally for review by visiting Bank missions. Accounts and statements of
expenditure for each fiscal year will be prepared and audited by independent
auditors acceptable to the Bank. Certified copies of the audited accounts and
financial statements for each fiscal year, together with the auditor's report
will be furnished to the Bank as soon as available, but not later than nine
months after the end of each fiscal year. The CPIU will submit a project
completion report to the Bank by June 30, 1992, or six months after the loan
closing date. During negotiations, assurances from the Government were given
for compliance with these requirements.
IV. BENEFITS AND RISKS
Benefits
4.1       The proposed project would allow the DrHE to continue to provide
operational support to priority academic programs, such as domestic postgradu-
ate programs for university teachers in priority fields, undergraduate engi-
neering programs, and science teacher training. It would permit the DCHE to
carry out an approved three-year higher education program without interrupting
the implementation of approved ongoing projects, improve the provision of
operating expenditures, stimulate further development of private higher educa-
tion, and initiate selected new investments. Without the financing provided
by the proposed project, the implementation ot many ongoing projects and
priority activities would have been delayed due to budgetary constraints.
4.2       The project would contribute to national economic development by
helping to alleviate critical higher-level manpower shortages by (a) improving
teaching staff qualifications through the staff development program; (b)
improving the quality and efficiency of higher education through operational
support, management and academic training, and the provision of books, jour-
nals, and equipment; and (c) infrastructure and operational support for fields
of study critical to the country's development needs.
4.3       Institutional development at the DGHE, KOPERTIS, and university
levels would be supported through the emphasis on the improvement of manager-
ial capabilities at all levels, and support for the development of higher
education mane7ement information and monitoring and evaluation systems.
4.4       The benefits of Bank assistance under this project will be wide-
spread throughout the subsector. Policy improvements introduced under the
project should lead to better resource mobilization and improved planning and
management of higher education, better educational quality, and improved
project implementation, and to the development of a more efficient and
financially self-sustaining higher education system in Indonesia.



- 40 -
Risks
4.5       The main risks are that some of the universities which have not had
prior implementation experience may perfors at a slower pace than what is
required to implement the project on schedule. These risks are being
addressed by providing technical assistance for planning and management,
planning to undertake intensive project supervision, supporting the higher
education project implementation monitoring tean, and training managers at all
universities. Although there were implementation problems In the past, the
record of implementation of higher education projects Improved substantially
in the last two years. The improvement resulted from policy and institutional
changes adopted at both the national and DGHE level, and Indicate a high level
of commitment to institutional development and policy reform. The project
will build upon this commitment, to help minimise the perceived risks.
V.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND  IeCOOHINDATION
Agreements Reached
5.1       The Government prepared and brought to negotlations the following
for Bank review:
(a) the three-year expenditure program composition and costs (para.
2.4);
(b) evidence of specific budgetary provisions for the activities to be
financed under the proposed project In the draft FY88/89 higher
education budget (para 2.8);
(c) training plan and implementation schedule for the management
training component (para. 2.9);
(d) summary terms of reference for the higher education studies and
evaluations to be undertaken under the proposed project (para.
2.13);
(e) implementation plan for domestic and overseas staff development,
including candidate lists for the first year of the project (para.
2.16);
(f) implementation plan for the university research program (para.
2.18);
(g) decree for the establishment of the Library Planning and Management
Unit (para. 2.20);



- 41 -
(h) management plans for the development and operation of the Growth
Centers included in the proposed project (para. 2.23);
(i)  design proposals for construction at the Universities of Cadjah Mada
and Andalas and for all construction to be undertaken during the
first project year (para. 2.24);
(j) bid documents for all equipment to be procured in the first year of
the project (para. 2.26); and
(k) decree for the establishment of the Central Project Implementation
Unit (para. 2.28).
5.2       During negotiations, the Government provided assurances that:
(a) the proposed project will be implemented in accordance with the
Higher Education Program Guidelines (HEPG) and the Action Plan for
Higher Education (APHE) (para. 2.3);
(b) to maintain the Library Planning and Management Unit (LPHU)
established on February 10, 1988 (para. 2.20);
Cc) to maintain the Central Project Implementation Unit (CPIU)
established on February 10, 1988 (para. 2.28);
(d)  full-time directors of CPIUs implementing projects financed by Bank
Loans 2101-IND, 2290-IND, and 2547-IND, and of senior staff of the
higher education project implementation Monitoring Team be
maintained at all times (para. 2.31);
(e) as preparation for the annual review, the GOI would submit to the
Bank by December 31, of each year commencing in 1988, for its review
and comment, a retrospective review of the implementation of the
previous and ongoing years' budgets for the higher education pro-
gram, and a forward plan and budget for the next fiscal year, and
thereafter carry out such budgetary allocations, assisted by the
proceeds of the proposed loan, and taking reasonable account of
Bank's comuents (para. 2.34);
(f) progress reports will be prepared and submitted to the Bank semi-
annually by April 30 and October 31 of each year (para. 2.37);
(g) satisfactory arrangements for the establishment of the Special
Account would be made, and that the necessary organizational struc-
ture for its operation would be set up, including appropriate
accounting and auditing procedures (para. 3.15);
(h) project accounts would be maintained, audited, and submitted for
Bank review yearly (para. 3.16); and
Ci) a Project Completion Report will be submitted six months after the
closing date of the loan (para. 3.16).



- 42 -
Recoeudation
5.3       subject to the above conditions, the proposed project would consti-
tute a suitable basis for a Bank loan of US$140.3 million equivalent to the
Republic of Indonesia for a term of 20 years, including a grace period of five
years, at the standard variable interest rate.



-43-
?dwie I
COMPARAIVE  CouCATIOS INDICTOI
Dsc.,3er 13, 1967
CRETEAL
RIENIORIT        R2UCATIOU                      coI4VLEnoU           1RCURAINT
ON EDCATIONU RCURUT           ADULT             Ram  FOR               N?! COST  P30G88100
ON? IRE              hS PRENT    SVWDITUR           LITENAC  1112*61 131*11    lUNAR!  fRINAl          NATE WRNM    1100891  SECONARYS BIGNER
6AM  IPOP.  CAPITA  PUCE??  "  WTOAL CNITRAI AI.LOCATRD Tot RATE          91L. SCOOL          STOURNTN EUCAU0?N  P312*61! TO  ENRLL.   STUDEISM   ENoLL.
TMA  MILLS. (US*)   DEVOED 10  COVUISNTBr    II  Mc  El    (1)    RLATIO   CYCLE              PU        AS PCERMIT SECOUDhI   RATIO         nE         RATIO
(1971) (1979)   EDUCATION  EgllRNTUuE            (N)        (1976)   (t)        (N)      TEACRE   OfCN?IAPITA      (E)        (2)     T3*033       (2)
(1)  1(2)  1       (3)           (4)           (3)          (6)   1(7)1   (6)    1(9)                (L0)         (11)        (12)       (13)    (14)
AUS?NALIA   ~~~~   14.6b  6.670      6.3'        14.6         -         -      -        1033'    100         21         -99                      73        13       20.90
CANAD              61    23.7b  9560b    7.7'           is.3'7      30'34' 23'?   ggb         106'      *00         21        19.9'?       100          92'       to      22.60'
Gomm61  P.R.       79    61.2  12.200       4.6          9.9'       - -       -       99b      9ga      100'        -         -            100'         94'               12.10'
EEUEANDS        79    14.0  10,490       7.9          3.1       20   33   23       99k      96        93         I6        13.3          99          62        13      i2.40
Nh ZEALAND         so      3,2b  6.Oglb    5.3'         13.4        37   31   26      99       100      100         24        11.6         100          62        13      23.60"
RURUA              79     6.3  12,250       9.0         18.2       31   10   10       gg3      99'      *00         I6'       19.9         100          79'       1087    36.30'?
=sur"m AicA   63      1.0b    920b    6.0          22.0        41   34   22      40       to0       77         32        10.0          40          20        21       1.60
SU30SUK            61     4.2      235      2.06V       19.0       43   26   27       23       29'       35         37        20.2          12           3'       17       1.00
camos              84      0.4b    34       3.6'        26.0       49  29212          49       76        40         39        -             45          36       26        0.60
W02309!?           64     0.4      460      3.0         11.9       73  26  ...    10           42        66         40        67.0          40          10        19       0.60
RIROPIA            63    43.0      110      3.69         9~5        33   26   17      39       37        30'        63        19.3          93'         14       44        0.30
LENLA        ~~~62    17,4b    420b    3,8,b       20.lb      63   16   11       4b      113        S8         36        14.4          35          16        26       -
LESOINO   ~~~6        1.4b    4333    3.3          16.9       36   32   26       SO       116'      41         46         9.6          46          21        21       1.30
MADAWCASC          77      8.3     330      4.0'       24.0        33   26   19       so       9431      33         sS         8.0          38          14       23        3.1007
NALANI             61      6 lb    230b    3.5          11.4       36 14  23          23b      62        23         65         3.6          12           4       21        0.40
I6AONITIU          63      1.0k  1, 170b    4.3         14.0       46   36    7       Sob      93        72         23        13.0         100          30       22        1.00
AUGAD              63      S*9b    270b    3.6          27.4       71   16   13       373      63        30         40        16.0           9           3        16       0.40
SSTCRECELE         79      0.6   1,770      3.9         22.4'      30  330'10'                  -                   23        -             -           -        -        -
SOHALI             61      4.3     260      1.3         10.35      503  4b   63    Sob         22b       93         29b        g.0b         Bob         12b      22        1.00
SUDAN              s0    j9,2b  ~38         3.0        -           66  39...    32             3i*"      66         34         1.4          4416                  16      ..
SNAZILAND          83     o.7b    9403    3.8pb         20.4       S1   34   13       65b      93        30         33        *1.0          9629                 18        3.00
TAOZANI            so    18.3      260      3.9         17.7       47   10   16       79b      993       87         43        11.0          l93          3       20'       0.30
UGANDA             60    12.6b    30b    -              16.1'V      253b37b  job    46         34'       61         34        -             17           S        23       0.60
ZAIR               61    29.9b    z10b    7.7           26.4       -  -1 0            34b      76        25         so        21.0          40          18       26j       2.00
ZANAIA             s0      3:7b    566b    4.5          11.1       46 2522            443      93        60         48        12.1          19          16       22        1.30
EDUASNE            Al      7 7b    700b    3.1          19.3       62   32    6       443      90        33         39        20.0          Ss          13       23        0.30
6TN  AECA
N'J           7~~~~9 3,4b    320b    6.3'v         33.0       43   21    3    l1b         42        30         46        14.0          30          1 1      43        1.007
BUSEINA            63      6.3     210b    2.1'v        21.7       43   29   26       9        16        25         57        24.3          16           3       24        0.03
C*MOU              64    10.0      Blob    3.1          -           33  36  26       MD        69        *sb        so        -             -           23       26        2.70
C.A.R.             66      2.6b    26Ob    3.86'        24.7'?     49   16   24      -         79        45         65"?      1o            -           16       67        1.40',
CUAD               76      4.4     120      2.4b'Y      21.lb        -             - i         2n        -          77        -             -            3'?     21        0.207
COGO               76      1.3     670      9.0"?       27.7'?      -               -          -         -          5637      -             30          -        4337      4.0087
aquaT.00IuE        es     0.3b    270b    2.6            3.6       47   24   ...   2Db         13        10         s0         5.2          40          23       17'?      -
CAM                77      0.6   3.420      3,7by        6.47- -                         -                          46by      -             -           -        191.y     2.60'?
OMOIA              77      0.6     220      3.3"W        6.3b      46   254   6m   ~job        4037      9o'        2731      44.7'         40          123'i   17         -
am"3               76    *1.3      400      4.07        13.3b      -   -      -     -          71b'Y    -           2737      -             -           363'?Y   21        -
GoINRA             79      3.3     2909    4.6'9                   25  286'28'   20            34        36         36        20.0'?        es          16       29        7.00
IvOE  oAST         63      9*3b    720      7.3         42.6       St   40    9    33ay        72        79         37        29.0          49          22"z    30         1.66
LISENA             60      1.9     320      4.6         19.6       43  23  24        30        52        32         35        20.0          76          22       20        2.90
NAI.               6t      7.0b    190      4.2'        21.7'       36 2111t    10             20        60         44        13.7          66           1        It       0.90'
MAURIANIA          78      1.6b    320b    3.3          16.9        33   43   25    17b         32       60         44         2.0          so           9       23        0.37
xi=Z               64      3.2     300      2.6         21.0       40  25  20        14        25        20         36        41.0          37           6       26        0.30
inIGRI             63    93.6b    760b    7.47          16.0       -    -    13    36          93        70         36        191.3         47          23       30        2.00
lUNGE.             64      6.4     360      S.0b        24.0       46b  333  tgb   26          32        39         46        26.0          19'         16'      24        2.20'
SI-RA IMIR         77      3.4     230      4.0         16.Ob      -     -     -     133       37N       -          33        25.Q3         84          iS'      22        0.60bF
TMG                78      2.4     400      6.39'       26.39       30' 26' 21'   Is           74        40         3437      36.0          32          32b'7    463       1.6037
LATI  MONCA ANMt TS  CARIBINN
78    27.3   2.210      2.7         10.9        43' 31' I8o   933           89       32         17        -             67          31         6      23.00
RAZANA             79      0.2   2,770      3.7         19.1       36  3611t    93b            99        97         24        -             97          73       19       -
NARNADOS           76      0.2   2.660      6.3"?y      22.1'      43' 310  16'  993          1007       99'        277       19."          99'         767      207      -
Eo.ZiA             s0      5.4     350      4.1'?       30.3a      -         -    - 63         767       -          201       -             -           13?      -        12.607
NNAIU              79   116.3   1,770       3.8          6.2       31    -   14    76          7357      -          2387       4.5b         61'         13'?     1457    12.62b
camL               76    10.9   1.890       3.237       13.03b        -       -      -        jjgbzl    -           3437      -             -           3337    2037    11.90by
COLUiZA            60    26 7b  t 160b    3.3           25.0       33   20   20    6lb         76        36         32         6.6          -           47       20       10.0257
COSA RICA          so      2.2b  1.610b    6.4          31.1       40   27   33    90          93        77         33         3.3          77          40       27       14.001
co"A               76      9.6     -        8.0         11.0       -         - -9   96        112bz      " 96       163       -             g6          71bxy    1s       1O.0237
UGMEAICANUP.    60         3.3   1.030      2.9         13.         39   21   22    66b        s0        31         39         3.2          94          so       33       16.00
ECUADOR            s0      6.4b  t,110      6.09        36.7       43   31   16    S1         103        -          36        12.6          66          47       16       29.00
EL SALVADOS        77      4.4     640      3.437       23.137y    64    8   27    62          82b'7    32          39        -             41          26k'?    2737      7.9037
G0*A300.           76      6.6   1,010      1.7'?       12.6b      -    -    -       -         69317    -           3337      -             69          13bz?    1937      35.07
Gun"              76   0.8   630   8.1b7    13.637   -  --    -                               99317  -             3237    -               -           39317  -           3.0037
NAM                60      5.0b    250      3.4'         7.9'?     63    9    6    23b         so        20         41        19.0          62'          4'k     27        0.60
suASu            76      3.6     320      3.33?       14.337     628  13a  19'  60           693'?    30'         41by      12.8'         66'         21'?     19        8.007
JAMAICA,           80      2.1   1.110      6.5         13.7        37  43  20    90           98        9          40         2.3          93          61       22        6.00
wZ0O               60    63.3 1,660         4.7         17.0'      46 39  15         92        96        33         44         9.3          66          36       17       10.30
NICARAWA           76      2.6b    Glob    3.03'        14.03      -     -     -     gob       eSb'      24         373       -             -           263'I    30       -
PANAAI             76      t.8b  1,330b    3*53wy       21.6bY     42' IS&  1 3    62b         9337      -          2337      11.6          65'         3037     2737    20.4037
IPANRAWAX          79      3.0   1.140      1.4'        14.2       42   17   20    64          63        32         is         3.1'         76          U2       12        0.70
PERU               60    16.6   1,000       3.6         14.3       5331319    60               63        36         39         9.6          69          39       22       14.407
TZNID ADSTog.   77         1.1   3,910      4.837        6.637      46   32   20    935        9         91         30        10.3?         49          62       24       -
UATmo              78      2.9   2.300      2.3          9,4b                       94        ios3'      -          24b       -             -           64b'     -        17W
YouNEuR            76    14.4,.3,440        3.17        16.9b       -        - -6    82       1063'      -          26        -             -           363'     17       21.10?



-44-
CWAAr V5 ICTIoU INDICATOnS
Decebr 10. 1967
T__ _          -.      -      ____    _____              _r___                                                  _.-                                -
I   ror. COATX I . T 121t TOTO                A     OS CVOPLhOU S                                cUTML
I                   ~~~~~~~~ON UOCTIWN  IzcuIIZ   AWL?              SATE gm0             331 IT GM   INOIUSIO
o.      m              As 41,9108     W08DI?0IZ   LuSIAIT 5*2101  P1143          5*2301    MYA301     5A15 MMK   6BO3T  flO        M  61~
T1W IIILU . (US$)  5O9 15 0  DCO0U7T    PU   we  Il    (2)    6.11o   CICu.                P         AS  r03? 653M!    ATIO            PU        uno
(1979) (1979)  COICA201  uxmuITW               (3)        (3976)   (2)       (2)      T3.10    fP/CAFITA       (5)         (5)    15h5        (a)
(1)     (2)       (3)           (4)          (5)          (6)      (7)       (6)       (9)        (10)        (11)        (12)      (I3)    (34
I3  AND TM PACIFIC
OUINA             13 I. 063.Ob    5s1b    3.1          7.1       3S   40   22      77b      77        62        25        6.0          65          55       17       4.60
IU06t5IA          61   150.*b   520       2.1          9.3       70   24    6      52b      7S       61         37       11.0          74         27       2t        3.70
SOSS3              2    g.3b1l 656    7.7v             0.8       34  5 4     t     V6       99        96        43        19.0         87          72       22       4.00
VAIAIUI           3      336.1b  1.650b    6.7        I4.        JS   40   22      7O6      9         9S        22       13.0          6g          72       2        4.00
PAPUA N.G.        63      5.0&    620     5.4         19.0       '0   17   22      -        40        73'       331      15.0         85          1351    27'        I.00
PtLIWlIS          79    44.5b    490b    2.5'         14.0       64   36   -       7sb      6         SS        31         7.1         69          5                23.O6
slagoAs            60     2.4   4,420     2.7          4.7       39   40   16      63       92        62        31        8.6          94         S        n        6.00
SO3OmI6L.         62     o.2b    440      4.491       19,0b      41   34   20      I5       78       so         27       10.5          40         20        is       2.0
1523L*3           82    490b        Ob    3.4         20.S3      S    14   10    g6b       101       468        21        9.           44         44        14       4.00
VAllWTD           64     O.lb    -        6.1         23.5       61   27    4      13      I3,        60        24        53.0        2i          20        34       2.00
SOCS AIA
SANGLAUM          79    92.3b      So     I.IP        10.17      51   17  20       22b      637      -          53        5.6          -          14        23       1d.4
AUII              60  1.2  60  3.4    11.0    -  -  -   to   12    -                                            -     -                           -    -    -
INDIA             77 49.4  210  2.9Y                   9.9'       - -  --    6                x    -            41    -                -          us    -            46
AL                8t2    5.Ob 0    50b     .4        -           -9                         70 _                3        -             -          21        23       5.700
PAKSTAN            2    57.1b    560b    2.0           7.0       18   20  24       22       50       41         30        5.9          56         21        i5       3.00
36305   21011 EAST AUD Mlt UAStCA
0T U              77    15.5      -       1.7          3.7       47   19  13       12       3b67      69        37b      -             62          6        225      1.00
AZSIA             79  16.1  13770         3.6'        12.5       3U   264  21'   35         837      4*Y        57        7.01         55         2D?       26       1.197
5021               62    43. s     5 60'   4.6'        7.9        la  5s5  24    4          70'       w0        24        9.6'         623        458       19I     17.00
Go=                76     9.0  4.140      2.4         10.6b      37   26   21       -       97b7      -         29b        6.2?        -          79X       2769    17.606
11A               79    36.9      -       5.7'?       14.1?      -     -     -     50      101"       -          2       -             -          44"       24'      &.JUR
7UK               79    12.4   2.710      4.5'?        6.967                       -       3007      -          28       -             -          4*        2 *.t    *
IIIND             81      3.464,480       6.35'       113 s ?                      S 9      93       94         29       -             t           I        134     3l.0
iOh               63 81   2.26b  I 420b    4.9'       10.2       39    4   IS      70b      92        65        32        15.1         -          6t        N        D.tO
USAM              79  2.3  -   -                      1364"  - - -   -    96   -                                19   -                 -          4    -    .
b_O                U64    21.66    670b    6.00       22.9       N8  45   19       15       07         9         31       15.1         -          14'       8t       O.tO
oIUn              65        2b 6 490b    3.2          12.7"      -    -    -       30bt     712       654       258       -            90           s       148     ..
PO1103           86    10.2b  1.970b    4.6          11.5       50   24   IS      s0      125        70        Is        16.9         68         57        16       0.00
INDIAIEA          74    22.1   2.100      5.9b7        6.27      -     -     -     9o      106b       -         25b      -             98         864h      TO      30.O4W
SPAI              76    57.0  4.920       2.17       .16.87      -    -    -       -        98b7     -          29b      -             -          *116      _       2 .1D6
6T81              76       .6  13170      4.49        10.3        59  25  26   58           g7b7  80            35b      -             65         4365      7b      ZU.tO
Slti8A            79      4.4  13130      7.0P        19.0       42 U         16    6b     30O       s0         39b       12.8         3o         so'       70       4.0?
TIT1              63      47.5  1.2UO      3.         16.2       50   22   24      73b     310        77        31        6.0          55         26        It       8.00
N*.R     .        64       .3b    530b    7.9P        17.7       s0   20   11      21t      55        28        03       27.6          80          9        to0      3.t
TIMES.D.9.         62     2.Ob    420b    7.6          9.7       6S4  140   ea    53        61        34        25       22.0'         46         17        20       2.50
T  0    VSmIDW CO1TRI518:
r   el Cpetr1le:                        86              93      70   69  67       81       92        68        95       65            75         91        U       69
Itsaga                                  (1.4-          (5.7-  (23-  (6-  (5-    (8-      (12-     (12-        (17-     (1.4-         (I0-       (1-      (-       (0.0
10.0)         54.5)  94)   46)  S0)   99)       119)      99)        77)      67.0)         100)       64)       46)     ".0)
QueartClot l Ppr                         5.6           21.7     5  356   22       61       9S        00        43       20            87         47       24       11.0
26d418t                       4.0          16.1      43   25   19     53        63       61         35       13           65          26       22       2.7
Lers                          5.0          11.0    3N   21  13        25       60        S5        28         9           40          14       It       1.0
Q2art7la De,atl:s                        I.5            5.4    0.5  7.5  4.5   28.0      19.0      22.3       7.0      0.6          23.5       16.5       3.5       5.0
Seai                                     4.4           17.0     46   23 16        53       74        S9        36        16           62         31        25       6.9
Stad  DovlattroG                         1.9            6.7      2 210    7       29       27        24        1t       13            27         23        7        7.6
4199S                                    4.0           16.0     43   23 19        5        63        41        30        13           45        2i         22       3.7
mStA.                                                                 rD
-    DA     uvAIInAA IA - DAM  JPtOL TO "T no                                                       .            * V2162  OF 800620  (M) GMT
1..  I       tO1 . 6L C9 U1IOI.        8                    * 063" UA36  MU  8C! 154  MlA S   R T1          -     1AM   TA IID llt -   CIL?
t    DATM QUSTEA                                                    CURIUE   FC s                               *- P01320  UtSIIP OaIL
*    IC.O t S   ART-T5D 8 ACS A                                  * IIT U5.LLU   RATIO                         I*  1  7510 O265 t- 6T133
F * 06  ZUILIJIS   RATIO T                       - so      6URUD
a n 0or
6t8106          Colus   I and 2: YarU4 Oak Alla  o  Sdctla   ator field oftddsoe.
Co7  e S to 34: Vor14 6.4  Udonstloo act   eteaoa. Covermant eoorec
/lor the 17atum Sttietled S erbook.
Ce_ars Uve Edecatl:n Data atm enel f. the eralotlon of           o    duriom   _drtlen systew   A awlyst, of d5.41. stage  of
Oculel d elo_1A   betman vatit_ ec t ritea.   bomr,, on th  bats of the prneet dea. ecross-ational enprlsn
ebhei  be ppro.d  eth grt  cajlon.  VD" praatod tno the aboa  table herev baJ  coll.ct4d tg.ly   enAy eikstlioe
gum g_am ar ecrcai the r_m1409  ane  at   atfstan or dama trf.  U0_eo.  EffectA ham beends to taentan,rdl
dele21ione  end.   tbithi  31401d. to diek th  enurc  f ot de dat. Ueverthelee  ech data   e etlll t_prfet .Iz
ev.ral reelct .4  the  naP, tIo ackq    to lowom    the. presreulvly an th  oc eeten of Its oeatIonA  orT.  TO the
8  of die   due, thed following qallflcatlcos ahcold be kept in dds
(1) _secalon' an defleed tnthe table Iclde, all educattlUon end tralaS, botb form. en   n-orodl.
(2)    9niuy e    docatlon refer  to edoctlo  at th  firet tel. nd _    eatoedwy  eduestln refere to all 4du0e01n
at the  _04.  level regad7_  df r"e (e.g.. ganre. tehoce. aic mdulItra).
(3)   -Utora  ret_ Caot. 6) an often obtaied  ton ccuatq caemeoen.  t o n   cea8tri. tey erte *ony
8pp9oleiolcoe end It Is donheful that any    f or deflalticof c Uterat7e hb  bee  foUceed  ecetately.
(4)   ftbleit ependtar  In ducetion' (calm. 4 .d S) rtoer to ell cpltal *meccet   Kpaendlitree devoted to
edoeceim by pblic and quael-publtc aeoOlm.
(S)    Uaro7Sn  rte  (cola. 7, 12 .d 14) refer to Weohol yer .d at  the pecelg  of eligible children
-9r9ll14  ftll-r    4 In the .groptt  ethool, pl0ble ad private by 14,9.  1by m   often  6bj5et to 8*wid
_o4of c     t a In the davelpig coettle   eLgg to nel Ja   In 44 tecurany of baIt dats (l.*..
ge-epeacfti popula         end  sor2lltl).  brollent ftigne  iqoently ae bhter thn tho ener co
.te,e1   ctat ly In eedol. Over-aed  ttaU               e Isclated La then  tf40r  Ad  e  n lat, the ratlde.



**45*.                                                                  ANNEX 2
INDONSIA
RIGC    EUCATION DSKEL INT  MUOJICT
Public Ristr Eucatio
Year Created. Ihfimbr of Stud? Progrms. Earolls_nts. Use Entrant.
nd ;ull n_   AcdeMc Staff by univerdity. 1956
Graduste eroRram
Undegraduta    a        (SI)      Iordssrsoros_                        Enroll ents            Full-time
Year                EnrolI-    Nlw                  Enroll;;                Masters   PhD    Medical    academic
Nsme of institution                       created    Number    ment      entrants    Numser    _nt        entrants     (S2)      (53)    (SP)        etaff
Untversity of Indonesia                    1950         62      14,839     2,641        15      1,885         945        768       58      711        2,122
IKIP Jakarta                               1963         41      6,823      1,691         1      2.570       1,384        147       36        -          702
Bogor Institute of Agriculture             1960         28      6.975      1.790        10      1,046         491        625      221        -          864
Bandung Institute of Technology            1959         26      8,889      1,5O        28      2,594         883        643      148        -          922
Padjadjaran University                     1957         56      12,115     2,136         2      P.831         492        297      127      124        1,560
IKIP Bandung                               1954         34     10,570      1,707         3      4,416       1,615        276       65        -          941
General Soedl- an University               1963         19      6,0o6      1,360         3      1,827         495          -        -        -          425
Diponegoro University                      1960         28      10,954     2,199         9      4.183       1,598        244        -      269          877
IKIP Semarang                              1965         26     6R75        1,177         2      4,600       1,904          -        -        -          533
March 11 University                        1976         56      12,368     2,615         1      2,478       1,053          -        -        -        1,082
Gadjah Made University                     .946        104      22,609     3,088        11      2,447         614        576       46      456        1,746
IKIP Yogyakarta                           1963          35      6,847      2,430         1      1,686       1,481          -        -        -          571
Airlangga Untversity                       1954         26      8,065      1,504         ;      1,691         572        216       84        -        1,267
November 11 lost, of Technology            1960         16       5,398     1,084         8      1,809         517           -       -        -          446
IKIP Surabaya                              1964         33      6,791      1,351         1      4.400       1,557          -        -        -          649
Brawijaya University                       1963         36      9,713      1,862         6      2,761         977          -        -        -          921
IKIP Malang                                1954         24      5,249      1,134         1      3,412       1,250        210       35        -          605
Jember University                          1964         26      7,389      1,425         3      1,148       2,420          -        -        -          424
Syiah Kuala Untiversity                    1961         38      12,246     2,488         4      2,238       1,557          -        -        -          554
University of North Sumatra                1957         50      13,473     1,825         8      3,583       1,425          -        -        -        1,289
IKIP Medan                                 1965         26      5,331      1,120         4      3,867       1,730          -        -        -          781
Andalas University                         1956         34      7,933      1,542         6        947         256          38       -       25          746
IKIP Padang                               1954          31      5,854      1,331         3      4,504       1,662          -        -        -          657
Riau University                            1982         27      4,555      1,033         4      1,464         504          -        -        -          431
Jambi University                           1963         15      4,545      1,286         1        394         225          -        -        -          217
Srivijaya University                       1960         37      7,726      1,137        10      2,629         862          -        -        -          769
Laupung University                         1965         25       5,921     1,339         4      1,823         520          -        -        -          451
Tanjunspura University                     1963         21      4,484      1,590         1      1,332         289          -        -        -          324
Palangkaraya University                    1963         10      3,371        741         A        829         665          -        -        -          278
Labung Mangkurat University                1953         37      7,065      1,496         2      1,260         452          -        -        -          406
Mulavarman University                      1962         21       4,144       832         1        842         369          -        -        -          288
Sam Ratulangi University                   1961         46      9,777      2,590         5      1,861         912          -        -        -          872
IKIP Manado                                1965         34      3,959      1,196         1      1,050         635          -        -        -          689
Nasanuddin University                      1958         52      13,855     2,731        11      1,811         581          -        -        -        1,015
IKIP Ujung Pandang                         1965         31      7,153      1,293         2      1,480       1,410          -        -        -          504
Pattitura University                       1956         32      5,791      1,534         1        656         340          -        -        -          302
Udaysna University                         1962         43      10,021     2,172         3      1,150         599          -        -        -        1,198
Matersm University                         1962         22       5,927     1,415         1        491         238          -        -        -          295
Nusacendana University                     1962         25       5,104       868         3        957         418          -        -        -          384
Cenderevasih University                    1962         20       2,748       823         A        774         297          -        -        -          166
Tadulako University                        1981         12      4,750      1,260         2        864         473          -                            320
Halu Oleo University                       1981         14      4,270        945         4        398         227          -        -        -          138
Bengkulu University                        1982          a      2,223        497         4        400         213          -        -        -          280
Open University                            1984         17    110,448    40,698         22      3,354       3,354          -        -        -          165
Yogyakarta Art Institute                   1984          3       1.78U       427         3         65          50          -        -        -          185
Total                                           1.408    440.849   109.193       228      86.029     40,511       4.040     820    1.585       30,361
Of Which:  Wosen                                              140,438    37,305                35,002      16,037      1,226      147      348       6,917
I Women                                                           31.9      34.2                 39.8        39.6       30.3    17.9      22.0         22.8
Sources:  (1)  Direktori Perguruan Tin8i Nagari di Indonesia  1984, NDEC, Jakarta, 1985.
(2) lAporan Tahunan Direktorat enderal Pandidikan Tingi Tahun 1986/87, IIOSC, Jakarta, 1987.
(3)  Daftar Naze Progrm  Studi Perguruan Tiegi lsgeri di Indonesia 1987, hOI, Jakarta 1987.



INDONESIA
HIGHER EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Private Higher Education
Number of Institutions, Enrollments, New Entrants, Graduates, and
Full-Time Ac-ademic Staff by Resion, 1986
Total                                       Undergraduate
no. of     Nondegree programs (SO)           programs (SI)          Full-time academic staff
Location/         insti-       New     Enroll-   Grad-      New     Enroll-   Grad-   Govern-  Nongov-
KOPERTIS          tutions   entrants   ments    uates   entrants   ments    uates    ment    ernQent   Total
Medan (I)            75        6,073    23,590   4,896    22,003    75,771   1,464        538    1,044    1,582
Palembang (II)       48        3,476    11,016   5,436      6,740    22,443     465       153      392      545
Jakarta (III)       105       14,569    39,345   7,435    21,787   104,417   9,112        743    3,417    4,160
Bandung (IV)         67        5,779    18,719   7,745    19,209    72,958   3,758        614    1,041    1,655
Yogyakarta (V)       46        4,039    19,366   3,568    10,529    38,336   1,804        436      666    1,102
Semarang (VI)        44        5,512    12,104   2,053    13,247    50,219   1,397        501      947    1,448
Surabaya (VII)      174        8,982    23,938   8,178    44,892   138,289   8,897        851    3,174    4,025
Denpasar (VIII)      35        3,018     7,634   1,027      7,336    26,066   3,196       323      259      582
Ujung Pandang (IX)   71        4,718    20,676   4,203    11,604    42,577   2,774        529      588    1,117
Total          665       56,166   176,388  44,541   157,347   571,076  32,867    4,688   11,528   16,216
Sources:  (1)  Laporan Tahunan Direktorat Jenderal Pendidikan Tinggi Tahun 1986/87, MOEC, Jakarta, 1987.
(2)  Direktori Perguruan Tlnggi Swasta di Indonesia 1986, MOEC, Jakarta, 1987.                             a m



-47-                               ANNEX 3
Page 1
INDONESIA
HIGHER EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Higher Education Expenditures and Financing
1.        The Directorate General of Higher Education (DGHE) in the Ministry
of Education and Culture (MOEC) is responsible for the development of the
higher education system, which is composed of both public and private insti-
tutions, with enrollments about equally divided between them. Public univer-
sity enrollments have been growing rapidly, at an average rate of about 81
over the last five years, putting a strain on both the development and routine
budgets for higher education. The DGHE routine and development budgets, com-
bined, represent an average of about 201 of total MOEC budgets over the last
eight years. The relative emphasis put on the growth of the system is re-
flected in the fact that higher education has had an average share of 23.4Z of
the MOEC's development budget, compared with an average share of 16.41 of the
routine budget, for the period 1979-19A6. In 1986/87, however, higher educa-
tion's share of both the routine and development budgets for education in-
creased substantially to 17.51 of the MOEC routine budget, and to 29.31 of the
development budget, signalling a relative higher priority in the face of bud-
get cuts with respect to other levels of education.
2.        Public higher education in Indonesia is financed from the Routine
Budget, the Development ludget, student fees (SPP/DPP, or student support
funds), and foreign aid.-' Table 1 presents the sources of funds for higher
education for the last three years. The severe budget stringency resulting
from the drop in the price of oil has resulted in the stagnation of the deve-
lopment budget, accompanied by relative increases in the other sources of
funds. Increases in the routine budget in 1986/87 were due mainly to higher
staff compensation, coupled with the hiring of a limited number of additional
personnel, and no further dramatic increases in the routine budget are expect-
ed in the foreseeable future.  Student fees were doubled in September 1986 for
all incoming students, and thus should keep steadily increasing for the next
three or four years, as graduating students paying lower fees are replaced
with new entrants. The increase in foreign funding is due mainly to the
startup of operations of large new projects and to the improved implementation
of existing projects.
1/   For detailed data and discussion of the evolution of the routine and
development budgets and student fees for higher education, see John
Smyth, Higher Education Planning, Programming and Budgeting, December,
1986.



-48-                               ANNEX 3
Page 2
Table 1:  SOURCES OF FUNDS FOR HIGHER EDUCATION
(Rp billion)
1985/86             1986/87              1987/88
Development Budget           136                  107                   107
Routine Budget               106                  165                   180
Student Fees                  27                   35                    42
Foreign Funds                117                  141                   200
Total Fund Availability      386                  448                   529
3.        The relative importance of the different sources of funds has chang-
ed substantially in the last two years. The relative share of the development
budget when compared to total fund availability declined from 351 to 20%,
while the share of the routine budget increased from 27Z to 341, foreign fund
financing from 301 to 381, and student fees from 81 to 91. This represents a
reversal of the trends which developed during Repelita III. From 1980/81 to
1984/85, the development and routine budgets for public universities (in con-
stant 1980 prices) increased at a combined annual rate of 7.81. The annual
growth of Si (undergraduate) enrollments within the same period was 81 per
year, indicating that, on a per-student basis, total government financing did
not quite keep up with enrollment growth. The relative importance of the
routine and development budgets changed considerably during that period: in
1980, the development budget represented about 43Z 3f the development and
routine budgets combined. By 1984, however, these percentages were re-
versed: the development budget reached 561 of the total GOI budget for
higher education, as a result of an annual rate of growth of 14.62 in real
terms, and the routine budget 44Z, resulting from an average annual rate of
growth of 1.21. In practice, universities were financing a portion of their
total recurrent expenditures out of their development budget, in response to
rigidities an constraints in the growth of their routine budgets.
4.        Issues related )o the development budget have been discussed in the
Public Investment Review &, so this Annex will concentrate on operation and
maintenance expenditures and financing in Indonesian higher education. At
this point in time, when planning for Repelita V is about to begin, it is
especially important to consider the increased importance of adequate budget-
ing and use of recurrent expenditures. First of all, enrollment targets in
the past have been too ambitious, leading the subsector to rapid expansion
accompanied by an implicit bias against educational quality, as recurrent
costs (teaching and non-teaching) did not keep up with increased enrollments.
Enrollment targets were set independently of resource constraints, so the
2/   The World Bank.  Indonesia: Public Investment in Repelita IV, Report No.
5849-IND, December 27, 1985, pp. 94-100.



-49-                               ANNEX 3
Page 3
routine budget did not keep pace with enrollments, and routine funds were not
budgeted to cover the operation and maintenance costs of development projects
after construction was completed. In ad 'tion to financial constraints, at
present the pool of qualified candidates_ for admission to higher education
cannot support further rapid growth, as a result of deficiencies in the level
of secondary school graduates, and given the relatively high percentage of
upper set?ndary school graduates who are admitted to higher education insti-
tutions._   As emphasis shifts from further expansion in public higher educa-
tion to consolidation and quality improvements, the budgeting and use of
recurrent (operation and maintenance) funds acquire increased importance.
Sources of Funds for Operation and Maintenance
S.        Operation and maintenance costs for higher education are provided
from budgetary sources (routine and development budgets), and nonbudgetary
sources (student fees and income from services rendered by universities). In
public universities, about 90X of recurrent costs are funded from budgetary
sources.
6.        Budgetary Sources.  The main source of funds for recurrent costs is
the routine budget, although in recent years increasing amounts of recurrent
costs were budgeted in universities' development budgets, as mentioned above.
In recent years, the whole distinction between recurrent and capital expendi-
tures became blurred.  Although it is difficult to identify the recurrent
expenditures in universities' development budgets without a detailed analysis
of individual university budgets, a broad estimate of operational expenditures
in the development budget, def_ned as the sum of expenditures on "salary",
"supplies", "travel", and "others",, indicates that as much as one-third of the
development budget for higher education in recent years was made up of recur-
rent expenditures. However, the development budget could not be expected to
absorb non-capital expenditures indefinitely, especially under times of budget
stringency and given the need to recover and then maintain educational stand-
ards, and most operational expenditures have been removed from this year's
development budget for higher education. One important exception is the pro-
vision of operational costs for priority educational programs, such as engi-
neering and teacher education in science and mathematics, for which supple-
mentary provisions for operational costs are provided in the development bud-
get on a per-student basis (Rp 650,000 per student).
7.        A recent study on higher education costs and finance in three
Indonesian universities estimated average unit recurrent costs to be between
3/   A. Somerset.  Recent Administrative Changes in Indonesia's University
Admission's Procedures, January 1986.
4/   Repelita IV (Table 20-4) uses a planning figure of 43.32 of all secondary
school graduates to estimate the number of entrants to tertiary level
institutions the following year. Even worse, in 1984/85, the number of
entrants to tertiary level institutions was 632 of the number of general
upper secondary (SMA) graduates in 1983/84.



-50-                               ANNEX 3
Page 4
Rp 400,000 and Rp 500,000 per year at both public and private universities.5!
These costs are low when compared to unit costs in other countries (which run
as high as US $4,000 to $5,000 in some African countries); in relation to per
capita income, which is higher than the average unit cost of higher education;
and in relation to the unit costs of primary and secondary education (which is
as high as 100:1 in some developing countries). On one hand, low costs are
desirable, as they make it easier, in economic terms, to expand enrollment to
meet the country's needs for university graduates. On the other hand, how-
ever, the low costs per university student may indicate problems of quality
that call for analysis in greater depth.
8.        It is extremely difficult to obtain unit costs for different fields
of study at Indonesian public universities, as the prevailing accounting sys-
tem does not permit the establishment of a basis for allocating cost items to
separate faculties. This difficulty in knowing the unit costs of the educa-
tioi provided by different faculties deprives university management of a sig-
nificant piece of management information. However, unit costs by field of
study were measured by McMeekin at one private university. Technical and
scientific faculties had costs 25Z higher than the university average; non-
technical faculties' costs were about 35 less than the average.
9.        Non-Budgetary Sources.  Student fees (SPP/DPP) are used by universi-
ties to finance recurrent expenditures such as academic equipment and materi-
als, research, community service, honoraria, student activities, and general
campus maintenance. These funds are not included in either the routine or the
development budget, yet represent an important source of funding to universi-
ties (augmenting the routine budget by about 251). For 1986/87, total SPP/DPP
funds to universities were about Rp. 35 billion, and the average contribution
per student is about Rp 85,000 per year, representing about a fifth of the
operational budget per student at public universities. About 801 of the
SPP/DPP funds are spent on instruction, honoraria, and general maintenance.
10.       Individual universities must request to be classified into one of
the various student fee categories established yearly in the Joint Decree of
the Minister of Education and Culture and the Minister of Finance. For the
1986/87 academic year, eight categories were established: in the highest
category, incoming students pay 10,000 Rps. per month, while in the lowest
category, entering students pay 1,500 Rps. per month. Returning students
would be classified according to the scales which were in place the year they
were admitted, which since 1981/82 have ranged from a low of 1,500 Rps. per
month, to a high of 4,500 Rps. per month. This twofold increase in fees will
apply to all incoming students in the next few years, even if no further in-
creases in fees are granted, thus generating substantial increases in total
revenues from student fees, as older, lower-fee paying students graduate, and
5/   R.W. Mc Meekin, Higher Education Costs and Finance in Indonesia, March
1986.



-51-                               ANNEX 3
Page 5
are replaced with higher-fee paying students. This implies that the import-
ance of SPP/DPP funds as a source of funds for operation and maintenance ex-
penditures will increAse in the coming years, especially given the low growth
forecast for budgetary sources of revenues for higher education institutions.
11.       Student fees in public universities are low in relation to total
public costs. Students in private universities pay higher tuition fees and
much higher (one-time) admissions fees, even though there is little difference
in the income distribution of families of students in public vs. private in-
stitutions. The costs of tuition fees are a small portion of students' total
monthly costs, including room and board, representing only 10Z of students'
total reported expenditures in public universities and lees than 202 in
private universities. There is ample opportunity to increase the level of
cost recovery, with provision for l^;eral needs-based scholarships or student
loan assistance for needy students.-
12.       Other sources of income, such as income from other central govern-
ment departments and agencies, provincial governments, parastatal and private
corporations, and private individuals or trusts is known to be minor and main-
ly ad hoc for most universities. However, in a handful of the more presti-
gious and higher-quality universities there is a certain amount of contract
research which scmetimes generates significant income for individual faculties
or departments.
6/   See Mc Meekin op. cit, and Maureen Woodhall, Financial Aid to Students in
Indonesia, May 1986.



ANNE 4
-52-                              Page 1
INDONESIA
RICHER EDUCATION DEVELOP iNT PROJECT
Higher Education Program Guidelines
1.        The development of higher education that has been underway since the
First Five Year Plan, has made good progress. The Directorate General of
Higher Education, however, is now facing critical problems in coping with the
ever increasing need for resources to improve educational quality and to make
available study programs which respond to demand for higher level manpower.
2.        These Program Guidelines aim at clarifying the medium-term needs of
the higher education sector, taking into account the policy guidelines for
development of the national education system laid down by the State Basic
Guidelines for 1988, REPELITA IV, and further operationalized through the
Minister of Education and Culture in the National Workshop of the Department
of Education and Culture 1986 and 1987, as well as the DGHE's long-term
Framework for the Development of Higher Education 1986-95.
A. Quality and Efficiency
3.        Priority attention will be given to preserving and improving
educational quality and efficiency in state higher education institutions.
Emphasis will be placed on strategic areas such as staff development,
libraries and student admission policies and procedures, which have maximum
multiplier effects on educational quality throughout the higher education
system. In addition, increased provision will be made for operational
expenditures, such as teacher honoraria, instructional materials and the
maintenance of equipment in order to promote both quality and efficiency.
Measures will be taken to increase the transferability of semester credit
units among departments.
B. Mobilization of Resources
4.        With the pressure on resources in the state universities/institutes
steadily increasing, the role of private higher education institutions as
partners in the development of the national higher education system will need
to be reinforced. Measures will be taken to stimulate the development of
private universities, particularly in those areas such as engineering and
teacher education in the basic sciences where there are critical national
manpower needs. At the same time, with a view to recognizing more clearly the
educational achievements of both public and private universities,
accreditation standards will be reviewed. In the state universities, income
received from fees (SPP/DPP) will be increased periodically to help offset the
pressure on the government's budget for supporting operational and maintenance
expenditures. In order to ease the burden of fees carried by students and
their parents, measures will be taken to expand the existing student loan
scheme and to extend its coverage to students attending private universities
which have suitable accreditation standards. State universities will be



-53-                              ANNEX 4
Page 2
encouraged to seek additional sources of finance to supplement the funds
received from student fees and government budget.
C. Planning and ManaRement
5.        A comprehensive plan for development of the higher education system
in Repelita V will be prepared. The projected growth of higher education
enrollments and the establishment or expansion of study programs will be
closely related to the availability of human, physical, and financial
resources. At the same time, measures will be taken to improve higher
education statistics and the new mmnagement information system. The
administrative capacity of universities will be strengthened to lay the
foundation for sustainable growth and improvewent in the future.
D. Manpower Needs
6.        The higher education sector is of vital importance in providing the
scientific and technological manpower needed for national development. There
are critical manpower needs in the higher education system itself. Unless the
nation has the capacity to train its own higher education teaching staff and
researchers, it will be unable to determine the pace of its own scientific and
technological development. Therefore, priority will be given to developing
the national capacity for postgraduate scientific and technological education
and research. At the same time, within the limits of the resources available,
emphasis will be given to tne education and training of professional and
subprofessional manpower in the engineering and technical fields in order to
sustain the national policy of industrial development and diversification.
Similarly, a modest expansion will be undertaken in selected agricultural and
fisheries/marine science fields, in order to sustain the national policy of
agricultural self-sufficiency and development of marine resources. One
further area of manpower needs that will continue to receive close attention
is that of teaching manpower for the secondary schools, especially off-Java
and in the basic sciences, where there are acute shortages.
s. egional DeveiupfIUUL
7.        The condition of higher education in those parts of the country
where the universities are still relatively young in age, especially in the
Eastern Islands, will be given particular attention. Efforts will be made to
meet the needs for staff recruitment and training and for equipment and
instructional materials to support the curriculum. Emphasis will be given to
basic science and to the fields of forestry, fisheries, marine science, and
dryland farming. The local supply of secondary school graduates capable of
benefitting from higher education will be assessed in approving locations for
new or expanded study programs.
F. Implementation
8.        Improvement of the implementation of ongoing projects will receive
priority attention. Particular care will be taken to ensure that the
budgeting of counterpart funds is closely related to the actual work programs
of the various proiects. The monitoring of ongoing projects will be



ANNEX 4
-54-                               Page 3
reinforced with a view to early identification of implementation obstacles and
the initiation of corrective action. Implementation performance will be a
major criterion in the allocation of development budget funds to state higher
education institutions.



ANNEX 5
-55-                               Page 1
INDONESIA
HIGHER EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Action Plan for Higher Education
The higher education Program Guidelines which underlie the proposed
project have been translated into priority expenditure activities, studies, or
actions. A list of the actions to be taken during the project period which
are not covered by the expenditure program or proposed higher education
studies is given below.
Target Date
Improvement of Quality and Efficiency
1.  Raise status of university librarians and integrate    September 30, 1989
private and public university libraries into a
national network.
2.  Implement recommendations of teacher training study    September 30, 1990
Resource Mobilization and Finance
3.  Prepare and disseminate information to the public on   Annual/June
state university operating costs, government subsidies,
and levels of student fees.
4.  Expand student loan scheme and extend it to private    September 30, 1988
university students
5.  Stimulate new sources of funds/revenues for state        September 30, 1990
UaLrFiv ties aau  usw - X^ge        -ew;s  ^ wvc to
self-finance some of their expenditures.
Planning and Management of Higher Education
6.  Adjust rate of expansion of state university             Annual/October
enrollments and study programs to annual
availability of financial resources and qualified
secondary school leavers
7.  Establish and operate an ongoing tracer system for       Annual/October
graduates of institutions of higher education.
8.  Prepare a strategy for the development of private        September 30, 1988
higher education.
9.  Professionalize uhiversity management by developing    December 31, 1988
a functional stream of university managers, distinct
from academic administration.



ANNEX 5
-56-                              Page 2
Target Date
10. Operationalize the Management Information System in    September 30, 1989
all state universities and KOPERTIS
11. Strengthen management capacity of university            September 30, 1989
administrators.
Implementation
12. Monitoring team will prepare an annual report on        Annual/December
implementation of all World Bank assisted DCII
projects
13. Joint annual DCHE/ISRD review of current and            Annual/January
forthcoming year's expenditure program and
implementation of action plan.
14. A project implementation workshop will be hold each    Annual
year.



ANNEX 6
-57-
INDONESIA
HIGHER EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
List of Studies and Evaluations
Studies and Evaluations                                     Target Dates
Quality and Efficiencv
1.  Study to promote transferability of semester credit    June 30, 1989
units in order to increase efficiency in the
distribution of students among study programs
2.  Study possible improvements to accreditation            June 30, 1989
procedures and standards for public and private
universities
3.  Study on the promotion of efficiency and quality        September 30, 1989
improvement of teacher training in IKIPS and education
faculties of universities; including a comparative
evaluation of diploma programs for science teacher training
and a feasibility study on integrating education faculties
which are physically separated from the main university
capuses.
4.  Evaluation of internal and external efficiency of       September 30, 1989
polytechnic and diploma programs in engineering and
co e rce in state and private universities
Planning, Management and Finance
5.  Calculate the unit operating costs, government          Annual
subsidies and student fee levels in state
universities
6.  Study on the development of new sources of funding      March 31, 1989
for higher education
7.  Study of recurrent costs of priority study programs    September 30, 1989
and of capital development projects in higher
education.
S.  Prepare second time slice of the higher education       June 30, 1990
development program



INDONESIA
HIGHER IDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Techlnical Assistance Program
(Staff-ionths)
Local consultants                 Forei8n consultants
Component                                  T188/89  1989/90  1990/91  Total  1988/89  1989(90  1990/91  Total
Planning and Nanagement
Management trainlng                           -        -        -        -       3         3        -       6
Management information system                 -        -        -        -      12        12       12       36
Monitoring and evaluation system              -        -        -        -      12        12       12       36
Righer education pollcy studles              30       30       30       90      12        12       12      36
Quality and Efficiency
Science teacher training programs             -        -        -        -      72        72       72     216
Library development                           6        6        6       18       3         3        3       9
Writing and translations                    100      120       120     340       -         -        -       -
Private Higher Education
State exazminations                          40       40       40      120       -         -        -       -
Feasibility studies                          36       36       36      108       -        -         -       -
Toltal                                   212      232      232      676     114       114      111     339



INDONESIA
H1GR1?R EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Domestic and Overseas Staff Devielopment Programs by Component and Year
[Staft-months)
Domestic traininR                      Overseas trainins
Component                           1988/59   1989(90   1990/91   Total   1988/89   191VU90   19901 1   Total
Plan-ning and ManaRement
W Mnagei ent training                  35        140       140      315        -          -          -
Management information system         176       176       176       528       -           -         -         -
Quality and Efficiency
35tHT EXivelopment
Predeparture preparation         1,800      1,800       900    4,500        -           -         -         -
averseas fellowships
Fisheries                          -          -         -         -     120         180        60      360
Forestry                                      -         -        -       48         180       132      360
Dryland farming                    -          -         -         -      96         180        84      360
Basic sciences                     -         -          -        -       84        240        156      480
Other                                         -         -         -     288        660        372    1,320
Library development
Overseas fellowships
Local training                       -          -         -         -       -         180       180       360
Wrorkshops                           2          4         4        10       -          -          -        -
Internships                         60         60        60       180       -          -          -        -
E'xchange of staff                  60         60        60       180       -           -         -         -
Diploma programs                     0        360       360       720       -          -          -        -
lDegree programs                   360        360       360    1,080        -          -          -        -
Private RHiher Education
--wllSonal coordination                  30        30         30       90        -          -          -        -
Intititutional support               300        300       300       900       -          -          -        -
Total                           2,823      3,290     2,390    8,503      636      1,620        984    3,240
I  _   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~1~~~~~S



AM a
INDONESIA
HIGNCHE DUCATION DEVELOPHENT PROJECT
ProJected Enrollments in Selected la-Country Study Pro rams
Enrollments
Program                                    Iv55/5v   igaIiu   IvuliI    TotOL
S2 Programs
Unive Indonesia                             221       264        300       785
IKIP Jakarta                                188       180        210       578
Inst. Pertanian Bogor                       481       567        600     1"648
Inst. Teknologi Bandung                     434       527        600     1,561
Univ. Padjajaran                            259       280        300       839
IKIP Bandung                                137       185        210       532
Univ. Gadjah Mada                           539       617        700     1,656
Univ. AirIangga                             154       200        230       584
IKIP Malang                                 148        168       180       496
Unlv. Hasanuddin                             80        140       170       390
S3 ProRrams
unive inoonesla                              21        27         34        82
TKIP Jakarta                                 60        54         34       148
Inst. Pertanian Bogor                        82        95        117       294
Inst. Teknologi Bandung                      26        31         37        94
Univ. Padjajaran                             62         58        62       182
IKIP Bandung                                 46        44         34       124
Univ. Gadjah Mada                            66        67         74       207
Univ. Airlangga                              47        48         52       147
IKIP Malang                                  26        30         35        91
Univ. Hasanuddin                              -         -          -
Science Teacher Training Pror ams
univ. Indonesia                             360       360        360     1,080
Inst. Pertanian Bogor                       390       390        390     1,170
Inst. Teknologi Bandung                     360       360        360    1i0s0
Univ. Padjajaran                            390       390        390     1,170
Univ. Gadjah Mada                           390       390        390     1,170
Univ. Airlangga                             360       360        360     1.060
Inst. Teknologl Surabaya                    270       270        270       810
Univ. Sunatera Utera                        360       360        360     1,080
Univ. Hasanuddin                            360       360        360     1,060
Englneeri!%/Technolosy Prozram
unmve Lnaonesa                            2,451     2,909      3,380     8,740
Inst. Teknologi Bandug                    3,699     4,390      5,101    13,190
Univ. Diponegoro                            925      1,098     1,276     3,299
Inst. Teknologi Surabaya                  2,S98     3,083      3,583     9,264
Univ. Gadjah MHad                         3,317     3,936      4,574    11,827
Univ. Brawijaya                           1,569      1,862     2,164     5,595
Univ. Hasanuddin                          1,101     1,307      1,519     3,927
Technical Teacher Trainins Prosram
IwY rogya  rta                            1,700     1,7(0      1,700     5,100
MP Pngt; 17nn0    1;700                                        1-760      ,100



:  41-                                           sM     9
630133 EUUATION 33YA3? PIOJI
robe   Cost gm.y
4                 blUteo s _     U  Udllloo   2 foreign   2 total
Locl   Fore gn   ota 1TiT Ie         ir ign    Total  exchange   base costs
Planning and Management
DGHE and higher education luAtitu-
tions                                 5.19    8.05    5.24    3.12    1.54       4.96      37            2
Studles                                 0.20    0.57    0.54    0.17    0.34       0.51      67            0
Subtotal                             5.46    3.62    9.08    3.29    2.18       5.47      40            2
Quality and Efficiency
Staff development                      37.72   23.83   61.55   22.72   14.35    37.08        39           16
Undergraduate program                  30.40   10.25   40.65   18.31    6.17    24.49        25           11
Library development                     1.32    3.19    4.50    0.79    1.92       2.71      71            1
Research                                9.12    1.67   10.79    5.49    1.00       6.50      IS            3
Educational materials and opera-
tional support                        3.11    3.19    6.30    1.68    1.92       3.80      51           2
Subtotal                           81.67   42.11  123,79   49.20   25.37    74.57        34           33
Strengthening of Private Hilber
Education
Regional coordination                   0.73    0.16    0.69    0.44    0.10       0.54      18            0
Institutional support                   2.83    2.96    5.70    1.71    1.78       3.49      51            2
Subtotal                             3.S7    3.12    5.68    2.15    1.6       4.03     47            2
Physical Develomuent at Selected
Universities
ul, UGM and UNAND                      21.23   13.92   35.15   12.79    8.38    21.17        40            9
Tadulako and Cenderawasib               3.39    2.80    6.20    2.04    1.69       3.73      45           2
Riau                                    1.90    0.77    2.67    1.14    0.46       1.61      29            1
Walang, Cenderawsalh and Mtartem        2.02    1.13    3.15    1.22    0.68       1.90      36            1
Polytechnics                            3.06   27.70   30.76    1.65   16.69    18.53        90           8
Subtotal                           31.61   44.32   77.93   19.04   27.90    46.95        59           21
Incremental Salaries and
Operations and Maintenance              147.77   13.30  161.0?   $902    8.01    97.03          8           43
Total Basellne Costs              270.07  108.4"  378.55  162.70   55.35   228.04         29         100
Physical contingencies                   14.69    4.4    19.13    8.85    2.58    11.52        23            5
Price contingencies                      24.97    4.49   29.45   15.04    2.70    17.74        15            8
Total Project Cost                309.73  117.41  2D7.13  86.S#   70.73   257.31          27         113
Note. Figures have been rounded.



-62-                                    ANNEi  9
INDONESIA
HIGHER EDUCATION DEVKLOPMENT PROJECT
Sma!ry Accounts Cost Saumary
RD billion               US$ million         X foreign   2 total
Local   Foreign   Total  Local  Forelgn   Total  exchange   base costs
Civil works               28.99   12.49   41.48   17.46    7.53    24.99        30           11
Equipment, books,
journals and
instructions materials  6.01   54.31   60.32    3.62   32.72    36.34         90           16
Furnlture                  2.82    1.21    4.03    1.70    0.73        2.43     30            1
Overseas training          0.51    9.73   10.24    0.31    5.86        6.17     95            3
In-country training       61.70   10.95   72.65   37.17    6.60    43.77         15          19
Forelgn consultants        0.22    i.82    2.04    0.13    1.09        1.23     89            1
Local consultants          3.64    0.65    4.29    2.19    0.39        2.58      15            1
Research                   8.50    1.51   10.01    5.12    0.91        6.03      15
Adaluistrative and
operational support      9.92    2.49   12.41    5.97    1.50        7.48     20            3
Incremental staff
salarLes                94.87     -      94.87   57.15      -      57.15       -           25
Incremental O&M           52.90   13.30   66.20   31.87    8.01    39.88        20           17
Total Baseline
Costs             270.07  108.48  378.55  162.70   65.35   228.04        29          100
Physical contingencies   14.69    4.44   19.13    8.85    2.68    11.52         23            5
Price contingencies       24.97    4.49   29.45   15.04    2.70    17.74        15            8
Total Project
Costs             309.73  117.41  427.13  186.58   70.73   257.31        27          113
Note: Figures have been rounded.



AM= 9
Table 3
-63-
INDONPSIA
HIGHE EDUCATION DEVELOPNENT PROJECT
Project Component, by Year
Totals Including                       Total. Including
contlnaencles (R  billlon)             conttigenclee (US million)
1988/89  1989/90  1990/91   Total    1988/89  1989/90  1990/91   Total
Planniat and Management
DGHE and bigher education liati-
tutione                               3.23      2.97      3.04     9.25       1.95      1.79      1.83     5.57
Studies                                 0.30      0.31     0.33      0.94       0.18      0.19     0.20      0.57
Subtotal                             3.54      3.28     3.37    10.19        2.13      1.98     2.03      6.14
Quality and Efflelency
Staff development                      18.25    27.54    23.55    69.34        10.99    16.59    14.18    41.77
Undergraduate programs                 10.94    17.87    17.25    46.06         6.59    10.77    10.39    27.75
Library development                      1.32     1.82      1.89     5.03       0.79      1.10      1.14     3.03
Research                                2.96      4.23      5.10    12.29       1.78      2.55      3.07     7.40
Educational materials and opera-
tional support                        2.22      2.37     2.47      7.06       1.34      1.43     1.49      4.25
Subtotal                            35.68    53.83    50.25   139.77        21.50    32.43    30.27    84.20
Strengthening of Private Higher
Education
Regional coordination                   0.32      0.34      0.35      1.01      0.19      0.20      0.21     0.61
Institutional support                   3.79      1.26      1.30     6.36       2.29      0.76     0.79      3.83
Subtotai                             4.12      1.60     1.66      7.37       2.48     0.96      1.00      4.44
Pbweical Development ct Selected
Universitles
UI. UGN and UNAND                       9.43    24.67       5.18    39.27       5.68    14.86       3.12    23.66
Tadulako and Cenderaalh                 1.26     3.38      2.35     6.98       0.76      2.03      1.42     4.21
Riau                                    0.73      1.66      0.61     3.00       0.44      1.00     0.37      1.80
Malang, Cenderawasih *nd Mataram        2.79      0.31      0.33     3.43       1.68      0.19     0.20      2.07
Polytechnics                           31.25       -         -      31.25      18.82       -        -       18.82
Subtotal                            45.45    30.02      8.46    83.93       27.38    18.08      5.10    50.56
Operations and Maintenance               27.03    59.56    99.29   185.87        16.28    35.88    59.81   111.97
Total Proiect Costs                115.82   148.28   163.03   427.13        69.77    89.33    98.21   257.31
Note: Figures have been rounded.



INDONESIA
HIGHER EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Susmary Accounts by Year
Totals including                      Totals including
contingencies (Up billion)            contingencies (USS million)
1988789  1989/90  1990/91   Total    1988/89  1989/90  1990/91   Total
Clvil works                             13.88    25.17      7.32    46.37      8.36    15.16      4.41    27.93
1quipwnt, books, journals and
instructional materials               39.59    15.89     8.45    63.93      23.85      9.57     5.09    38.51
Furniture                                0.70     2.69      1.16     4.55      0.42      1.62     0.70     2.74
Oversea  training                        2.60     5.35      3.39    11.34       1.57     3.22     2.04     6.83
In-country training                     23.08    27.77    31.67    82.52      13.90    16.73    19.08    49.71
Forelgn consultants                      0.75     0.77      0.74     2.26      0.45      0.46     0.45      1.36
Loceal consultants                       1.26     2.20      1.40     4.85      0.76      1.32     0.84     2.92
Issasrch                                 2.70     3.96      4.75    11.41       1.63     2.39     2.86     6.87
Administrative and operational
support                                4.24     4.92     4.88    14.04       2.55      2.97     2.94     8.46
Incremental staff salaries              15.93    35.15    58.72   109.80       9.60    21.18    35.37    66.15
Incremental O&M                         11.10    24.40    40.57    76.07       6.69    14.70    24.44    45.82
Total Project Costs               115.82   148.28   163.03   427.13      69.77    89.33    98.21   257.31
Note: Figures have been rounded.



199    re  trni wrt              WtRs            all u-e0               01It ors                I9    n        0         16t o      193 I   tt '            t      31.3 t90 U        e      1            t      t - 1A
i -    c-.0   19  6g  -           1*-0          46     ro 0-e 360                    0l31        ft-          to0le       6I0                  MI0        u-0       ct-e      1ee          W                           -w
WI W !PlW WET    WIT    UT    UT    U'W   iw    t    in    VT   WIt UI    wI  WV  UT    UT                                                                                                                         FM
tilt   1's Ira3    W"It           W0             0lo 30      90          19.0        463         ale          we  0o                Iola       W-e     s0c         WV        Ws0          96t0           3      i     @
0rS   we 01436    L"v        -.                              silo         W0         cWs          w o         wte         fro        4e         we   r v            "It       1o    t                               "DPfW
murT l u W                        -gm            Ti'                     U           we1   2'                 U'    U                WV   UT   WV   TI                                      'in                   FM
WC1   Vs1 or"    WO                                          -             -           -           -           - -  -                                                                        - _                    ,     3
tre    cs a,        W"                                            -            - -meet  -                                  -          -        oe        tl        w           -tsu_                             w
WI   6.1  WOO        9.1     -             -             -           -                 -           -           -           - .       x           -         -          -         -            -                    09111
gm    91 e      f-s t     -            -                          -           te         we          ee           te          w -91                tee2        tt Or  WI  W9                   Ws                  i      Mt
W-   G's  to          -                                                                                                              tro -         ---- s-                      e           -   
wtA   Vs nut   -                         -tl  - 1   -                                            Or            we  sro                         wo    WI    -                   r                                       sone-    *
tie   c's tWs         -             -                          -           0           -           -            -                              silo 00              Gr.I -                                  a_O
we   %I, tr0          -             -                        sil sr       rrc                      -            -           -          -         -         -          -         -            -                        -
Coll   's1  99-e      -             -wc          t-e           -                     u-   u*-z                  -           -w         -       1l60       W-        Wo                     41.1           ua      m  8,_U P
or     t   96n01      -             - C'                       - u                                       -            -          -          -       so               - e        -            -u   m
16.0    6.1  gem    -no          -PNAo         WnmI          9am         06.11MS9110  WI      isOd  To          -  -ma       uodoe    -aO          -Od    OwS       -o"l         MPN   O M
_9     *3  tW0        -     t     9L1            16.           *   -Ft3              911         GIl       - I-           3.                   133    _6.           0_t     _          _     e  6331S3_1mi3
*"Wm                 PM1  Wsu19    '-x *      9t5*3e      43.3        10             In        WI           P-   *t                          -=    66-            - i        -            - 
upon        US        21      W13IbI         @*1 9           3     913*93Uudn3    3313   I*03                                     qm.qso    Iam.        -abai   spa        m13          iipi
-                     _         _ _ _             _ _            __                     _       _333                                                          U
to""  3     IU 1361533                                                       mW"S9      I 6311
13...333i%WI 06w -m



IDMONEIA
lGH115R EDUCATION DEVULOFWP  P3OJECT
Brekiosa of S      er counts
(Rp billion)
3ms. costs              Physcal continaeneis           Price costin ance        Total includig c Otiacn1Cis   Physical cont. rSe costs
Local  Dutles                 L      Duties                 Loc       i                    cl  Duties           pic price   piu price
Foreilg  (eocl.  and          Foreign  (exci.   nd         Foreign  (ezcl.  and          Foreitg   (ml.  ad            cOnt. On pbys-  cot. On
exchane taxs)  tes   Total exchane taxes) taxes  Total ecban   taxes) tames  Total exchange taxe) taxes   Total   tcal cont.   bees coats
Civil orks           12.49    25.22  3.77   41.48   0.69    1.39   0.21   2.28   0.54    1.83   0.24   2.60  13.72    28.43  4.21   46.37       2.42         43.95
EquipDnt books
journAls and
instructional
_terals            54.31     4.25  1.76   60.32   1.46    0.11   0.05   1.63   1.70    0.22   0.06   1.98  57.47       4.59  1.86   63.93      1.70        62.22
Furniture             1.21     2.45  0.37    4.03   0.07    0.13   0.02   0.22   0.06    0.21   0.03   0.30   1.34      2.80  0.41    4.55      0.24          4.32
Owereea training      9.73     0.51   -     10.24   0.54    0.03    -      0.56   0.49    0.04    -     0.53  10.76     0.58   -      11.34      0.59        10.75      $
In-country tralilng    10.95    61.70   -   72.65   0.60    3.39    -      4.00   0.56    5.31    -     5.87  12.12    70.40   -      82.52     4.30         78.22
Foreign conaultants   1.82     0.22   -      2.04   0.10    0.01    -      0.11   0.09    0.02    -     0.11   2.00     0.25   -       2.26      0.12         2.14
Local coeultants      0.65     3.25  0.39    4.29   0.04    0.18   0.02   0.24   0.03    0.27   0.03   0.33   0.71      3.70  0.44    4.85       0.25         4.60
esearch               1.51     8.50   -     10.01   0.08    0.47    -      0.55   0.08    0.77    -     0.85   1.67     9.74   -      11.41      0.59        10.81
Adinietrative end
operationl support   2.49    9.92   -      12.41   0.14    0.55    -     0.68   0.12    O.A9    -      0.94   2.75    11.28   -     14.04      0.73        13.31
Increuentel staff
salaries             -      94.87   -     94.87    -       5.22    -     5.22    -      9.71    -     9.71    -      109.80   -    109.80      5.72        104.08
Incre_ntal O&M       13.30    52.90   -     66.20   0.73    2.91    -      3.64   0.81    5.41    -     6.23  14.85    61.22   -      76.07      3.97        72.10
Total Costs     108.48   263.79  6.28  378.55   4.44   14.39   0.30  19.13   4.49   24.61   0.35  29.45 117.41   302.80  6.93  427.13      20.64        406.49
Note: Figures have been rounded.



I_DOSIA
HIGCR ECDCATION DEVELOIIT PROJECT
r.akdown of SMy Accounts
(08$ mllion)
r.e coats               Phycal    t      Is*             i  continsancias       Total inldinc    contineucis   Physicsl cont. 3se costs
Local                                                              Duties                Loc    Duties          plus price   plus pric
ForeIgn  (exal.  and          Foreidn  (Cxel.  nd          Foreign  (xcI.  and           foreign  (exel.  and          cont. on phy.-  cont. on
exchang  taxes) taxa    Total  xehneW  taxe) taxes  Total exchange teas) taxes  Total exchne  taxe) taxe   Total   teal cont.   besa costs
Civil Wors            7.53    15.19  2.27   24.99   0.41    0.84   0.12   1.37   0.33    1.10   0.14   1.57   8.27    17.13  2.54   27.93        1.46        26.48
Squpment, boks,
ouarnals and
instrutional
_terils            32.72     2.56  1.06   36.34   0.88    0.07   0.03   0.98   1.02    0.13   0.03   1.19  34.62       2.77  1.12   38.51      1.03        37.48
furnture              0.73     1.48  0.22    2.43   0.04    0.08   0.01   0.13   0.04    0.13   0.02   0.18   0.81      1.69  0.25    2.74      0.14          2.60
Overses training      5.86     0.31   -      6.17   0.32    0.02    -      0.34   0.30    0.03    -     0.32   6.48     0.35   -       6.83      0.36         6.47
In-country training   6.60    37.17   -     43.77   0.36    2.04    -      2.41   0.34    3.20    -     3.54   7.30    42.41   -      49.71      2.59        47.12
Forein consultants    1.09     0.13   -      1.23   0.06    0.01    -      0.07   0.05    0.01    -     0.06   1.21     0.15   -       1.36     0.07          1.29
Loa consultants       0.39     1.96  0.23    2.58   0.02    0.11   0.01   0.14   0.02    0.16   0.02   0.20   0.43      2.23  0.27    2.92      0.15          2.77
reserch               0.91     5.12   -      6.03   0.05    0.28    -      0.33   0.05    0.46    -     0.51   1.01     5.86   -       6.87      0.36         6.51
Ainlistraties and
operatio3al support   1.50   5.97   -      7.48   0.08    0.33    -      0.41   0.07    0.49    -      0.57   1.66     6.80   -      8.46      0."          6.02
Incrmntal staff
salries              -      57.15   -     57.15    -       3.14    -     3.14    -      5.85    -      5.85    -      66.15   -     66.15      3.45        62.70
Incramanal 0U         8.01    31.87   -     39.88   0."     1.75    -      2.19   0.49    3.26    -     3.75   8.94    36.88   -      45.82     2.39         43.43
Total Costs      65.35   158.91  3.78  228.04   2.68    8.67   0.18  11.52   2.70   14.83   0.21  17.74  70.73   182.41  4.17  257.31       12.43        24.87
Note: figure hm  o an rounded.



-68-
menu uUC&TIOS DEVEL4PMDt PRWOEC
I.pleantation Schedule
Caleiafr Yer                                  M:JWAR!FM'N.JS,N.JN.JIA..NI                      J    A8.0II.o-OD!J,:A"W?sL:O!JI
1M   Ficl Tearc (July-Jam)                      M!                       mg Ff89        W9             FY91            FM'
Isionmla  Fical Temra (Narch-April)                87/a8           S8/89           89/90           90/91           91/t
Project Co0 etioft (3/91)-3-*1
loan EffectiveAess *<-(7/88)                     a ClOai. Dat (t
Project Tes (lido a  FY  U/89  89/90. 9091)                   [c--PROJ R. 1-- 1c--PROJ YR 2--21c--PROJ YR.3--35
t. 00111 a N111uTION I            ll S
aimut  adb oow         I                                            DDDDDD          mI
_E-Nc .a t rini        I               Iass SSS SS SS5IlSSS SSs 0          m   m  0
a. nzl  I               I               I                               I 0
2.3BlbIU                         ~        ~      ~        ~      ~       ~       ~~~I  I  I  II
______________________ _          __           .             .               ,                               I
,oXI t*1 ot1 j1li, j   SS  SSSSSSjSSSS3 SS S                                 l sss gm sss
3IYAWWOSUU?                             T          ,          I               I               I 1
_  -nmat and b         |               OLLL PPP      DDD| m        D|LLL   l    il W
Over tr  q  I               1~~~~~s"$ m   m TT    mrTTrl              T 
xn-coustry trnin .I                     ITTs m   m  T.T mT      mTn mtrm
*. UUUIIaYR  OPROGRAM                                         I               I               O               
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   I  ~~~I  I            I11
Civilt ffi ;:  l |dddlddd ddd ppp pplu  $66  If  IDD@g  CC 222
tuipent, aInda ss mss
OtaIt a. M                         0     oo  ooo I   am        non oo ) 000 000
S. uNtAfty otwuapNI                               I               I1I                             I
I               I              I               I
8Q~i_nt nd t4* |             IE'L  m# DDD|DwLL  mDDD _                 # In,'
n-cerntrptrpininS                    ts m  wr m.m       s     < m   r l lTI U! E
it consut ante                        Iass SSS SSS as SS       SSS s'sss us  aSS  81i
Jocal consultants                      '5568ssuas
O a 11s |S tooo  ooo                      111 oo  co o oo   ss1 o  ooo ooooo   oo  oo nl
1000a"000   001000 000 00 OOOlO  000 000 am,g
_ -_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _             I               I               I               I
Resarch awards      I               lass RRR sae RRRrsss RRR ass RRR1eee IIRS sre 11
7. DWATIOUL NUIsI vDI  OPmR  SUPPORT    0                     0               0
I___       Is_s __ _ __ _              S#_|SSS ___________ _  I  I     g al
a~~~~~       ~~        a01  M                  ,W          U.  .0 0, "00
S. FMUN.L COODeXIOI
9. iFInFIUh   SUPPORT                                         I               I               I               I
- --__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  I  I  I   I               I
CCivorL             Ilm  d    ggKd                   I  $$      Coo al ccc         l
to-cousry     o. ;:                    ;Tr T   TTF ST;SB8 Hi MT 11,11ms TI  1]lF
e  Illin-nttFBitr                           l           l                                            M 0
Local cosultn         I               !  s88ss sss sss!sss ass ass uSSSIS   8SS uSS
1 r. M    gn (R// )                          I                I O                                            I
Civil works            d p        PP l    C  coc cc CC coC Coe Cccc cc cC COC
k"-t1e D              OO   ppp [i DD e,D:UD MpP M   nDi    IP BD
I2. TALWA    M NBN(AWUI )
3l FltgDiture    I           0   UU                        C Id CC CCO ig  C COC cDc  CDCCEl
Civil wwrks                                                  00010cc "
Iulpeasat pI           I 
12. K1*A  (111S8K)                                            I                      I       I
I______________________________  _II                                                         I
Civil worka                     1   ddd Eap fff*I.. CCC CC  CccC mcC Coe CCCO
frniture IUM   Mrt    RRR ReDD DOD rodi
I3. UALMS, CRU.MAMIR A NAAYRM (CLASS/LABSS)1I
__________________                                    *      lei __d IR                        otrcto IId
3i t WrFddurniture                      i   period
LUMMISIprStim Of lists (squipmnt and furniture)        DDOflehlivery period              SSSzServices period (for conslanitas)
smaderatiml"   - uort                                 RRR=Researcb activities            PppiwPreparatio, of bidding iem
66$uidiIISe,aiatiaa/a'ad                               assaSeLection process             C00CConatruction period
Tmtaiaiu period                                      ddd.heaisn period



ANNEX 11
- 69 -                                Page 1
INDONESIA
HIGHER EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data in Project Files
A. Selected Reports snd Studies Related to the Subsector
A.1  "Higher Education in Indonesia: Status Report," World Bank, July
1986.
A.2  "An Outline of the Long-Term Higher Education Development Plan of
Indonesia," Sukadji Ranuwihardjo, Director General of Higher
Education, MOEC, 1985.
A.3  "The Private Higher Education Sector in Indonesia:  Description
and Loan Feasibility Analysis," Karen Hanovice, September 1984.
A.4  "Higher Education Costs and Finance in Indonesia," R.W. McMeekin,
March 1986.
A.5  "Financial Aid to Students in Indonesia," Maureen Woodhall, May
1986.
A.6  "Improving the Efficiency of Educational Systems," Indonesia
Education and Human Resources Sector Review, Chapter 9: Higher
Education, MOEC and USAID, April 1986.
A.7  "Recent Administrative Changes in Indonesia's Admissions
Procedures," HCA Somerset, April 1986.
A.8  "Joint Decree of Ministers of Education and Finance:  Annual
Student Fees," September 1987.
A.9  "Training for the Trainers within New Akta V:  Implementation
Report," Project NUFFIC/DEPDIKBUD/AA, February 1987.
A.10 "Higher Education Financing in Indonesia," Pamela Barr, January
1986.
A.11 "Higher Education Planning, Programming and Budgeting," John
Smyth, DecemSer 1986.
A.12 "Final Report and Recommendations," Workshop on Higher Education
Policy and Decision-Making, Jakarta, February 1987.



-70-                            ANX1
Page 2
B. Selected Reports and Studies Related to the Project
B.1 "Report on a Visit to Tadulako University, Palu, Central
Sulawesi," HCA Somerset, July 1987.
B.2 "Indonesia Higher Education Sector Loan Evaluation of Agricultural
Components," FAO/World Bank Cooperative Program Investment Center,
October 1987.
B.3 "Indonesia Sector Loan 1988/89-1990/91," DGHE, 1987.
B.4 "S2/S3 Enrollment by Program and Institution," DGHE, 1987.
B.5 Supporting Tables, DGHE, 1987.
B.6 "A Brief Report on Construction Progress and Proposed Projects of
the World Bank IX Program at Andalas University Campus," November
1987.
B.7 "Development Program Higher Education Libraries 1988-90," DGHE,
1987.
B.8 Proposal for the Development of an Interuniversity Computer
Network (UNINET), DGHE, 1987.
C. Working Papers
C.1 Terms of Reference for Studies and Evaluations.
C.2 University Enrollments by Sex and Study Program.
C.3  New Entrants to Universities by Sex and Study Program.
C.4 Project Costs.
C.5 University Developments and Programs: Tentative Find'ngs.



-71-
INDONESIA                          CHART I
HIGHER EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
DOHE ORGANIATIONAL STRUCTURE
MINISTER OF EDUCATION1
AND CULTURE
DIRECTOR GENERAL
OF HIGHER EDUCATION
SECRETARY    [
MONITORING TEAM
DIRECTOR FOR        DIRECTOR FOR            DIRECTOR FOR         DIRECTOR FOR
ACADEMIC          RESEARCH AND            PRIVATE HIGHER         STUDENT
AFFAIRS        COMMUNITY AFFAIRS           EDUCATION             AFFAIRS
PIUs OF                           UEA:NL   VVRIT                   R 
FOREIGN'NIT:ONAL                  NI            COORDINATORS      A
FOREIGN     PROJECTS        MEEpP1NT         FOR PRIVATE      DEVELOPMEN
ASSISTED                         OFI  ~i)HIGHER                      OFFICES
PROJECTS                                           .DUCATION          (ASTi)
TOTAL OF 5                                                          TOTAL OF 4
TOTAL OF 9
TAL OF 9
TOTAL OF 45



-72-
IIDONESIA                          CHART 2
HIGHER EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ORGANIATIAL STRUCTR OF PUUC UNIVESITES
RECTOR                4
STUDENT COOP
'_:Isa_~~~~OU I
GENERAL ADMINISTRAT                                 UNIVERSITY DEVELPMEN
BUREAU  ~ ~ ~     ~    ~ ~       L      OFFICE (P3T)
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
|DlViSIONS /S /1 
|SUBDIVISIONS                                      |
DIVISIONS     /2                                    PROGRAM PLANNING
MAND BUDGETING
SYSTEM
SUBDIVISIONS 1 0
RESEARCH       COMMUNITY ... VIUNVERSITY
INSTITUTE  SERVICE                 ~~~FACULTY    TECHNICAL
BOARD    Oklg~~~~       SENATE   IMPLEMENTATION
.,             I CE HCENTERS
RESAR                    VD VDI  VDI
CENTERS  COMMUNITY                             ~~~~~~~HEAD
|   EFACCHUN$LCTYL  | DEPARTMENTS      FACULTY ADMINISTRATIVE
TECHNICAL                        ~~~~~~~~DIVISIONS
|IMPLEEMENETATION I"        iI
LABORATORIES              FACULTY
AND STUDIOS            ADMINISTRATIVE
SUB-DIVISIONS
/1 FOR PERSONNEL, FINANCE & GENERAL ADMINISTRATION
/2 FOR PLANNING. ACADEMIC & STUDENT AFFAIRS



-73-
INDONESIA                                CHART 3
HIGHER EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
001 HIGHER EDUCATION EXPENDITURE PROGRAM
(FY88/89 TO FY90/91)
OPERATIONS AND MAINTENANCE USt65.3
POUCIES/ACTIONS                                          NEW INVESTMENTS US$145.3
PROGRAM_   ///                  \\'
.GUIDEUNES 
INCREMENTAL
STAFF SALARIES US$66.2
ACTION                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~INCREMENTAL OPERATIONS
PLAN FOR                                              AND MAINTENANCE US$45.8
GOI COUNTERPART FUNDS US$90
ROUT\\\\\\\\\ BUDGETU2PURELY LOCAL PROJECTS USS15
OTHER EXTERNAL FINANCE US$205
LEGEND:
NEW INVESTMENTS                     1
PROPOSED PROJECT
INCREMENTAL SALARIES AND O&M
PREVIOUS COMMITMENTS



-74-
IDONESIA                       CHART 4
HIGHER EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROJECT MANAGEMENT ORAmNZTAL STRUCTURE
DIRECTOR GENERAL
SECRETARY
[O DIRECTOR OF
ACADEMIC AFFAIRS
CENTRAL PROJECT IMPLEMENTA
(CPIU)
NATIO[NAL            UNIVERSITY          COORDIWNA.-5'9
PROJECTS            DEVELOPMENT            PRIVATE H IGHER
OFFICE (P3T)       EDUCATION (KOPERTIS)
4 PROJECTS           45 PROJECTS             9 PROJECTS



-75-
INDONESIA                   CHART 5
HIGHER EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CENTRAL PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION UNIT ORGANIZATIONAL STRUCTURE
l  CENTRAL PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION UNIT    l
l            ~~~~~(CPIU ) 
SECTION             SECTION            ASSISTANCE         REPORTING
SECTION          SECTION
l!I           __            II__
GENERAL ADMINISTRATION
RECORD        BOOK            CLERICAL        GENERAL
KEEPING      KEEPING          SUPPORT         SUPPORT



IBRD 20718
THAILAND                    las'                                       ;2                                        li                                        24'                                         130                                      136'6
VA                                                                                                                                                                                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~INDONESIA
N,e,^-  .fJ              PHIUFPINES '  _-                                      HIGHER EDIJCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Di ACEH                                                                                                                   BRUNEI    ......
MALAYSIA                                                                                                                         L                                                                                                                  Notionl Capitols
) SUMATERA              1KusI LumEr                                                                                              /                                                                                                                             0 J      cities or Towns
k UTARA                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                RiveBLwn
5'bnlgn                                                                                      MAAYI                )                                                                                                                                         '-     Province Boundaries
o   <                                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MALAYSIA  .     KALIMlANTAN                                                                                                                 Intrnotio-rz  8 ...do,i.s
C      SINGAPORE                             \                                          TiI                                         SUIAWESI                     /-t
a                                                                                                                             UITARAHAM                                             ER
.....tI KALIMANTAN                                              t_                     _UonscAn HA3MAHTFA
V       RIAU _1                                                            ARAT    KATMANTA                                               SULAWESI
VARAT                                                                   A, \        /    _     /                                                     TENGAH                                                              /
e7~~~~                                                                 ~~~                       A                   A                                  /                                   IU
z              rO                                                              KALIMANTAN                      e                                                                      0nh  \,    tD
z   'AMSI         k... 0p -08/CA/                                            
/~~~~~~~'    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~                       ( ~~~~~~~~  TENGAH            I   ,MALUKU                                                                                                                                  Won,wA Af
>    SUEMATERAN                                                                              A .  T A  .KALIMANTAN          SUIA WT->.                            i K      AUAN SULA                  \Foi                                                      IRIAN JAYA
BENGKULU)               A                          BEJTrUNG                                          SELATANRSN/b                                                                                                                                               E SULAWESI  p  \  Nb  E
0ELATA N /.\ 5/'                                                                  00003 0  NELA TA N  EULA W ESs K rus \   A b 3                       A    N    s JA Y A jl_
SENOKULONGGAR)A42                                                                                                                                                                                                      _  _            IR/ANe'7 JAYA                                 Zs
N                                                      35  .-.----,--                                                                                      -.--**.                                              VI~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.
LAMPUNG                                                                                                                              a     .'
6'                                                                                D.K. KI JAKARTA                                                                                                   8<b-
3/AAA BARAT   oc,            4                     MADUPA
'llE'   ( JAWA TEN$ t~5-a!I13
AA-,  JAVAA TIMUR                      "'
Dl YOGYAKAWA                                *(         I  J ,                  o                   M<mN 
DI. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~UTEGAt                                                   ....n                       -
a.w-j~/MUS~TSNGARA      /        NUSATENGGAStA             A1bo&
0- A    an3    A%ILUWA    '                 Tn/U                   en
K5nna30        3 WTIMOR TIMUR
|   100-                                    I0j6'                                       112'                                        l1r                                          124'                                        130a                                         13,'
PUBLIC HIGHER EDUCATION INSTITUT1IONS                                                                                                         KOPERTIS:                                     TYPE OF INSTITUTION
1. U.v-st cf IfnW.e...                     16. EBc1c,y, U-,oerssR                     31. Mnlnm-c U.-,.ssosy                                                                                          U M  A  aNIVERSITY
2   IP J.Lkn-                              17 IMP  nnIn,                              32. Sn  R,IcIlD. Usinws-                                 II Polembuna                                    *      nKIP
3. Scanslottof Ar1-cl-s                    '8. Jeben, U-nens,                         33. IKIPn/cndn                                           11;. cokn                                             ASTINSTITUTE                                   ncnso    as  aono/ta,,.'a'    , sac casna   snsc::e
4. dSns/cs  I     fste  v Tenh-nlcNy        9. Syiob Kuonl Un-essa1y                  34. Hnnndd,n U.inws,ty                                   IV. onmd-,                                             ARP ESTITUTE                                    -          . son   bo         n      c      UAW WI Aia  an a
5. Pcdj/ic/ons Unions/a                    20. U-n-en, of No,,I, Sn-ton               35. IKIP U,Jmg P-nd/ng                                   V. Ysqnkc.t                  *  UNIVER                 SITY SESASY vwno                                         A nIcas osan    nWa' DS  m             0 = 
6. IKIP BS-o/sg                            21I. MIKPn/co                              36. PsTi-o  Unev-ily                                     V1. Sa - Urongafi                                            R T Y UB
7 G-nIl Snedi/jons  Un.nuil                22 And/nIc Uliw,sily                       37. Udo/yo  Us.1ssily                                    VI. Sonicy                                              TECHNOLOGY CENTER
S. Oponsenoc U-,ncoly                      23 IKIP Psdnga                             38. MOAnro  Unn,eisy                                     VIII. Dmpr
V IKIP S.s3nsmo                            24 R... U-,nsily                           39 Nsca-nsoconses4ty                                      [. Ujs P-onobng
10. M3mh IT U-nesy                          25 Jnnbi U-11esiTy                         40. Ce-d-nhwsi  Unwesity                                                                                                                                               0         1m         2w        on        ow
11. GOdnih Mtod   inmw-oy                   26 Ssw.imyn V-siy                          41. Tnd/lnks  U-nvrsily                                                                                                                                                                   MILE
12. IKIP YVnyskcot                          27. Lcpog U-nensity                       42. Holu  le Un vn-y 5t
73 A.slnngno U.n-sily                       28 Tosiunn   J-7ily                        43. fs 1i 1Jn.n-it,                                                                                                                                                                W           3           5e0
14. Nonebes 1 1 los.f Tnnh-clc              29. Polsogk-nyn lisonsen                   4. Open IJs~i.esy
15. IKP 5Unolny                             30. LcAnnbg Mocgku-n Unne-sily             45 YV0yclc- An Issiluse                                                                                                                                                                KILOMETERS
MARCH 1981
Il



