Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                              LOAN NUMBER 2944 IND
              (Higher Education Development Project)
                              between
                       REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT
                        Dated June 10, 1988
                          LOAN AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated June 10, 1988, between REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
(the  Borrower)  and  INTERNATIONAL  BANK  FOR  RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
     WHEREAS (A) the Borrower,  having  satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the  Bank to assist in the financing
of the Project;
     WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan  to  the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General  Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Page  2
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
last sentence of  Section  3.02  deleted  (the General Conditions)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
     Section 1.02.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several terms defined in  the  General Conditions have the respec-
tive meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms
have the following meanings:
     (a)  "DGHE" means the  Directorate  General for Higher Educa-
tion;
     (b)  "FY" means the Borrower's  fiscal year beginning April 1
and ending March 31; and
     (c)  "Special  Account"  means  the  account  referred  to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE II
                             The Loan
     Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth  or  referred to in the Loan Agree-
ment, an amount in  various  currencies  equivalent to one hundred
forty million three hundred thousand dollars ($140,300,000).
     Section 2.02. (a) The  amount  of  the  Loan may be withdrawn
from  the  Loan  Account  in  accordance  with  the  provisions of
Schedule 1 to this  Agreement  for  expenditures  made (or, if the
Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods  and  services  required  for  the  Project  described in
Schedule 2  to  this  Agreement  and  to  be  financed  out of the
proceeds of the Loan.
     (b)  The Borrower shall,  for  the  purposes  of the Project,
open and maintain in  dollars  a  special  account  in the Bank of
Indonesia  on  terms  and  conditions  satisfactory  to  the Bank.
Deposits into, and payments out  of,  the Special Account shall be
made in accordance  with  the  provisions  of  Schedule  6 to this
Agreement.
     Section 2.03. The Closing Date  shall be December 31, 1991 or
such later  date  as  the  Bank  shall  establish.  The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
     Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of  the Loan not withdrawn from time
to time.
     Section 2.05. (a)  The  Borrower  shall  pay  interest on the
principal amount of the  Loan  withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time at a rate per annum for each Interest Period equal to one-
half  of  one  percent  per  annum  above  the  Cost  of Qualified
Borrowings for the last Semester  ending prior to the commencement
of such Interest Period.
     (b)  As soon as practicable  after  the end of each Semester,
the Bank  shall  notify  the  Borrower  of  the  Cost of Qualified
Borrowings for such Semester.
     (c)  For purposes of this Section:
          (i)  "Interest  Period"   means   the  six-month  period
               commencing on each  date  specified in Section 2.06
               of this Agreement, including the Interest Period in
               which this Agreement is signed.
         (ii)  "Cost of Qualified  Borrowings"  means  the cost of
               the outstanding borrowings  of  the Bank drawn down
               after June 30, 1982,  expressed as a percentage per
Page  3
               annum, as reasonably determined by the Bank.
        (iii)  "Semester" means the first six months or the second
               six months of a calendar year.
     Section 2.06. Interest  and  other  charges  shall be payable
semiannually on May 15 and November 15 in each year.
     Section 2.07. The Borrower  shall  repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
     Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the  Project  as  set  forth  in  Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end,  shall  carry out the Project through
DGHE with due  diligence  and  efficiency  and  in conformity with
appropriate administrative, educational, engineering and financial
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, faci-
lities, services and other resources required for the Project.
     (b)  Without limitation upon the  provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and  except  as  the  Borrower  and the Bank shall
otherwise agree,  the  Borrower  shall  carry  out  the Project in
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 5
to this Agreement.
     Section 3.02. Except as the  Bank shall otherwise agree, pro-
curement of the  goods,  works  and consultants' services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
shall be governed by the  provisions  of Schedule 4 to this Agree-
ment.
     Section 3.03. The Borrower shall,  at  all times, assign on a
full  time   basis,   qualified   and   experienced  officers  as:
(a) directors for each of the Central Project Implementation Units
responsible  for  carrying   out   the   projects  financed  under
Loan 2101-IND (Loan  Agreement  entered  into between the Borrower
and the Bank dated April  5,  1982), Loan 2290-IND (Loan Agreement
entered into between  the  Borrower  and  the  Bank dated April 5,
1982) and Loan 2547-IND  (Loan  Agreement entered into between the
Borrower and the Bank dated  June  18, 1985); and (b) senior staff
for the DGHE  Project  Implementation  Monitoring Team responsible
for monitoring the carrying out of the projects financed under the
Loans referred to in (a) above.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower  shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts  adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound  accounting  practices  the  operations,  resources and
expenditures in  respect  of  the  Project  of  the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible  for carrying out the Project
or any part thereof.
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
          (i)  have the records and  accounts referred to in para-
               graph (a) of this  Section  including those for the
               Special Account for  each  fiscal  year audited, in
               accordance  with  appropriate  auditing  principles
               consistently  applied,   by   independent  auditors
               acceptable to the Bank;
         (ii)  furnish to the Bank  as  soon  as available, but in
               any case not later  than  nine months after the end
               of each such year, the report of such audit by said
Page  4
               auditors, of such scope  and  in such detail as the
               Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
        (iii)  furnish  to   the   Bank   such  other  information
               concerning said records and  accounts and the audit
               thereof as the Bank shall from time to time reason-
               ably request.
     (c)  For all expenditures  with  respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account  were  made  on  the  basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
       (i)    maintain or cause  to  be  maintained, in accordance
              with paragraph  (a)  of  this  Section,  records and
              accounts reflecting such expenditures;
      (ii)    retain, until at least  one  year after the Bank has
              received the audit  report  for  the  fiscal year in
              which the last withdrawal  from the Loan Account was
              made,  all  records  (contracts,  orders,  invoices,
              bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such
              expenditures;
     (iii)    enable the  Bank's  representatives  to examine such
              records; and
      (iv)    ensure that such  records  and accounts are included
              in the annual audit referred  to in paragraph (b) of
              this Section and that the  report of such audit con-
              tains a  separate  opinion  by  said  auditors as to
              whether  the  statements  of  expenditure  submitted
              during such fiscal  year,  together  with the proce-
              dures and internal  controls  involved in their pre-
              paration, can be relied  upon to support the related
              withdrawals.
                             ARTICLE V
                    Effective Date; Termination
     Section 5.01. The date  ninety  (90)  days  after the date of
this Agreement is  hereby  specified  for  the purposes of Section
12.04 of the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VI
             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 6.01. The  Minister  of  Finance  of  the Borrower is
designated as representative of  the  Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
     Section  6.02.  The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
          Ministry of Finance
          c/o Director General of Budget
          Jln Lapangan Banteng Timur 2-4
          P.O. Box 139
          Jakarta, Indonesia
          Cable address:                     Telex:
               FINMINISTRY                      44319 DEPKEU-IA
               Jakarta                          45799 DJMIN-IA
     For the Bank:
          International Bank for
            Reconstruction and Development
Page  5
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                     Telex:
               INTBAFRAD                        440098 (ITT)
               Washington, D.C.                 248423 (RCA) or
                                                 64145 (WUI)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                   REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
                   By /s/ Dadang Sukandar
                                         Authorized Representative
                   INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                     RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                   By /s/ Attila Karaosmanoglu
                                           Regional Vice President
                                                              Asia
                            SCHEDULE 1
              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below  sets  forth  the  Categories  of items to be
financed out of the proceeds  of  the  Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each  Category and the percentage of expen-
ditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                            Amount of the
                           Loan Allocated            % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category            Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1)  Civil works                24,100,000      91%
(2)  Equipment,                 36,200,000      100% of foreign
     furniture,                                 expenditures,
     books,                                     95% of local
     journals and                               expenditures
     instructional                              (ex-factory cost)
     materials                                  and 65% of local
                                                expenditures for
                                                other items
                                                procured locally
(3)  Consultants'                4,100,000      100%
     services
(4)  Overseas and               53,600,000      100%
     in-country
     training
(5)  Research                    6,500,000      100%
                            Amount of the
Page  6
                           Loan Allocated            % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category            Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(6)   Administrative and        7,200,000       100% of
      operational support                       expenditures
                                                incurred in
                                                FY 1988/89;
                                                90% of
                                                expenditures
                                                incurred in
                                                FY 1989/90;
                                                80% of
                                                expenditures
                                                incurred in
                                                FY 1990/91
(7)   Unallocated               8,600,000
                              ___________
      TOTAL
                              140,300,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term  "foreign  expenditures"  means expenditures in
the currency of any country  other  than  that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower;
     (b)  the term "local expenditures"  means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower  or  for  goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower; and
     (c)  the term "administrative  and operational support" means
honoraria, consumable  materials,  and  operation  and maintenance
costs required for  carrying  out  Parts  A,  B,  C  and  D of the
Project.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures
prior to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals in an
aggregate amount not exceeding  the  equivalent of $5,000,000, may
be made on account of  payments  made for expenditures before that
date but after April 1, 1988.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
     The objectives of the Project  are  to assist the Borrower in
implementing its higher education program through:
     (a)  improving sectoral planning;
     (b)  improving both sectoral  and institutional management in
higher education;
     (c)  increasing resource  mobilization, including reinforcing
the role of private higher education institutions;
     (d)  improving educational quality and efficiency;
     (e)  strengthening  selected   fields   of  study  reflecting
manpower needs; and
     (f)  increasing the contribution  of universities to regional
development, particularly in the Eastern Islands.
     The Project consists of the  following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower  and the Bank may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Page  7
Part A:
     Improve planning, management  and implementation capabilities
of the higher education  system  through, inter alia: (i) develop-
ment and initial  delivery  of  a  training  program in university
management and finance for DGHE  and university staff; (ii) expan-
sion of management information and of monitoring and evaluation of
the university  system;  (iii)  carrying  out  of higher education
planning   and   management    studies    and   evaluations;   and
(iv) provision of adequate operational  costs for carrying out the
Project.
Part B:
     Improve quality and efficiency of the higher education system
through, inter alia: (i)  carrying  out of overseas and in-country
post-graduate   university   staff   development   programs;  (ii)
improving the  quality  and  efficiency  of priority undergraduate
study  programs;  (iii)  implementation  of  research  programs in
public universities;  (iv)  development  of  a national university
library network; and (v)  provision  of equipment, acquisition and
production   of   educational   materials,   and   maintenance  of
laboratories.
Part C:
     Promote the development of  private higher education through,
inter alia,  (i)  support  of  regional  coordination  and quality
supervision of private universities; (ii) provision of fellowships
for  academic  staff   and   management  training  for  university
administrators; (iii) establishment  of  common-use facilities for
private universities;  and  (iv)  strengthening  institutional and
academic accreditation procedures.
Part D:
     Development  of  educational   facilities,  inter  alia:  (i)
fishery facilities at  Riau  University, agriculture facilities at
Tadulako and Cenderawasih  universities;  (ii) university campuses
at  the  universities  of  Indonesia,  Andalas  and  Gadjah  Mada;
(iii) library and  science  laboratories  at  the IKIP Malang; and
Cenderawasih and  Mataram  universities;  and  (iv)  equipment for
eleven polytechnics located  at  the  universities  of Syah Kuala,
Andalas, Institut Technologi  Surabaya, Hasanuddin, Sam Ratulangi,
Pattimura, Lambung Mangkurat, Tanjungpura, Mulawarman, Udayana and
Nusa Cendana as well as  for the Polytechnic Education Development
Center (PEDC).
Part E:
     Provision of adequate levels of operation and maintenance for
higher  education  sector  institutions,  including  provision  of
staffing and operating budgets.
                        *     *     *     *
     The Project is expected to be completed by April 1, 1991.
                            SCHEDULE 3
                       Amortization Schedule
                                          Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (expressed in dollars)*
November 15, 1993                                    2,560,000
May 15, 1994                                         2,660,000
November 15, 1994                                    2,760,000
May 15, 1995                                         2,870,000
November 15, 1995                                    2,980,000
May 15, 1996                                         3,095,000
Page  8
November 15, 1996                                    3,215,000
May 15, 1997                                         3,340,000
November 15, 1997                                    3,465,000
May 15, 1998                                         3,600,000
November 15, 1998                                    3,740,000
May 15, 1999                                         3,885,000
November 15, 1999                                    4,035,000
May 15, 2000                                         4,190,000
November 15, 2000                                    4,350,000
May 15, 2001                                         4,520,000
November 15, 2001                                    4,695,000
May 15, 2002                                         4,875,000
November 15, 2002                                    5,065,000
May 15, 2003                                         5,260,000
November 15, 2003                                    5,460,000
May 15, 2004                                         5,670,000
November 15, 2004                                    5,890,000
May 15, 2005                                         6,120,000
November 15, 2005                                    6,355,000
May 15, 2006                                         6,600,000
November 15, 2006                                    6,855,000
May 15, 2007                                         7,120,000
November 15, 2007                                    7,395,000
May 15, 2008                                         7,675,000
________________
*    The  figures  in  this  column  represent  dollar equivalents
     determined as  of  the  respective  dates  of withdrawal. See
     General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.
                      Premiums on Prepayment
     The following  premiums  are  specified  for  the purposes of
Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions:
    Time of Prepayment                             Premium
                                         The  interest  rate  (ex-
                                         pressed  as  a percentage
                                         per annum)  applicable to
                                         the  balance  outstanding
                                         on the Loan on the day of
                                         prepayment multiplied by:
Not more than three years                          0.15
     before maturity
More than three years but                          0.30
     not more than six years
     before maturity
More than six years but                            0.55
     not more than 11 years
     before maturity
More than 11 years but not                         0.80
     more than 16 years
     before maturity
More than 16 years but not                         0.90
     more than 18 years
     before maturity
More than 18 years before                          1.00
     maturity
                            SCHEDULE 4
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Page  9
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
     Except as provided in Part  C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded  in  accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in Sections  I  and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD  Loans  and  IDA  Credits" published by the
Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
     In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A hereof, goods manufactured in Indonesia may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55  and  2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   All civil works shall be  procured under contracts awarded on
the basis of  competitive  bidding,  advertised locally, in accor-
dance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
2.   All furniture shall be  procured  under contracts awarded, on
the basis of  competitive  bidding,  advertised locally, in accor-
dance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank; provided, however,
that furniture  estimated  to  cost  less  than  the equivalent of
$50,000 per contract,  up  to  an  aggregate  of  $300,000, may be
procured under contracts  awarded  on  the  basis of comparison of
price quotation solicited from  at  least three suppliers eligible
under the Guidelines,  in  accordance with procedures satisfactory
to the Bank.
3.   Equipment estimated  to  cost  less  than  the  equivalent of
$200,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the
equivalent of $4,000,000, may  be procured under contracts awarded
on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accor-
dance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank; provided, however,
that equipment  estimated  to  cost  less  than  the equivalent of
$50,000 per contract,  up  to  an  aggregate  of $2,000,000 may be
procured under contracts  awarded  on  the  basis of comparison of
price quotations solicited from a list of at least three suppliers
eligible  under  the  Guidelines,  in  accordance  with procedures
satisfactory to the Bank.
4.   Books, journals and other  instructional material may be pro-
cured directly from  publishers  eligible  under the Guidelines or
local  distributors,  on  the   basis  of  procurement  procedures
satisfactory to the Bank.
Part D:   Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
     (a)  With respect to each contract for: (i) civil works esti-
mated to cost  the  equivalent  of  $1,000,000  or  more, and (ii)
equipment,  furniture,  books,  journals  and  other instructional
materials estimated to cost  the  equivalent  of $700,000 or more,
the procedures set forth in  paragraphs  2  and 4 of Appendix 1 to
the Guidelines shall apply.  Where  payments for such contract are
to be made out of  the  Special  Account, such procedures shall be
modified to ensure that the  two  conformed copies of the contract
required to be furnished to the  Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2
(d) shall be furnished  to  the  Bank  prior  to the making of the
first payment  out  of  the  Special  Account  in  respect of such
contract.
     (b)  With  respect  to  each  contract  not  governed  by the
preceding paragraph,  the  procedures  set  forth  in paragraphs 3
and 4 of Appendix 1 to  the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments
Page  10
for such contract are to be  made out of the Special Account, said
procedures shall be  modified  to  ensure  that  the two conformed
copies  of  the  contract  together  with  the  other  information
required to be furnished to the  Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3
shall be furnished to  the  Bank  as  part  of  the evidence to be
furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
     (c)  The provisions of  the  preceding  subparagraphs (a) and
(b) shall not apply to contracts  on account of which the Bank has
authorized withdrawals  from  the  Loan  Account  on  the basis of
statements of expenditure.  Such  contracts  shall  be retained in
accordance with Section 4.01 (c)(ii) of this Agreement.
2.   The figure of 10% is  hereby  specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
     In order to assist the  Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the  Borrower  shall   employ  consultants  whose  qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions  of employment shall be satis-
factory to the Bank. Such  consultants shall be selected in accor-
dance with principles and  procedures  satisfactory to the Bank on
the basis of the "Guidelines  for  the Use of Consultants by World
Bank  Borrowers  and  by  the  World  Bank  as  Executing  Agency"
published by the Bank in August 1981.
                            SCHEDULE 5
                      Implementation Program
1.   The Borrower shall:
     (a)  carry out the Project  in  accordance with higher educa-
tion guidelines and an action plan satisfactory to the Bank;
     (b)  by December 31 of each  year, commencing on December 31,
1988, prepare and furnish to the  Bank, for its comments, a report
on the implementation of the previous Fiscal Year's budget for the
Borrower's  higher  education  program  and  a  proposed budgetary
allocation for such program  for  the  following Fiscal Year, and,
thereafter, taking into account the  Bank's comments, if any, make
the required budgetary allocations for the following Fiscal Year;
     (c)  without limitations to  the  provisions  of Section 9.07
(a) of the General Conditions, through DGHE prepare and furnish to
the  Bank  semi-annual  progress  and  evaluation  reports  of the
Project, such  reports  to  cover  the  periods  of  April through
September and October  through  March  of  each  of the Borrower's
Fiscal Years and to be  furnished  to  the  Bank not later than 30
calendar days after the end of each reporting period;
     (d)  maintain within DGHE  the Central Project Implementation
Unit established on February 10,  1988,  headed by a qualified and
experienced   officer   and    assigned   with   such   functions,
responsibilities, staffing  and  funds  as  shall  be  required to
enable it  to  adequately  coordinate  the  implementation  of the
various activities under the Project; and
     (e)  maintain with DGHE  the  Library Planning and Management
Unit established on February 10,  1988, headed by the Director for
Academic  Affairs  of  DGHE,  and  assigned  with  such functions,
responsibilities, staffing  and  funds  as  shall  be  required to
enable it to adequately  undertake  the  overall management of the
library network of the Borrower's Higher Education System.
                            SCHEDULE 6
                          Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
Page  11
     (a)  the  term  "eligible  Categories"  means  Categories set
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
     (b)  the term "eligible  expenditures"  means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost  of goods and services required for
the Project and to be  financed  out  of  the proceeds of the Loan
allocated from time to time  to  the eligible Categories in accor-
dance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
     (c)  the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equiva-
lent to $10,000,000  to  be  withdrawn  from  the Loan Account and
deposited in the Special  Account  pursuant  to paragraph 3 (a) of
this Schedule.
2.   Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, payments out of the
Special Account shall  be  made  exclusively for eligible expendi-
tures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Bank has received  evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special  Account  has  been  duly  opened,  withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent  withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account may be made as follows:
     (a)  On the basis of  a  request  or requests by the Borrower
for a deposit or deposits which  add up to the aggregate amount of
the Authorized  Allocation,  the  Bank  shall,  on  behalf  of the
Borrower, withdraw  from  the  Loan  Account  and  deposit  in the
Special Account such amount or  amounts as the Borrower shall have
requested.
     (b)  The Borrower  shall  furnish  to  the  Bank requests for
replenishment of the Special Account at such intervals as the Bank
shall specify. On the basis of such requests, the Bank shall with-
draw from the Loan  Account  and  deposit into the Special Account
such amounts as shall be required to replenish the Special Account
with amounts not exceeding the amount  of payments made out of the
Special Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall
be withdrawn by the Bank  from  the Loan Account under the respec-
tive  eligible  Categories,  and   in  the  respective  equivalent
amounts, as shall have  been  justified by the evidence supporting
the request for such deposit  furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of
this Schedule.
4.   For each payment  made  by  the  Borrower  out of the Special
Account for which the  Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to
paragraph 3 (b) of  this  Schedule,  the Borrower shall furnish to
the Bank, prior to or at  the time of such request, such documents
and other evidence as  the  Bank shall reasonably request, showing
that such payment was made for eligible expenditures.
5.   (a)  Notwithstanding the provisions  of  paragraph  3 of this
Schedule, no further  deposit  into  the  Special Account shall be
made by the Bank  when  either  of  the following situations first
arises:
          (i)  the Bank  shall  have  determined  that all further
               withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
               from the Loan Account in accordance with the provi-
               sions of Article  V  of  the General Conditions and
               paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
         (ii)  the total unwithdrawn amount  of the Loan allocated
               to the eligible Categories  minus the amount of any
               outstanding special commitment  entered into by the
               Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Condi-
               tions with respect to  the  Project, shall be equal
               to the equivalent of twice the amount of the Autho-
               rized Allocation.
     (b)  Thereafter, withdrawal  from  the  Loan  Account  of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible
Categories shall follow such procedures  as the Bank shall specify
Page  12
by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made
only after and to the extent  that the Bank shall have been satis-
fied that all such  amounts  remaining  on  deposit in the Special
Account as of the date of  such  notice will be utilized in making
payments for eligible expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Bank shall have  determined  at any time that any
payment out of the Special  Account  (i) was made for any expendi-
ture or in any amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this
Schedule, or (ii) was not  justified  by the evidence furnished to
the Bank, the Borrower shall,  promptly upon notice from the Bank,
deposit into  the  Special  Account  (or,  if  the  Bank  shall so
request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such
payment or the portion  thereof  not  so eligible or justified. No
further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made
until the Borrower has made such deposit or refund.
     (b)  If the Bank shall have  determined  at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special  Account will not be required to
cover further  payments  for  eligible  expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount for crediting to the Loan Account.
