Document of                 F   i LV
The World Bank                    FILE buri
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2460-so
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON
PROPOSED CREDITS
TO THE
SOMALI DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
FOR AN
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND. FARM MANAGEMENT
TRAINING PROJECT
April 25, 1979
This document bas  rsicted distibution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their ofAcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be discled witboat World Bank authorizntion.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(CY 1978, and March 1979)
Currency Unit                =    Somali Shillings
(So.Sh) = 100 cents
So. Sh. 1.00                 =    US$ 0.1589
US$ 1.00                     =    So. Sh. 6.295
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 hectare (ha)               =   10,000 m   -  2.47 acres
2
1 square kilometer (km )    =   100 ha       =  0.39 sq. miles
1 metric ton (mt)            =   1,000 kg   =  2,204 lbs
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
ADC   -   Agricultural Development Corporation
ADF   -   African Development Fund
CSD   -   Central Statistical Department
EEC   -   European Economic Community
ETC   -   Extension Training Center
EMAS  -   Farm Management Advisory Service
FMETC -   Farm Management and Extension Training Center
NES   -   National Extension Service
PMU   -   Project Management Unit
SDB   -   Somali Development Bank
WDA   -   Water Development Agency
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
SOMALIA - AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND
FARM MANAGEMENT TRAINING PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:            Somali Democratic Republic
Beneficiary:         Ministry of Agriculture
Amount:              US$10.5 million (IDA); and US$1.5 million (EEC Special
Action Credit)
Terms:               Standard IDA (for both Credits)
Project
Description:       The Project would, over a period of five years, strengthen
the Agricultural Exten,sion Service and establish a Farm
Management Advisory Service, both of which would bring
essential know how to the farm level. The Project would
directly benefit the 195,000 farm families engaged in crop
production, as well as the farm workers working on state
and cooperative farms. The Project would also contribute
towards manpower development and income distribution. The
success of the Project would depend to a great extent on
adequate coordination between the Extension and Farm
Management Services, research, input supply agencies and
marketing organizations.
Estimated
Project Cost:
US$ Million
Z of
Project Component            Local Cost  Foreign Cost  Total Cost   Total
Project Management Unit          1.1           2.6           3. 7      11.4
Farm Management and
Extension Training Center       1. 8          3. 8          5.6       17.3
National Extension
Service                         4.3           4.4           &7        26.9
Farm Management Advisory
Service (excluding DSF)         0.3           1.1           1.4        4.3
Demonstration State Farm         1. 1          2. 0          3. 1       9.6
Agricultural Secondary
School                          0.1           1.2           1.3        4.0
Central Statistical
Department                      0.2           0.9           1.1        3.4
Physical Contingencies           0.4           0. 7          1.1        3.4
Price Contingencies              2.4           4.0           6.4       19.7
Total Costs                11.7          20.7         32.4       100.0
This documient has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of theit ofhcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be discbosed without World Bank authorization.



Financing Plan:              Source                   Amount US$ Million  % of Total
IDA                             10.5              32.4
EEC (Special Action Account)   1.5                 4.6
USAID                            7.6              23.5
ADF                              8.9              27.5
Government                       3.9              12.0
Total              32.4            100.0
Estimated
Disbursements:                                US$ Million
1979    1980    1981    1982    1983    1984
IDA
Annual           0.5    1.9      2.3      2.1      2.1     1.6
Cumulative       0.5    2.4      4.7      6.8      8.9    10.5
EEC     Annual                   0.8      0.7
Cumulative              0.8      1.5
Rate of Return:      27% for the National Extension Service.
39% for the Farm Management Advisory Service.
Staff Appraisal
Report:            Report No. 2170-SO, dated April 12, 1979.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON PROPOSED CREDITS
TO THE SOMALI DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC FOR AN
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND FARM tANAGEMENT TRAINING PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on two proposed
Credits to the Somali Democratic Republic for the equivalent of US$12.0 mil-
lion on standard IDA terms to help finance the Agricultural Extension and Farm
Management Training Project.  One credit of US$10.5 million would be made
from IDA resources; a second credit of about US$1.5 million equivalent would
be made from the EEC Special Action Account administered by the Association
in accordance with the terms of the Agreement of Mlay 2, 1978, between the
Association and the European Economic Community. Additional financing will be
obtained from the African Development Fund (about US$8.9 million equivalent)
and the USAID (about US$7.6 million) on concessionary terms.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        A Country Economic Memorandum (Report No. 2240-SO) was distributed
to the Executive Directors in January, 1979. Country data sheets are attached
as Annex I.
3.        The Somali Democratic Republic gained its independence in 1960
and the present Government came into power in 1969. In 1976, a political
party, the Somali Revolutionary Socialist Party, was formed and became the
main political institution. At present, the country is still suffering from
the hostilities in the border areas in the Ogaden, and the phasing-out
of Soviet aid and technical assistance in 1977. This, combined with large-
scale'migration of Somali workers to the Middle East, has led the Government
to re-examine its development strategy. Although no major new strategy has
yet emerged, some cautious steps tending to increase the role of market forces
in the economy have been taken.
4.        Somalia is a large country with a 3000 kilometer coastline; its
land mass; varies from a hot and arid coastal plain, to rugged mountains,
and plateaux, and lowlands of varying fertility and rainfall. Only 13% of
the land is said to be arable, and with water the limiting constraint, only a
small fra,ction of this potentially arable land is, in fact, cultivated. Of a
total population of approximately 3.7 million, about two-thirds are nomads and
semi-nomads, who depend on livestock for their livelihood and about 20-25%
are farmers cultivating land along the Juba and Shebelli rivers and in the
higher-raLinfall Bay and North-west regions. The existence of several minerals
has been confirmed but with exploration still in its early stages, commercial
viability remains to be proved.   Short of other known resources, Somalia's
prospects center on agricultural and livestock development in which progress
will depend upon careful management of scarce land and water resources.
1/   This section is the same as that of the Central Rangelands Project.



-2-
The small monetary sector of the economy provides only limited
opportunities for employment. Apart from the traditional export of livestock,
commercial agriculture is mainly centered on the production and export of
bananas, in which foreign concession holders are still important, and the
production of sugar for the domestic market. The expansion of manufacturing
and other service sectors of the economy is limited by the small size of the
domestic market, poor infrastructure, and the shortage of capital and entre-
preneurial experience. IDA staff estimate that about 70% of the population
live at subsistence levels of about US$200-250 per family of five. Social
services are still very inadequate, the primary school enrollment ratio
(at about 34% in 1977), though considerably higher than five years ago, re-
mains relatively low. There is little economic data on Somalia. Even basic
figures such as GNP, population, number of livestock, or output of major
agricultural crops are only rough estimates. With a per capita income in
the order of US$110 in 1977, the UN classifies Somalia as one of the least
developed countries.
Development Strategy
6.        Since 1970 the Government has adhered to a program of "scientific
socialism", emphasizing egalitarianism and social justice, development through
the public sector, nationalization of certain foreign enterprises, and the
formation of cooperatives. While the Government has always stated that there
is room for private initiative in Somalia, and several privately financed
projects have been implemented, the main emphasis has been given to develop-
ment of the public sector. Public ownership and management have expanded
through nationalization, creation, and growth of enterprises. The parastatal
sector now includes more than 50 autonomous agencies that have eliminated
private enterprises in wholesale trade and banking while taking a major
share in manufacturing. The Five-Year Development Plan 1974-78 (FYDP) was
essentially a public investment program that allowed for a few small private
ventures. Overall Plan implementation reached for about 60% of the initial
allocation, but this figure must be considered indicative, rather than precise.
Although it provided a needed impetus to investment in the economy, the Plan
does not seem to have played a major role in the allocative process. Despite
the Government's initial intentions, industry and mining, and infrastructure
have received more public investment than agriculture. At the same time,
public enterprises have expanded without firm Government control, owing to a
large extent to the inadequacies of monitoring instruments.
7.        Since the bulk of the population is engaged in herding or in sub-
sistence farming, a development strategy for Somalia must be based on agri-
culture and livestock resources. The major development goals of the Somali
Government include self-sufficiency in food grains, the partial substitution
of other food imports (oils, rice) and improvement of the lot of the tradi-
tional nomadic herdsmen through settlement programs and improvements in
livestock production and marketing facilities. The current emphasis on
irrigated agriculture is meant to make the country less dependent on the
erratic pattern of rainfall, and assure more stable and predictable increases



in output. However, rainfed agriculture which occupies the largest number of
farm families is also being assisted. Improvements in livestock production
and marketing are being promoted together with projects aiming at the reha-
bilitation of the rangelands.
8.         Somalia has made considerable progress in meeting some basic needs;
a program of literacy and primary education has had noticeable results, and an
effective system of food supply has been established. In other areas of the
social sectors, however, the record is less impressive, particularly in water
supply, sanitation, and health where services frequently seem to benefit
mainly the urban population. On the other hand, economic growth has been
rather slow, making it difficult for Somalia to pursue its basic needs poli-
cies vigorously. The 1979-81 Plan bases its development of industry on
the processing of domestic raw materials to substitute for imports, although
there are a few rather large investments which do not conform to this policy.
Finally, thLe Government places emphasis on developing infrastructure, espe-
cially tranLsportation and communications.
Economic Performance, Problems, and Sectoral Developments
9.         The 1974-78 Five-Year Plan has been revised several times but
remained overambitious with respect to both financial and implementation
capacities.  Financial implementation reached about 60%, 55%, 77% and 73%
of the targets in the first four years. However, the absence of adequate
monitoring and evaluation makes it impossible to determine the economic
impact of these expenditures. In real terms, annual investment has probably
been increasing and what was an essentially financial constraint in 1973-74
had, by 1976, turned into an implementation constraint which has worsened
recently as a result of the exodus of skilled Somalis to the neighboring
oil-exporting countries (see below, para 10). Many incomplete projects
from the 1974-78 Plan are therefore included in a Three-Year Development Plan,
1979-81, unider which investment of So.Sh. 5.7 billion (of which So.Sh. 3.4
billion are carry-ove-rs) is contemplated.
10.        About 100,000 Somalis have migrated to work in the neighboring
oil-export:ing states and their total earnings equal about ten times the total
domestic value added in Somalia's modern sector. Labor migration has been a
phenomenon that the Government neither organizes nor controls, and its magni-
tude is such that the drain of skills and the inflow of private funds may
affect the smooth functioning of a publicly-controlled economy. This migra-
tion is seriously depleting Somalia's already low stocks of qualified and
skilled manpower, thereby reducing the absorptive capacity of the country and
weakening its institutions. Migrant remittances have financed imports of
about US$5,0 million in 1977, roughly equivalent to Somalia's exports of live-
stock (75% of total export value). This import trade consists mostly of basic
consumers' goods (foods, textiles, some durables); to a certain extent,
however, t'hese remittances could be mobilized to finance investment. At
present, t'here are few incentives and opportunities for private capital to
engage in productive investment - and this partly explains why remittances



- 4 -
fi -e consumption goous.  There is no comprehensive public policy on remit-
tances, though IDA staff and the Government are discussing measures for
formulation of a suitable policy for attracting the remittances into produc-
tive investments in Somalia.
11.       Budgetary policies have generally been conservative and efforts
have been made to mobilize resources through taxation. Although the drought
and the border problems have adversely affected the Government's budget, the
external grants they attracted have considerably eased their financial impact.
However, expenditures on basic needs and defense have risen so much that the
current budget fell into deficit in 1977 (by So.Sh. 2.5 million) for the
first time since 1971. The border problems of 1977 may only have accelerated
an outcome that was already visible. In fact, the supply of government
services nationwide, and the recurrent cost implications of recent public
investments and policies, especially in productive services (such as agricul-
tural extension) and basic needs (such as education, health and drinking
water) will make it increasingly difficult for the budget to generate savings.
12.       The external financial constraint is mainly the result of slow
growing exports, with relatively stable imports over the past three years.
The structure of the balance of payments in 1977 was essentially similar to
that of previous years, with low exports equivalent to US$71.3 million,
accounting for only about 40% of imports. The large trade deficit was more
than compensated for by transfers (US$108.0 million) and capital inflows
(US$64.2 million). Exports declined by about 12% in 1977 mainly on account of
bananas, the second most important export item. The drop in banana exports
resulted partly from a marketing dispute in the Middle East. Decreased
activity in fields such as fish and meat canning, formerly assisted by the
Soviet Union, also contributed to declining exports. Livestock exports have
stagnated during the past three years largely because of the 1974-75 drought,
but early indications for 1978 suggest a resumption of growth (in volume)
together with satisfactory price developments.
13.       Slow growing exports and a low level of domestic savings, both
attributable to the country's poverty, have made external assistance most
important in the financing of development. Somalia joined the Arab League
in 1974 and mounted a major effort to attract funds from the Arab petroleum
exporting countries. The large inflows of external capital and transfers from
1975 onward indicate that the effort has been successful. Due to political
events, the source of foreign assistance has recently changed from the social-
ist countries (except for China which maintains a large program) towards Arab
bilateral and multilateral institutions (continuing the trend started in 1975)
and Western countries, several of which (the EEC, FRG and Italy) have had sub-
stantial assistance programs for a number of years. The public external debt
of Somalia outstanding and disbursed as of December 1977 was approximately
US$399 million, and although a large share is on fairly soft terms, the debt
service ratio has increased from 3.4% in 1972 to about 5.5% in 1977.
14.       In summary, the Government's record over the past few years has been
mixed, but the country's poverty is such that even partial successes must be



-5 -
commended. The slow development of agriculture in a mostly nomadic society,
the shortage of qualified manpower, the difficulties of organizing and manag-
ing an efficient public sector, and the limitation of financial resources
can all be imputed to the country's limited endowment and to its human and
natural constraints. The Government has attempted and partially succeeded
in alleviating some of these constraints. It has met some of the basic needs.
It has also laid a national basis for growth in manufacturing together with an
initial system of economic and physical infrastructure, though growth in
income, exports, and imports has been rather slow. The Government may want,
however, to consider adapting its development strategy to an economic environ-
ment that has changed over the last few years.
15.       As regards future policies, greater emphasis should be given to
economic growth; this would imply directing more investments towards produc-
tive activities, particularly agriculture and small-scale industry. The
mobilization of resources to this end should be sought through better manage-
ment of public enterprises, a more useful role for the skills and resources
acquired by migrants, and a broadened capacity to absorb external capital. In
addition, many observers suggest that the Government may be overextending
itself. In the interest of economic growth, somewhat better opportunities and
greater incentives ought to be given to private investors.
16.       Somalia's export prospects are rather poor because of the concentra-
tion on two primary products -- livestock and bananas -- both of which face
problems in expanding production in the long run. Livestock is subject to
cyclical droughts which decrease export supplies. Banana exports have fallen
because of both supply (drought, floods, poor agricultural practices) and
demand (increasing competition from multinationals in both Italy and the
Middle East) problems, but production could recuperate within two years.
Diversification efforts have been attempted with hides, skins, and fisheries
with limited success and even dimmer prospects now that Soviet technical
assistance, dominant in these three activities, has been wound up. Therefore,
in view of the country's poverty and uncertain export prospects, assistance
should be provided on the softest terms possible and contain provisions for
local currency financing.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN SOMALIA 1/
17.       Starting in 1965 IDA has made 17 Credits totalling about US$112
million, of which about 38% have been made for transportation development,
including c:onstruction of three trunk roads and a new deepwater port and
associated extensions at Mogadishu. IDA Credits were also made for live-
stock development in FY74, for a development finance company project in
FY77, and for education in FY71, FY75 and FY78. Lending for agriculture
commenced iLn FY76 with two Credits for a Drought Rehabilitation Project
and a North-West Region Agricultural Development Project. A Credit for
1/   This section is the same as the Central Rangeland Development Project.



- 6 -
de- 1-pment of water supply in Mogadishu and a technical assistance Credit
for project preparation were approved in FY78. No Bank loan or IFC invest-
ment has been made to Somalia. Annex II contains a summary statement of
IDA Credits as of December 31, 1978 and notes on the execution of ongoing
projects.
18.       Performance on ongoing projects generally has been satisfactory.
However, as the pace of development continues to rise, absorptive capacity
constraints are becoming increasingly evident, especially in the field of
agriculture where projects are rather complex and implementation experience
is limited. Therefore, in preparing and appraising new projects, particularly
close attention will have to be paid to implementation capacity and the
adoption of measures to ease this constraint when necessary. To overcome the
more pervasive problems of project implementation which are common in the
agriculture sector, the Governmet is establishing a Project Implementation
Unit which would strengthen the capacity for project implementation consider-
ably by providing monitoring and logistical support to the projects, including
assistance in procurement and recruitment of consultants.
19.       We plan to concentrate our future efforts on the country's directly
productive sectors, agriculture and livestock, and also on education and
transportation. While agriculture and livestock offer potential for develop-
ment, most rural development activities are only at the beginning stage.
Mdreover, agricultural development in Somalia is particularly difficult
because most of the people in rural areas are nomadic. For these reasons,
we plan that much of our future lending will be in the agriculture and live-
stock sectors, and this will be complemented with near equal attention on
education. We are seeking Board approval for a Central Rangelands Development
Project, and in the near future we intend to seek approval for an agricultural
project for the Bay Region. We have also started to assist the Government in
preparation of a National Livestock Marketing Project. In order to increase
our knowledge of the agricultural sector, we plan to carry out a review of
this important sector in the near future. In addition to these sectors,
we plan to support the Government's industrial development efforts (and
assist in the formulation of an industrial development policy) through our
country economic work and future DFC projects. We also plan to continue
assistance to the water supply sector.
20.       Somalia's statistical service lacks the capacity to fulfill the data
needs of development programs, including the identification and formulation of
suitable projects. In the proposed Project, we plan to strengthen the Central
Department of Statistics in the State Planning Commission through provision of
technical assistance and training of Somali staff.
21.       To facilitate the development and implementation of the Associa-
tion's growing operational program in Somalia, we have established a one-man
resident mission which facilitates the smooth day-to-day working relationship
and assists in coordination of the cofinancing efforts.



PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
Production Environment
22.       Somalia is heavily dependent on agriculture for its economic devel-
opment. With the exception of commercially produced bananas and sugar cane,
production tends to be subsistance oriented. Over 8 million ha or 13% of the
land area in Somalia, have been estimated as potentially suitable for crop
production, but only about 0.7 million hectares or 1% of the total area are
cultivated. Rainfed agriculture covers around 540,000 ha. In addition,
around 50,000 ha. are under controlled irrigation, and around 110,000 ha. are
under uncontrolled irrigation.
23.       Crop production in Somalia engages about 195,000 families, most of
them in rainfed farming. Approximately two-thirds of the population is
engaged in livestock production which is Somalia's principal economic activity.
Following the 1973-75 drought, the Government is attempting to expand irri-
gation and thereby reduce the impact of future droughts. Domestic output,
which had declined sharply as a result of the drought, has improved consi-
derably, but pre-drought levels of production have not yet been reached.
24.       Sorghum, maize and sesame are the three principal crops in Somalia,
accounting for 90% of the cultivated area. Bananas, sugar cane, vegetables
and fruit, as well as small amounts of groundnuts, sesame, cotton and pulses,
are grown under irrigation. State farms growing maize, rice and other
irrigated crops are slowly gaining importance.
25.       Cereal consumption in the country is around 350,000 tons per
year, of which about 15-30% has to be imported. There is considerable
scope to increase the cultivated area both for rainfed and irrigated crops.
Most importantly, however, there is ample room for increased productivity
without substantial additional inputs and with reliance on the present level
of know-how. In rainfed agriculture, the ineffectiveness of the extension
service, and in irrigated agriculture the lack of technical know-how and the
absence of management skills, are major impediments to the realization of an
increase in productivity.
Agricultural Policies and Services
26.       The severe drought of 1973-1975 disrupted the Somali economy and
forced the Government to redirect the country's development priorities,
particularly in agriculture, to achieve self-sufficiency. Somalia aims at
self-sufficiency in major food commodities through an expansion of the area
under cultivation and through gains in productivity. The main elements to
achieve this objective are increased technical assistance to agriculture, soil
conservation, better water management and irrigation intensification, and
progressive transition from nomadism to settled farming. Irrigation develop-
ment is intended as a shield against future weather vagaries affecting crops.



- 8 -
t the other hand, range conservation and management would protect livestock
against future prolonged drought. The livestock development strategy em-
phasizes disease control measures, improvement of the marketing system and
improvement of herd productivity through better range and animal management.
27.       The 1974-78 development program reserved 29% of planned investments
to the crop production sub-sector. It was aimed at achieving self-sufficiency
in sorghum, maize, oilseeds, cotton and sugar, and a partial import substitu-
tion for rice and wheat. This was to be achieved mainly through accelerated
development of state farms and cooperatives and intensification of Government
services to farmers. Nearly four-fifths of planned investments in agriculture
were allocated to irrigation development for a reliable food supply, despite
the high investment costs. The major factor slowing Government efforts has
been the lack of trained manpower at all levels.
28.       Prices of major crops are controlled by the Government at all market
levels. Government price policy is generally favorable to farmers. However,
price adjustments tend to lag because of lack of information. Government
policy has been to encourage the use of modern production inputs. These
inputs have to be imported and are often not only exempted from duties, but
are also subsidized. Subsidies may be desirable at this stage of development
as a means of getting farmers familiarized with new techniques. However, as
the use of these inputs becomes widespread, the burden on the Government's
bqdget will increase. The Association will maintain the dialogue with Govern-
ment on this issue.
29.       Crop research is currently being carried out almost exclusively at
the Central Agricultural Research Station (CARS) at Afgoi, under the supervi-
sion of the Director of the Agricultural Research Institute (part of the
Ministry of Agriculture). Three regional research stations are being developed
in the major ecological zones at Gelib, Bonka and Aburein. Although some work
has been done, there is a great need for a long range research program, start-
ing with adaptive work and building up gradually towards a more basic research
program. Cost savings and early results could be achieved by making use of
knowledge available in other countries and at international research centers.
30.       Government programs related to crop production are the responsibility
of the Ministry of Agriculture. The Ministry is assisted by parastatal and
public agencies - the Agricultural Development Corporation (ADC), the National
Tractor Hiring Agency (ONAT), the Somali Development Bank (SDB), and the Water
Development Agency (WDA). All agencies suffer from a shortage of trained staff
both at headquarters and in the field. In an attempt to facilitate its access
to farmers, the Ministry of Agriculture has strongly supported the development
of cooperatives. These are expected to become a major vehicle for the transfer
of knowledge to farmers. In addition, cooperatives are also expected to
provide access to the market at an affordable cost for small-scale producers.
Agricultural Extension and Farm Management Services
31.       The extension service is headed by the Director of the Production
and Extension Department who reports to the Director-General of the Ministry



of Agriculture. At the regional level, this department is headed by a
Regional Agricultural Superintendent working under the Regional Agricultural
Coordinator. At the district level, there is an Extension Officer, a Plant
Protection Officer, a Land and Water Officer and a Cooperative Officer. These
district officers work under a District Agricultural Officer. Provision is
also made for Agricultural Instructors for field work. However, except for a
few Cooperative Instructors, the posts are vacant. There is thus no effective
field service beyond the district office. The Production and Extension
Department is also in charge of the State Farms Production Service, Seed
Multiplication Service, Credit Service and Training Services. The majority
of extension personnel at regional and district levels have had eight years
of schooling, but their only agricultural training has consisted of short
in-service training courses. Headquarters staff and Regional Coordinators are
a mixture of university and secondary school graduates and of field trained
staff.
32.       The State Farms Production Service administers the state farms.  The
state farms cover about 50,000 ha. or over one-half of the total area farmed
in large-scale production units. The remaining area consists of the "crash
program" farms, the settlement development farms, other large-scale farms and
cooperative! farms. All large-scale production units are administered by
Government appointed staff, often with no technical background, and in most
cases with no managerial skills. Large-scale production units have been
created without taking into account the availability of qualified people to
run them.
M1ajor Constraints to Increased Agricultural Production
33.       Tere are a number of constraints to increased agricultural production
some of which have been mentioned in the previous paragraphs. There is a
general shortage of trained extension staff and a complete lack of extension
agents at the field level. Technical guidance as well as management assistance
is needed not only by small holder farmes but by large scale production units,
including state farms, group farming cooperatives, settlement farms, "Crash
Program" farms and state operated seed farms. The national and regional programs
and facilities for agricultural research need strengthening and effective
coordination between research and extension needs to be established. Finally,
infrastructural facilities are inadequate for making inputs like fertilizers,
improved seeds,pesticides and credit available to the farmers.
Bank Group Assistance in the Agricultural Sector
34.       As indicated in Part II of this report, we have had limited experi-
ence in the field of agriculture in Somalia. Bank Group assistance to the
agricultural sector in Somalia started with the Trans-Juba Livestock Project
(IDA Credit 462-SO) in FY74 followed by two Credits in FY76, Drought Rehabili-
tation Project (IDA Credit 623-SO) and the Northwest Region Agricultural
Development Project (IDA Credit 635-SO). As noted above (para. 19) in addi-
tion to the proposed Project and the Central Rangelands Development Project, a
Bay Region Agriculture Project is also under consideration. The Bank is also
assisting the preparation of a Livestock Marketing Project.



- 10 -
3-        Implementatio!i of agricultural projects has met with difficulties
mair!ly due to the scarcity of trained manpower. The scarcity of manpower has
become more critical due to the continued exodus of Somalis to the neighbori;ng
petroleum exporting countries. In response to these problems, several steps
have been taken to ease implementation constraints. For example, the future
projects are being designed with a large provision of technical assistance.
Emphasis is placed on institution building by providing comprehensive training
programs in the projects. The proposed Project would make an important con-
tribution to institution building by training managers, administrators, and
extension agents. The Livestock Marketing Project would deal with the organ-
ization of national livestock marketing service which would be an important
back up activity for the Trans-Juba Livestock Project, the Northern Rangelands
Development Project, as well as for the proposed Central Rangelands Development
Project. The design of the proposed Fourth Education Project would also
emphasize manpower development both for the short-term by training specialists,
as well as for long-term by improving the quality of education. To overcome
the more pervasive problems of project implementation which are common in the
agricultural sector such as hiring of consultants, procurement of equipment
and monitoring of project implementation, a Project Implementation Unit is
being set up in the State Planning Commission with advise and assistance from
the Bank, which would strengthen the capacity for project implementation
considerably.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background
36.       A report entitled "Staff Appraisal Report, Agricultural Extension
and Farm Management Training Project" (No. 2170-SO) dated April 12, 1979
is being distributed separately. A Credit and Project Summary appears at
the beginning of this report and a Supplementary Project Data Sheet is given
in Annex III. The Project was prepared by the Government with the assist-
ance of the Bank's Regional Mission for Eastern Africa, and appraised by an
IDA mission in January 1978. Negotiations were held in Washington, D. C.
from March 20 to March 23, 1979. The Somali Delegation was headed by
Mr. Ahmed Mohamed Mohamoud, Chairman of the National Economic Committee.
Project Objective
37.       The proposed Project would provide technical assistance, strengthen
the Extension Service, develop a national research strategy and establish a
Farm Management Advisory Service which would bring the essential knowledge to
the farm level. The Project would also provide for the training of staff who
would be expected to identify the farmers needs and to communicate them to
those who make production decisions. The aim of this Project is to establish
a solid basis for the progressive build up of operational and efficient
extension and farm management services in Somalia. The emphasis is on train-
ing and institution building. This training would take place at the proposed
Farm Management and Extension Training Center to be located at Afgoi and at
two of the existing Extension Training Centers at Jannale and Bonka.



- 11 -
Project Description
38.       Specifically, the Project would provide for:
(a) I'he establishment of a Farm Management and Extension Training
Center (FMETC) at Afgoi to provide practical pre-service
training for farm managers, assistant managers and field
managers, and for regional and district level extension
staff reaching out for small farmers. Development and
operation of the Center would include: a 60 ha training
f'arm, library, classrooms, and a dormitory, needed for
training.  The Government's provision of a suitable 60 ha.
training farm to FMETC would be a condition of Credit
effectiveness (Development Credit Agreement, Section 5.01(a));
(b) The strengthening of the National Extension Service (NES)
through the introduction of an extension methodology with
emphasis on continuous training given to extension personnel
and regular contact with farmers. The Project would provide
for the upgrading of two Farmers' Training Centers, which
would be converted into Extension Training Centers (ETC's);
(c)  The establishment of a Farm Management Advisory Service
(FMAS) to provide field back-up to existing and newly
trained farm managers, and advise the Government on large
scale farming and related issues. A 400 ha. state farm
at Jannale would be rehabilitated to become a Demonstration
State Farm (DSF). The Government's provision of the 400 ha.
Demonstration State Farm at Jannale to FMAS and satisfactory
arrangements for FMAS to have access to the other two State
Farms at Jannale would be a condition of Credit effectiveness
(Development Credit Agreement, Section 5.01(a)). Farm Manage-
ment Advisory Service would also strengthen the management of
the two other state farms in the vicinity of Jannale. These
other State Farms, along with the Demonstration State Farm,
would be used by the Farm Management and Extension Training
Center students during the field internship stage of their
training;
(d) A Project Management Unit, which would be responsible for
project implementation, for procurement of project related
goods and services and for monitoring its progress and
evaluating its results;
(e)  The strengthening of the Agricultural Secondary School at
Afgoi through provision of teachers and training equipment;
(f) Training abroad, which would cover: (i) post-graduate
training abroad for 38 faculty graduates; (ii) three to
six week trips abroad for senior Ministry of Agriculture
personnel (6 man-months); (iii) study trips of at least



- 12 -
3 months duration for extension and farm management field
technical staff (21 man-months); and (iv) about 3 months
study trips for district extension officers (192 man-
months);
(g) Developing a Master Plan for strengthening the National
Agricultural Research System and its links with Extension;
and
(h) The strengthening of the Central Statistical Department in
the State Planning Commission through technical assistance
and training of Somali staff and setting the stage for a
National Statistical Development Program.
Project Implementation
39.       The Project would be carried out by the Ministry of Agriculture,
except the statistics component which would be executed by the Planning
Commission as explained below.
Project Management Unit (PMU)
40.       A Project Management Unit would be established at Afgoi.  It would
consist of a Somali Project Director, an internationally recruited Project
Technical Manager, an internationally recruited Financial Controller and
their support staff on terms of reference and qualifications satisfactory to
the Association (Development Credit Agreement, Section 3.01(b)). The Project
Technical Manager would be responsible to the Project Director. He would be
the leader of the team of internationally recruited staff and would assume
overall responsibility for assisting the Project Director in coordinating the
implementation of the Project. The Financial Controller would be responsible
to the Project Director. He would assist the Project Technical Manager
and would assist him in overseeing the procurement of Project related goods
and services. He would be responsible for establishing a system of strict
financial control and accountability for the constituent units of the Project.
The Project Management Unit would require the services of a procurement agency
to assist in drawing up specifications, preparing tender documents and ana-
lyzing bids. The PMU would also require the services of construction special-
ist to supervise the implementation of civil works on its behalf. Establish-
ment of the Project Management Unit and appointment of a procurement agency
and consultant to assist PMU with procurement and supervision of construction
would be additional conditions of Credit effectiveness (Development Credit
Agreement, Section 5.01 (c) and (d)).
41.       The Monitoring and Evaluation Section would be a new addition to the
present structure of the Department of Production and Extension. It would be
headed by an experienced Agricultural Economist. He would be responsible to
the Project Technical Manager. The data collection unit and the data process-
ing unit would come under his authority.



- 13 -
42.       The Government would submit annual and semi-annual Project progress
reports to the financing agencies. Within six months of the completion of
disbursements under the IDA Project, the Government would prepare and submit
to IDA a completion report on the implementation of the Project. This report
would include actual costs, benefits and contribution of the Project towards
the accomplishment of the country's development objectives (Development Credit
Agreement, Section 3.11(c)).
The Farm MarLagement and Extension Training Center (FMETC)
43.       The Farm Management and Extension Training Center would be headed by
an internationally recruited Agricultural Training Specialist (Principal). He
would be responsible to the Project Director through the Project Technical
Manager, and would have a Somali deputy. The Principal would be responsible
for curricula, the programming and supervision of training. He would also be
responsible for establishing and maintaining strong professional links with
the neighboring agricultural training institutions, agricultural research
centers, the National Extension Service and the Farm Management Advisory
Service. Tlhe teaching staff at the Farm Management and Extension Training
Center would come under his immediate authority.
The Farm Management Advisory Service (FMAS)
44.       The Farm Management Advisory Service would be a new unit.  It
would be headed by an internationally recruited experienced Farm Economist,
who would be responsible to the Project Director through the Project Technical
Manager. He would be assisted by the internationally recruited manager of the
Demonstration State Farm, by an internationally recruited farm management
specialist, and by Somali staff. The Service would have its headquarters in
Afgoi, adjacent to the National Extension Service and the Farm Management and
Extension Training Center. It would provide field back-up for farm managers
and advice to the Ministry of Agriculture regarding large-scale farms. The
Farm Mlanagement Advisory Service would be..responsible for establishing and
running the 400 ha.   Demonstration State Farm at Jannale.  It would also
strengthen the management of two other state farms, also at Jannale, to make
them suitable for accommodating students from the Farm Management and Extension
Training Center during their field internship stage. The Manager of the
Demonstration State Farm would be responsible to the head of the Farm Manage-
ment Advisory Service.
The National Extension Service (NES)
45.       A Technical Headquarters for the National Extension Service would
be established at Afgoi. This service would be headed by an internationally
recruited Agricultural Extension Specialist Technical Director. He would
be responsible to the Project Director through the Project Technical Manager.
He would be assisted by a Farming System Specialist, a Plant Protection
Specialist, a Communication Specialist, who would all be internationally
recruited, and a Somali Training Program Officer. The most important criteria
for recruiting expatriates for the Extension Service would be their experience
with extension in environments similar to Somalia.



- 14 -
46 ~    At che regionaL level, the extension service would be headed by
a Reg[rnal Extension Officer assisted by a Regional Farming System Specialis-
and a Regional Plant Protection Specialist. All three would be graduates
of the Faculty of Agriculture and the Farm Management and Extension Training
Center. The Regional Extension Officer would be responsible to the Technical
Director of the National Extension Service. At the field level, the Field
Extension Agents would be responsible to the District Extension Officer who
would be a graduate of the Agricultural Secondary School and the Farm Manage-
ment and Extension Training Center. The District Extension Officer, in turn,
would be responsible to the Regional Extension Officer. The field agents
would be graduates of the Extension Training Centers at Bonka or Jannale.
47.       In addition to its regional and district organizations, the National
Extension Service would maintain two Extension Training Centers at Bonka and
Jannale. These centers would be headed by principals who would be graduates
of the Faculty of Agriculture. These principals would be responsible to the
Technical Director of the National Extension Service.
48.       Coordination would be needed between the extension service and
marketing and credit agencies regarding the availability of the appropriate
inputs, market outlets for farm produce and of credit. A Technical Coordina-
tion Committee would be established under the chairmanship of the Director
General of Agriculture (Development Credit Agreement, Section 3.04). The
Department Directors of the Ministry of Agriculture and the representatives
of marketing and credit institutions would be members of the Committee.
The Agricultural Secondary School
49.       The technical assistance team provided for the Agricultural
Secondary School would include six technical teachers and an agricultural
training specialist as the team leader. The team leader would be responsible
to the Project Director through the Project Technical Manager. The Agricul-
tural Secondary School would be the major supplier of trainees for the Farm
Management and Extension Training Center. Appointment of all technical
assistance staff to the school would be made by August 31, 1979 (Development
Credit Agreement, Section 3.06).
Technical Assistance and Training Abroad
50.       The Project would require the services of 26 internationally
recruited specialists in agricultural extension, farm management, technical
agricultural training and statistics, for a total of 87 man-years (during a
period of about 5 years). Qualifications and experience of the above spe-
cialists would be acceptable to the Association. The Government has identified
sources of recruiting the bulk of the required technical assistance. In order
to ensure continuity of Project activities after the investment period,
provision is made for training Somali staff at levels that would allow them to
take over full responsibility upon departure of the technical assistance
staff. The programming, location and nature of training abroad, study trips
and field trips would be determined by the Project Technical Manager. The
training program for Somali staff would be submitted for approval of the
Association by March 31, 1980.  (Development Credit Agreement, Section 3.07.)



- 15 -
National Agricultural Research Strategy
51.       Agricultural research in Somalia is at its early stage of develop-
ment. It presently lacks the sense of direction that would make it purposeful
and economic for the country to undertake. Because of the dependence of
the Extension Service on research, the Project would provide for consultancy
services for a study aimed at developing a research strategy which would serve
as a basis for the future initiation of research programs that would back up
agricultural extension and ensure its utility and viability. The Government
will furnish the terms of-reference of the study to the Association for
approval and will submit the study report to the Association by September 30,
1980 for review. (Development Credit Agreement, Section 3.08.)
The Central Statistical Department (CSD)
52.       Development of statistics is the responsibility of the Central
Statistical Department of the State Planning Commission. The CSD would keep
its present organization and would be strengthened through the provision of
technical assistance and training of Somali staff. An internationally re-
cruited Economist/Statistician would lead a team comprising an Agriculturalist/
Statistician, a Demographer/Statistician and a Data Processing Specialist on
terms and conditions acceptable to the Association (Development Credit Agree-
ment, Section 3.09). The team leader would be responsible to the Director of
the Central Statistical Department in the State Planning Commission. Appoint-
ment of the four technical assistance staff would be a condition of disburse-
ment for the statistical component (Development Credit Agreement, Schedule 1,
paragraph 4). The technical assistance staff would assist in building the
basis for a comprehensive program for development of statistics through train-
ing of Somali staff, improving the methodology for gathering of statistics,
starting a limited statistical work program in such important areas as a
national multi-purpose household survey, agricultural land use and yield
survey, and cost structure surveys for various production activities.
Project Cost Estimates
53.       Total Project costs, including contingencies, are estimated at
US$32.4 million. The foreign exchange component represents 64% of total
costs, or IJS$20.7 million. The project cost estimates are summarized below:



- 16 -
Project Cost Summary
Local      Foreign               Foreign
Project Component                Currency   Exchange    Total    Exchange
-------- US$ million -------          %
Project Management Unit                  1.1          1.8        2.9         68
Consultancy Services
Procurement and Preparation Phase II   -            0.5         0.5        100
Farm Management and Extension
Training Center                          1.8        3.8         5.6         68
National Extension Service                4.3        4.4         8.7         50
Farm Management Advisory
Service (excluding DSF)                 0.3         1.1         1.4         79
Demonstration State Farm                 1.1         2.0         3.1         65
Research                                   -         0.1         0.1        100
Central Statistical Department            0.2        0.9         1.1         82
Consultancy Services for
Civil Works                               -         0.2         0.2        100
Agricultural Secondary School             0.1        1.2         1.3         92
Total Base Costs                    8.9        16.0        24.9         64
Physical Contingencies                    0.4        0.7         1.1         64
Price Contingencies                       2.4        4.0         6.4         64
Total Costs                        11.7        20.7        32.4         64
54.       Project costs are estimated on the basis of prices expected to pre-
vail in March 1979.  Physical and price contingencies combined represent
30% of base costs. The Government does not levy import duties on goods for
the agricultural sector. Consequently, all capital items are included without
such duties. Costs of internationally recruited staff are estimated between
US$50,000-US$80,000 per man-year, depending on the job to be performed and the
source of recruitment.
Financing
55.       The financing of the Project would be shared in the following
amounts and proportions:
% of Total
Amount         Project Costs
US$ million            %
IDA                                10.5                 32.4
EEC (Special Action Account)        1.5                  4.6
USAID                               7.6                 23.5
ADF                                 8.9                 27.5
Government                          3.9                 12.0
Total                          32.4               100.0



- 17 -
The proposed IDA Credit of US$10.5 million would be to the Government of
Somalia on standard IDA terms. IDA contribution would consist of 66% foreign
exchange and 34% of local costs. The local cost financing is justified in
view of the country's poverty. IDA would co-finance the Project with the
African Development Fund (ADF), USAID, and EEC Special Action Account on
parallel basis. IDA would provide funds for establishment and operation of
Project Management Unit, for operation of the Farm Management and Extension
Training Center and the National Extension Service and for assistance to the
Central Statistical Department in the State Planning Commission. ADF would
finance civil works and the Demonstration State Farm, except technical assist-
ance. USAID would provide funds for technical assistance for the Farm Manage-
ment and Extension Training Center and the National Extension Service, for
developing a national research strategy and for training abroad of Somali
staff. EEC Special Action Account would finance assistance to the Agricul-
tural Secondary School at Afgoi. The EEC financing would be on IDA terms; ADF
and USAID financing would also be on concessionary terms. The Government of
Somalia would contribute US$3.9 million or 12% of total Project costs.
56.       The proceeds of the Credit would be channeled by the Government
as a grant to the Project. In order to ensure smooth Project implementation
and continued liquidity, the Government would deposit a sum of So. Sh. 3.0
million in PMU's Project Account, which would be increased to So. Sh. 5.0
million by the end of the first year of Project period, and would replenish
this Account with adequate funds throughout Project implementation (Develop-
ment Credit Agreement, Section 3.02). The initial payment to the Project
Account would be a condition of Credit effectiveness (Development Credit
Agreement, Section 5.01(e)).
Procurement
57.       Contracts for the supply of vehicles and equipment would be awarded
after international competitive bidding in accordance with IDA guidelines.
Orders would be bulked whenever possible. Technical assistance would be
procured with the assistance of IDA in case of the Project Technical Manager
and the Financial Controller. Technical assistance for the Farm Management
Advisory Service would be procured by the Government and would be subject to
approval by IDA. Training abroad would be planned and organized by the
Project Technical Manager. Contracts for the supply of other Project inputs,
including office equipment and supplies, of US$50,000 equivalent or more,
would be awarded after international competitive bidding in accordance with
IDA guidelines. Contracts for less than US$50,000, but in aggregate not
exceeding US$300,000, would be awarded locally following Government procure-
ment procedures which are satisfactory to IDA (Development Credit Agreement,
Schedule 3).
58.       The items financed under the EEC Special Action Credit would be
procured in accordance with Schedule 3 of the EEC Special Action Credit
Agreement which limits bidding to EEC member countries and IDA member
countries that are eligible to receive Special Action Credits.



- 18 -
_ . bursement
59.       The disbursements from the proceeds of the IDA Credit would be fully
documented and would be on the basis of: (a) 100% of expenditures on vehi-
cles and equipment for PMU, FMAS (excluding DSF), and CSD; (b) 100% of foreign
expenditures on technical assistance and training abroad, for the PMU, the
FMAS (including DSF), and the CSD; (c) 41% of local expenditures on local
salaries for NES and FMAS (excluding DSF); (d) 100% of operating and mainte-
nance costs for PMU, FMETC, NES, FMAS (excluding DSF) and CSD. EEC funds will
be disbursed on the basis of 100% of expenditures on vehicles and equipment,
technical assistance and operating and maintenance costs for the Agricultural
Secondary School. The schedule of estimated disbursements for IDA Credit and
EEC Special Action Credit is given in Project and Credit Summary.
Coordination
60.       Memoranda of Understanding between the Association and all co-
financing agencies, covering project composition and financing plan, procure-
ment and disbursement procedures, project supervision, consultation and
exchange of information on various matters of mutual interest would be agreed
and signed by the Association and all cofinancing agencies after approval of
all the confinancing agreements.
Accounts and Audit
61.       Separate accounts would be kept, reflecting expenditures financed
by each co-financier. Project related accounts would be audited by an
independent auditor. The Magistrate of Accounts is an independent auditing
agency in Somalia. Although the auditing capability of this agency is
presently less than optimum, IDA is considering measures for strengthening
it with the help of the June 1978 IDA Technical Assistance Credit. Provided
appropriate measures taken the Magistrate of Accounts would be an acceptable
independent auditor for Project accounts. The Government would submit suit-
ably audited accounts to IDA within six months of the end of each fiscal year.
(Development Credit Agreement, Section 3.13).
Economic Evaluation
62.       The Project would directly benefit the 195,000 farm families
engaged in agricultural production as well as the farm laborers working on
state and cooperative farms. The Project would indirectly benefit all food
consumers through lesser reliance on imports and a steadier supply of food.
It would benefit the rural population through the catalytic effect the
extension service would have on production,technical training and education,
health, and nutrition.
63.       The design and scope of the Project, the selection and relative size
of Project components and the organizational arrangements for Project imple-
mentation are based on past experience with similar agricultural extension
projects in various countries, particularly in India. Specific characteris-
tics of the Somali environment, including budgetary and institutional con-
straints, have been taken into account. As in other institution building



- 19 -
projects, the benefits due to the Project cannot be estimated with accuracy.
It is not possible to identify separately the benefits attributable to exten-
sion from the benefits which are expected due to improved factor inputs not
provided by the Project. In addition, farmers' reaction to extension in
Somalia is as yet unknown, since up to now no extension service has functioned
at the farm level.
64.       The economic rate of return should be regarded as indicative; it is
estimated to range from 13 to 27% for the National Extension Service, because
of uncertainaties regarding levels of achievement and variations in costs
needed to bring about the predicted crop yield increments attributable to
extension. An internal economic rate of return of 27% is considered most
probable. The internal economic rate of return for the Farm Management
Advisory Service is estimated in the range of 30% to 39% with a most probable
rate of 39%.
65.       In addition, the Project is expected to yield a number of non-
quantifiable benefits whose value cannot be quantified. These benefits
include income redistribution through the shift in emphasis from large-scale
irrigated agriculture towards small farmers and towards rainfed agriculture.
Most importantly,the Project would be of basic importance to the success of
other production oriented agricultural development in Somalia because of its
-institution building emphasis and, as a result of its contribution to manpower
development.-
Risks
66.      lTere are three kinds of factors which could affect the overall
success of the Project: namely, factors which could impede the proper and
timely implementation of the Project, those which could affect the viability
of the institutions being developed, and those that could negatively affect
the system of production incentives in the country. With regard to project
implementation, great care was taken to strengthen the management capability
through organizational arrangements, training programs and provision of tech-
nical assistance to ensure timely and efficient implementation of the Project.
The viability of the Extension and Farm Management Advisory Services being
strengthened through the Project would depend on the continuous flow of
extension material from research which is presently weak. This represents
a major potential risk to the success of the Project. For this reason funds
are provided for developing a national research strategy, which the Government
would use as a basis for improving the country's research capability at the
same time that the extension service is being strengthened.  The research
strategy to be developed would also consider ways to ensure that research
results would be acceptable to the farmers before their diffusion in order to
maximize farmers' acceptance of improved practices.  With regard to production
incentives, the Government is aware of the fact that even with effective
extension, increase in production would only come about if there were a market
which offered producers adequate prices for their incremental output. These
risks have! to be balanced against the certainty that without the Project, the
Government would not be able to develop the means to effectively help farmers
to improve their welfare and to help the country become more self-sufficient
in major staple foods.



- 20 -
k -ironmenEal Effects
67.       The Project would build up the basis for the dissemination of appr,-
priate crop and animal husbandry practices. These improved practices would
help retain soil fertility, conserve existing forest and pasture resources,
and preserve irrigated areas from the negative effects of inefficient water
management.
Role of Women
68.       Women in Somalia are presently responsible for a major share of food
production in the country. The Government is, slowly but surely, creating
opportunities for women to participate actively in administration of the
country and acceleration of the development process. The Project is one such
opportunity that the Government is counting on for getting educated women to
help improve the welfare of those involved in agricultural production through
Extension Service.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
69.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Somali Democratic
Republic and the Association, the draft EEC Special Action Credit Agreement
between the Somali Democratic Republic and the International Development
Association as administrator of the EEC Special Action Account established
with funds contributed by the member states of the EEC, and the Recommendation
of the Committee provided for under Article V, Section 1 (d) of the Articles
of Agreement of the Association are being distributed to the Executive Direc-
tors separately.
70.       Features of the Development Credit Agreement of special interest
are referred to in Annex III of this report.
71.       Additional conditions of effectiveness would be:  (i) Government's
provision of training farms to FMETC and to FMAS; (ii) establishment of a
Project Management Unit; (iii) appointment of the Project Director, the Proj-
ect Technical M4anager, the Financial Controller, the Procurement Agency and
the consultants to assist PMU with procurement and supervision of construc-
tion; (iv) initial payment of So.Sh.3.0 million to Project Account; and (v)
the fulfillment of all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of other
co-financiers agreements regarding the Project. An additional condition of
effectiveness of the Special Action Credit Agreement would be that all condi-
tions precedent to the effectiveness of the IDA Credit Agreement and other
co-financiers agreements regarding the Project have been met.
72.       I am satisfied that the proposed IDA Credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association, and that the EEC Special Action
Credit would comply with the criteria established by the Agreement of May 2,
1978 between the Association and the European Economic Community.



- 21 -
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
73.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credits.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
April 25, 1979






ANNEX I
Page 1 of 4
TABLS 3A
SOMALIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERAGES
SQIALIA
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. Y. )                                              - MOST RECENT ESTLMATE)
TOTAL           637.7                                                 SAME        SAME    NEXT HIGHER
AGRICULTURAL    299.0                               MDST RECENT    GEOGRAPHIC   INCOME       INCOME
1960 Lb    1970 lb ESTIMATE Lb      REGION  c  GROUP d   GROUP L
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                 60.0        80.0    110.0           223.6      182.9       432.3
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(XILOGRAHS OF ODAL EQUIVALENT)     19.0       39.0      36.0            86.7       88.9       251.7
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
TOTAL POPULATION, MD-YEAR
(MILLIONS)                        2.6        3.1       3.7
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 18.0       25.6      28.3           13.6       15.0        24.2
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                       3.0         4.0       6.0           18.4       46.8        42.7
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTtRAL LAND     7.0         9.0      12.0           53.6      254.1        95.0
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                        43.8        46.5      45.0           44.4       43.6        44.9
15-64 TRS.                        53.5        51.6     53.0            52.7       53.3        52.8
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                  2.7         1.9       2.0            2.8        2.9         3.0
POPULATII GROWrg RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                             2.0         2.4       2.4            2.6        2.4         2.7
URBAN                             2.9         6.1       7.0            5.8        4.0         8.8
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    47.3        47.7      47.2           46.9       44.3        42.2
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    27.6        23.8      21.7           20.6       19.7        12.4
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE              ..         3.0       3.0            3.1        2.9         3.2
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)      ..         ..        ..
USERS (PERCENT OF KARRIED WOMEN)   ..          ..       ..             2.5       14.6        14.2
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1970-100)            96.1       100.0      92.2           94.2       96.4       104.3
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OP
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                  77.0        80.0      79.0           90.1       92.3        99.5
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)         57.0        57.0      55.1           55.2       50.0        56.8
Op WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE      19.0 *f    27.0       28.0           17.1       13.9        17.5
CHILD (AGES 1-4) SRTALIT! RATE       ..          ..       ..              ..         ..         7.5
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (TEARS)   35.1        38.5     41.0            43.7       45.8        53.3
INFANT NDRTALITr RATE (PER
TMOUSAND)                            ..          ..       ..           138.4      102.7        82.5
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PRCECT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                              *-        15.0      38.0           22.4       26.4        31.1
URBAN                              *-        17.0      77.0           66.3       63.5        68.5
RURAL                              ..        14.0      22.0           10.4       14.1        18.2
ACCESS To ECRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
Or POPULATION)
TOTAL                              ..         ..       47.0           23.9       16.1        37.5
URBAN                              ..         ..       77.0           70.3       65.9        69.5
RURAL                              ..          ..      35.0           14.2        3.4        25.4
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN        33220.0    21420.0  15760.0 _R.h   21757.5   13432.7         9359.2
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON    3780.0      3260.0   2900.0          3473.8    6983.3       2762.5
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                           630.0       580.0    570.0 /i        645.4    1157.6        786.5
URBAN                              ..          ..       ..           172.9      183.3       278.4
RURAL                              ..          ..       ..          1292.6    1348.8       1358.4
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED          ..          ..        ..            19.2      19.5        19.2
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF NOUSEEOLD
TOTAL                              ..          ..       ..             4.9        5.2
URBAN                              ..          ..       ..             5.0        4.8
RURAL                              ..          ..        ..             4.7       5.3
AVERArE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                              ..          ..        ..
L'RBAN                             ..          ..        ..             ..        1.8         2.3
RURAL                              ..          ..       ..
ACCESS ro ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
Op DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                              ..          ..        ..             ..       25.9        28.3
L'RBAN                             ..          ..        ..
RURAL                              ..          ..        ..             ..         8.7       10.3



ANN'EX I
Page 2 of 4
TAJLZ 3A
SOKnIA - SOCIL UIUICATOS DATA SUET
RUEmNCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERAGES
- HoSl RECENT ESTXnA)TE
SAME        SAME     KMT  IGNEER
)DST UCENT      GZOGAPEIC    INCG          INCOME
1960 /      1970 a  ZSTnAu  A         REGION 0    GROUP  d    GROUP LI
EDUCATION
ADJUSTlD  lOLUtUIS RATIOS
PRIMAR:      TOrAL                  9.0         9.0      34.0             52.1        62.9        75.8
FhuLl                 5.0          5.0      41.0             37.6       45.9         67.9
SICODAILT:   TOTAL                  1.0         5.0       4.0              8.0        14.4        17.7
ZttL^lZ               0.2          2.0       2.0              5.0        8.8         12.9
VOCATIONAL (PERCT Or SECONDAIT) 26.0            3.0       14.0             7.2         6.6         7.4
PUP1L-TEACH3U RATIO
PlRAAty                            29.0        33.0      57.0             43.2        38.5        34.3
SgONDARt                           20.0        23.0      21.0             22.8        19.8        23.5
ADULT LITERACY BATE (PZRCUT)          1.5         5.0       50.0 /h         20.3        36.7        63.7
CONSUMPTION
PASSZNGER CARS PER TWoSAND
POPULATION                          1.2         2.4        2.7             3.9         3.1         7.2
RADIO RECEIVZ      PZR THOUSAND
POPULATION                         12.0        18.0       22.0            40.1        31.1        71.1
TV RECEIVERS PEM rOUSAND
POPUILATION                          ..          ..         ..             2.2         2.8        14.1
N;SPAPER (DAILT GMNEL
INTEREST') CIRCULATION PER
T3USAND POPULATION                    1.0         2.0        1.0             3.9         6.0        16.3
CIoIrA .AUAL ATTENDANCE PE  CAPITA  0.4           1.7         ..             1.2         1.4         1.6
MPLOtMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)       930.0      1100.0    1250.0
hEALE (PERCENT)                    30.1        29.7       29.4            32.6        24.2        28.0
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              88.0        82.0       77.0            73.3        60.7        54.1
lD7STRtY (PURCEE)                   4.4         5.9       7.0
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                41.5        38.9       39.1            42.0        39.8        37.8
HALE                                 58.4        55.3       55.9            54.8        53.3        50.3
?ENALE                               24.7        22.8       22.8            27.3        19.6        20.9
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               1.1         1.2        1.2             1.2         1.3         1.3
IrNcomE DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OP PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED aY
qIGNEST 5 PERCENT5 OP HOUSEHOLDS     ..          ..        ..             25.7        20.3        19.5
IlIGaEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..          ..         ..            55.1        45.1        48.9
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OIP HOUSEHOLDS     ..          ..         ..             5.8         5.7         5.9
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF SIOUSEBOLDS     ..          ..        ..             14.5        16.8        15.7
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTStATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US1  PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..          ..         ..           108.8        88.5       155.9
RURAL                                ..          ..       50.0            74.1        71.9        97.9
EST7I4ATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
JUAN                                 ....                 73.0           124.4       100.8       143.7
RURAL                                ..          ..       35.0            59.6        42.0        37.3
ESTIMATED POPULATION 3ELOW POVERTY
INCOME LEYEL (PERCEZT)
MR3AN                                ..          ..      25.0             26.8        46.0        22.9
RIIRAL                               ..          ..       30.0            47.6        48.0        36.7                                p
INot available
'Foe applicable.
NOTES
/a   The adjusted group averages for each indicator are populstion_eignted geometric means, excluding :he extremse
values of the indicator and the most populated country in each group.  Coverage of countries aong the
tndicacors depends in availability of data and is not ,miform.
b    UJnless itherwtse noted, data for 1960 refer to any Fear between 1959 and :961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most lecent Escilate, between 1973 and 1977.
/c  Africa Sourn of Sahara;   Id  Low Income CS280 or less per caoita, 1976);   /e  Lover Niddle Income
{$281-53O per canita, L976);   ,   1963;   _   1971;    h  Including midvives and assistant aurses;
/I  !972;   I  ,overnient estiate.
Sepcember, .918



ANNEX I
OEfEPfO9TOS 0? SOCUL t9D1CAT0RS                                                     Page   3   of   4
Ilgr:  The adjustad group averages for each Indicator are popu.lation-velighted geometric meads. excluding tha axtrame values. of the indicator and theo wse
Populated countrv La each group. Coverage of countrIts among the Lndicators depends on availability of data and i.s mat uniform. Due to lack of data,
group averages for Capi.tal Surplus oUl ixporters and indicatgrs of accass to water and excretes disposal. houasing. Incos. distribution and poverty are
simple population-weighted geometri. scans without the exclusion of extreme values..
IAN0 AREA (thousand Sq. bin)                                                               Population per bospttai bed - cotal, urban, and roral - PopaLatlon (total,
77ral - bacal surface akrea cooprising land area anid inland waters,                         urban, and rural) divided bv their respective number of hospital beds
Atcltuta1 - most recent escimate of agricul.tural area used temporarily                  available in puablic and Private general and specialined hosvital and re-
or permanently for crops, pastures, market and kitchen gardens or to                      habUitation canters.  Rospitals art establishmentLs permacnently staffed by
Li.                                                                                       atc least one planstcian.  fatablishmente  providing principally cuscodial
care are anot itacluded, Rural hospitals. however, include health and mcdi-
W1  Pta CAPTKTA (S)-NPper capica astimacee at current market price..                          cal centers riot permanently scatfed by a physician (but by a medical. as-
cauculaced oc lsae conversion method as gorld Bank Atlas (1975-77 basis);                  sistant. nturse, midwife. etc.) whicb offer Ln-patient accOmkodetlon and
i960. 1970. and 1977 data,                                                                provide a Limited range of medical. faciliti.s.
bdmissiona per-hosol.tal. bed - total aum2ber of admissions to or discharges
ENERGY C05St9WTLCN ?Ea :CAPITA - Annual, cnsamption of comercial energy                       from hoepitals divided by the aumber of beds.
(zoal and Liguits. petroleus. natutral gas and bydro-, nutclear and geo-
thermal eiectricitZy) in kil-ograms of ceel equivalent por capita.                    AOU$t90G
Average size of hoshl   Pesn oousushl)   total. arban. and rural-
PoItAIOA'0vITA  STATISTIC                                                            A househol.d consiets o  aTS gopf  ndividuals whio shara lLIving quartets
'Iotal, onpul.a_ign mi-n at  il.lign) - As of July 1.; if dot available,                     anLd their main meals.  A boarder or lodger may at may not be included in
averg.   a   a I  n-er  siate; L960, 1970. and 1977 data,                                 the household for statistical. purposes.  Statietical definitions of house-
Urba   nplcan      (percent of total.) - Ratio of urban to ctota  popuia-                    held very,
non;  iffeent  erl.ntion  of  rban areas may atffct comparabLilIty             &verage number of persons per room - cotal., urban anrul   Avrae  us
or dacta aoonn  countries,                                                                bet of persons per room  in all., urban, and rual occupied convenrianal.
PopulatIoa density                                                                          dwel.lings, respectively.  Oweilings excl.ude non-permanent structures and
Pt9,k.- M(id-year populAtion per equare kLiloustec (1.00 hentaree)                  unonoopied perts..
of total area.                                                                          Access to elactrIcity (percent of dwellings) - total..  raen, and ruraLl -
Per sq. kan. agricuilture Land - Compuced as above for agricultural land                   Ctvonvetlooaj dve)l.ligs with electricity Ln l-iving quarters ase percentage
..Iy.                                                                                     of total. urban. anA rural. dwellings respectivgly.
Populationi ac  sructure (aertgnt    r hildren (0-L6 years). w .orkins-ege
(l5-f. years   Sand  oeired (65 years and over) as percentagge of mid-                EDUCAT1TO4
year population.                                                                       Adjusted enrllment rs'tios
Population &rosath crte (percent) - total. end urban - Campound annua                     Primary school. - total, and  temale - Total. and female anrollmieni of all ages
growth rates of coral and urban mid-yetar populations for 1950-60,                        at the primary level. as percentaeso of respectivelyv primar-y school-age
1004,and 1970-75.                                                                    populationts; normally includes children aged 6-Ll yerar  butc adjusted for
Crude birth rare (per :hougend( - Annual. live births per thousanLd of                       different lengths of primary education. for counktries with universal edu-
mxid-year population-, ten-year arithmettic averages anding in 1960 and                   cation enrollment may exceed 100 perente since some pupil& are below or
i.970 and five-year average ending in 1975 for mamt recent estimate.                      above the official school age.
Crude death rate (Per thousand) - Annual decath  per zhousaad of mid-                     Secondary school. - total, and femal  - Computed aso above; secondary educa-
!ear population; ten-year arithmetic averages ending i.n 1.960 and 1970                   tion requires at leI   'Our yer  of approved primery instruction; pro-
and fve-yar aerageendig In1975   at  ost  ecenteetiate,vidas genral vocational, or teacher training Instructions for pupils
Imp3s reproduction rate - Average number of daughters a wmana will besr                      usually of 12 to LI years of age; correepoodence courses are generally
on %.er nornal teproductive period if abse experiences present age-                       excluded.
specific fertility rates; usually five'-yeer averagets ending In 1960.                  Vocational enrollment (nercent of secondary) - Vocational institutions in-
1970, and 1975.                                                                           cluod  technical. Industrial, or other programs which operaer  independantly
Pamiy plnnin   - acepors,annul (touseds) Annual. number of                     or as departments of secondary institutions.
Faiy      acceptrs of birth-control. devices under sausices of national family          Pupil-teacher ratio - orisry. sand seconder, - To t.lsuet   noldI
planning programo.                                                                        pnisary and Secondary lavels divided by numbers of ceechers in the corre-
Family plannLing - users (percent 0 ofmridoen    Percentage of                               sponding levels.
merried waomn of child-bearing age (5i-hA  yers  who use birth-contral,                Adult Literacy rate (aer  n) - Literatea adalts (able to read and write) as
devie.s to all Married women in same age group,                                           a percentage of tota  ad'alt population aged Li years and ever.
P100 A.ND Xtt9TTTON                                                                      C01S1194TIO)g
Index of foodIproduction per capita (1970-100) - Endaz nuvmber of per                    Passenger cars (ner thousend  "PouLation) - Passenger cars comprise motor cars
capita annalprodution of aL.i food acnoodicies.                                         searing lees than eight persons; eacludee ambulances, hearse. and mil.itary
P.,' ..Pita supply af clre(aetof requirements) - Computed from                            vehicles.
energy equivalent of net food supplies available in country per capita                 Radio receivers (par thousand ponulation) - All types of receivers for radio
per day.  Available supplies comprise demerite production. imports leas                 broadcasts to general public par thousankd of population; extiucies unlicensed
omport3. and changes in stock.  Met supplies exclude animal feed, seeds,                receivers In countries and in years whten registration of radio soats was In
quantities used in food procesasing. and lossee in distribution.  Re-                   effect; data for recent year. may not he  amoerabL* sim. met coudtries
quiroments were estimated by PAl based on physiological needs for nor-                  abolished licensing.
mal activity and health considering environmental tsmperature. body                    TV receivers (Dos thousend-;opulation) - T7 receivers fior broadcast to %xdarxa
weights, age and sez distributions of population, and allowing 10 per-                    public per thousand populatIon; excludee unlicaened TV receivers itn coun-
cent for waste at houaehoLd level,                                                        tries and in years when registration of TV sete .,a in affect.
yet capita suPPLy of protei,n (cr-n  per day) - Protein content of pat                   Newsypate circulation (per thousand nonu   ctin          Shove the average circuic-
capita mtsrspl   fLn   e  day.  .4sr Supply of food is definad as                         no    f'   sal   eneral. Interest neweseer    defined as ak periodical publi-
above.  Requirements for all countries establieshed by I05DA provide for,                 cstion devoted primarily to recording general tewe.  ft is nonsidered to
I minimum alloveAce of 60 grame of tocal protein per day and 20 grane                     be "daily" if it appears at least four times a week.
-of Snimal and pulse protein, of wthico 10 grea"  should be  nimal proteIn.            Ciaem- annual acttenance per capitA per near - gased on the number of tickets
...ese standards are lover than those of 75 grams of total protein and                    sold during the year. including admaisioss to drive-in tlnmeas and mobile
roiTms of animal protein ae an average far the world, proposed by                       Qunits.
FtAO In :he Third 'fetid Pond Survey.
Par ,apita ,ratsin  auonlv from animal end Pulse - Protein supply of food               mIptAflEmyT
detrosaa from anivals aLd pulses is graes per day.                                     Total labor forceo (thomaean) - fconomiraIly actIve persons, including arnzd
,'hild  adejs I--) mortality race (-Pet thousammd) - Annmual deaths per thosu-                ore   n   nmlydbtedidngousewives, students, act.  Defini-
and in age group 1-4 years. :o childiren in this age group.                               tionds in veouis countries arer sot comparable.
Female (aperrent) - easlel labot force as percentage o f total labor fre
dAEAL-                                                                       -            ASricultura (percentc) - Labor force, ln !arming, forestry, bunting and fishnig
L.ife expectancy at hirth  (vears) - Average mnuber of years of life                         as oercentage od total labor force.
remaiaing at It-'ch; usually five-year averages ending in 1960. 1970.                  Industry  (percent) - Labor force in mining, constr'actlon.  AanufacturIng and
and 11975.                                                                                alectricity. water and gee as percentsag  of total l,bor forte.
tzfaut 2ortullt-, rate (per aneusand) - AnnuaL deaths of Infants under                   Particloacion rste (poecent) - total,  al.and !emale - Cotal., male, sad
on0e tar of age Per thousand Live blrhts.                                                  amnlal1.lbor 'orce as percentages if thair resnectlve ponclations.
icc..so to 5eas .catr e.rcxnt of nopulatlon) - total, urban, and rural -                   7hese are ILl's  adjoined perticiosrion rates reflecting ole-seo
:;umber of people Inotal.  rtban. sand rural) with reasonable access tc                   structure of ohe popuLation. iod l,ot ni-n  trend.
-afe '.care   uppLv (Include.  treat.d surface . w.atr  or unttreated but              iccnuoic Oepeodencv ratio - RatIc Of ?Pculation uncot IA anf i5  .ne c,tt to
;ncontaminated water suc.a ax that from  protected booreholes, Springs.                   roe labor lttre in .ae eroup of 11-..  ers.
ana sanitary wells; us percentages of their respective populations.
an urban area a punlic iountain or standpost located act mre                       rcozPShETO
c.an 1'00  .tace    rtom a house may be considered as leing within tea-                 ercentage of private  Income (both  n ca.h and klmd) r.eeived  -" rIchest 
.onable acoass of that r  ouse.  Inrrlaesrenal   ceewudprerent. richest 20 percent. poorest 20 percent, And poorest .0-,l  aent
oart7tot the on,usewlfa or members of the household do not Lhave to                   of households.
.ada aisprnvoztiooatsa part if :he day In fetching the family's
ua:er onado.                                                                          PoYVEp.f TARGET GRtLIPO
A~CcSs to qXCoeca OtnOOSal  ierren.t of ;opulaclanI  -  oa.'rban. and                    Estimated absolute povert, income leavel -2S5 oat z.oata) - -han and  irarl -
0-am. -anna   .  ccyla ~. tal.  rban.  and rural) saned on excreta                      Aslt   oet   noalniL   icIcn   oa   ao   rc      iaa
aOcrot 0   'tcet.ags oftheir  esseccrive populations.   aOtr                       utrittonally adequate disc olus essential. 'or.-: cr   euieetsa  o
JovoSai ca   <c.c  t-aa zolLetion and disposal. 'Wico ir wIthout                          affordabLe.
oite t.r aoman .acceta add vet-aero cte-on  Sytstesm                            locinated tslative povert, tromsm  lo-;ai .2        .r capita) - arban  ann riral
_uo cc  -t prlIvIes ono s,imia.r LasrAllatlona.                                 !%lativG pOVerty inCCne loe-el is tnt4 LnCons  4avel 1ass ZCoa  one-CmlrZ
-uc . or o"nca       ouatnlividea by number of practicing                             yet capita personal inoone of Osco.::
.z "mscat  fC an    res a ne.a.lu   school at un-ostytna.cttostd ponulaclon pelow  cover:': -ncone  -.ive   zrcent) - cr15. ann 7ora   -
:ar IOZet zsOing -erion - ?Pnpuaacon diviaaa vi7 number if                            Percent of populastion. urban and 7ura->  -o are either  ....uo 1          OOC Z- r
acr--ran  male and Lamal. ;radua-ca  urses, practical nurses, and                         ' eltie  or" 'ehichevor La3 freacer.
iss-Lstant nOrsatai,
zconomic ann Saco,al Iota 1Oi,-I.,n
Ecsonoic Analvsis eta lrc4.crions Oeaartumec



A)NNEX I
SO8IOLLIA                                                                              Page 4 of 4
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
1!
GNP PER CAPITA: US$110 (Approx. 1977)
CENTRAL GOVERNMENT FINANCE                                                        MONEy  CRIDIT AND PRICES
Prel.   Budget                                            Dec       Dec        Dec.  June
1975      1976      1977       t978                                            1975       1976      1977   1978
(million US$)                                                               (million So.Sh.)
Current Revenue                  99.1     106.0      121.2     231.1         Bank Claims on Governemnt (net)  -238.2    124.4       -97.8  -161.8
Current Expenditure              90.1     103.1      121.5     216.5         lank Claims On Private Sector
Current Snrplus                   9.0       2.9       -0.3      14.6          and Public Enterprises           L041.7    986.4    1280.7  1392.5
Development Espenditure          56.4      99.1      150.1     184.7         Money Supply                       825.8    994.9    1325.1  1482,8
Extra Budgetary Expenditure      91.8      48.8       15.1
Overall Deficit                 139.2     145.0      165.5     170.1                                               (PercWnu    r  Index
General Price Index (1966-100)    163.0    190.1       210.9   -
Annual Percentage changes in:
reneral Price Index                  7.9     16.6       10.9   -
Bank Claims on Private Sector
and Public Enterprines             7.8     -5.3       29.8    8.7
Money Supply                        31.4     20.5       33.2   11.9
BAIANCE OF PAYNEIS                                                                UMERCBANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1974-76)
1974      1975  '   1976       1977
(million US$)                Livestock                              46.9      60.3
Bananas                               13.2       16.9
Merchandise Exports (f.o.b.)   64.0        88.6       81.0      71.3         Meat and Meac Products                  6.5-      8.4
Merchandise Imports (f.o.b.)  -133.7    -141.1    -153.1    -175.1           Raid.s ard Skin.                        4.8       6.2
Trade Balance                  - 69.7    - 52.5    - 72.1   -10.5           Pish and  Fish Products                 2.2       2.9
Otbers                                 4.2        5.3
Services,Net                   - 33.6    - 49.7    - 38.0    - 36.9             Total                               77.8     100.0
Transfers, Net                   51.8     102.2       40.8     105,
Current Account Balance        - 51.5       0       -69.3       32.7         EXTERNAL DEBT. DECEMBER 31. 1977
US S Mln.
Long-Term Capital                t1.0      52.S       69.6      64.2
Short-Term Capital and                                                       Public  Debt                                    872.8
Error, and Omissions            -1.9     -26.2       13.3       5.3          of which Disbursed                            (398.9)
Reserves md Related Items        -7.3     -26.6      -13.7     -36.9
International Reserves                                                       DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOM 1977
(end year)                     42.4       68.5      85.0      120.5                  t
Petroleum Imports                11.0      19.1       18.5      38.7
RATE OF EXCRA;NGE    USSI.0O  - So. Sb. 6.295 (Si.ce 1973)                        IDA LNINt  Mrch 31. 1979E   _fillion US$)
IDA
Outstanding and Disbursed               Sd.O
Undiabrased                             54.1/2
Outstanding incl. Undisbursed          112.1/2
1/ No National Accounts available
Not available
Not applicable
V Includes US$14.5 million not yet effective.



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 5
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN SOMALIA
A.   Statement of IDA Credits (as of March 31, 1979)
(US$ Million)
Amount   Undisbursed
(Net of cancellations
No.       Y'ear    Borrower         Purpose              and exchange adjustments)
(,CY)
Five credits fully disbursed                                33.7
123-SO    1973    Somalia    Highway-Supplementary
(Afgoi-Baidoa Road)           2.7        0.3
462-SO    1974    Somalia    Trans-Juba Livestock           10.0         6.1
511-SO    1L974    Somalia    Second Education               8.0         2.3
586-SO    1L975    Somalia    Mogadishu Port Extension    5.2            0.6
623-SO    L976    Somalia    Drought Rehabilitation          8.0         4.5
635-SO    L976    Somalia    North-West Agriculture         10.0         7.5
698-SO    1977    Somalia    Somali Development Bank         5.0         4.9
699-S0    1977    Somalia    Third Highway (Hargeisa-
Borama)                       7.0        5.7
738-SO    1977    Somalia    Third Education                 8.0         7.7
821-SO    1978    Somalia    Technical Assistance /1         3.0         3.0
822-S0    1978    Somalia    Mogadishu Water Supply /i   6.0             6.0
838-SO    1978    Somalia    Fourth Port /1                  5.5         5.5
Total                       112.1       54.1
of which has been paid        0.5
total now held by IDA       111.6
/1   Not yet effective.



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 5
B. it<fOJECTS IN EXECUTION - SOMALIA 1/
Credit No. 123:      Highway Supplement (Afgoi-Baidoa); $2.3 million Credit of
June 26, 1968:  Date of Effectiveness:  February 25, 1979;
Closing Date: originally December 31, 1971 and postponed
eight time to June 30, 1979.
The construction of the Afgoi-Baidoa road was completed in
March 1971. The International Chamber of Commerce made an arbitration award
to the Contractor (Joint Venture) on December 3, 1975, in an amount of DM
11,648,333.04 with interest at DM 1,356.20 per day from December 15, 1975; a
Government counterclaim against the Contractor was rejected. A series of
meetings were held between Government and the Contractor to try to resolve
the matter, the last such meeting, convened by the European Development Fund,
took place at Brussels on October 4, 1977; representatives of the IDA attended
the meeting as observers. No final settlement of the dispute was reached.
However, we have since been informed that a Somali Delegation met repre-
sentative of the Contractor in Bonn in March and September 1978, and proposed
a DM 10 million settlement and a schedule of payments. The contractor's
representative expressed interest and promised to discuss the proposal with
his Board of Directors and convey their reaction to the Somali Government. We
have been informed recently that the Contractor has refused the Government's
offer to pay the proposed settlement by installments.  The Government-
Contractor negotiations continue.
Credit No. 295:       Highway II (Hargeisa-Berbera); $9.6 million Credit of
March 30, 1972; Date of Effectiveness: May 11, 1972;
Closing Date: originally December 31, 1975 and post-
poned thrice to June 30, 1978.
The construction of the Hargeisa-Berbera road was completed in
June 1975.  The feasibility study and detailed engineering for the Hargeisa-
Borama road and technical assistance in transport planning have also been
completed. The Project was completed successfully.
Credit No. 359:       Port of Mogadishu; $12.95 million Credit of March 15, 1973;
Date of Effectiveness; September 10, 1973; Closing Date:
originally June 30, 1977 and postponed once to June 30, 1978.
Credit No. 586:      Mogadishu Port Extension Project; $5.2 million Credit of
October 15, 1975; Date of Effectiveness; January 15, 1976;
Closing Date: originally December 31, 1978 and postponed
once to June 30, 1979.
The civil works, including the extension, were completed in
October 1977, six months behind schedule. Several outstanding claims of the
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any prob-
lems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 5
contractor were settled in July 1977 and payment effected in April 1978. The
port operating equipment has been delivered. Because of the continuing short-
age of skilled staff in the country as a whole, the Somali Port Authority
continues to face problems in finding staff with the necessary skills to take
full advantage of the training aspects of the consultancy services provided
under the credit. As a result of the recommendations made by the consultants,
tariffs have been revised. The Port Regulations have been enacted.
Credit No. 462:      Livestock (Trans-Juba) Project; $10 Million Credit of
February 20, 1974; Date of Effectiveness: October 29,
1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
Stock route and ranch development have made good progress but bore-
hole drill.ing and the veterinary assistance component are delayed. FAO has
supplied an irrigation engineer, and 4 senior staff have been recruited
by the Livestock Development Agency directly from India to replace supervision
consultants. Certain measures to improve Project Management and to enable
satisfactory completion of the Project have been proposed by the Government,
which are acceptable. The measures provide for execution of the Project to be
the responsibility of the Minister of Livestock, through the Livestock Develop-
ment Agency.
Credit No. 511:      Second Education Project; $8 million Credit of September 19,
1974; Date-of Effectiveness: December 19, 1974; Closing
Date: June 30, 1980.
The Elementary Teachers Training College is complete and in use.
Construction of the nomadic centers, the Academy of Somali Studies and the
Fishery and Marine Institute are about a year behind schedule due to staffing
shortage of the Project Implementation Unit and delays in establishing cri-
teria for locating the Nomadic Training Centers. Construction contracts have
now been awarded for 19 of the 22 project institutions and disbursements are
expected to increase rapidly as a result. Latest cost estimates indicate an
overrun of about 3 percent which is manageable.
Credit No. 623:      Drought Rehabilitation Program -- Juba-Shebelli Emergency
Settlement Scheme; $8 million Credit of July 7, 1976;
Date of Effectiveness: August 31, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1980.
Project implementation, especially procurement of vehicles and
equipment and land clearing, is slow, mainly due to high turnover of consul-
tancy staff. One settlement location as originally selected is unsuitable and
the settlers may have to be moved as soon as the studies confirm suitability of
a new area. The interriverine study financed under the Project points to a
much lower irrigation potential than previously expected. Inadequate staffing
of the Settlement Development Agency has presented a problem, and therefore 13
middle level staff have been recruited from India.



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 5
CreuLi  No. 635:     North-West Region Agricultural Development Project; $10
million Credit of July 7, 1976; Date of Effectiveness:
February 9, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
After the Credit was declared effective on February 8, 1977, the
project suffered a setback when the ULG Consultants' team withdrew from Somalia
in February 1978 on the basis of "force majeure" following the Ogaden War.
Project management has been actively replacing the ULG team by recruiting
individual specialists from Pakistan for supervisory posts, and other consul-
tants for feasibility studies. With the delivery of most of the construction
equipment in October-November, 1978 and operators' training well advanced, the
conservation work is expected to start on schedule in 1979.
Credit No. 698:      Somali Development Bank; $5 million Credit of June 1,
1977; Date of Effectiveness: February 27, 1978; Closing
Date: June 30, 1981.
SDB's volume of operations, and also disbursements to date under
the IDA Credit, have so far proceeded at lower than expected levels due mainly
to slower growth in SDB lending to industry. Implementation of the technical
assistance component of the Project, including training of Somali staff and
rqcruitment of expatriate advisers, is progressing satisfactorily.
Credit No. 699:      Third Highway Project; $7 million Credit of June 1, 1977;
Date of Effectiveness: January 24, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980.
The contract for construction works on the Hargeisa-Borama road,
with a link to Tug Wajale, has been awarded and consultants engaged to carry
out supervision. The Construction work started on January 10, 1978. However,
the construction work came to a standstill at the end of November, 1978
following a bombardment at Gebile, near the Contractors' main camp. All
expatriate staff of the Contractor left the project site. We have been
recently informed that the Contractor resumed construction during the first
week of February 1979. Technical proposals, from a short list of consulting
firms, for provision of services covering feasibility study for the Dinsor-
Bardera-Gelib road were evaluated by the Government and subsequently con-
sultants satisfactory to the Association have been selected. The feasibility
study has commenced.
Credit No. 738:      Third Education Project; $8 million Credit of September 30,
1977; Date of Effectiveness: March 13, 1978; Closing Date:
September 30, 1983.
Physical implementation is still in the preparatory phase. Design
work and tender documents have been completed for the State Printing Agency
extensions and for the new Health Personnel Training Institute. Technical
assistance has been recruited for the manpower survey and for the National
Trade-Testing Center. Nine Somalis have commenced studies abroad in curricu-
lum development. The technical and accountancy sections of the Project Unit
are adequately staffed and overall progress is satisfactory.



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 5
Credil: No. 821-SO: Technical Assistance Project; $3 million Credit of
June 6, 1978; Planned Date of Effectiveness: May 31,
1979; Closing Date: December 1, 1981.
Efforts are underway to recruit a Senior Project Advisor. A suit-
able candidate has been identified. This appointment is required for Credit
effectiveness.
Credit No. 822-SO: Mogadishu Water Supply Project; $6 million Credit of
June 6, 1978; Planned Date of Effectiveness: May 31,
1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
Efforts are underway to recruit a Technical Operations Advisor
and a Financial Advisor. These appointments are required for Credit
effectiveness.
Credit No. 838-SO: Fourth Port Project; $5.5 million Credit of July 6,
1978; Planned Date of Effectiveness: May 31,
1979; Closing Date: October 31, 1980.
This Credit has not yet become effective.






ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
SOMALIA
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND FARM MANAGEMENT TRAINING PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
I.   Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken to prepare Project: 7 months
(b)  Preparation by                    Government of Somalia Assisted
by RMEA
(c)  Initial discussions with Bank:  June 1977
(d)  F'irst Bank mission            : November 1977
(e)  Appraisal mission departure  : January 1978
(f)  Negotiations                   : March 1979
(g)  Planned Date of Effectiveness:  September 1979
II.  Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
III. Special Conditions
1.   A Project Management Unit would be established and maintained
(luring the execution of the Project (para 40).
2.   A Technical Coordination Committee would be established under the
chairmanship of the Director General of Agriculture (para 48).
3.   A study on agricultural research strategy would be developed by
the Government and submitted to the Association by September
30,1980 for review (para 51).
IV. Additional Conditions for effectiveness of the proposed Credit would
be that:
1.   Government had provided the 60 ha. training farm for use by
the FMETC and the 400 ha. Demonstration State Farm for the
FMAS (para 38).
2.   The Project Management Unit shall have been established
(para 40).



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
3.   Government had appointed the Project Director, the Project
Technical Manager, the Financial Controller, the Procurement
Agency and the consultant to assist PMU with procurement and
supervision of construction (para 40).
4.   Government had paid So.Sh. 3 million to the Project Management
Unit Project Account (para 56).
5.   All conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the co-
financiers agreements regarding the Project had been met
(para 71).



IBRD 13606
JUNE 1978
48'
EL r    C DEMOCRATIC
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
OJ' JIBOUT)                                                          GulUf    of    Aode.7                                              Bereda    12'
0
,       v             ,/   Q2~~~~IBOUTI
CyId_                                                                                                    ALULA
eyla                                                                Adodo  Bosaso                -        -
SJ}                                                            *> M t KANDALA |
X.  $  berbero<                 <                  A         S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L~ KORE!    
B.rbero  4>              Erigovo                 ~~~~~~~      ~~Loz D  IaSKUSI-OPAN -
. ; \> )     -A  c~G         e        S HERIGAVO P
Tu                         gWa j Waj                                             r-1S'g >|""'N    /  Gordt +BenderBeile
<++6  s s   .     ,                             ~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~TALEH    Ii) :     (
.. .       4  . , .    .\ \ \ L A   NO     /vL           ..............................LA S.......AN....... 
S O M A L I A                                               .< _ .+'                                                        %\Los Anod /
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND                                                         4in                        Goe
FARM MANAGEMENT TRAINING PJRO T                                                                                     GARUE 
o fONsTRATioN StATE FARmln
-     REGIONSAFFECTED BY THE AGI CU LT1,RAL "7 .ORN$10
SERVICESIROV1ODEUNDERTHE PROJECT
,     EXTENSION TRAIMMICENTE F,
2     FARMMANAGEMENTANOEXTEISIONTEAINPNOC0I1E8                                                  GALKAYO         JARI-AN
9ITUM4NOINS SURFACED ROADS
GRAVE1EAETH SURFACED ROADS j
M. MAJOR FORTS                                   :                                                Yl-
+      DOMRSTIC AIRFIELDS                          .,
*      INTERNATIONAL AIRFIELDS .
Rg 89p
_    _ DILSTRICT BOUSDARIES                                         -
-.  -  REWION BOUNDARIES :
INTERNATIONAL SOUNDARIE         '
. 9;er/ ............... l fEL BUR  ..........!HARDR
7/0                                                 70    100    170    200    250    300
GA  A     
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~LWAK~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~M . a enppa yh ,idMP.f.tOno.een.t
h~4a.  ~Mnt,d otefih.-40ASl.n.W~hthdt
N~~~~~~~~~tter..b4Ono,,.e,..T...,nlO#fRhb
anb4nafo n.aaf,tn  ena.me.a.
MOGADISHU~~~~~~~O.
k~~~~~~imy
<~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1 N
44'                                                         4_                  _     __      _     __      _     _



