Document of            >
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 217Oa-SO
SOMALIA
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND FARM MANAGEMENT TRAINING PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
April 12, 1979
Eastern Africa Region
Northern Agriculture Division
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit             =     Somali Shillings (So.Sh.)
US$ 0.1589                =     So. Sh. 1.00
US$ 1.00                  =     So. Sh. 6.295
WEIGHT AND MEASURES
2
1 hectare (ha)        2         10,000 m  = 2.47 acres
1 square kilometer (km ) =      100 ha    = 0.39 square miles
1 metric ton (mt)        =      1,000 kg  = 2,204 lbs.
ABBREVIATIONS
ADC   -   Agricultural Development Corporation
ADF   -   African Development Fund
CARS  -   Central Agricultural Research Station
CSD   -   Central Statistical Department
DEO   -   District Extension Officer
DSF   -   Demonstration State Farm
EEC   -   European Economic Community
ETC   -   Extension Training Center
FEA   -   Field Extension Agent
FMAS  -   Farm Management Advisory Service
FMETC -   Farm Management and Extension Training Center
FTC   -   Farmers Training Center
GOS   -   Government of Somalia
ICB   -   International Competitive Bidding
IDA   -   International Development Association, World Bank
MOA   -   Ministry of Agriculture
MCSB  -   National Commercial and Savings Bank
NES   -   National Extension Service
ONAT  -   National Tractor Hiring Agency
PMU   -   Project Management Unit
REO   -   Regional Extension Officer
SDB   -   Somali Development Bank
USAID -   United States Agency for International Development
WDA   -   Water Development Agency
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
SOMALIA
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND FARM MANAGEMENT TRAINING PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
t
Page No.
I.   THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ...................................   1
A. Background .
B. The Production Environment.. 3
C.  Agricultural Policies and Services.                           4
D.   Agricultural Extension and Farm Management Services          7
D.   Major Constraints to Increased Crop Production.              9
II.   THE PROJECT ...........................................10
A.   Project Concept ...................................O10
B. General Project Description .11
C. Detailed Features .12
III.   PROJECT COST ESTIMATES, FrNANCING, PROCUREMENT AND
DISBURSEMENT .29
A. Project Cost Estimates .29
B. Financing .31
C. Procurement .33
D.   Disbursement .......................................... 34
E.   Accounts and Audit .............   35
IV.   ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT .............   35
V.   PRODUCTION, FARMER BENEFITS, AND EFFECTS ON
GOVERNMENT CASH FLOW .............   38
A.   Production and Farmer Benefits ....         .........  38
B.   Government Cash Flow ................................. 45
VI.   BENEFITS AND ECONOMIC JUSTIFICATION              .       .       45
VII.   SUMMARY OF AGREEMENTS REACHED .............                      48
The proposed Project was prepared by Government with the assistance
of RMEA (Regional Mission in East Africa). This report is based on the
findings of an appraisal mission which Jisited Somalia in Januarv/February
1978 composed of Messrs. S. Gafsi and K. Niemann, IDA, and Messrs. E. Reisch
and R. Sood (consultants).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-2-
Page No.
CHARTS IN THE MAIN TEXT
Chart
1                Organization of the Ministry of Agriculture              51
2                Project Organization                                     52
IMPLEMENTATION VOLUME
Table of Contents                                                         53
IM?LEMENTATION SCHEDULE - Chart 3                                         54
LIST OF MAPS
IBRD 13606 Somalia
A^



SOMALIA
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND FARM MANAGEMENT TRAINING PROJECT
I. THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
A. Background
1.01      With a per capita GDP below $100, Somalia is one of the poorest
countries in Africa. Total population in 1978 was estimated at around 3.7
million with an annual rate of growth of around 2.6%. The majority of
Somalis live in rural areas and practice subsistence crop production and
nomadic animal husbandry. The country's two main exports are livestock and
bananas, which in 1976 accounted for nearly 90% of total exports. Increased
livestock exports could be achieved mainly through better local marketing
structures. Banana production and exports have been declining since 1972
and are expected to continue to decline because of failure to sustain the
productivity of plantations. Somalia's imports are dominated by investment
goods and other essential items such as cereals, petroleum and medical pro-
ducts. Government policy aims at substituting cereal imports through local
production.
1.02      Somalia is located between the latitudes 11030'N. and 1030'S with
an area of over 638,000 square kilometers. The topography consists mainly of
plateaus sloping from the Ethiopian highlands to the Indian Ocean in the East
and the Gulf of Aden in the North. These plateaus are broken by chains of
mountains in the North and they end in a broad coastal plain in the South.
Climatically, Somalia may be divided into (a) the Northwest zone with a
semi-mediterranean climate and with an average rainful of over 400mm per year
in certain areas, (b) the Central and the Northern sea coast zone with an arid
and hot climate and with annual precipitation ranging between 50 and 100mm,
and (c) the Southern zone with an equatorial climate and with precipitation
of up to 600mm per year.  Two rainy seasons prevail over much of the country,
the major one referred to as "Gu" from March-April to June and the other one
referred to as "Der" from September-October to December.
1.03      Most of Somalia is, therefore, classified as arid to semi-arid and
the natural environment is on the whole rather harsh. Rainfall is not only
low but also irregular both with respect to total quantity and to its timing
and spread over the seasons. This irregularity causes partial and in places
complete rainfed crop failures in two out of five years. Groundwater resources,
although thought to be limited, remain substantially unexplored. The two
major rivers, Shebelli and Juba, flow through the southern part of the country.
The Shebelli flows for about 7 months, while the Juba flows throughout the
year.



1.04      About 8.2 million hectares or 13% of the land area in Somalia have
been estimated as potentially suitable for crop production, but only about
0.7 million hectares or 1% of the total area are cultivated. Land use, as
reflected by the existing sketchy statistics, may be described as follows:
Land Use                   Area ('000 ha)   % of Total
Controlled Irrigation                     50             0.08
Flood Irrigation                         110             0.17
Rainfed Farming                          540             0.85
Total Cultivated                       700             1.10
Cultivable but Uncultivated            7,500            11.75
Total Cultivable                    8,200             12.85
Rangeland                          28,800             45.15
Unusable                           26,800             42.00
Total Land Area                  63,800            100.00
TwID regions, Lower Shebelli and Bay, together contain over 40% of the total
cultivated area. About 70% of the irrigated area is along the Shebelli
River, 27% is along the Juba River and 2% is in the Northwest. In contrast,
out of an estimated total area of 240,000 ha potentially suitable for irriga-
tion, about two-thirds are located along the Shebelli River. There is a
shortage of water to meet the irrigation needs of available good land along
the Shebelli River and a shortage of good land for optimum use of the water
available in the Juba River.
1.05      Traditionally, cultivable land has been held by families whose
members acquire the right to cultivate by virtue of birth, kinship or adoption.
Law No. 173 of October 1975 declared all land state property and gave the
Ministry of Agriculture responsibility for granting concessions to individuals
desiring to use land for agricultural purposes. The new law intends to
transform the traditional land usage into a leasehold system with provisions
for lease transfer and lease inheritance. Cooperative land use would also
be promoted. Government has started land registration to implement this law,
bult shortage of manpower has delayed progress. Meanwhile, regional authori-
ties issue concessions to any Somali desiring to cultivate land that has lain
id:Le for two or more years. In general, however, customary rights over cul-
tivable land continue to be respected. Larger tracts of cultivable land
tend to be under the control of larger families, indicating the general
availability of land to those who wish to cultivate it.
1.06      Crop production in Somalia engages about 195,000 families, most of
them in rainfed farming. Livestock production is Somalia's principal economic
activity, engaging approximately two-thirds of the population. Following the
19,73-75 drought, Government is attempting to expand irrigation and thereby
recduce the impact of future droughts. The overall performance of both the
crops and livestock sub-sectors is difficult to assess, as reliable data are
not: available. It appears, however, that domestic output which had declined
sharply as a result of the drought, has been continuously improving, although
pre-drought levels of production have not yet been reached.



- 3 -
1.07      Sorghum, maize and sesame are the three principal crops in Somalia
accounting for 90% of the cultivated area. Sorghum, mostly grown on small
rainfed farms, covers approximately 55% of the total cultivated area.
Bananas, sugar cane, vegetables and fruit as well as small amounts of
groundnuts, sesame, cotton and pulses are grown under irrigation. State
farms growing maize, rice and other irrigated crops are slowly gaining
importance. The overall position in 1975 was as follows:
Crop                     Area            Production         Yields
---ha--       --%--      (tons)          --kg/ha--
Sorghum           388,000        55%       137,000              353
Maize             172,000        25%       150,000              872
Sesame             70,000        10%        26,500              378
Bananas            10,000         1%       142,000           14,200
Others             60,000         9%
1.08      Cereal consumption in the country is around 350,000 tons per year,
of which about 15-30% has to be imported. Production trends are not keeping
pace with population increases, thus increasing the future reliance on
imports.  Nevertheless, there is considerable scope to increase the cul-
tivated area both for rainfed and irrigated crops. Most importantly, how-
ever, there is ample room for increased productivity without substantial
additional inputs and with reliance on the present level of know-how. In
rainfed agriculture, the ineffectiveness of the extension service, and in
irrigated agriculture the lack of technical know-how and the absence of man-
agement skills are major impediments to the realization of such increase in
productivity.
1.09      The Government of Somalia has requested IDA assistance in financing
an Agricultural Extension and Farm Management Training Project that would
expand and improve the services provided by the Department of Production and
Extension of the Ministry of Agriculture (MOA). The objective would be to
create an environment where existing and new know-how could flow to all
agricultural producers and where public lands become an effective policy tool
for stabilizing food supplies and meeting the country's needs in emergency
situations.
B. The Production Environment
1.10      Production Patterns.  A typical rainfed small farm consists of about
five hectares under cultivation where sorghum is the main crop with some inter-
planted pulses, and small areas of maize, sesame, millet and more recently
groundnuts. Maize is normally only grown in the Gu season while sorghum is
sown or ratooned in both the Gu and the Der seasons. A small number of live-
stock is herded in the neighboring grazing areas. Cultivation is done by
family labor using rudimentary hand tools and practically no market inputs.
Along the Shebelli and Juba Rivers, some small farms benefit from flood
irrigation which allows them to grow relatively more maize and sesame.



-4-
1.11      State Farms.  As a result of the 1973-1975 drought, the MOA has
taken over an increasing number of irrigated large scale farms in order to
increase food production in general and to provide a reliable source of food
supply in case of another drought. Shortage of qualified management, however,
has resulted in poorly run farms, often being a burden on the Government
budget rather than contributing to it. Large scale irrigated state farms with
an average size of about 600 hectares specialize in food crops such as rice,
maize and sesame, or concentrate on bananas and sugar cane.  Some cotton is
also grown. Settlement schemes and crash program farms are operated in a
manner similar to that of state farms. Livestock has not been integrated,
so far, in the production process on state farms.
C. Agricultural Policies and Services
1.12      The severe drought of 1973-1975 disrupted the Somali economy but
has forced Government to reorder the country's development priorities, parti-
cularly in agriculture. Somalia aims at self-sufficiency in major food commo-
dities through an expansion of the area under cultivation and through gains
in productivity. The main elements to achieve this are increased technical
assistance to agriculture, soil conservation, better water management and
irrigation intensification and progressive transition from nomadism to set-
tled farming. Irrigation development is intended as a shield against future
weather vagaries affecting crops, while range conservation and management
would protect livestock against future prolonged drought. The livestock
development strategy emphasizes disease control measures, improvement of the
marketing system and improvement of herd productivity through better range and
animal management.
1.13      The 1974-78 development program reserved 29% of planned investments
to the crop production sub-sector. The aim was to achieve self-sufficiency
in sorghum, maize, oilseeds, cotton and sugar, and a partial import substitu-
tion for rice and wheat, mainly through accelerated development of state farms
and cooperatives and the intensification of Government services to farmers.
Nearly four fifths of planned investments in agriculture were allocated to
irrigaton development for a reliable food supply, despite the high investment
costs. The emphasis on irrigation has been a matter of phasing of priorities
and currently Government is turning more to the development of rainfed crop
production, particularly through strengthening research to make know-how
available and the establishment of Extension and Farm Management Advisory
Services to deliver this knowhow to small farmers and to state and joint-
venture farms. The major factor slowing Government efforts has been the lack
of trained manpower at all levels.
1.14      Ministry of Agriculture (MOA).  Government programs related to crop
production are the responsibility of the MOA assisted by parastatals and
public agencies - the Agricultural Development Corporation (ADC), the National
Tractor Hiring Agency (ONAT), the Somali Development Bank (SDB), and the Water
Development Agency (WDA). The organization of the MOA is shown in Chart 1.
The Ministry suffers from a shortage of trained staff both at headquarters and
in the field. Existing field staff are limited to administrative functions
because of lack of or badly organized transport.



- 5 -
1.15      ADC was set up in 1971 and granted a monopoly to purchase all
marketable surpluses of sorghum, maize, oilseeds and cotton from farmers,
to procure sorghum and maize from abroad (when necessary), and to sell
this produce to regional governments and municipalities at prices fixed by
Government. The regional governments and municipalities in turn sell these
commodities at a price which is fixed by Government and which is intended
to cover the cost of handling. ONAT provides tractor hire services for farm
operations and distributes inputs. ONAT's operations are constrained by a
shortage of trained staff, operation over a widely dispersed area and inex-
perience of its management in large-scale operations. WDA is an autonomous
agency within the Ministry of Mineral and Water Resources which is charged
with the siting, drilling and equipping of boreholes for municipal and rural
water supply and the excavation and maintenance of man-made water reservoirs
for livestock. It suffers from shortages of both qualified staff and equipment
and, for that reason, is not very active. The Somali Development Bank lends
to all sectors of the economy. For instance, agricultural loans are given for
tractors, wells, pumps, and the clearing and leveling of land. Security
consists of liens on equipment, with mortgages of personal property. During
1977, SDB expected to lend small farmers up to So.Sh. 10 million (US$1.6
million). Interest rates on agriculture loans are 5.5% per annum for short
and medium term loans (1-6 years) and 6% per annum for long term loans (7-20
years).
1.16      Agricultural Research.  Crop research under the responsibility of
the Director of the Agricultural Research Institute (part of the MOA) is
currently being carried out almost exclusively at the Central Agricultural
Research Station (CARS) at Afgoi. Three regional research stations are
being developed in the major ecological zones, one at Gelib in Middle Juba
(irrigated), another at Bonka in Bay Region (rainfed), and the third at
Aburein in the Northwest Region (rainfed). The CARS at Afgoi was started
in 1965 with technical assistance from the University of Wyoming, funded
by USAID. Initial trials included variety testing and cultural practices,
mostly for irrigated crops. In 1969 the US assistance was terminated and
research activities were reduced due to a shortage of staff and funds.
UNDP/FAO are now assisting with a 6-year program implemented by MUCIA, a
consortium of seven Midwestern universities in the USA. 1/ The past and
on-going programs are steps in the right direction but fall far short of
current needs. Programs under the latter project are being approved from year
to year, which makes worthwhile planning difficult. Adaptive research to be
financed under the on-going IDA Northwest Region Development Project and the
proposed Bay Region Development Project is expected to shift the emphasis to
rainfed agriculture. Although some work has been done, there is a great need
for a long range comprehensive adaptive research program. Cost savings and
early results could be achieved by making use of knowledge available in other
countries and at international research centers.
1/   UNDP Project Som/72/014/C/01/12.  Provisions over 4 years amount to
$2.6 million.



1.17      Cooperatives.  In an attempt to facilitate its access to farmers,
the MOA has strongly supported the development of cooperatives. These are
expected to become a major vehicle for the transfer of knowledge to farmers
and for providing access to the market at an affordable cost for small scale
producers. Three types of cooperatives have been given legal status:
(a) Multipurpose Cooperatives. Such cooperatives have a minimum
of 100 members and are intended to provide organizational,
technical and administrative assistance both to members of
farmers cooperatives and to cooperative farms. They are meant
to supply inputs and services, to market agricultural products
and, if required, to handle storage and processing.
(b) Cooperative Farms. Within a multipurpose cooperative, a
group of 20 farmers or more may be given a plot of land for
collective or semi-collective cultivation, while the same
farmers continue to cultivate their individual holdings.
Government normally provides facilities for land clearance, a
tractor, a water pump and assists with the building of irriga-
tion canals.
(c)  Production Cooperatives.  Production cooperatives would normally
have a minimum of 30 members, who pool their land and resources
into a large unit. This is expected to be the final stage in
the development of agricultural cooperatives in Somalia, but so
far, no such cooperatives have been formed.
1.18      Prices of major crops are controlled by the Government at all
marketing levels. Producer prices of particular importance are those of
sorghum, maize, rice, oilseeds and cotton. Producer prices of sorghum and
maize are currently set by the ADC at So.Sh. 75 per quintal compared to
selling prices of So.Sh. 116 per quintal and import prices of about So.Sh. 90
per quintal for sorghum and So.Sh. 100 per quintal for maize. The prices of
sorghum and maize have been consistently adjusted upward since 1973. In real
terms, prices for both crops declined in 1974 and 1975 but went back to their
1974 levels in 1977. Prices of oilseeds have been controlled since 1973. The
price of sesame has been raised nominally but declined in real terms. The
prices of groundnuts and sunflower have been maintained at their 1972 level
of So.Sh. 100 per quintal. Upland rice is bought by ADC at So.Sh. 350 per
quintal for milled rice, which is high by international standards, and this
should stimulate domestic production. Government price policy, therefore, is
not presently unfavorable to farmers, but price adjustments tend to lag
because of lack of information and because of the inability of the ADC to
gather market and cost of production information. The weakness of the market-
ing system, however, makes price policy an ineffective tool for increasing
production as most farmers have limited access to the market.
1.19      Inputs.  Government policy has been to encourage the use of modern
production inputs, which have to be imported and are often not only exempted
from duties but are also subsidized. Because quantities of inputs involved
are limited, subsidies may be defendable at this stage of development as a



- 7 -
means of getting farmers familiarized with new techniques, but could become a
political issue if attempts to eliminate them occur at a later stage. It may
put an excessive burden on the Government budget and cause distortions in the
relative prices of inputs, hence causing inefficiency in the allocation of the
country's resources. IDA will maintain a dialogue with Government on this
issue.
D. Agricultural Extension and Farm Management Services
Organization
1.20      Somalia is divided into 16 geo-political administrative regions sub-
divided into 78 administrative districts. Under the Interior Ministry, each
region is administered by a Governor and each district by a District Commis-
sioner. Six regions are rangelands, suitable primarily for livestock, but not
for crop production. Of the other ten regions, six have potential for irriga-
tion, while the other four rely wholly on rain. In these ten regions, 33
districts out of the total of 78 have potential for crop and on-farm livestock
production. The Government has decided accordingly to limit the extension
service to these 33 districts.
1.21      The National Extension Service is headed by the Director of the
Production and Extension Department who reports to the Director-General of
the MOA. At the regional level this department is represented by a Regional
Agricultural Superintendent, who works under the Regional Agricultural Coor-
dinator. The latter officially represents the Ministry of Agriculture in the
Region and is responsible for coordination with the Regional Government. The
Regional Coordinator is responsible directly to the Director-General, along-
side the Regional Land and Water Officer, the Regional Cooperative Officer,
the Regional Administrative Officer and the Regional Plant Protection Officer.
At the district level, there is an Extension Officer, a Plant Protection
Officer, a Land and Water Officer and a Cooperative Officer under a District
Agricultural Officer, who is responsible to the Regional Agricultural Coor-
dinator. Provision is also made for Agricultural Instructors for field work
under the District Agricultural Officer; however, except for a few Cooperative
Instructors, the posts are vacant.  There is thus no effective field service
beyond the district office. The Production and Extension Department is also
concerned with the State Farms Production Service, Seed Multiplication Service,
Credit Service and Extension and Training Service. The majority of extension
personnel at regional and district levels have had eight years of schooling,
but their only agricultural training has consisted of short in-service train-
ing courses. Headquarters staff and Regional Coordinators are a mixture of
university and secondary school graduates and of field trained staff.
1.22      The State Farms Production Service administers the state farms,
which cover about 50,000 ha, or over one-half of the total area farmed in
large scale production units. The remainder consists of the Crash Program
farms, the Settlement Development farms, other large scale farms and coopera-
tive farms. All large scale production units are administered by Government



- 8-
appointed staff, often with no technical background and in most cases with no
managerial skills. Large scale production units have been created without
taking into account the availability of competent people to run them.
Training
1.23      Agricultural training is provided at three levels:
(a) The Faculty of Agriculture of the National University of
Somalia was set up at Afgoi in 1971 and offers a four-year
course in agriculture for secondary school graduates, leading
to a Bachelor of Science degree. Facilities are provided
for an intake of 60 students a year. Only 21 graduated in
1975 and none in 1976; 30 were expected to graduate in 1977/78.
The present enrollment in the four classes is 164. In addi-
tion, 62 are enrolled in pre-first year to learn Italian.
English is also taught and used to a limited extent as medium
of instruction. A high proportion of the reference materials
in the library is in English. The Faculty, supported by the
University of Florence, has staffing problems; 11 of the 33
permanent teachers are on 6-month assignments. There is also
a shortage of facilities such as a farm for practical training.
The curriculum needs strengthening, with more emphasis on
locally relevant problems, particularly in regard to rainfed
agriculture. Moreover, courses on agricultural extension and
farm and range management should be added.
(b) The Agricultural Secondary School, also at Afgoi, was started
in November 1973. Originally, facilities were provided for a
total enrollment of 240 intermediate school graduates for a
four-year curriculum leading to a secondary school level
diploma in agriculture. Recently, the period was reduced to
three years by presidential decree. The majority of students
have a rural background. Instruction is in English. The first
group of 38 students graduated in 1978. The school aims to
produce middle level general agricultural technicians for
employment by the MOA, the Ministry of Livestock and other
public and semi-public institutions.  The level of training is
not high because of the shortage of qualified technical teachers,
the lack of practical training facilities and the absence of a
curriculum development capability.  The school urgently needs
the services of at least six permanent teachers in Agricultural
Chemistry and Soil Science, Agricultural Economics, Agricultural
Engineering, Agronomy, Animal Husbandry and Range Management
and Plant Protection.
(c) Farmer training is provided at five Farmers Training Centers
(FTCs) at Bonka, Jannale, Jamame, Aburein and Erigavo. Theore-
tically FTCs are required to run four one-month courses per
year for 30 to 45 farmers. This has not always been possible
because of a shortage of funds, teachers and organization



- 9 -
staff. The courses include agriculture, cooperative organiza-
tion and political education. The trainees, who are "leading
farmers", are expected to pass their knowledge on to other
farmers upon returning home, but the quality of training is
very low due to the shortage of trained instructors. The
frequency of training sessions and enrollment are limited
by the lack of facilities and transport.
E. Major Constraints to Increased Crop Production
1.24      The present extension organization has several weaknesses.  While
limited staff are available for extension work at the regional and district
levels, there are no extension agents at the field level. A major priority
is, therefore, to employ trained extension officers at all levels, in partic-
ular at the field level.
1.25      The present extension staff of the MOA is, by and large, not appro-
priately qualified. In the circumstances, it would not be feasible to upgrade
the quality of the staff, since facilities for systematic in-service training
do not exist; in any case, the Government lacks the resources to undertake
such a program. Even staff who graduate from the Agricultural Faculty and
the Agricultural Secondary School lack practical knowledge and experience in
growing a crop properly. This is particularly important on state farms, where
those in charge also lack managerial capability and the motivation to produce
efficiently.
1.26      The work of the extension staff and of state farm supervisors is not
adequately planned or supervised. Technical guidance is needed, not only for
the individual farmers cultivating their smallholdings, but also for large
scale production units, including state farms, group farming cooperatives,
settlement farms, "Crash Program" farms, as well as state run seed farms.
These units also need management assistance.
1.27      The flow of knowledge from the research stations, relating to suit-
able high yielding seed varieties and proven agronomic practices, is slow
and often of low quality, particularly regarding rainfed farming.  More
research is needed on the development of technology based on improved hand
tools and draught animals. Research facilities need strengthening, partic-
ularly at the regional stations. Effective coordination between research
and extension needs to be established.
1.28      Infrastructural facilities are inadequate for making inputs like
fertilizers, improved seeds, pesticides, and credit available. Farmers are
not, however, at a technological stage where such facilities would represent
a serious constraint to production at their present level of technology, but
would need to be strengthened once effective extension work increases the
demand for marketed inputs. ONAT, which has a monopoly for the distribution
of inputs, would need to expand its distribution network. Facilities for the
production and processing of seeds would need to be streamlined. The Somali



- 10 -
Development Bank (SDB) and the National Commercial and Savings Bank (NCSB)
would have to strengthen their services to ensure more widespread availability
of credit.
II. THE PROJECT
A. Project Concept
2.01      A strategy to increase production of major food commodities
(paras. 1.12, 1.13) would have to take the following factors into account:
(a) Somali agriculture is mainly rainfed and, hence may suffer
from the insufficiency, overabundance, and improper timing of
rainfall. Partial and in certain places complete crop failures
occur two years out of five. Any technological improvements
in rainfed agriculture, therefore, would also have to be risk
reducing or at least risk neutral from the farmer's point of
view;
(b) Husbandry practices are rudimentary and suffer from elementary
failures, such as unsatisfactory land preparation, low quality
seeds, inadequate seeding and seed rate, lack of weed control,
improper timing, and a total absence of rational water manage-
ment and moisture conservation. These are situations which the
farmer himself could remedy at little cost with more efficient
use of his family labor. Many of these practices are risk
reducing from the farmer's point of view;
(c) A policy aimed at self-sufficiency in food could not rely ex-
clusively on irrigated agriculture. Available information
indicates that not more than 240,000 ha could potentially be
irrigated; and
(d) The supply of skilled manpower remains very limited for rainfed
or irrigated agriculture.  Long term solutions need to be
devised to correct the situation.
2.02      Despite its emphasis on irrigation, the 1974-78 plan (para 1.13) did
not give due consideration to the resources needed to exploit the potential of
newly established irrigation facilities. In addition to capital, irrigated
agriculture needs motivated people with the appropriate technical knowledge.
This need has not been met, so far. Rainfed agriculture, on the other hand,
has suffered from limited public investment. Contributing factors were the
inbuilt limitations of a primitive agriculture, spread over extensive areas
and involving a large number of small decision making units, as well as the
limited capacity of the public sector to put together an improved techno-
logical package and to muster the human resources capable of extending such a
package to farmers. Simple and low cost productivity increasing practices are



- 11 -
known in Somalia, and a sustained flow of further yield increasing practices
could be established by strengthening adaptive research.
2.03      Thus, the main problem is how to raise the level of technology in
both irrigated and rainfed agriculture to what is achievable with the present
know-how. The proposed Project would strengthen the Extension Service,
develop a National research strategy, and establish a Farm Management Advisory
Service, all of which would bring essential knowledge to the farm level. The
proposed Project would also provide for the training of staff who would be
expected to transfer the knowledge most appropriate for various types of farms
and to communicate it to those who make production decisions. This training
would take place at the proposed Farm Management and Extension Training Center
to be located at Afgoi and at two of the existing Extension Training Centers
at Jannale and Bonka.
B. General Project Description
2.04      The Project would, over a period of five years, provide technical
assistance, strengthen the Extension Service and make it operational at the
field level. The Project would also establish a Farm Management Advisory
Service which would assist large scale producers and develop a farm manage-
ment capability to run state and cooperative farms efficiently. Specific-
ally, the Project would provide for:
(a)  The establishment of a Farm Management and Extension Training
Center (FMETC) at Afgoi to provide practical pre-service training
for farm managers, assistant managers and field managers, and for
regional and district level extension staff reaching out for
small farmers (para. 2.08). Development and operation of the FMETC
would include: a 60 ha training farm, staff housing, a library,
classrooms, a dormitory, a workshop and other facilities needed
for training, as well as transport. It would be a condition of
credit effectiveness that Government had officially allocated to
the FMETC the 60 ha training farm;
(b)  The strengthening of the National Extension Service (NES)
through the introduction of an extension methodology with
emphasis on continuous training given to extension personnel
and regular contact with farmers. The Project would provide
for upgrading two Farmers' Training Centers, which would be
converted into Extension Training Centers (ETC's). The Project
would also provide for the construction of staff housing,
offices, other facilities, transport, and for incremental
operating costs;
(c)  The establishment of a Farm Management Advisory Service (FMAS)
to provide field back-up to existing and newly trained farm
managers, and advise Government on large scale farming and
related issues. A 400 ha state farm at Jannale would be



- 12 -
rehabilitated to become a Demonstration State Farm (DSF).
FMAS would also strengthen the management of the two other
state farms in the vicinity of Jannale which, along with the
DSF, would be used by the FMETC students during the field
internship stage of their training. The Project would provide
for the construction of staff housing, offices, a workshop,
storage facilites and transport. Operating costs would be
financed for three years for the DSF after which it is expected
to become self-sufficient, and for five years for the other
activities of the FMAS;
(d) A Project Management Unit, which would be responsible for
Project implementation, for procurement of all Project related
goods and services and for monitoring its progress and evaluat-
ing its results. A system of internal functional monitoring
at all levels of the organizational structure of the Project
would be established and the information generated from it
would be fed back into the Project Management decision making
process. The Project would provide for the construction of
staff housing and office space, transport and operating expendi-
tures for five years;
(e) Strengthening the Agricultural Secondary School at Afgoi through
the provision of teachers and training equipment;
(f) Training abroad, which would cover: (i) post-graduate training
abroad for 38 faculty graduates; (ii) three to six week trips
abroad for senior Ministry of Agriculture personnel (9 man
months); (iii) study trips of at least 3 months duration for
senior extension and farm management field technical staff (21
man months); and (iv) about 3 month study trips for district
extension officers (192 man months);
(g) Developing a Master Plan for strengthening the National Research
System and its links with Extension; and
(h) Strengthening the Central Department of Statistics in the State
Planning Commission and setting the stage for a National Statis-
tical Development Program.
C. Detailed Features
2.05      In addition to the components dealing directly and exclusively with
National Extension and Farm Management, the Project would provide funds for
three components of broader scope, namely (i) the development of a national
agricultural research strategy, (ii) the strengthening of the Department of
Statistics in the Planning Commission with the objective of initiating a
national program for development of statistics, and (iii) the strengthening
of the Agricultural Secondary School.



- 13 -
2.06      The Agricultural Research strategy would be developed as a basis for
initiating useful research programs and, for this reason, it would be prepared
as soon as the project becomes effective. Support to the Statistics Depart-
ment would be the stepping stone for a more comprehensive program for develop-
ment of national statistics and would emphasize training Somali staff. The
Agricultural Secondary School would be the main supplier of Extension and Farm
Management Personnel and, for that reason, would be strengthened to ensure the
quality of that personnel.
The Farm Management and Extension Training Center (FMETC)
Training of Professional Staff
2.07      Potential farm managers, assistant managers, regional extension
officers and directors of ETC's would be Faculty graduates. These graduates
would go through a two-year training program organized in three stages in
order to provide a balanced mix of institutional and field training. The
first 10 months would be spent at the FMETC and would include classroom work
and practical work on the training farm. This would be followed by 11 months
of supervised internship in the field at the DSF or other appropriate loca-
tion, and two months of rounding up training and examinations. At the end of
the two years, trainees would receive a diploma in Farm Management or in Agri-
cultural Extension, depending on their specialization. This diploma would
allow them to accede to the position in the salary scale immediately above the
one they occupied when they joined the FMETC in order to motivate the students
to join the FMETC and remain in the jobs they would ultimately be assigned to.
An understanding on this matter was reached with Government during negotiations.
2.08      Institutional training at the FMETC would be organized in two
semesters of 20 weeks each. The first semester would group both farm manage-
ment and extension trainees and would center on basic instruction on how to
grow crops. The second semester would center on specific skills and technical
requirements of potential farm management personnel on the one hand, and on
those of potential extension personnel on the other hand, as separate groups.
The field internship period lasting 11 months would be spent on selected state
or cooperative farms, settlement schemes, development projects eand other suit-
able large scale farming operations, in the case of farm management trainees.
Extension trainees would spend their internship period at regional extension
headquarters and extension training centers. All trainees would be under the
direct supervision of the FMETC teaching staff during the field internship
program.
2.09      Training at the FMETC would be structured to balance classroom
teaching and practical work on the Training Farm. Training would be given in
a series of 90 to 120 minute sessions, emphasizing the case study approach,
which is considered most suitable for this type of training. Although the
use of case studies in the classroom might be limited in the first few years
because of the expected high number of students per class, this approach
would, nevertheless, be used for field training, workshop training and group
special project work. Using the session as the basic timetable unit, the
weekly schedule for training at the FMETC would be as follows:



- 14 -
Session 1 (7:00 to 9:00 AM)        Practical field training
(6 sessions per week)
Session 2 (9:30 to 11:00AM) &    Classroom sessions on different
Session 3 (11:30 AM to 1:00 PM)    subjects (12 sessions per week)
Session 4 (4:00 PM to 6:00 PM)   Workshop training (twice a week)
Animal husbandry (once a week)
Visit to research station and farms
(once a week)
Project work (twice a week)
Practical field training would include the use of hand tools and simple imple-
ments including ox-drawn implements, the use and maintenance of farm machinery
and the proper maintenance of student plots, where a given team of students
is allocated a piece of land for the period of their stay at the FMETC and on
which they would learn how to grow a crop properly.
2.10      The curriculum for the first semester classroom sessions would cover
the following fields:
Technical subjects:
Crop production and plant protection           4 sessions per week
Animal husbandry                               1 session per week
Implements, machinery and buildings            3 sessions per week
Farm Management:
Basic farm management and farm
accounting                                   2 sessions per week
Agricultural Extension:
Basic extension methods and
communication techniques                     2 sessions per week
2.11      The curriculum for the second semester classroom sessions would
continue with the basic technical subjects, laying emphasis on irrigation,
cropping systems, crop rotation, the integration of animal and crop produc-
tion, and cooperative organization and cooperative farming. These subjects
would take up about half the classroom sessions, or six sessions per week.
The remaining six sessions per week would be used for job-specific training.
Farm management staff would attend special courses covering (i) accounting,
production costing, record-keeping and analysis, and the evaluation of farm
data, (ii) farm planning and budgeting, with emphasis on budgeting for land
and water use, the allocation of machinery and labor, and optimal production
programs, and (iii) management techniques including labor mobilization and
training, workers' motivation and evaluation, team decision making, procure-
ment procedures, and livestock management. Extension staff would attend
special courses in extension methodology and communication techniques, orga-
nization, administrative procedures and performance evaluation.



- 15 -
Training of Agricultural Technicians
2.12      Potential field managers for large scale farms and cooperatives, and
district level extension officers and trainers for the ETC's would be graduates
of the Agricultural Secondary School. They would receive two years of prac-
tical agricultural training at the FMETC based on a format similar to that
described above for professional staff, but at a level commensurate with
the responsibilities they would be called upon to assume. More emphasis
would, however, be put on crop and animal production techniques since they
would be the immediate supervisors for those called upon to implement manage-
ment or extension service recommendations. They would, therefore, need a good
understanding of the technical aspects of the production process and of basic
principles governing the proper use of the means of production. Potential
Field Managers, District Extension Officers and ETC Trainers would be taught
how to grow a number of crops with limited means at their disposal. In addi-
tion, job-specific training would be provided. Field managers would receive
instruction in farm management emphasizing (i) farm machinery and labor
management, work plans, and production costing, (ii) land and water management
and their relationship to cropping systems, (iii) budgeting, record-keeping,
and planning the flow of inputs, and (iv) data collection including the esti-
mation of yields, and measurement and control of field work performance.
Potential district extension officers and ETC trainers would be trained in
extension methodologies and communication techniques and in the design of
village level surveys as well as data collection. Upon successful completion
of their course, these trainees would be awarded a certificate in farm manage-
ment or in extension, according to their specialization. This Certificate
would allow the trainees to accede to the position in the salary scale imme-
diately above the one they were at when they joined the FMETC (see also para
2.07 for professionals). Government assurances to that effect were obtained
at negotiations.
Special Technical Training
2.13      Regional subject matter specialists (para. 2.19), ETC instructors
and field managers on state farms play a critical role in providing training
and technical support to field staff. Attention needs to be given to the
continuous upgrading of their technical competence to enable them to guide
those in charge of actual field operations. They would, therefore, receive
one or two weeks intensive training at the beginning of each season in sub-
jects related to their specialization. In addition, special courses, ranging
from one to several weeks, would be organized at the FMETC to cover a variety
of subjects such as: improved sowing practices, better use of hand tools,
ox-drawn implements, pest and disease control for different crops, new farm
machinery, etc. The program for these special courses would be drawn up by
the Training Program Officer of the NES in cooperation with the FMAS. The
FMETC would also provide courses in farm accounting and farm machinery main-
tenance for prospective bookkeepers and assistant mechanics for large scale
farming units. These courses would be for about 3 months and designed to meet
specific needs as they arise.



- 16 -
FMETC Teaching Staff Requirements
2.14      The FMETC would operate with a full teaching staff of eleven - nine
internationally recruited and two locally recruited. The internationally
recruited staff would consist of seven full time teachers and two part-time
teachers, the latter to be shared, one with the Extension Service and one
with the Farm Management Advisory Service. The seven full-time teachers
would include the Principal of the FMETC who would be an Agricultural Training
Specialist, two Agriculturalists (one with experience in rainfed agriculture
and the other with experience in large scale irrigated agriculture), a Farm
Management Specialist, a Livestock Specialist, an Agricultural Engineer and a
Master Mechanic. The two internationally recruited part-time teachers would
be a Communication Specialist who would be officially assigned to the National
Extension Service headquarters (para. 2.17), and a Farm Economist (agricul-
tural economist with strong background in accounting and farm planning) who
would be officially assigned to the Farm Management Advisory Service (para.
2.31). Two teachers in plant protection and animal husbandry would be
recruited locally. The Plant Protection Specialist would, in the early
stages, be backed up by the two internationally recruited Agriculturalists.
Instruction would be principally in English.
The National Extension Service (NES)
2.15      The Project would support the reorganization and strengthening of
the Agricultural Extension Service ultimately covering 33 out of a total of
78 districts in 10 out of 16 regions of the country. The selection of dis-
tricts for Extension coverage would be based on their relative importance in
terms of potential for crop and on-farm animal production. Trained field
extension agents would ensure regular contacts with farmers, and would
continuously receive intensive on-the-job training at short fixed intervals.
Steps would be taken to provide pre-service, in-service and on-the-job train-
ing for all extension staff in order to raise the level of their technical
competence. A well trained, technically competent, motivated and well-
equipped organization would thus gradually be built up.
2.16      Because of the large size of the country, its poor communications,
because of small areas of capital-intensive irrigation and larger areas which
depend on an erratic rainfall with varying production potential, and, in
particular, because of a shortage of adequately trained staff, the extension
component would be phased over seven years, the first five years falling
within the Project period.  The last two years would not involve major invest-
ments and would consist mainly in a continuation of training and the deploy-
ment of the staff in the field. This would be financed by Government. Exten-
sion operations would be initiated from year one to ensure maximum benefit to
the farmers. Pending the unavoidable time requirements for building up the
ntLmber of trained Extension personnel, it is proposed to initiate the Exten-
sion program on a modest scale with the use of existing untrained staff who
would be carefully screened before their deployment in the start-up program.
They would be assisted and trained periodically on-the-job by two internation-
ally recruited subject matter specialists - a Farming System Specialist and a
Plant Protection Specialist - who would be stationed at headquarters under the



- 17 -
authority of the Director of the NES and would be in contact with the research
scientists at the Central Research Station. The present extension staff would
be rotated through the FMETC/ETCs for more thorough grounding in agricultural
extension as these facilities became available. The start in extension work
would be made in irrigated and rainfed areas close to headquarters in order
to facilitate supervision and intensive on-the-job training. Once extension
staff had been trained, the outlying regions would be progressively staffed.
Priority would be given to the Regions and Districts with the greater poten-
tial in crop and on-farm animal production.
2.17      The technical headquarters of the reorganized NES would be located
at Afgoi and would be headed by a Director who would be an internationally
recruited Agricultural Extension Specialist. He would be responsible for
the supervision, support and coordination of the regional extension activi-
ties. It would be his responsibility to ensure high quality of training and
of field performance. The Director would be assisted by a Farming System
Specialist, a Plant Protection Specialist, a Communications Specialist, all of
whom would be internationally recruited and by a locally recruited Training
Program Officer.
2.18      The crop production sub-sector, as it now exists, would need about
400 new Field Extension Agents (FEAs). Each FEA would serve about 500 fami-
lies. This ratio of one FEA to 500 families takes into consideration the size
and spread of cultivated holdings, the area an agent would have to cover, the
present low level of technology on the average farm, and the level of tech-
nical competence that may be expected from an extension agent. This ratio is
likely to improve as agriculture becomes more intensive and market oriented.
FEAs would be supervised by District Extension Officers (DEOs) at the rate of
one DEO per 8 FEAs. This would enable each DEO to visit the area served by
each of his FEAs once every two weeks at the rate of four touring days per
week. He would check that visits by FEAs were being carried out regularly
and on schedule, and assist the FEAs and farmers in addressing technical
matters. He would attend the training sessions with the regional subject
matter specialists along with the FEAs. This type of work relationship
between the FEAs and DEOs would obviate the need for formal reporting. FEAs
would, however, be expected to maintain diaries of their activities which
would be scrutinized and signed by the supervising DEO. The DEOs would find
out whether the FEA's visits were being made as planned by making surprise
visits and by asking farmers simple questions like the name of the FEA, the
day fixed for his or her visits and whether his or her messages were being
implemented in the fields. Once farmers had become aware of the FEA's visit
schedule, they would themselves become effective supervisors.
2.19      The regional extension program would be headed by the Regional
Extension Officer (REO) who would be assisted by two regional subject matter
specialists, one for crop and on-farm animal production and one for plant
protection. The subject matter specialists would provide on-the-job training
for groups of DEOs and FEAs every two weeks, followed by technical guidance
regarding their field work with farmers. The regional specialists would spend
about one-third of their time briefing FEAs on the "message" to be delivered



- 18 -
to farmers. Another third of their time would be spent on field visits with
DEOs and FEAs, helping them solve specific technical problems and conducting
and supervising crop trials and field demonstrations. The remainder of the
specialists' time would be devoted to preparing the content of the "messages"
and on visits to the local research station for an active, continuing, first
hand contact with research. The REO would involve the research scientists and
the instructors at the ETCs in planning and conducting the regional training
program and in developing training materials. Allowances would be paid to
participating research and ETC personnel. The REOs, DEOs and regional subject
matter specialists would, in turn, be brought together at the FMETC for a
period of two days at the beginning of each month, for intensive training by
the Farming System and Plant Protection Specialists based at Headquarters.
Here again, these specialists would maintain close contact with the Central
Research Station through regular and frequent visits and discussions and
through the active involvement of the research scientists and the FMETC staff
in the formulation of the extension messages to be delivered to farmers.
2.20      The extension effort would concentrate on the few important crops
and a limited number of easily understood tasks to be implemented during the
two-week period between FEA briefing sessions. The message would focus on
those practices likely to bring the best economic results, while making
optimum use of the farmers' available resources. A number of sound research
recommendations and common sense answers to failures in the farming system
are presently available for use by the Extension Service. A parallel devel-
opment of problem solving, applied research is, however, needed to ensure the
viability of the Extension Service. This would be initiated in the context
of the proposed Bay Region Development Project. The initial thrust would be
towards improving the husbandry practices such as field preparation, sowing,
weeding, and plant protection. The main concern in the early stages would be
to ensure an even plant coverage in the fields by harvest time, which by it-
self would result in a substantial increase in yields. Improved management
practices would be stressed, rather than the use of purchased inputs.  His
own labor is all tliat a small farmer usually invests in his field, thus the
initial messages would aim at the effective use of this labor. Since low pro-
ductivity is often the result of inappropriate elementary husbandry practices,
simple technological improvements could be introduced quickly at this stage
without waiting for the results of an elaborate, time consuming screening and
trial process.  Improvements in productivity could be achieved even with the                4
improved use of traditional hand tools by farmers. Once yields and incomes
could be made to increase in this way, so would the farmers' confidence in the
extension service, hence making them receptive to further and more sophisti-
cated messages. The extension service could thus, without delay, obtain an
initial reaction which would ensure its continued acceptance. Once convinced
of their capability to increase production through improved practices with the
help of extension workers, farmers would be willing to adopt the use of more
sophisticated inputs such as pesticides, new seed and crop varieties, ox
plc,ughs, fertilizers (where applicable) and other improvements which would be
identified and developed by a strengthened national research service.



- 19 -
2.21      In order to diffuse the know-how obtained by them at the bi-weekly
training sessions, the FEAs would follow a fixed schedule of visits to
farmers, at a fixed time and day through four days every week. The "clients"
of a given FEA would be divided into eight groups. The FEA would visit two
groups a day, one in the early and the other in the late morning. He or she
would attend the bi-weekly briefing sessions either at regional lieadquarters,
or at the ETC on a fixed day, after having carried out two rounds of visits
to farmers. The spare days would be used for make up visits and for solving
problems encountered by farmers. The chart below illustrates a typical FEA's
bi-weekly work schedule.
Typical Timetable for an FEA
SAT  SUN  MON  TUE   WED  THU  FRI  SAT  SUN  MON  TUE   WED   THU  FRI
1&2  3&4  5&6  7&8  EV,PS  OW    H  1&2  3&4  5&6  7&8  EV,PS  BRF    H
1-8 = Visit to Farmers Groups
EV  = Extra visits for checking field trials, etc.
PS  = Problem solving discussions and visits (perhaps accompanied
by a regional specialist)
OW  = Other work, such as input delivery arrangements, etc.
H   = Holiday
BRF = Bi-weekly training at regional headquarters or ETC.
2.22      It would not be possible or necessary to attempt to reach all
farmers directly through extension work in the field. The FEA would identify
about 6 farmers (about 10%) from each group of 60-70 farmers to serve as his
"contact farmers." Contact farmers would be drawn from all levels of vil-
lage society, and would be selected in consultation with local people taking
into account their potential influence and willingness to collaborate with the
FEA. Contact farmers could be replaced between seasons if they proved to be
ineffective or ceased to cooperate. During his field visits the FEA would
make special efforts to visit all contact farmers' fields and encourage them
to get in touch with other farmers. Their fields would be used for carrying
out demonstrations and field trials.
2.23      Given the overall technical weakness of the existing staff, all
extension personnel, including those involved in the start-up program, would
go through 2 year pre-service training at the FMETC or at an ETC. In addi-
tion, a program of intensive on-the-job training would be established to build
up the technical competence of the staff, step by step in periodic, small,
easily digestible doses of know-how directly related to the particular stage



- 20 -
of the production process prevailing at the time. The regional senior exten-
sion staff would provide this type of training for DEOs and FEAs at regional
headquarters or at ETCs, in groups of 30 to 40, on fixed days, say Wednesdays
or Thursdays, once every two weeks. The regional officers would, in turn,
attend training sessions at the National Extension Service headquarters in
Afgoi conducted by the Headquarters Crop Production and the Plant Protection
Specialists under the supervision of the Director of the NES. These sessions
would be held on the first and second day of each month.
2.24      Extension work would be carried out under difficult conditions and
would require a high degree of motivation in order to be successful. Since
salary levels are fixed by Government, it is recognized that housing and
working conditions are among the most important elements for increasing staff
motivation. The Project would, therefore, provide free housing and the neces-
sary transportation facilities and office space, where needed, for all exten-
sion personnel in order to motivate them to live close to their work and to
give them the needed mobility to do their job effectively.
2.25      In the long term, the extension service would be effective only
if an adequate flow of proven know-how were forthcoming from agricultural
research and if farmers had access to and the means of acquiring the required
inputs. Coordination between extension and research would be needed for
identifying relevant research themes, for the transfer of the outcome of
research from the stations to the field and for the training of extension
personnel. Given the dependence of the extension service and of the farm
management service on research, the Project would provide funds for developing
a national research strategy aimed at strengthening applied research, partic-
ularly in the field of rainfed agriculture. Implementation of such a strategy
would be initiated under the proposed Bay Region Development Project. Coor-
dination would also be needed between the extension service and marketing and
credit agencies regarding the availability of the appropriate inputs at the
proper time, of market outlets for farm produce, and of credit when farmers
run short of cash. A Technical Coordination Committee would be constituted
uinder the chairmanship of the Director General of Agriculture. The Department
Directors of the MOA and the representatives of marketing and credit institu-
tions would be members. The committee would meet at least twice a year to
coordinate the activities of various agencies and ensure that the services
they provide can be of use to the farmers.  Government has informed the Asso-
ciation that the Technical Coordination Committee has been established.
2.26      Collaboration between extension and research services is particularly
important. Regarding extension, primary responsibility for coordination with
research would lie with the technical specialists in crop production and plant
protection based at headquarters and at regional offices. Their duties would
require them to devote one-third of their time for contact and discussions
with research scientists, both at the Central and at the Regional Research
Stations. Extension literature and briefings would be prepared on the basis
of these contacts and discussions. It would also be necessary to draw on the
research scientists as well as staff from FMETC, the Faculty of Agriculture
and the Agricultural Secondary School to assist in implementing the training



- 21 -
programs and to ensure that the available training skills be used to maximum
advantage. Cooperating instructors would be compensated on a scale to be
determined by the PMU in order to enlist their continuous participation.
2.27      Two existing Farmer Training Centers, one at Jannale in Lower
Shebelli, and the other at Bonka in the Bay Region, would be upgraded and
developed to become Extension Training Centers (ETCs). They would serve
primarily for pre-service and periodic in-job training courses attended by
Field Extension Agents, foremen of large scale farms and District Extension
Officers. In addition, the ETCs would be used for occasional training of
farmers and cooperative leaders in specific subjects which cannot be covered
by the FEA on the farmer's field.
2.28      These two ETCs would be strengthened through the provision of quali-
fied management, teaching staff, training facilities and equipment. Staff to
be trained at the ETCs would be intermediate school leavers (eight years of
schooling). The course would cover two years and would be given in three
stages. The first stage would last 6 months and would aim at providing
basic classroom knowledge in general agriculture along with practical work on
the training farm of each ETC; the second stage would consist of 14 months of
internship in the field during which trainees would carry out supervised
field work through two crop seasons, both Gu and Der, on rainfed as well as
irrigated lands. In the third stage, trainees would return to the ETCs for
3 months, for rounding up training and examinations. Those graduating would
receive a Certificate in Agricultural Production which would enable them to
accede to the next higher level in the salary scale they were at when joining
the ETC (see paras. 2.07 and 2.12). Government assurances to that effect
were obtained at negotiations.
2.29      Each ETC would have a Principal who would be a Faculty of Agricul-
ture graduate with two years' training at the FMETC; there would also be four
instructors and a Farm Manager who would be Agricultural Secondary School
graduates with two years' training at the FMETC. The ETCs would operate under
the direct authority of the Director of the National Extension Service, in
close cooperation with the regional extension staff. Training programs would
be established jointly by the NES and the FMAS. Emphasis in the curriculum
would be on the practical and technical aspects of how to grow a good crop
and how to convey that know-how to farmers and to the staff of large scale
farms.
The Farm Management Advisory Service (FMAS)
2.30      At present, state farms are administered rather than managed because
of the lack of a farm management capability in the country. The Project would
partially correct this situation by providing for the establishment and opera-
tion of the FMETC, but this alone is not sufficient, since neither the FMETC
nor the MOA would have the capability to provide effective field back up for
newly trained management personnel. Moreover, even with the FMETC in place,
the Government would be left without formal channels for policy oriented
feedback on the performance of the mostly Government controlled large scale



- 22 -
farms. The Project would, therefore, provide for the establishment of a Farm
Management Advisory Service (FMAS) as part of the Department of Production
and Extension. It would be located at Afgoi, next to the National Extension
Service headquarters. The major functions of the FMAS would be:
(a)  To develop and implement a program of regular advisory visits
to all Government controlled large scale farming operations,
including State Farms, Settlement Schemes, Crash Program
Farms, Seed Farms, Joint Venture Farms, Cooperative Farms
and Agricultural Development Programs. Initially, the advisory
function would be limited to account-keeping, financial con-
trol, input procurement, marketing of crops, farm planning, the
setting of management objectives, and feedback to the MOA on
ways and means of improving the management and productivity of
large scale agriculture. As it develops its technical capa-
bility, the FMAS would expand its advisory function and pro-
gressively assure the flow of technological know-how to large
scale farms and the exchange of information between farms,
training and research institutions and policy makers at the
MOA.
(b) To develop a suitable farming environment where farm manage-
ment trainees would spend the field internship stage of their
pre-service training. Due to the absence of reasonably well-
operated state farms, there are no suitable establishments
where trainees could learn the practical day-to-day aspects
of farm management unless an effort is made to correct the
situation. Accordingly, the Project would provide for the re-
habilitation of a 400 ha State Farm at Jannale, which would
become the Demonstration State Farm (DSF); the Project also
would provide management assistance for two other state farms
nearby. The three farms would accommodate trainees during
their internship period; they would be treated as regular
full-time employees. Field training on these three farms would
be progressively diminished as other farms are upgraded. The
DSF would, in addition, provide the other large scale farms,
the Government, and the training and research institutions with
a sample of the benefits resulting from sound management and
efficient farming practices in the Somali farming environment.
It would also generate farm management data in a form usable by
the training institutions and by Government. The DSF would
operate on a commercial basis and would be expected to be finan-
cially independent and viable by the end of the third year of
the Project period. It would be a condition of Credit effec-
tiveness that Government had officially allocated the 400 ha
Demonstration State Farm to the FMAS and given control to the
FMAS over the other two state farms in Jannale to allow the
immediate strengthening of their management.



- 23 -
(c)  To develop and operate a system for the gathering and processing
of country-wide farm management data for use by training insti-
tutions, Government agencies, and the FMAS itself. As part of
this function, the FMAS would adapt the Unified Accounting
System of Somalia to meet farming requirements and introduce
its use on the state farms.
2.31      The FMAS would initially be headed by an internationally recruited
Farm Economist (an Agricultural Economist with strong background in account-
ing, financial control, and farm planning) who would be assisted by the
internationally recruited manager of the DSF, by an internationally recruited
Farm Management Specialist, and by Somali staff. Close cooperation would be
established between the FMAS, the Central Research Station, the FMETC and the
National Extension Service.
The Project Management Unit (PMU)
2.32      The PMU would be established at Afgoi.  It would consist of the
Somali Project Director, an internationally recruited Project Technical
Manager, an internationally recruited Financial Controller and their support
staff. The PMU would be responsible for planning and coordination of Project
activities, for procurement of Project financed goods and services and for
management oriented monitoring and evaluation of Project activities. The PMU
would require the services of a Procurement agency to assist in drawing up
specifications, preparing tender documents and analyzing bids. It would also
require the services of construction specialists to supervise the implementa-
tion of civil works on its behalf. Appointment of such consultants would be a
condition of credit effectiveness.
2.33      Monitoring would be done by Somali staff under the supervision of
the Project Technical Manager. It would require systematic data collection,
analysis, and periodic reporting for evaluation purposes. The data generation
systems to be set up in connection with the Project would be composed of
(i) Internal Reporting or functional reporting from the lower to the higher
echelons of the organization, as part of the day-to-day operations, and
(ii) Monitoring and Evaluation through special surveys and studies which would
generate supplementary information.
2.34      Internal Reporting.  A sound internal reporting system would provide
essential information for the successful management of the Project. The
extension methodology provides for contact with farmers by FEAs at a set time,
on the same day every week. The approach concentrates on practical field
work, with paper work being kept at a minimum. DEOs would rely on personal
monitoring during the supervisory visits to each FEA's "client" farmers, and
during the program review by the regional officers at the briefing sessions.
These briefing sessions would ensure direct contact between regional officers
and field level agents every two weeks and would constitute a key mechanism,
not only for imparting technical know-how to field staff, but also for monitor-
ing and controlling the entire system. The briefing sessions would, in time,
establish personalized answerability between FEAs, DEOs and regional officers
and this is unlikely to be improved by paperwork.



- 24 -
2.35      The FEA would maintain a diary to record his activities including
farmer visits. He would note the number of contact farmers and other farmers
met, the technical recommendations extended, the response of farmers, and the
problems encountered. The diary would be inspected and discussed during
visits of DEOs and higher level supervisors. No formal reports from the FEAs
would be required. A similar diary would be maintained by the DEO. Written
reporting would be adopted only at the higher levels of responsibility,
starting with the DEOs whose reports would be submitted to the REO before the
bi-weekly briefings. These reports would reflect the progress of that part of
the extension program for which the DEOs are responsible, with respect to the
regularity of visits to farmers, the quality of farmer responses, and the
implementation of recommendations by farmers.
2.36      On the state farms, internal reporting would originate with the
foreman. Like the FEAs, state farm foremen would keep diaries which would
be periodically inspected by the field manager. The field manager, in turn,
would be required to file written reports based on the foremen's diaries and
on his own observations. This report would be submitted to the Assistant
Manager at bi-weekly training sessions as a routine function, and would not
involve the Monitoring and Evaluation Section.
2.37      Monitoring and Evaluation.  The Extension and Farm Management
Advisory Services would be monitored by PMU to provide management with an
assessment of its impact on the farms. A monitoring and evaluation section
would be established within the PMU and would consist of two services, one for
data collection and one for data processing. Data collection would be under-
taken through four teams of investigators located at Hargeisa, Bonka, Jannale,
and Jamame. These teams would undertake continuing random sample surveys in
regard to various activities of the NES and FMAS, including the regularity of
FEA visits to farmers groups, the intensity of coverage of farmers, the extent
of acceptance of recommendations by farmers, and the effectiveness of the
state farms organization. Data would be aggregated and processed at the end
of each round of surveys and analyzed to indicate overall progress and to
reveal areas of weakness.
2.38      The ultimate test of the efficacy of the extension service is the
effect it would have in increasing crop yields and farmers' incomes. The
Monitoring and Evaluation Section would gradually build up a system for
gathering information on the variables affecting farmers incomes. Such vari-
ables include crop and animal husbandry practices, input and output marketing
channels available to farmers, and storage facilities and techniques.  On
State Farms, similar information would be gathered to assess their production
efficiency, the extent of their contribution to the fulfillment of the coun-
try's food production objectives and their financial viability.
2.39      The Monitoring and Evaluation Section would undertake reviews of
samples of DEO's reports and of successful FEA's, foremen's, and field
managers' diaries in order to identify trends and patterns in relation to
their work in the field.



- 25 -
2.40      Physical and financial information on Project progress would be com-
piled at the end of every six months and presented to the Technical Coordina-
tion Committee to serve as a decision making tool for the MOA. Results of
internal monitoring and evaluation by PMU would be sent to IDA within 6 months
of the end of e-ch fiscal year. This was confirmed by Government during nego-
tiations.
2.41      The information generated through regular reporting and sample
surveys would be supported by empirical surveys and ad hoc studies with
limited objectives but of relevance to the NES and FMAS. Examples of such
studies would include:
(a)  a monitoring survey (pre-harvest months) of a sample of
contact farmers and state farms;
(b)  an evaluation survey (at harvest time) of a sample of the
total farming population; and
(c)  ad hoc monitoring and evaluation studies such as the per-
formance of DEOs and FEAs in selecting contact farmers, the
quality of training sessions, farm practices and case studies
regarding the impact of extension on villages.
2.42      Two sample surveys (pre-harvest monitoring and harvest time evalua-
tion) would be replicated periodically and would generate time series data,
thus allowing for comparisons over time. The ad hoc studies would serve to
complete the survey information with a more analytical in-depth exercise.
During negotiations, Government gave assurances that the sample surveys would
be carried out following consultation with IDA.
The Agricultural Secondary School
2.43      The Agricultural Secondary School would be the major supplier of
trainees for the FMETC. In order to ensure the quality of such trainnes, the
school would be strengthened through the provision, over 2 years, of technical
assistance and training equipment. The Project would provide for an Agricul-
tural training specialist to assist in curriculum development, six teachers in
the fields of Agricultural Economics, Agricultural Chemistry and Soil Science,
Agricultural Engineering, Animal Husbandry and Health, Plant Protection and
Agronomy. The Project would also provide for teaching, laboratory and print-
ing equipment, transport facilities and operting costs. Government has been
actively seeking sources for hiring the technical assistance for the Agricul-
tural secondary school and assured the Association that the 6 teachers and the
Agricultural Training Specialist would be appointed no later than August 31,
1979.



- 26 -
Technical Assistance and Training Abroad
2.44      The Project would require the services of 26 internationally
recruited specialists whose qualifications and experience would be acceptable
to IDA, for a total of 87 man-years, and at an estimated cost of US$80,000
per man year (Table 2.1). GOS has identified definite sources for recruiting
the bulk of the required Technical Assistance Staff, with the exception of
those required for the Central Statistical Department (para. 2.49), and is
actively seeking to identify candidates for the unfilled positions.
2.45      In order to ensure continuity of Project activities after the in-
vestment period, provision would be made for training Somali staff at a level
that would allow them to take over full responsibility for Project implementa-
tion. Operationally, two Somali faculty graduates would be nominated as
counterparts for each internationally recruited expatriate appointee in the
context of the Project. While one of these Somali graduates would be working
full-time with the expatriate on the Project, the other would be sent abroad
for undertaking studies at the Master of Science level in the required field
of specialization (Table 2.2). In this manner two Somalis would be trained
for each internationally recruited technician. The expatriate staff would
start working in line positions and as Somali trained staff start returning,
the expatriates would devote progressively more of their time to on-the-job
training and ultimately assume the functions of advisors towards the end of
the Project period.
2.46      In addition, the Project would provide for 3 to 6 month study trips
(Table 2.2) for extension and farm management field staff and for 3 to 6 week
field visits for MOA senior staff. Study trips would be organized for the
counterparts of the Farming System Specialist, Plant Protection Specialist,
and Communication Specialist of the NES, for the counterparts of the Farm
Economist, the Demonstration State Farm Manager and the Farm Management
Specialist of the FMAS and for 52 District Extension Officers. The purpose
of these study trips would be to give these technicians the opportunity to
observe how other countries are dealing with technical, managerial and com-
munication issues in agriculture similar to those likely to be encountered in
Somalia. The field visits for senior MOA staff at the Department Director's
level and above would aim at giving these senior officials the opportunity
for first-hand evaluation of potential results of effective extension work.
2.47      The programming, location and nature of training abroad, study
trips and field trips would be determined by the Project Director assisted by
t'ne Project Technical Manager and a program would be submitted for approval
by IDA by March 31, 1980. Assurances to that effect were obtained at nego-
tiations.



- 27 -
Table 2.1: Technical Assistance Required
(In man-years)
Project Component                        Year 1 Year 2 Year 3  Year 4  Year 5
FMETC
Agricultural Training Specialist           1        1       1       1        1
Agronomist (rainfed agriculture)           -        1/2     1       1        1
Agronomist (irrigated agriculture)         -        1/2     1       1        1
Farm Management Specialist                 -        1/2     1       1        1
Agricultural Engineer                      -        1/2     1       1        1
Master Mechanic                            -        1/2     1       1        1
Livestock Specialist                       -        1/2     1       1        1
NES
Agricultural Extension Specialist          1/2      1       1       1        1
Farming System Specialist                  1/2      1       1       1        1
Plant Protection Specialist                1/2      1       1       1        1
Communications Specialist                  1/2      1       1       1        1
FMAS
Farm Economist                             1/2      1       1       1        1
Farm Management Specialist                 1/2      1       1       1        1
Farm Manager (DSF)                         1        1       1       1        1
PMU
Project Technical Manager                  1        1       1       1        1
Financial Controller                       1        1       1       1        1
Agricultural Secondary School
Agricultural Economist                     1        1       -       -        -
Agricultural Chemistry and Soil
Science Specialist                        1        1       -       -       -
Agricultural Engineer                      1        1       -       -       -
Animal Husbandry and Health
Specialist                                1        1       -       -       -
Agriculturalist                            1        1       -       -        -
Agricultural Training Specialist           1        1       -       -       -
Central Statistical Department (CSD)
Economist/Statistician                     1        1       -       -       -
Agriculturalist/Statistician               1/2      1       -       -        -
Demographer/Statistician                   1/2      1       -       -       -
Data Processing Specialist                 1        1       -       -        -
TOTAL                                     16       23      16      16       16



- 28 -
Table 2.2: Training Abroad of Somali Staff
(In man-years)
Number of   Year   Year   Year   Year   Year
Field of Studies                    Trainees       1      2       3      4       5
Agricultural Education                  2          -      1       1      1       1
Agronomy                                6          -      3       3      3       3
Farm Management                         6          -      3       3      3      3
Agricultural Economics                  4          -      2       2      2       2
Agricultural Engineering                2          -      1       1      1       1
Agricultural Machinery                  2          -      1       1      1       1
Accounting and Financial Control        2          -      1       1      1       1
Statistics                              8          7      8       1      1       1
Agricultural Extension                  2          -      1       1      1       1
Plant Protection                        2          -      1       1      1       1
Communication                           2          -      1       1      1      1
Total                                  38          7     23      16     16     16
Study Trips
Farming System                          1         -    0.50    -
Plant Protection                        1         -     -     0.25    -       -
Communication                           1         -     -      -      0.25    -
Farm Management                         3         -    0.25   0.25   0.25    -
DEOs                                   52        -    4.00   4.00   4.00   4.00
Field Visits                            6      0.25   0.50    -        -      -
Total                                  64      0.25   5.25   4.50   4.50   4.00
National Research Strategy
2.48      Agricultural research in Somalia is at its early development stage.
It presently lacks the sense of direction that would make it purposeful and
economic for the country to undertake. Because of the dependence of the
Extension Service on research, the Project would provide for consultancy                   -
services to undertake a study aimed at developing a research strategy which
would serve as a basis for the future initiation of research programs that
would back up agricultural extension and ensure its utility and viability.
The study would focus on:
(a) evaluating the adequacy of the existing research institutions
and assessing the relevance of ongoing crop and animal husbandry
research to national production objectives;
(b) assessing the present level of governmental support for research,
particularly with respect to financial means, manpower, equipment
and other research facilities;



- 29 -
(c) assessing the manpower needs of agricultural research and out-
lining a long-term training program for research staff; and
(d) identifying research areas where Somalia can benefit from work
being done at International Research Institutions.
Government agreed that terms of reference for the preparation of the strategy
would be agreed with IDA and the study report on that strategy would be sub-
mitted to IDA for review by September 1980.
The Central Statistical Department (CSD)
2.49      Development of statistics in Somalia is the responsibility of the
Central Statistical Department of the Planning Commission. Government
requested assistance in undertaking the preparation of a comprehensive statis-
tical development program. Funds provided under the present Project would
serve for building the basis for such a program. This would include the
provision of technical assistance to identify the weaknessess of the present
system and develop an efficient methodology for improving it, training of
Somali staff, initiating the build up of field statistical offices, and start-
ing a limited statistical work program involving such items as a national
multi-purpose household survey, an agricultural land use and yield survey and
cost structures surveys for various production activities. Disbursement of
funds for the support of CSD would be subject to Government having appointed
the necessary technical assistance staff for that Department.
III. PROJECT COST ESTIMATES, FINANCING, PROCUREMENT AND DISBURSEMENT
A. Project Cost Estimates
3.01      Total Project costs, including contingencies, are estimated at
So.Sh. 204.0 million (US$32.4 million). The foreign exchange component rep-
resents 64% of total costs, the equivalent of So. Sh. 129.9 million (US$20.7
million). Project cost estimates are summarized below:



- 30 -
Table 3.1: Project Cost Summary
Local   Foreign            Local   Foreign           Foreign
Project Component         Currency Exchange Total  Currency Exchange Total  Exchange
---- So. Sh. million----  ------US$ million------         %
Project Management           7.1      11.1    18.2      1.1       1.8    2.9       68
Consultancy Services:
Procurement and
Preparation Phase II        -       3.2      3.2       -        0.5    0.5      100
Farm Management and
Extension Training
Center                    11.4     23.9    35.3       1.8       3.8    5.6       66
National Extension
Service                   27.5     27.5    55.0       4.3       4.4    8.7       50
Farm Management
Advisory Service
(excluding DSF)            1.7      6.9      8.6      0.3       1.1    1.4       79
Demonstration State
Farm                       7.2     12.8    20.0       1.1       2.0    3.1       65
Research                      -        0.7     0.7       -        0.1    0.1      100
Central Statistical
Department                 1.3       5.4     6.7      0.2       0.9    1.1       82
Consultancy Services
for Civil Works             -       1.2      1.2       -        0.2    0.2      100
Agricultural Second-
ary School                 0.3      7.8      8.1      0.1       1.2    1.3       92
Total Base Costs            56.5    100.5   157.0       8.9      16.0   24.9       64
Physical Contingencies       2.4       4.4     6.8      0.4       0.7    1.1       64
Price Contingencies         15.2      25.0    40.2      2.4       4.0    6.4       64
Total Cost                  74.1    129.9   204.0    11.7        20.7   32.4       64
Type of Expenditure
Vehicles and
Equipment                  1.9     15.4    17.3       0.3       2.5    2.8       89
Civil Works                 17.7      16.8    34.5      2.8       2.7    5.5       49
Technical Assistance          -       47.4    47.4       -        7.5    7.5      100
Training Abroad               -        8.8      8.8      -        1.4    1.4      100
Local Salaries and Wages  32.0          -     32.0      5.0        -      5.0       -
Operating and
Maintenance Costs          4.9      12.1    17.0      0.8       1.9    2.7       70
Total Base Cost             56.5    100.5   157.0       8.9      16.0   24.9       64
Physical Contingencies       2.4       4.4      6.8     0.4       0.7    1.1       64
Price Contingencies         15.2      25.0    40.2      2.4       4.0    6.4       64
Total Cost                  74.1    129.9   204.0    11.7        20.7   32.4       64



- 31 -
3.02      Costs are estimated on the basis of prices expected to prevail in
March 1979. Physical contingencies are allowed at the rate of 10% of capital
and operating costs items, except salaries. Price contingencies have been
calculated at the following rates: vehicles, equipment and all other operat-
ing costs 6.5% for 1979 and 6.0% per year thereafter, and civil works and
salaries and wages 10% for 1979 and 8% per year thereafter. Physical and
price contingencies combined represent 30% of base costs. Price contingencies
alone represent 25.7% of base costs over the Project period. The Government
of Somalia does not levy import duties on goods for the agricultural sector.
Consequently all capital items are included without such duties. Costs of
internationally recruited staff are estimated at US$80,000 per man year,
except for those employed by the Agricultural Secondary School who were costed
at US$50,000 per man year because the positions are junior ones. Local
salaries are those suggested by MOA and include field allowances and per diem
for all Project staff. A total of US$0.5 million is included in Project costs
to pay for consultancy services to help PMU with procurement related matters
and for follow-up studies needed for preparation of a second phase Project,
if needed.
B. Financing
3.03      The financing of the Project would be shared in the following
amounts and proportions:
Amount      % of Total
Amount      So. Shs.   Project Costs
US$ million   million           %
IDA                     10.50         66.0         32.3
ADF                      8.88         55.9         27.4
USAID                    7.60         47.9         23.4
EEC                      1.50          9.5          4.6
GOS                      3.96         24.7         12.3
Total Costs             32.44        204.0        100.0
The proposed IDA Credit of US$10.5 million would be to the Government of
Somalia on standard IDA terms. IDA would co-finance the Project with ADF,
USAID, the EEC Special Action Account and Government along the lines described
in Table 3.2 below. IDA would provide funds for establishment and operation
of the PMU for operation of the Farm Management and Extension Training Center
and the National Extension Service and for assistance to the Central Statis-
tical Department in the Planning Commission. ADF would finance civil works
and the Demonstration State Farm except technical assistance. USAID would
provide funds for technical assistance for the Farm Management and Extension
Training Center and the National Extension service, for developing a national



- 32 -
Table 3.2 Project Financing
GOS         IDA        ADF         USAID          EEC
- ------------US$000-
Vehicles and Equipment
Year 1         14.2        29.9         18.1        144.1       331.0
2        86.2       294.0        528.5        871.1       252.0
3        24.0       160.0          2.1        243.0         -
4        12.0         -            -           120.2
5        23.6         -           20.0        235.4         -
Sub-Total                 160.0       483.9        568.7      1,613.8       583.0
Civil Works
Year 1          -           -          965.5          -
2         -           -        4,458.1          -
3         -           -        1,377.2          -
4         -           -          110.4          -
5         -           -          210.5          -
Sub-Total                   -           -       7,121.2-
Technical Assistance
Year 1          -         841.0         42.5        392.8       401.0
2         -       1,191.5         46.2        945.2       434.0
3         -         741.2         50.8      1,401.1         -
4         -         790.0         50.4      1,602.9
5         -         860.2         53.5      1,636.2         -
Sub-Total                   -      4,423.9         243.4     5,978.2       835.0
Local Salaries and Wages
Year 1         220.0      180.9         15.4         -            -
2        430.0      366.0         90.7         -
3        580.0      486.2        166.8         -
4      1,050.0      693.8          -           -
5      1,520.0   1,080.2           -           -
Sub-Total               3,800.0   2,807.1         272.9         -            -
Operating and Maintenance Costs
Year 1          -         324.2         32.5        -           40.0
2         -         378.5        106.5         -           42.0
3         -         622.6        176.6         -            -
4         -         691.2        202.2         -
5         -         768.6        156.0         -            -
Sub-Total                   -      2,785.1        673.3                     82.0
Total Costs                   3,960    10,500.0       8_880.0     7,592.0    1,500.0



- 33 -
research strategy and for training abroad of Somali staff. The EEC Special
Action Account would finance assistance to the Agricultural secondary school
at Afgoi. The Government of Somalia would contribute US$3.96 million or 12.3%
of total Project costs.
3.04      IDA's participation of US$10.5 million would cover about US$6.9 mil-
lion, 66% of which would cover foreign exchange expenditures and 34% would be
for local currency expenditures. It would cover 33.5% of total foreign
exchange costs of the Project. Direct foreign exchange expenditures financed
by IDA would amount to about US$4.8 million or 46% of IDA's contribution.
3.05      Funds for all Project expenditures financed by IDA would be chan-
neled by Government as a grant to the Project, which would be operated as an
identifiable separate entity within the MOA, and would also have a separate
Bank account. In order to ensure smooth Project implementation and continued
liquidity, the Government would provide the PMU with operating funds in the
form of a revolving fund, initially in the amount of So. Sh. 3.0 million, to
be paid into the Project account. This amount would be increased to So.Sh. 5
million by the end of the first year of the Project investment period.
Assurances were obtained during negotiations that Government would credit the
Project account every six months with sufficient funds to replenish the
account and meet expenditures during the next six months. The initial payment
to the Project Account would be a condition of Project effectiveness.
C.  Procurement
3.06      The main items financed by IDA include vehicles and equipment
(US$0.5 million), technical assistance (US$4.4 million), local salaries and
wages (US$2.8 million) and operating and maintenance expenditures (US$2.8
million).
3.07      Contracts for the supply of vehicles and equipment would be awarded
after international competitive bidding (ICB) in accordance with IDA guide-
lines. Orders would be bulked whenever possible. Recruitment of the Proj-
ect Technical Manager and the Financial Controller would be subject to IDA
approval. Technical Assistance for the FMAS and CSD would be procured by
Government after prior consultation with IDA. Training abroad would be
planned and organized by the Project Director and the Project Technical Man-
ager. Its nature and location would be subject to approval by IDA. Contracts
for the supply of other Project inputs, including office equipment and sup-
plies costing US$50,000 equivalent or more would be awarded after inter-
national competitive bidding in accordance with IDA guidelines. Orders would
be bulked whenever possible to attract the highest number of bidders. Con-
tracts for less than US$50,000 but in the aggregate not exceeding US$300,000
would be awarded locally following Government procurement procedures which are
satisfactory to IDA. Draft tender invitations and bid documents would be
submitted to IDA for review before issue. Assurances were obtained during
negotiations that the above procurement procedures would be followed.



- 34 -
3.0)8     For goods purchased under ICB, PMU would submit general procurement
notices to IDA for insertion in the UN publication "Development Forum."
D. Disbursement
3.0)9     The IDA Credit would be disbursed over about 5 years against:
(a) 100% of expenditures on vehicles and equipment (US$0.4 mil-
lion) for PMU, FMAS (excluding DSF), and CSD;
(b) 100% of foreign exchange expenditures on Technical Assistance
and Training abroad (US$3.5 million) for the PMU1, the FMAS
(including DSF), and the CSD;
(c) 41% of local expenditures on local salaries and wages
(US$2.1 millon);
(d) 100% of operating and maintenance costs (US$2.1 million) for
PMU, FMETC, NES, FMAS (excluding DSF) and CSD; and
(e) US$2.4 million would remain unallocated.
3.10      Disbursements under (a) and (b) would be fully documented.  Dis-
bursements under (c) and (d) would be made against appropriate certificates
of expenditures, certified by the Project Director and the Project Technical
Maniager, the documentation for which would be retained by the Borrower and
made available for inspection by the Association during the course of super-
vision missions. The schedule of estimated disbursements is in Table 3.3.
Any funds remaining in the Credit account upon completion of the Project
would be available for reallocation to Project-related expenditures at the
discretion of the Association.
3.11      Disbursements against assistance to the Central Statistical Depart-
ment would be conditional on the Government having selected the four technical
assistance staff with competence acceptable to IDA.



- 35 -
Table 3.3: Estimated IDA Disbursements
(US$ million)
Disbursements              Semester               Cumulative
1979    1st
2nd /a               0.50                    0.50
1980    1st                  0.91                     1.41
2nd                  1.00                    2.41
1981    1st         ~        1.54                    3.95
2nd                  0.74                    4.69
1982    1st                  1.32                    6.01
2nd                  0.74                    6.75
1983    1st                  1.34                    8.09
2nd                  0.79                    8.88
1984    1st                  1.62                   10.50
2nd /b
/a  Estimated effectiveness date:  July 1979.
/b Estimated closing date: June 30, 1985.
E. Accounts and Audit
3.12      Separate accounts would be kept, reflecting expenditures financed
by each co-financier. Project related accounts would be audited by an inde-
pendent auditor. The Magistrate of Accounts is an independent auditing agency
in Somalia. Although the auditing capability of this agency is presently less
than optimum, IDA is considering measures for strengthening it under the Tech-
nical Assistance Credit. In view of this consideration, and provided this
assistance materializes, the Magistrate of Accounts would be an acceptable
independent auditor for Project accounts. Government would submit audited
accounts to IDA within six months of the end of each fiscal year. Assurances
to the above were obtained at negotiations.
IV. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
4.01      The major institutional objective of the Project would be the estab-
lishment of direct lines of authority and a clear definition of responsibili-
ties within the National Extension and Farm Management Advisory Services of
the MOA (Chart 2). The responsibility for extension and for the management of
state farms presently lies with the Department of Production and Extension of



- 36 -
the MOA. This Department would have overall responsibility for the implemen-
tation of the Project. In order to allow it to assume this responsibility
effectively, the Department of Production and Extension would be strengthened
through the provision of trained staff, the establishment of a National Tech-
nical Headquarters for the NES and FMAS and the constitution of a Technical
Coordination Committee under the Director General of the MOA. The present
organization of the Department in Mogadishu would remain relatively unchanged
and continue to assume its overall coordination, policy making and adminis-
trative functions. NES Headquarters would be located at Afgoi, close to the
existing agricultural training institutions and the Central Agricultural
Research Station, and next door to the proposed FMETC. The NES would be
responsible for developing appropriate extension programs for various regions
and for providing technical back-up for the regional extension organizations.
The FMAS headquarters would be located adjacent to the NES Headquarters at
Afgoi. It would be responsible for accounting and technical back-up for the
management of large scale farms, for the establishment and operation of a farm
management data collection and processing system, and for advising Government
on large scale farming policy and related issues. The Technical Assistance
staff provided for under the Project would be responsible to the Project
Director through the Project Technical Manager.
Project Management Unit (PMU)
4.02      The PMU would be established at Afgoi.  It would consist of the
Somali Project Director, an internationally recruited Project Technical
Manager, an internationally recruited Financial Controller and their support
staff. The Project Technical Manager would be responsible to the Project
Director. He would be the leader of the team of internationally recruited
staff and would assume overall responsibility for assisting the Project
Director in coordinating the implementation of the Project, including the
construction of facilities created under the Project, the coordination and
quality control of training programs, the proper use of Project funds and the
monitoring and evaluation of Project activities. The Financial Controller
would be responsible to the Project Director. He would assist the Project
Technical Manager in overseeing the procurement of Project related goods and
services. He would be responsible for establishing a system of strict finan-
cial control and accountability for the constitutent units of the Project.
The appointment of the Project Director would be conditional upon IDA approval
of his qualifications and terms of reference which were agreed upon at nego-
tiations. The official establishment of the PMU would be a condition of
credit effectiveness.
4.03      The Monitoring and Evaluation Section would be a new addition to the
present structure of the Department of Production and Extension. It would
be headed by an experienced Agricultural Economist who would be responsible
to the Project Technical Manager. The data collection unit and the data pro-
cessing unit would come under his authority.



- 37 -
4.04      GOS would submit annual and half yearly Project progress reports to
financing agencies. Within six months of completion of disbursements under
the IDA Project, GOS would, through the Department of Extension and Training
of the MOA, prepare a completion report on the implementation of the Project,
including actual costs, benefits and contribution towards the accomplishment
of the country's development objectives. Assurances to this effect were
obtained from Government at negotiations.
The Farm Management and Extension Training Center (FMETC)
4.05      The Center would be headed by an internationally recruited Agricul-
tural Training Specialist as its principal. He would be responsible to the
Project Director through the Project Technical Manager and would have a Somali
deputy. The Principal would be responsible for curricula, the programming and
supervision of training, and also for establishing and maintaining strong
professional links with the neighboring agricultural training institutions,
agricultural research centers, the NES and the FMAS. The teaching staff at
the FMETC would come under his immediate authority.
The Farm Management Advisory Service (FMAS)
4.06      The FMAS would be a new unit.  It would be headed by an internation-
ally recruited experienced Farm Economist, who would be responsible to the
Project Director through the Project Technical Manager. The FMAS would have
its headquarters in Afgoi, adjacent to the NES and the FMETC. In addition to
providing field back-up for farm managers and advice to the MOA regarding
large scale farms, the FMAS would be responsible for establishing and running
the 400 ha Demonstration State Farm at Jannale, and for strengthening the
management of two other state farms, also at Jannale, to make them suitable
for accommodating students from the FMETC during their field internship stage.
The Manager of the DSF, who would also be internationally recruited, would be
responsible to the Project Director through the head of the FMAS. The FMAS
would also have a Farm Management Specialist who would be responsible to the
Project Director through the FMAS head.
The National Extension Service (NES)
4.07      A Technical Headquarters for the NES would be established at Afgoi,
headed by a Technical Director, who would be responsible to the Project
Director through the Project Technical Manager. He would be assisted by a
Farming System Specialist, a Plant Protection Specialist, a Communication
Specialist who would all be internationally recruited, and a Somali Training
Program Officer. The most important criteria for recruiting expatriates for
the Extension Service would be their experience with extension in environments
similar to Somalia.
4.08      At the regional level, the extension service would be headed by a
Regional Extension Officer assisted by a Regional Farming System Specialist
and a Regional Plant Protection Specialist. All three would be graduates of
the Faculty of Agriculture and the FMETC. The Regional Extension Officer



- 38 -
would be responsible to the Technical Director of the NES. At the field
level, the Field Extension Agents, who would be graduates of the Extension
Training Centers at Bonka or Jannale, would be responsible to the District
Extension Officer who would be a graduate of the Agricultural Secondary
School and the FMETC. The District Extension Officer, in turn, would be
responsible to the Regional Extension Officer.
4.09      In addition to its regional and district organizations, the NES
would maintain two Extension Training Centers, one at Bonka and one at Jannale.
These ETCs would be headed by principals, who would be graduates of the
Faculty of Agriculture and who would be responsible to the Technical Director
of the NES.
The Agricultural Secondary School
4.10      The Technical Assistance team provided for the Agricultural Second-
ary School would include six technical teachers and an agricultural training
specialist as the team leader who, in turn, would be responsible to the Proj-
ect Director through the Project Technical Manager.
The Central Statistical Department (CSD)
4.11      This Department of the State Planning Commission would be strength-
ened through the provision of technical assistance and training of Somali
staff. An internationally recruited Economist/Statistician would lead a team
comprising an Agriculturalist/ Statistician, a Demographer/Statistician and
a Data Processing Specialist. The team leader would be responsible to the
Director of the Central Statistical Department in the State Planning Commis-
sion.
V. PRODUCTION, FARMER BENEFITS AND EFFECTS ON GOVERNMENT CASH FLOW
A. Production and Farmer Benefits
5.01      The Project is essentially an institution building and technical
assistance project. The benefits would materialize progressively over the
years and could not be fully expressed in terms of increased production
because of the complementary factor inputs required to bring about produc-
tivity increases. Increases in productivity would also depend on adoption
rate of improved practices and the efficiency of the newly trained farm
managers.
5.02      The Project would provide the basis for building efficient extension
and farm management services necessary to increase the productivity and income
of farmers in Somalia. The estimated 195,000 farm families who would, pro-
gressively, be served by the NES are all subsistence farmers. The cost of the
extension component would amount to US$60 per farm family or, on the basis of



- 39 -
the area presently cultivated by small farmers, to about US$18 per ha for the
investment period. A high proportion of these costs is intended to pay for
technical assistance and staff housing. Without these two items extension
costs would be US$32 per farm family or US$10 per ha.
5.03      Based on an estimated area of about 240,000 ha planned for large
scale production units to be progressively covered by the Project, the cost
of the Farm Management Advisory service including the DSF would amount to
US$24 per ha for the investment period. Without the technical assistance, the
cost would be US$16 per ha.
5.04      The project is in line with Somalia's agricultural development
objectives, particularly with respect to:
(a) self-sufficiency in basic food commodities;
(b) reduction of income disparities;
(c) improvement of the productivity and incomes of the poorest
segments of the Somali population; and
(d) strengthening of the institutions serving agriculture.
5.05      In the medium term, increased crop production attributable to the
Project would be primarily the result of improved extension and farm manage-
ment services. Changes in cultural practices, for most farmers, would be
simple and would not initially involve increases in cash expenditure. Mois-
ture conservation, row planting, increased and homogeneous plant population,
and improved grain storage practices would be stressed. At the same time,
more advanced farmers would be progressively introduced to seed dressing,
plant protection, alternative cropping systems and animal traction. In this
manner, and as research result become available, farmers would be gradually
guided in the selection of production practices that would be the most eco-
nomic for them and that fit well in the technological level they operate in.
5.06      Food production in rainfed and irrigated areas is projected to
increase as a result of increased productivity and the expansion of the area
under crops. Sorghum is the major crop on rainfed farms, and maize the major
crop on small scale irrigated farms. It is estimated that a few simple
changes in production techniques could increase sorghum yields from the
present average of 350 kg/ha to 500 kg/ha and maize yields from the present
average of 875 kg/ha to 1,000 kg/ha. These yield increases are believed to
be realizeable over a period of five years if the extension service succeeds
in merely convincing farmers to have a uniform plant coverage in each field.
The projected yields are well within field results already obtained by farmers
in Somalia. Observed yields in 1977 (a good year) were between 300 and 1400
kg/ha for sorghum and between 600 and 2000 kg/ha for maize. This variation in
yields cannot be attributed to varying use of marketed inputs, but rather to
different soil conditions and cultural practices including land preparation,
sowing techniques, and seeding rates. Animal traction would allow the average



- 40 -
farm family to cultivate up to 50% more land with the same labor force. This
would bring the average size of cropped holdings from the present 5 ha to
over 7 ha. Since suitable land would not be a constraint in the foreseeable
future, this increase is believed to be a realizeable objective and one that,
if properly implemented, would not necessarily interfere with other develop-
ment goals such as livestock production.
5.07      Sorghum presently accounts for about 55% of the cropped land,
followed by maize, about 25%, and sesame, about 10%. The Project would put
emphasis on the major crops - sorghum, maize and sesame, particularly in the
early years. The following assumptions have been made for estimating the
incremental production attributable to the strengthening of the extension
service:
Level I
For farmers presently at a low level of technological sophistica-
tion, the simple improvements of production practices (Level I)
recommended would be adopted, on the average, by 3% of farmers
per year during the first 8 years. This rate would increase to
5% for the succeeding 5 years and to 7% thereafter. At full
development, by year 15, increments in yields per ha would have
risen from 25 kg to 100 kg for sorghum, from 25 kg to 100 kg for
maize, and from 10 kg to 70 kg for sesame. The yield increases
would be progressive, resulting from successive technological
improvements, and would be achieved by an increasing proportion
of the farm population.
Level II
Farmers at a more advanced technological level could increase
their cropped area through the use of animal traction (Level
II). It is assumed that this would become significant by year 4
of the Project period and would progressively be taken up by
half of the farmers who adopted the simple improved practices
(Level I). It is assumed that this would result in a 25%
increase in cropped area for those adopting animal traction.
The expansion could not be greater because of the shortage of
good crop land in certain areas. Yields used in estimating
incremental production from the new acreage are those assumed
for farmers at Level I of technology.
Level III
Farmers at yet a more advanced level of technological sophistica-
tion would adopt the use of marketed inputs (such as insecticides,
improved seeds and fertilizers for irrigated areas, Level III).
This would become significant by year 8 and would be taken up by
50% of the more progressive farmers, particularly those who also



- 41 -
had adopted animal traction. The incremental yields resulting
from these practices are estimated to average 20% of those
assumed for Level II.
5.08      Countrywide incremental production from small scale farms attri-
butable to the project is summarized below:
Table T4: Incremental Production From Small Farms with Project
(tons)
Stage I       Stage II     Stage III    Total
Year 5
Sorghum                1,150          2,662          --          3,812
Maize                    550          2,975          --          3,525
Sesame                   180            588          --            768
Year 10
Sorghum                5,700          6,640          664        13,004
Maize                  2,650          7,020          702        10,372
Sesame                   880          1,452          145         2,477
Year 15
Sorghum               21,600         13,590        1,359        36,549
Maize                 10,100         13,395        1,340        24,835
Sesame                 3,010          2,820          282         6,112
5.09      These quantities are significant for a food deficient country such
as Somalia. The estimates are believed to be conservative and achievable
with an only moderate performance by the extension service. Under the above
assumptions the national production of the three major crops (sorghum, maize
and sesame) would increase at the average rate of about 2% per year over the
base year, which is lower than the rate of population growth. It is essen-
tial, therefore, that the above estimates be surpassed; this would not be
difficult provided a strong and disciplined extension service is set up and a
steady flow of yield increasing practices is developed through a well thought
out research program.
5.10      Farming in Somalia is, presently, a low input/low output activity in
which land and family labor are the major ingredients. The extension service
would aim at increasing the output through better use of these resources.
Farmers would thus be under no financial pressures and would only be asked
to implement practices which can easily be explained to them in terms of
labor savings or higher output per hectare. As their trust in the extension
service develops, farmers would be introduced to practices, such as animal



- 42 -
traction, that would allow them to exploit more land with the same labor force
a,nd, at a more advanced stage, allow them to obtain more output per hectare
through purchased inputs such as insecticides, improved seeds and, where
applicable, fertilizers.
51.11     Most importantly the incremental production from small farms, if
properly stored, would allow the average family to meet its basic food needs
and to generate a marketable surplus. The extension service would help
farmers take full advantage of what they produce through adequate storage
technology and information on market outlets.  It is estimated that over half
of the increased production would find its way into the market and would
benefit urban consumers. By year 10 the incremental marketable surplus from
the small scale private sector would be at least 7,000 tons of sorghum, 5,000
tons of maize and 1,300 tons of sesame.
5.12      Production on large scale farms would improve as a result of the
introduction of sound management practices and more efficient use of produc-
tive resources. Present Government development policies appear to favor the
production of rice, maize and sesame on irrigated large scale farms. Assuming
that this trend continues, it is estimated that by year 10 about 26,000 ha
would be under efficient management. This could result in doubling of present
yrields of 1000 kg/ha for rice, 1600 kg/ha for maize and 400 kg/ha for sesame.
These yield increases are feasible with the existing knowledge, and are real-
izeable in a ten-year period, since the major constraint to increased produc-
t:ivity, namely the absence of management capability, would have been removed.
The incremental production per year on large scale farms would then amount
to a minimum of 13,000 tons of rice, 7,000 tons of maize and 2,000 tons of
sesame. By year 10, this would bring the total expected incremental produc-
tion from both small and large scale farms up to 13,000 tons of sorghum,
13,000 tons of rice, 17,000 tons of maize and 4,500 tons of sesame.
5.13      On an average rainfed farm with 5 ha under crops per year, farm
income would increase from the present So. Sh. 1,500 to So. Sh. 2,200 with
extension as the only additional input; to So. Sh. 2,500 with the introduc-
tion of animal traction; and to So. Sh. 3,700, with the introduction of
marketed inputs. This would result in an increase in the return on family
:Labor from the present So. Sh. 4 to about So. Sh. 10 per man day, which
corresponds to the cost of labor in urban areas. Similarly, on an average
iLrrigated farm with 3 ha under crops per year, farm income would increase from
the present So. Sh. 1,600 to about So. Sh. 2,000 with extension as the only
additional input; to So. Sh. 2,250 with the introduction of animal traction;
and to So. Sh. 3,600 with the introduction of marketed inputs. The return on
family labor would increase from the present So. Sh. 4.4 to So. Sh. 10 per
imanday. The figures above are derived from farm models which are summarized
:in Tables 5.1 and 5.2.



- 43 -
Table 5.1: Farm Model (Rainfed)
Improved        Improved       Improved
Present   (Level One)   (Level Two)   (Level Three)
Cropped Area (ha) 1/               5              5              7             7
Sorghum                          4             4              5              5
Pulses (intercropped with
sorghum)                       4             4              5             5
Other Crops                      1             1              2              2
Yield
Sorghum (kg/ha)                350           500            500           800
Pulses (kg/ha)                  70           100            100            150
Value of Output                ----------------- So. Sh. -------------------
Sorghum (So.Sh.75/100 kg)  1,050           1,500          1,875         3,000
Pulses (So.Sh.150/100 kg)    420             600            750         1,125
Other Crops                    200           250            500           500
Total                     1,670         2,350          3,125         4,625
Costs of Production
Investment 2/                  -             -              400           500
Operating Cost 3/              200           200            200           400
Total                       200           200            600           900
Net Financial Return           1,470         2,150          2,525         3,725
Family Labor (Mandays) 4/        360           360             360           360
Net Financial Return per ha    294             430             360           532
Net Financial Return
per manday                     4.1           5.0            7.0          10.3
1/   Total surface area, cropped in Gu and Der seasons.
2/   Ox-drawn implements depreciated over 3 years with oxen sold for meat
and replaced every 3 years. At Stage Three farmers would also buy plant
protection equipment.
3/   Including hand tools, seeds, insecticides.
4/   Labor available during the cropping seasons:  the equivalent of 3 adults
per family for 6 months at the monthly rate of 20 mandays for crops.



- 44 -
Table 5.2: Farm Model (Irrigated)
Improved        Improved       Improved
Present   (Level One)   (Level Two)   (Level Three)
Farm Area (ha)
Area Cropped (ha) 1/            3.0           3.0            4.0            4.0
Maize                           1.5           1.5            2.0            2.0
Sesame                         1.0            1.0            1.0            1.0
Other Crops                    0.5            0.5            1.0            1.0
Yield (kg/ha)
Maize                           875         1,000          1,000          1,600
Sesame                         400            500            500           600
Value of Output                ------------------ So. Sh. ------------------
Maize (So.Sh.75/100/kg)         985         1,125          1,500         2,400
Sesame (So.Sh.250/100 kg)  1,000            1,250          1,250         1,500
Other Crops                    300            300            600         1,200
Total                     2,285         2,675           3,350         5,100
Costs of Production
Investment 2/                  300            300            700           700
Operating Cost 3/              400            400            400           800
Total                       700            700          1,100         1,500
Net Financial Return           1,585          1,975          2,250         3,600
Family Labor (Mandays)            360           360            360           360
Net Financial Return per ha    528              658            562           900
Net Financial Return per
manday                         4.4            5.5            6.3          10.0
1/   Total surface area, cropped in Gu and Der seasons.
2/   Oxen and oxen-drawn implements and irrigation related expenditures.
3/   Including hand tools, seeds, insecticides.



- 45 -
B. Government Cash Flow
5.14      Government would finance So. Sh. 22 million or 10.7% of the Project
cost. After the implementation period, Government would have to meet recur-
ring operating and maintenance costs of about So. Sh. 29 million (US$4.6
million) per annum (in 1984 prices) as well as meet debt service payments to
IDA and the other financiers. The Project would earn direct income through
the sale proceeds of production at the Demonstration State farm and would save
on subsidy paid for grain that would have been additionally imported in the
absence of the incremental production ascribable to the Project. In addition,
Government would also recoup part of its expenditures, through income tax
levied on salaries paid under the Project.
5.15      Over the estimated life of the Project (15 years), the incremental
revenues and expenditures ascribable to the Project would be as shown below:
Million So. Sh. Million US$
Credit                                  (+) 182           (+) 28.9
Tax revenue                              (+)  19          (+)  3.0
DSF sales                                (+)  52         (+)  8.3
Savings on import subsidy               (+) 241          (+) 38.3
Project costs and maintenance           (-) 491          (-) 77.9
Debt services                            (-)  26          (-)  4.1
(-)  23          (-)  3.5
Within the projected 15 years, Government's net cash flow would be negative
until year 11 (except for years 3 and 4) and positive thereafter. In year 15,
the cumulative cash flow would still be negative at So. Sh. 23 million (US$3.5
million). It would, however, turn positive in year 16 and remain so there-
after. Possible farmers contributions to Government revenues through incre-
mental indirect taxation resulting from increased income are expected to be
significant but have not been taken into account. Although the budgetary
implications of this Project taken alone are not severe, the issue of the
aggregate effect of all development Projects on Government budget was dis-
cussed with GOS and there is agreement that both GOS and IDA will keep this
issue under close scrutiny in the context of both future project appraisals
and economic and sector work.
VI. BENEFITS AND ECONOMIC JUSTIFICATION
6.01      The Project would directly benefit the 195,000 farm families engaged
in agricultural production as well as the farm laborers working on state and
cooperative farms. The Project would indirectly benefit all food consumers
through lesser reliance on imports and a steadier supply of food. It would
benefit the rural population through the catalytic effect the extension ser-
vice would have on general education, health, and nutrition.



- 46 -
6.02      The design and scope of the Project, the selection and relative
size of Project components and the organizational arrangements for Project
iLmplementation are based on past Bank experience with similar successful
agricultural extension projects in various countries, particularly in India.
Specific characteristics of the Somali environment, including budgetary and
-institutional constraints, have been taken into account. As in all other
:Lnstitution building projects, the benefits due to the Project cannot be
estimated with accuracy. It is not possible to separate that part of benefits
attributable to extension from that due to improved factor inputs not provided
by the Project. In addition, farmers' reaction to extension in Somalia is
as yet unknown, since up to now no extension service has functioned at the
farm level. The economic rates of return given below should, therefore, be
regarded as indicative. The following assumptions are made in estimating the
rates of return:
(a) Project period: The Project investment period is 5 years.
Limited investment expenditures would, however, have to con-
tinue until the end of year 7 if the extension and farm man-
agement services were to become fully operational. For the
economic evaluation, the investments for years 6 and 7 are
included in the costs of the extension component. A project
life of 15 years was used in calculating the rate of return.
(b) Project components: Only two Project components, the National
Extension Service and the Farm Management Advisory Service,
which ogether account for about 58% of Project costs, were
subjected to economic analysis. Costs include all incremental
capital and operating costs for each component. The foreign
exchange component was estimated using a shadow exchange rate
of US$1 = So. Sh. 9 instead of the official rate of US$1 =
So. Sh. 6.3, reflecting the scarcity of foreign exchange in
Somalia.
(c) Project benefits: The extension service would develop the
means to cover all crop producing regions by year 8. It is
assumed that the extension service would, by then, have suc-
ceeded in reaching half the farmers and that 50% of those
reached would have positively responded to their recommenda-
tions. This means that farmers would adopt improved practices
at the average rate of 3% per year during the first eight
years. The adoption rate would increase thereafter. The
cropped area would be expanded, starting in year 4, by half
of the farmers who previously had adopted simple improved
cultivation practices. The countrywide increase in the aver-
age cropped area would be about 25%. Incremental production
for sorghum, maize and sesame is estimated on the basis of
their present relative importance in the cropping pattern.



- 47 -
(d) Prices: Economic prices for sorghum, maize, rice and sesame
are estimated on an import parity basis. Somalia is presently
a food importer and the expected incremental production of
these crops is unlikely to transform it into a net exporter
within the life of the Project.
6.03      Based on these assumptions, the internal economic rate of return
is in the range of 13 to 27% for the NES, which reflects different levels of
achievement and various levels of possible cost overruns in bringing about
the predicted crop yield increments attributable to extension. An internal
economic rate of return of 27% is considered most probable. A different way
of looking at the economic rationality of investing in developing the exten-
sion service would be to consider that in order for this investment to make
sense, all the NES would need to achieve over the next 15 years would be to
help farmers increase their yields by 30 Kg/ha on half the present sorghum
and maize acreages (9 and 3% increase over respective present yields). This
is considered to be well within the capacity of the strengthened NES to
accomplish.
6.04      The internal economic rate of return for the FMAS is in the range of
30 to 39% with a most probable rate of 39%. The internal economic rate of
return for the DSF alone is in the range of 10 to 14%. This is a conservative
estimate, since the major benefit from this farm, its demonstrative effect,
could not be quantified. Nevertheless, it shows that the DSF would be eco-
nomically viable with the assumptions made for Somali conditions, and that
efficient management could transform state farms from a burden on the Govern-
ment budget into profitable units that would contribute to that budget.
6.05      Important non-quantifiable benefits, which are not included in the
calculations, would also be derived from the Project. One worthwhile benefit
would be income redistribution through the shift in emphasis from large scale
irrigated agriculture towards small farmers and towards rainfed agriculture.
The Project would also be of considerable importance to the success of other
production oriented agricultural projects in Somalia, as a result of its
contribution to manpower development. In addition to the reasonable economic
benefits at a reasonable investment cost, the Project would thus generate
important social benefits.
Risks
6.06      There are three kinds of factors which could affect the overall
success of the Project, namely, factors which could impede the proper and
timely implementation of the Project, those which could affect the viability
of the institutions being developed and those that could negatively affect
the system of production incentives in the country. With regard to Project
implementation great care was taken to strengthen MOA's management capability
through organizational arrangements, training programs and provision of tech-
nical assistance to ensure timely and efficient implementation of the Project.
The viability of the Extension and Farm Management Advisory Services being



- 48 -
strengthened through the Project would depend on the continuous flow of exten-
sion material from research which is presently weak. This represents a major
potential risk to the success of the Project. For this reason funds are pro-
vided for developing a national research strategy which Government would use
as a basis for improving the country's research capability at the same time
that the extension service is being strengthened. The research strategy to
be developed would also consider ways to ensure that research results would
be acceptable to farmers before their diffusion in order to maximize farmers'
acceptance of improved practices. With regard to production incentives, Gov-
ernment is aware of the fact that even with effective extension, increased
production would only come about if there were a market which offered producers
economic prices for their incremental output. IDA will continue to work with
Government to ensure that a reasonable system of production incentives pre-
vails in the country. These risks have to be balanced against the certainty
that, without the Project, Government would not be able to develop the means to
effectively help farmers improve their welfare and to help the country become
more self-sufficient in major staple foods.
Environmental Effects
6.07      The Project would build up the basis for the diffusion of appro-
priate crop and animal husbandry practices. These improved practices would
help retain soil fertility, conserve existing forest and pasture resources,
and preserve irrigated areas from the negative effects of inefficient water
management.
Role of Women
6.08      Women in Somalia are presently responsible for a major share of
food production in the country. Government is, slowly but surely, creating
opportunities for active women participation in managing the country and
getting the development process underway. This Project is one such oppor-
tunity Government is counting on for getting educated women to help improve
the welfare of those involved in agricultural production.
VII. SUMMARY OF AGREEMENTS REACHED
7.01      Assurances were obtained from Government that:
(a)  a Technical Coordination Committee would be established and
would meet at least once every six months. It would be chaired
by the Director General of Agriculture. Department Directors
from the Ministry of Agriculture and representatives of other
agencies and institutions concerned with agriculture would be
members (para. 2.25);
(b) The Terms of Reference for the preparation of a national
research strategy would be agreed with IDA and an agricultural



- 49 -
research strategy for the country would be developed and the
study report on that strategy would be submitted for review by
IDA by September 30, 1980 (para. 2.48);
(c) the Government would appoint the required Somali staff in time
to meet the training and operational needs of the Project;
(d) the qualifications and experience of staff internationally
recruited for the Project would be satisfactory to IDA
(para. 2.44);
(e) the PMU would submit a training program by March 31, 1980 for
approval by IDA (para. 2.47);
(f) the results of surveys and analysis carried out by the Monitor-
ing and Evaluation Section of the PMU would be sent to IDA and
concerned Government Agencies (para. 2.40);
(g) sample surveys would be carried out by the 2lonitoring and
Evaluation Section of PMU following consultation with IDA
(para. 2.42);
(h) Government would appoint technical assistance staff to the
Agricultural Secondary School no later than August 31, 1979
(para. 2.43);
(i) Government would open a special account in the name of the
Project, maintaining it as a revolving fund, initially paying
in a sum of So. Sh. 3 million and increasing it to So. Sh. 5
million by the end of the first year of the Project investment
period. The amount in the revolving fund would be renewed
every six months (para. 3.05);
(j) procurement procedures outlined in para. 3.07 would be
followed;
(k) separate accounts would be kept reflecting the expenditures
financed by the co-financiers. Project related accounts
would be audited by the Magistrate of Accounts, a Somali
independent auditing agency which is acceptable to IDA.
Audited accounts would be submitted to the Association by
the Ministry of Agriculture within six months of the end of
each fiscal year (paras. 2.49, 3.12);
(1) during Project implementation, GOS would submit semi-annual
and annual progress reports to financing agencies (para. 4.04);



- 50 -
(m) Recruitment of the Project Technical Manager and the Financial
Controller would be subject to IDA approval (para. 4.02); and
(n) Government would prepare a Project Completion Report for sub-
mission to IDA no later than six months after the end of the
Project investment period (para. 4.04).
7.02      It would be a condition of effectiveness that:
(a) Government officially made the 60 ha training farm at
Afgoi part of the FMETC, the 400 ha Demonstration State
Farm in Jannale part of the FMAS and reserved the two
other State Farms in Jannale for use by FMAS during the
Project investment period (paras. 2.04, 2.30);
(b) Government had appointed the Project Director, the Project
Technical Manager and the Financial Controller to the PMU;
(c) Government had appointed a procurement agency to help PMU in
drawing up specifications, prepare tender documents and assist
in the analysis of bids (para. 2.32);
(d) Government had paid So. Sh. 3 million to Project account (para.
3.05);
(e) all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of other co-
financiers' agreements regarding the Project had been met;
(f) the legal instrument establishing the PMU had been executed
(para. 4.02);
(g) Government would appoint a consultant or consulting agency to
supervise the implementation of the civil works component of
the Project (para. 2.32).
7.03      Disbursement of funds for strengthening the Central Statistical
Department would be subject to Government having appointed the necessary
technical assistance staff for CSD (para. 3.11).
7.04      Subject to the above assurances and conditions, the Project would
be suitable for an IDA Credit of US$10.5 million to the Government of Somalia.



A'A 
SOMALIA
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSIONAND FARM MANAGEMENT TRAINING PROJECT
ORGANIZATION OF THE MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE
Crash Programs  a  _  _  _   _           Minister of Agriculture
Parastatals:
Agricultural Development
Technical                Corporation (ADC)
Director General    _        Coordination               National Tractor Hiring
_               ~~~~~Committee              Agency (ONAT)
Regional        Department of       Department of      Department of            The             Department          Department          Department
Agricultural     Production and       Planning and          Land and          Agricultural          of Plant              of                  of
Coordinators        Extension           Statistics         Water Use             Research          Protection        Cooperatives       Administration
Institute        anCocutro
and Tainin         Production        MultiplicationSrvc
Service            Service             Service
AWt
April 4, 1978                                                                                                                                  WVorld Rank - 19978 



SOMALIA
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND FARM MANAGEMENT TRAINING PROJECT
PRO JECT ORG  A Ni;  ZAT;N
Minister of Agriculture
I
Director General                                               Technical Coordmation
Agricultural
Secondary School
Project Management Unit
l Monitoring and    |              Administration and|I
Evaluation Section                 Financial Control |
.                               ~~~~~~~    ~ ~~Section I
Farm Management ani                    National Extension                  Farm Management
Extension Training Center                      Service                       Advisory Service
Demonstration
State Farm
World Bank-19979
1                                                                                                          C



- 53 -
SOMALIA
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND FARM MANAGEMENT TRAINING PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION VOLUME
Table of Contents
ANNEX 1          Project Management Unit
ANNEX 2           Farm Management and Extension Training Center
ANNEX 3          National Extension Service
ANNEX 4           Farm Management Advisory Service
ANNEX 5           Cost Estimates
ANNEX 6          Economic Analysis
ANNEX 7          Government Cash Flow
ANNEX 8           Central Statistical Department
ANNEX 9           Agricultural Secondary School - Afgoi
ANNEX 10         Project Financing



SOMALIA
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND FARM MANAGEMENT TRAINING PROJECT
Implementation Schedule
Pre-Project          Year 1               Year 2             Year 3              Year 4               Year 5              Year 6
January-           July 1979-          July 1980-          July 1981-          July 1982-          July 1983-          July 1984-
June 1979          June 1980            July 1981          June 1982            June 1983           June 1984           June 1985
Preparatory Arrangements                                          1       !-
Agreement on Financing Plan
Negotiation of IDA Credit
Presentation to IDA Board                                   on
Key Staff Identification and Appointment
Appointment of Procurement Agency                       i       _
Appointment of Consultant for Civil Works
Appointment of Ag. Secondary School Teachers
Legal Establishment of PMU
Project Implementation
Civil Works                                                                                                                                                                                        41
Preparation of Tender Documents
Implementation                                                               -I-
Technical Assistance                                                          _
Appointment of FMETC Principal
Appointment of T.A. Staff for NES
Appointment of DSF Manager
Appointment of T.A. Staff for FMAS
Appointment of T.A. Staff for CSD                i
Appointment of T.A. Staff for FMETC
Procuremenit of Machinery and Equipment
NES Fielid Work                                                                    -   -   - .         - _  _                        -                    -        -
Training at FMETC                                            I                                              -          - 1      - , .      -   - ,
Train ing at ETEs T                                                                                                   -   -   -    -   -  i -             -        -
ReFports to I DA                                   i
Semni-annual Report
Annual Report and Audited Accounts
Comnpletion Report
Closing Date: June 30, 1985                                   I                                                                                   I      li
1/ Project Technical Manager, Financial Controller, Project Director.                                                                                                   World Bank -19980           L
t         S



IBRD 13606
48'                                    JUN~~~~~~~~~WE 1978
/ E\,,r    9            '~~PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
-12-                      DJIBOUTI
-12   /   DJIBOU                                                      -             -                                                    Beredo  12-
;IBOUTI                                                                                                             O
OYd                                                                                                         ALULA
eylci                                              ~~~~~~~Adodo  Bososo- - 
<    ~~~~~  <                                 Moii        =           t       !C    X ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ KA\DALA|
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~13ASOM   LIA eiee
(     \GI~~~U~~N      Berbera                                     r,<o        LAKO
AGRICU-                                                                                         LTURAL EXTEN SIHNPAND    .  - -
Tug \Vool
IjO(gelN                        -.                        EA~        ~        ~~~~~~~~~~~~RO  SEDR0 Bender Beile
SOMALIA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AE
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND                                                                "Wdin La Ao
SFARM MANAGEMENT TRAINING PROJECT '                                                                                   GAEIL
DEMONSTRATION STATE FARM
REGIONSAFFECTEDBYTHEAGRICULTURALEXTENSICN
SERVICESPROVIDEDUNDERTHE-PROJECT
EXTENSION TRAINING CENTER
FARM MANAGE lENT AND EXTENSION TRAINING CENTER                                      /                      JARA
.  / SALKAYO     ~JAR 3AN
8/TUMINOUS SURFACED ROADS                                            ADDTS ARAA/
GRAVELEARTH SURFACED ROADS
:1    MAJOR PORTS                                                                                #OYO-
+      DOMESTIC AIRFIELDS
-       INTERNATIONAL AIRFIELDS
RIVERS
--  DSTRICT BOUNOARIES                                               /
-. -   REGION BOUNDARIES
---   INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
9        /(       >/Du~~~sau Mcireb     I 
t t t , /wy > / ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Hobyo
EoDED  AoR b        IFEB"
\ ,,, e    er    g           El      / ELR    B/IUR .l BuARDEREr
;- .   ;94                                                                                                  }  v   K  N    YA  I
'N  '~~~~  V ~ELDERE
/'  G~~~~~~~~one ~~~~~~~~                               L%~~~~~~~             C~~   5R    1010   1310   200   2UD    300
KILOMETERS
r'SOALE  N            N-'' "'*"  " d'SN             K              MOGADISHU                                         RE X
yNNN             'N       'JOR~~~~~~EO                          NINL.                                SAUDI  ARABIA
9                                     t                                                             iB-        TANZANIA Chelambot                -       MAN
"NI                                                                                                                      f                                 _Il
KE DAN_ A  I
Brava ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~     ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ANAI
LU                                                                                                      lsou~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~/



