OFFICIAL
DOCUMFYLTS CREDIT NUMER 905 50
Development Credit Agreement
(Agricultural Extension and Farm Management
Tråining Project)
betveen
SOMALI DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                  2           , 1979
-mnmemmý


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 905 SO
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated     U, 1979, between
SOMALI DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC (hereinafter called the Borrower) and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT   ASSOCIATION  (hereinafter called  the
Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Association
to assist in the financing of the Project described in Schedule
2 to this Agreement by extending the Credit as hereinafter pro-
vided;
(B) the Borrower intends to contract from,the Agency for
International Development of the United States a grant (herein-
after called the USAID Grant) in an amount of seven million six
hundred thousand dollars ($7,600,000) to assist in financing part
of the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an agree-
ment (hereinafter called the USAID Grant Agreement) to be entered
into between the Borrower and USAID;
(C) the Borriwer intends to contract from the African
Development Fund a loan (hereinafter called ADF Loan) in an
amount equivalent to eight million nine hundred thousand dollars
($8,900,000) *to assist in financing part of the Project on terms
and conditions set forth in an agreement (hereinafter called the
ADF Loan Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and
the African Development Fund;
(D) the Borrower intends to contract from the Special Action
Account established by the European Economic Community (EEC) a
Special Action Credit (hereinafter called the EEC Special Action
Credit) in an amount equivalent to one million five hundred
thousand dollars ($1,500,000) to assist in financing part of the
Project on terms and conditions set forth in an agreement (herein-
after called the EEC Special Action Credit Agreement) to be
entered into between the Borrower and the International Develop-
ment Association as Administrator of the Special Action Account;
and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter alia
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿-2-
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section .1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated March 15, 1974, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agree-
ments of the Association being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and ir, the Preamble to this Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,.
on the terms and c6nditions in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies equiv-
alent to ten million five hundred thousand dollars ($10,500,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule
1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Association, for
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works required for the
Project shall be governed by the provisions of the Schedule 3 to
this Agreement.
Sectio 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1985 or such
later date as the Association shall establish.    The Association
shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.


﻿-3-
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum cn the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semiannually
on January 15 and July 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal
amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each
January 15 and July 15 commencing July 15, 1989, and ending
January 15, 2029, each installment to and including the install-
ment payable on January 15, 1999, to be one-half of one per cent
(1/2 of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment there-
after to be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal
amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out the Project
through its Ministry of Agriculture with due diligence and effi-
ciency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, finan-
cial, engineering and agricultural practices, and shall provide,
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other
resources required for the purpose.
(b) In order to assist the Borrower in the overall imple-
mentation of the Project, the Borrower shall establish and there-
after maintain a Project Management Unit consisting of a Project
Director, a Project Technical Manager and a Financial Controller
whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment shall be acceptable to the Association, as well as
support staff to be responsible for the overall Project implemen-
tation.
Section 3.02. Without any limitation or restriction on the
obligation of the Borrower under Section 3.01 (a) above, the
Borrower shall establish a Project Account, deposit in said
account an initial amount of not less than three million Somali


﻿-4-
Shillings to be increased to five million Somali Shillings by
the end of the first year of Project execution, and thereafter
maintain and replenish said account to meet payments required for
the Project.
Section 3.03. In order to assist the Borrower in the prepara-
tion of bidding documents for the Project, the procurement of
goods and services financed under the Project, supervision of the
execution of civil works and the preparation of a follow-up
Project, the Borrower shall employ agricultural, engineering and
procurement consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms
and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Associa-
tion.
Section 3.04. In carrying out Part B of the Project, the
Borrower shall establish a Technical Coordination Committee within
its Ministry of Agriculture headed by the Director General of
Agriculture and consisting of the Project Director, Department
Directors of the Ministry of Agriculture and representatives of
marketing credit and other agrirultural servicing institutions.
Section 3.05. In carrying out Part D of the Project, the
Borrower shall: (i) consult with the Association on the nature and
content of sample surveys undertaken; and (ii) ensure that the
results of such surveys and analysis shall be furnished to the
Association.
Section 3.06. In carrying out Part E of the Project, the
Borrower shall take all necessary measures to appoint the teaching
staff not later than August 31, 1979.
Section 3..07. In carrying out Part F of the Project, the
Borrower shall, by not later than March 31, 1980, prepare and
furnish to the Association for its approval, a training program
for its staff.
Section 3.08. In carrying out Part G of the Project, the
Borrower shall furnish its terms of reference to the Association
for its approval and shall by not later than September 30, 1980,
furnish the study report to the Association for its review.
Section 3.09. In carrying out Part H of the Project, the
Borrower shall employ a team of four statisticians whose quali-
fications, experience and terms of reference shall be acceptable
to the Association.
s1_4


﻿-5-
Section 3.10. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or
make adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit against hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof
to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance
any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by
the Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, all
goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be used exclusively for the Project until its completion.
Section 3.11. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Associa-
tion, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and construction and procurement
schedules for the Project, and any material modifications thereof
or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall
reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project
(including its cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit, and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) shall
enable the Association's accredited representatives to visit the
facilities and construction sites included in the Project and to
examine the'goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and
any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the
Association at regular intervals all such information as the
Association shall reasonably request concerning the Project, its
cost and, where appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it,
the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit and the goods and
services financed out of such proceeds.
(c) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Association, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the
Association a report, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request, on the execution and initial
operation of the Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to
be derived from it, the performance by the Borrower and the
Association of their respective obligations under the Development
Credit Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Credit.


﻿Section 3.12. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken
all such action as shall be necessary to acquire as and when
needed all such land and rights in respect of land as shall be
required for carrying out the Project and shall furnish to the
Association, promptly after such acquisition, evidence satis-
factory to the Association that such land and rights in respect of
land are available for purposes related to the Project.
Section 3.13. The Borrower shall (a) maintain or cause to
be maintained records adequate to reflect in accordance with
consistently maintained appropriate accounting practices the
operations, resources and expenditures, in respect of the Project,
of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for
carrying out the Project or any part thereof;
(b) cause the accounts of said department, or agencies for
the Project to be audited, for each fiscal year, in accordance
with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by
independent auditors acceptable to the Association; and
.        (c) furnish such accounts to the Association as soon as
available, but in any case not later than six months after the end
of each fiscal year.
ARTICLE IV
Remedies of the Association
Section 4.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof:
(R) Subject to subparagraph (b) of this paragraph:
(i) The right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds
of USAID Grant, ADF Loan and EEC Special Action
Credit made to the Borrower for the financing of
the Project shall have been suspended, cancelled or
terminated in whole or in part, pursuant to the
terms of the agreement providing therefor, or
(ii) The USAID Grant, ADF Loan and EEC Special Action
Credit shall have become due and payable prior to
the agreed maturity the eof.


﻿-7-
(b) Subperagraph (a) of this paragraph shall not apply if:
(i) such suspension, cancellation   termination or prematuring is
not caused by the failure of the, Borrower to perform any of its
obligationg under such agreenpfnt, and (ii) adequate funds for the
Project are available to the, Boriower from other sources on terms
and cond1itions consistent   ith the obligations of the lTorrover
under -his Agreement.
Section 4.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified pursuant
to paragraph (d) thereof, namely, that the event specified in
paragraph (a) (i) and (ii) of Section 4.01 of this Agreement shall
occur.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions:
(a) The Borrower shall have taken all necessary measures for
making the 60 hectare training farm at Afgoi available as part of
the Farm Management and Extension Training Center and the 400
hectare Demonstration State Farm at Jannale as part of the Farm
Management Advisory Service--,
(b) The Borrower shall have made all necessary arrangements
to give the Farm Management Advisory Service access to the two
other existing State farms at Jannale.
(c) The Borrower shall have appointed the Project Director,
the Project Technical Manager and the Financial Controller refer-
red to in Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement as well as the
Procurement Consultants referred to in Section 3.03 of this
Agreement.
(d) The Borrower shall have established the Project Manage-
ment Unit referred to in Section 3.01 (b),of this Agreement.
(e) The Borrower shall have deposited the initial amount
of three million Somali shillings in the Project Account pursuant
to the provision of Section 3.02 of this Agreement.
a.y4


﻿-8 -
(f) The EEC Special Action Credit Agreement, USAID Grant
Agreement and the ADF Loan Agreement referred to in the Preamble
to this Agreement shall have become effective or are declared
effective concurrently with this Agreement.
Section 5.02. The date           Q21         is hereby speci-
fied for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 5.03. The obligations of the Borrower under Article
III of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date
on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a
date twenty years after the date of this Agreement, whichever
shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VI
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
MNogadiacio,
Somalia
Cable address:
MINFINANCE
Mogadiscio
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                       Telex:
INDEVAS                             440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused
this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and
year first above vritten.
SOMALI DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC-
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENt ASSOCIATION
By
Regional Vice President
Eastern Africa


﻿-10-
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the-Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
a r   -q of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expei  .ures Ifor items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category               Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Vehicles-and                   400,000        100%
equipment
(2) Technical                    3,59O,0          100% of foreign
assistance                                   expenditures
and training
(3) Local salaries              2,100,000        41% of local
expenditures
(4) Operating and                2,100,000        100%
maintenance
costs
(5) Unallocated                  2,400,000
TOTAL
10,500,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures
in the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country- other
than the Borrower; provided, -however, that if the currency of
the Borrower is also that of another country from the territory
of which goods or services are supplied, expenditures in such
currency for such goods or services shall be deemed to be "foreign
expenditures"; and
ja~~                                                                      .      .1


﻿-114-
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of the Borrower and for goods or services supplied
from the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Association that no proceeds of. the
Credit shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or
on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to
that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect
of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
decreases or increases, the Association may, by notice to the
Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such item as required to be consistent with the
aforementioned policy of the Association.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expendi-
tures: (i) prior to the date of this Agreement; and (ii) under
Part H of the Project, until the Borrower shall have identified
necessary technical assistance staff for strengthening the Central
Department of Statistics.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation- ;of an amount of the Credit
or the disbursement percentages se. forth in the table in para-
graph 1 above, if the Association has reasonably estimated that
the amount of the Credit then allocated to any Category will be
insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures
in that Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower:
(i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet
the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit which are then
allocated to anothe i Category and which in the opinion of the
Association are not needed to meet other expenditures; and (ii)
if such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall,
reduce the disbursement percentage then applicable, to such
expenditures in order that further withdrawals under such Category
may continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have been
made.
6.   If the Association "Tall have reasonably determined that
the procurement of any itc ,d in any Category, is inconsistent with
the, procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Credit and the Association may, without in any way
restricting or limiting any other righat, power or remedy of the


﻿- 12 -
Association under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to
the Borrover, cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the Associ-
ation's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such expendi-
tures which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out
of the proceeds of the Credit.
4~.


﻿-13-
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the following main components:
Part A:
The establishment, development and operation of a Farm
Management and Extension Training Center at Afgoi.
Part B:
The strengthening of the National Extension Service through
the establishment and operation of National Technical Headquarters
at Afgoi and the upgrading and operation of two Farmers' Training
Centers, to be converted into Extension Training Centers at Bonka
and Jannale.
Part C:
The establishment and operation of a Farm Management Advisory
Service supported by a 400 hectare State Farm at jannale to be
rehabilitated and converted into a Demonstration State Farm.
Part D:
The establishment and operation of a Project Management Unit.
Part E:
The strengthening of the Agricultural Secondary School at
Afgoi by provision of an agricultural training specialist and
six teaching staff in technical subjects.
Part F:
Overseas training for:
(a) about 38 post-graduate students of the faculty of
Agriculture;
(b) about 6 senior Ministry of Agriculture personnel; and
(c) about 58 extension and farm management field technical
staff.
ij.


﻿14
Part G:
Provision of technical assistance for development of a
national strategy for strengthening the National Research System
and its links with extension°
Part H:
Strengthening of the Central Department of Statistics in the
State Planning Commission.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1984.
41


﻿-15-
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part B hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with 'procedures consistent
with those set forth in the "Guidelines for Procurement under
World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in March
1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding as described in Part A of the
Guidelines.
2.   For goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of paragraph
1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare and forward to
the Association as soon as possible, and in any event not later
than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the public of
the first tender or prequalification documents relating thereto,
as the case may be, a general procurement notice, in such form and
detail and containing such information as the Association shall
reasonably request; the Association will arrange for the publica-
tion of such notice in order to provide timely notification
to prospective bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods and
works in question. The Borrower shall provide the necessary
information to update such notice annually so long as any goods or
works remain to be procured on the basis of international compe-
titive bidding.
3.   To the extent practicable, identical or similar items shall
be grouped for purposes of bidding so as to permit bulk procure-
ment as shall be consistent with said technical and procurement
practices.
4.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for
the supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state
in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods,
or the ex-factory price for domestically manufactured goods;
(ii) customs duties and other import taxes on imported goods,
and sales and. similar taxes on domestically supplied goods, shall
be excluded; and (iii) the cost to the Borrower of inland freight
and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of goods to
the place of their use or installation shall be included.
"Al1


﻿-16-
B.   Other Procurement Procedures
Contracts under Categories 1 and 4 of Schedule 1 for the
purchase of vehicles, equipment and supplies estimated to cost
less than the equivalent of $50,000 each may be procured on the
basis of competitive bidding advertised locally in accordance with
procedures acceptable to the Association; provided, however, that
the price of the contracts so procured shall, in the aggregate,
not exceed $300,000 equivalent net of taxes.
C.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts for goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of $50,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations to
bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, together
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably
request. Any, further modification to the bidding documents shall
require the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the
prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Association of the name of the bidder to which it intends to
award the contract and shall furnish to the Association, in
sufficient time for its review, a detailed report, by the consul-
tants referred to in Section 3.02 of this Agreement, on the
evaluation and comparison of the bids received, together with the
recommendations for award of the said consultants and such other
information as the Association shall reasonably request. The
Association shall, if it determines that the intended award would
be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly
inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.


﻿17-
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to
the submission to the Association of the first application for
withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such
contract*
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the Borrower shall furni! to the Association, promptly
after its execution and prior to the submission to the-Association
of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit
Account in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such
contract, together with the analysis of the respective bids,
recommendations for award and such other information as the
Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if it
determines that the award of the contract was not consistent with
the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and
state the reasons for such determination.
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 10% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform
the Association of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or
change order and the reasons therefor. The Association, if it
determines that the croposal would be inconsistent with the
provisions of this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower
and state the reasons for its determination.


﻿;
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the   2        day\ of
197-9-.
FOR SECRETARY


