Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2994 GH
Development Credit Agreement
(Health Sector Program Support Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated April 3, 1998
CREDIT NUMBER 2994 GH 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated April 3, 1998, between REPUBLIC OF GHANA (the Borrower) and the 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association): 
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project;
(B)
the Association has received the following documents: (i) a Medium-Term 
Health Strategy Toward Vision 2020, dated September 1995; and (ii) the five-year 
Program of Works (POW), dated August 1996, from the Borrower, part of which describes 
a program of actions, objectives and policies designed to implement activities under 
the Borrower's Medium-Term Health Strategy for the Fiscal Years 1997 to 2001 (the two 
documents shall collectively be referred to as the Program) and declaring the 
Borrower's commitment to the execution of the Program; 
(C)
the Borrower intends to obtain from various Donors (as hereinafter 
defined) grants and loans to assist in financing the Program; 
(D)
the Borrower, the Association and the Donors intend to enter into a 
Memorandum of Understanding providing for common procedures on procurement, 
disbursement, cooperation and exchange of information; and 
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Page  2
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set 
forth below (the General Conditions), constitute an integral part of this Agreement: 
(a)
The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
(b)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
“Except as the Association and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals 
shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories 
of any country which is not 
a member of the Bank or for goods produced in, or 
services supplied from, such territories; 
or (b) for the purpose of any payment to 
persons or entities, or for any import of goods, if 
such payment or import, to the 
knowledge of the Association, is prohibited by a decision of 
the United Nations 
Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United 
Nations.”
(c)
Section 6.03 is modified to read:
“Section 6.03.  Cancellation by the Association.  If: (a) the right of 
the Borrower  to make withdrawals from the Credit Account shall have been suspended 
with respect to any 
amount of the Credit for a continuous period of thirty days, 
or (b) at any time, the 
Association determines, after consultation with the 
Borrower, that an amount of the Credit 
will not be required to finance the Project’s 
costs to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Credit, or (c) at any time, the 
Association determines, with respect to any contract to 
be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, that corrupt or fraudulent practices were 
engaged in by 
representatives of the Borrower or of a beneficiary of the Credit during the 
procurement or the execution of such contract, without the Borrower having taken 
timely and 
appropriate action satisfactory to the Association to remedy the 
situation, and establishes 
the amount of expenditures in respect of such 
contract which would otherwise have been 
eligible for financing out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, or (d) at any time, the 
Association 
determines that the procurement of any contract to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred to in 
the 
Development Credit Agreement and establishes the amount of expenditures in 
respect of such 
contract which would otherwise have been eligible for financing 
out of the proceeds of the 
Credit, or (e) after the Closing Date, an amount of 
the Credit shall remain unwithdrawn from 
the Credit Account, the Association may, 
by notice to the Borrower, terminate the right of 
the Borrower to make withdrawals 
with respect to such amount.  Upon the giving of such 
notice, such amount 
of the Credit shall be cancelled.”
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth, and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
(a)
"ADB" means the African Development Bank; 
(b)
"BADEA" means Arab Bank for Economic Development in Africa; 
(c)
"BMC" means a Budget and Management Center, the functional unit of the 
Borrower's health system responsible for planning, managing and implementing a 
Subprogram or a part thereof, within a given budget; 
(d)
"CIDA" means the Canadian International Development Agency; 
(e)
"DANIDA" means the Danish International Development Agency; 
Page  3
(f)
"DFID" means the Department for International Development of the United 
Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland; 
(g)
"Donors" means, collectively, the ADB, BADEA, CIDA, EC, WHO, UNICEF, 
UNFPA, DANIDA, DFID, USAID, Government of the Kingdom of the Netherlands, GTZ, JICA, 
OPEC Fund and Saudi Fund for Development (as herein defined) and any other national or 
international agency contributing funds or technical assistance for the Program, and 
"Donor" means each and every donor individually;
(h)
"EC" means European Commission; 
(i)
"Fiscal Year" or "FY" means the twelve-month period beginning January 1 
and ending December 31 of each year; 
(j)
"Ghanaian Cedi" and "C" mean the currency of the Borrower; 
(k)
"GHS" means the Ghana Health Service, established pursuant to the Ghana 
Health Service and Teaching Hospitals Act, 1996, Act 525; 
(l)
"GTZ" means Gesellschaft für Technische Zusammenarbeit; 
(m)
"IGF" means Internally Generated Funds, funds which are generated by each 
BMC through cost-recovery measures, including donations and fees collected from 
patients; 
(n)
"JICA" means the Japan International Cooperation Agency; 
(o)
"MOH" means the Borrower’s Ministry of Health; 
(p)
"OPEC Fund" means the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries Fund 
for International Development; 
(q)
"Process for the Definition and Review of Capital Projects" means the 
policy document adopted by the Borrower dated March 26, 1997, which describes the 
process for approving and carrying out capital investment projects in the health 
sector under the Program. 
(r)
"Program Implementation Plan" or "PIP" means the plan which is included 
in the POW, containing, inter alia, monitoring and performance indicators, guidelines 
and procedures to be used for the purpose of implementation of the Program and 
Project, as the plan may be amended from time to time in consultation with the 
Association and the Donors, and such term includes any schedules to the PIP;
(s)
"Subprogram" means the annual program of activities included in the 
Program to be carried out in each Fiscal Year under the Project, as agreed upon 
between the Borrower, the Association and the Donors; 
(t)
"UNFPA" means the United Nations Population Fund; 
(u)
"UNICEF" means the United Nations Children's Fund; 
(v)
"USAID" means the United States Agency for International Development; and 
(w)
"WHO" means the World Health Organization.
ARTICLE II 
The Credit 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to twenty-five million one hundred thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR 25,100,000). 
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit Account 
Page  4
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable 
cost of goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2002, or such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date. 
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such 
other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on May 1 and November 1 in each year. 
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each 
May 1 and November 1, commencing November 1, 2007 and ending May 1, 2037. Each 
installment to and including the installment payable on May 1, 2017 shall be one 
percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two 
percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years  the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association's resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify the 
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A)
requiring the Borrower to 
repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount 
of the Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to commence 
repayment of the principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment 
date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the date on 
which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this paragraph 
(b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of a minimum 
of five years on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification. 
Page  5
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above. 
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial and public health practices, and shall provide, promptly as 
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project. 
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or 
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the 
Association, a plan for the future operation of the Project; and 
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan. 
Section 3.04. In carrying out the Project, the Borrower shall, until completion 
of the Project, maintain a system, satisfactory to the Association, which shall 
provide for the flow of funds to the BMCs for the purposes of carrying out parts of 
the Project in their areas. 
Section 3.05. In carrying out capital investments under the Program, the 
Borrower shall take all measures necessary to ensure that contracts for such 
investments are awarded in accordance with the Process for the Definition and Review 
of Capital Projects.
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain, or cause to be maintained, 
records and accounts adequate to reflect, in accordance with sound accounting 
practices, the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Program of the 
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Program or 
any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall: 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section, 
including the funds by the Donors and the IGF, for each 
fiscal year audited, 
in accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable 
to the Association; 
Page  6
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later 
than six months after the end of each such year, the 
report of such audit by 
said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Association shall have 
reasonably requested; and 
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records and 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Association shall from 
time to time 
reasonably request.
 (iv)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit 
report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Credit 
Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts 
and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures; (v)
enable the 
Association's 
representatives to examine such records; and 
(vi)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals. 
ARTICLE V 
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
A situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, 
or a significant part thereof, will be carried out.
(b)
(i)
Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A)
the right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of any 
loan or grant 
made to the Borrower for the financing of the 
Program shall have been 
suspended, cancelled or terminated in 
whole or in part, pursuant to the 
terms of the agreement 
providing therefor, or
(B)
any such loan shall have become due and payable prior to the 
agreed maturity 
thereof.
(ii)
Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower 
establishes 
to the satisfaction of the Association that: (A) such 
suspension, 
cancellation, termination or prematuring is 
not caused by the failure of the 
Borrower to perform any of its 
obligations under such agreement; and (B) 
adequate funds for 
the Program are available to the Borrower from other 
sources on 
terms and conditions consistent with the obligations of the 
Borrower under this Agreement.
Section 5.02
Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely that the event specified in paragraph 
(b) (i) (B) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of 
paragraph (b) (ii) of that section. 
ARTICLE VI 
Effective date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions: 
Page  7
(a)
the Borrower has established a procurement unit within MOH, with terms of 
reference satisfactory to the Association, to coordinate procurement under the 
Program; and 
(b)
the Borrower has appointed the independent auditors referred to in 
Section 4.01 (b) of this Agreement, under terms and conditions acceptable to the 
Association, in accordance with the provisions of Section II of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement. 
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE VII 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 7.01. The Minister of the Borrower at the time responsible for Finance 
is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of 
the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of 
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Minister of Finance
Ministry of Finance
PO Box M40
Accra, Ghana
Cable address: 
Telex:
ECONOMICON
2205 MIFAEPGH
Accra
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Accra, Republic of Ghana, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
By /s/ Eunice Brookman-Amissah 
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Page  8
By /s/ Peter Harrold 
Acting Regional Vice President 
Africa 
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Subprogram
Up to 3,600,000
50% of eligible
expenditures
in the aggregate
expenditures under
(including civil
for FY 1997, and
the Subprogram or
works, drugs,
thereafter, such
other percentage
furniture, equip-
amount as may be
as the Association
ment, vehicles,
allocated for each
may determine from
training, materials
FY by the Asso-
time to time
consultants' ser-
ciation
vices, studies,
training and
incremental
operating costs)
(2)
Unallocated
   21,500,000
TOTAL
   25,100,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "incremental operating costs" means the incremental expenses 
incurred on account of Program implementation, management and monitoring, including 
office supplies, vehicle and equipment operation, travel, per diem and supervision 
costs but excluding salaries of officials of the Borrower's civil and public service; 
and
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures under items 2 through 
9 of the health sector budget except expenditures for salaries and land.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of:
(a)
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement except 
that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of 
SDR 2,500,000, may be made on account of payments made for expenditures before that 
date but after January 1, 1997;
(b)
a Subprogram, unless (i) such Subprogram has been approved by the 
Association in accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraph 3 of 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement; and (ii) the Borrower has submitted documents 
satisfactory to the Association consisting of the following: (A) the draft annual 
budget satisfactory to the Association for MOH, submitted to Parliament for the Fiscal 
Year corresponding to the Subprogram; and (B) certification of the financial statement 
by the Financial Controller of MOH that the expenditures incurred in the previous 
quarter's Subprogram were for eligible items and were made in compliance with the 
objectives of the Program.
(c)
payments made for expenditures for goods and services supplied under a 
contract which any national or international financing institution or agency, other 
than the Association, shall have financed or agreed to finance under any other credit 
Page  9
or grant.
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower in implementing 
Subprograms under the Program to: (a) provide universal access to basic health 
services and improve the quality and efficiency of health services; and (b) foster 
linkages with other sectors in the Borrower’s economy to reduce the population growth 
rate, reduce the level of malnutrition, increase female education, increase access to 
water and sanitation and reduce poverty.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
The carrying out of Subprograms for:
1.
Improving access to, and the quality and efficiency of, primary health services 
by: (a) establishing standards of practice for priority packages of health services; 
(b) retraining health workers, (c) rehabilitating clinics, health centers and 
hospitals; (d) acquisition of essential drugs, equipment and supplies; (e) 
strengthening the capacity of district and sub-district health management and 
administration systems through training and acquisition of equipment; 
(f) disseminating health messages to the public and collaborating with other 
ministries on intersectorial health issues through carrying out joint workshops and 
other health related activities; and (g) implementing a decentralization program for 
the delivery of health services to the districts and sub-districts. 
2.
Strengthening and reorienting secondary and tertiary service delivery to support 
primary health services, through rehabilitation of facilities, training, provision of 
technical advisory services and acquisition of drugs and medical equipment.
3.
Strengthening the capacity of MOH to collaborate with other ministries and 
agencies dealing with health, nutrition, population, water supply and education in 
delivering well coordinated health packages to the public through training and the 
provision of technical advisory services. 
4.
(a)
Development and implementation of training programs for health workers in 
clinical, public health and management skills, as well as hospital administration, 
including finance and budget.
(b)
Strengthening the capacity of local health training institutions, 
including the rehabilitation of schools, acquisition of supplies and teaching 
materials, revision of curricula and retraining of tutors.
5.
Improving the capacity of MOH in policy development and analysis, resource 
allocation, performance monitoring and evaluation and regulation of delivery of health 
services through: (a) training of relevant staff of MOH, (b) carrying out of 
health-related studies and dissemination of findings, and (c) provision of logistical 
support for the development and revision of health policies. 
6.
Promotion of private sector involvement in the delivery of health services. 
7.
Strengthening the capacity of national health support systems in Program 
implementation, including personnel management, drugs and supplies management, 
equipment management and strengthening of financial management and information systems 
through training of staff.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2001.
SCHEDULE 3 
Procurement and Consultants' Services 
Page  10
Section I.
Procurement of Good and Works
Part A:
General 
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 (the Guidelines) and the 
following provisions of Section I of this Schedule.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B. 
(a)
Prequalification 
Bidders for civil works estimated to cost the equivalent of $10,000,000 or more 
shall be prequalified in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 2.9 and 2.10 of 
the Guidelines. 
(b)
Grouping of contracts 
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid packages 
estimated to cost $300,000 equivalent or more each. 
(c)
Preference for Domestically Manufactured Goods and Domestic Contractors 
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower and works 
to be carried out by domestic contractors. 
(d)
Notification and Advertising 
The invitation to prequalify or bid for each contract estimated to cost 
$10,000,000 equivalent or more shall be advertised in accordance with the procedures 
applicable to large contracts under paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures 
1.
National Competitive Bidding 
(a)
Goods estimated to cost less than $300,000 equivalent per contract may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 
and 3.4 of the Guidelines. 
(b)
Works estimated to cost less than $2,000,000 equivalent per contract may 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 
3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines. 
2.
National Shopping Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per 
contract may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping 
procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the 
Guidelines. 
3.
Procurement from UN Agencies Vaccines, drugs and supplies may be procured from 
UNICEF or WHO, and contraceptives may be procured from UNFPA, in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 3.9 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions 
1.
Procurement Planning 
Page  11
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for each Subprogram shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by 
the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
With respect to each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$300,000 or more, and works estimated to cost the equivalent of $2,000,000 or more, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. 
3.
Post Review 
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 (the 
Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants. 
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph.  
The shortlist of consultants for services estimated to cost less than $200,000 
equivalent per contract may comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services for small contracts estimated to cost less than $75,000 equivalent per 
contract may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
2.
Single Source Selection
Services for consultants may, with the Association's prior agreement, be 
procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the 
Consultant Guidelines. 
3.
Individual Consultants
Services for consultants to be employed may be procured under contracts awarded 
to individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 
5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
4.
Service Delivery Contractors
Services to be provided by medical personnel shall be procured in accordance 
with procedures acceptable to the Association.
Page  12
Part D:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Planning 
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under each Subprogram shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ 
services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, but less than the equivalent of 
$300,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second 
subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $300,000 or more and each contract for the 
employment of individual consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or 
more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph 
of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 1 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 4 
Implementation Program 
1.
The Borrower shall implement the Program in accordance with the procedures set 
out in the PIP and, except as the Association and the Donors shall otherwise agree, 
the Borrower shall not amend, abrogate or waive any provision thereof if, in the 
opinion of the Association and the Donors, such amendment, abrogation or waiver may 
materially and adversely affect the implementation of the Program. 
2.
MOH shall be responsible for the overall implementation of the Program, 
including, inter alia, overseeing the health sector policy reform, coordinating the 
sector-wide Subprograms and coordinating the assistance from Donors to the Program. 
Annual Subprograms
3.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
not later than September 15 of each Fiscal Year during the implementation 
of the Project or such later date as the Association may agree, commencing on 
September 15, 1998, furnish to the Association for its approval each proposed 
Subprogram to be carried out in the following Fiscal Year, modified in a manner 
satisfactory to the Association, taking into account its comments and views on the 
matter;
(b)
carry out, or cause to be carried out, each such Subprogram in accordance 
with modalities and procedures as approved by, and in a manner satisfactory to, the 
Association and in accordance with the PIP; and
(c)
not make any material change to the approved Subprogram without the prior 
approval of the Association.
4.
Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the 
Association shall not approve any proposal for a Subprogram furnished to it pursuant 
to subparagraph 3 (a) above unless and until:
(a)
the Borrower shall have prepared and furnished to the Association an 
Page  13
operational plan for the Subprogram, setting forth, inter alia, the activities to be 
carried out, any policy reforms and other measures to be implemented, the expenditures 
to be incurred, the sources of financing of such expenditures and the procurement plan 
to be followed; and
(b)
the Association shall have been satisfied with the progress made to date 
in the carrying out of the current activities under the Subprogram to which the 
proposal relates on the basis of indicators referred to in paragraph 11 of this 
Schedule. Budget Management 
5.
MOH shall be responsible for the preparation and implementation of health 
budgets for the consolidated activities under Subprograms and the monitoring of the 
performance of sector delivery of health services at the BMCs. 
6.
District health management teams established in each district shall be 
responsible for organizing the local provision of health services at the community 
level in a manner consistent with the terms of reference set forth in the PIP.  The 
teams shall prepare annual plans and budgets for their districts.  These will be 
incorporated in the annual Subprograms. 
7.
The regional health teams shall be responsible for providing supervision and 
logistical support to the districts and organizing referral care. Health Account Funds 
8.
The Borrower shall maintain, in a bank acceptable to the Association, an account 
(the Health Account) into which reimbursements to the Borrower out of the proceeds of 
the Credit and contributions from Donors will be deposited. Funds in the Health 
Account shall be used exclusively for the purpose of the Program.
9.
The Borrower shall disburse funds from the Health Account to the BMCs in 
accordance with approved annual plans and budgets, and in accordance with procedures 
set forth in the PIP. Prior to disbursement of Health Account funds to a BMC, the 
financial controller of MOH, in consultation with staff of the Controller and 
Accountant General, will certify that the BMC concerned (a) has taken the necessary 
measures to strengthen its internal financial management and (b) is in compliance with 
the minimum criteria of eligibility for funding, specified in paragraph 10 below.
10.
In order for any BMC to be eligible to receive funds from the Health Account, it 
must meet the following criteria:
(a)
it has prepared and submitted its annual budget for IGF and Health 
Account funds,
(b)
the annual budget referred to in (a) above is accompanied by a statement 
of quantified targets and objectives for the total resources made, or to be made, 
available to it,
(c)
it has instituted satisfactory procedures of collecting fees from 
patients and for the regular deposit of said fees in a bank account,
(d)
there is an adequate and acceptable procedure for authorization of 
payments out of the IGF, Health Account and Borrower funds,
(e)
its cash and bank books are maintained up to date, and the bank balance 
is reconciled regularly and promptly at the end of each month, and
(f)
the BMC has adequate staff and procedures to prepare: (i) monthly summary 
reports of revenues and expenditures for IGF, Health Account and Borrower funds, and 
(ii) an annual summary statement of said revenues and expenditures. Performance 
Indicators
11.
The Borrower shall: 
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators agreed upon between 
the Borrower and the Association, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement 
of the objectives thereof; and
Page  14
(b)
furnish to the Association and the Donors: (i) quarterly financial 
statements indicating all revenues and expenditures for each level of BMC, according 
to the source of funds, the budget items and a selection of performance indicators 
agreed upon between the Borrower and the Association; (ii)
not later than January 1 
of each year of implementation of the Program or such later date as the Association 
may agree, commencing on January 1, 1998, the annual MOH budget that is to be 
submitted to Parliament; (iii)
not later than April 1 of each year of implementation 
of the Program or such later date as the Association may agree, commencing on April 1, 
1998, an annual report integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation 
activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress 
achieved in carrying out the Program during the previous fiscal Year and setting out 
the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Program and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such date, and the 
report of actual expenditures against the budget for the previous Fiscal Year; and
(iv)
not later than October 1 of each year of implementation of the Program or such 
later date as the Association may agree, commencing on October 1, 1998, the sector 
budget to be submitted by MOH to the Ministry of Finance for the following Fiscal 
Year.
12.
The Borrower shall: (a) not later than the fifth year of the Program, carry out, 
under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association and the Donors, an evaluation 
of the impact of the Program on the delivery of health services, including an analysis 
on the benefits derived by vulnerable groups of the population from public 
expenditures on health, and (b) soon thereafter, furnish the report of said evaluation 
to the Association and Donors. 
13.
The Borrower shall, not later than July 31, 1998, put in place arrangements, 
satisfactory to the Association, including the appointment of a procurement expert in 
accordance with the provisions of Section II of Schedule 3 to this Agreement, for 
reviewing the procurement of goods, works and services financed under the Program, 
including the reviewing of procurement procedures and processes.
