                                              Document of
                                           The World Bank

                                       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                                                                        Report No: 25543

                             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                   (TF-21578; TF-29254; IDA-29940)

                                                  ON A

                                        LOAN/CREDIT/GRANT

                                 IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ MILLION

                                                 TO THE

                                                 GHANA

                                                 FOR A

                                HEALTH SECTOR SUPPORT PROJECT




                                                06/04/2003




Human Development 2
Africa Region

This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                                      CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                                         (Exchange Rate Effective )

                                         Currency Unit = Cedi
                                         Cedi 1 million = US$ 140
                                                 US$ 1 = Cedi 7150

                                               SDR I =US$1.35
                                                FISCAL YEAR


                                 ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

BMC           Budget and Management Center
CBO           Community-based Organization
CHAG          Christian Health Association of Ghana
CMA           Common Management Arrangements
CPPR          Country Portfolio Performance Review
DANIDADanish Agency for Development Assistance
DFID          Department for International Development
DHS           Demographic and Health Survey
GAC           Ghana AIDS Commission
GAVI          Global Alliance for Vaccines and Immunization
GFAMT Global Fund against AIDS, Malaria, and Tuberculosis
GHS           Ghana Health Service
GLSS          Ghana Living Standard Survey
GOG           Government of Ghana
GPRS          Ghana Poverty Reduction Strategy
GNI           Gross National Income
HIPC          Highly Indebted Poor Countries
HSSP          Health Sector Support Project
ICB           International Competitive Bidding
IGF           Internally Generated Funds
IMCI          Integrated Management of Child Illness
MCH           Maternal and Child Health
MOF           Ministry of Finance
MOH           Ministry of Health
MOU           Memorandum of Understanding
MTHS          Medium-term Health Strategy
NBC           National Competitive Bidding
NGO           Non-Governmental Organization
POW           Program of Work
PSR           Project Supervision Report
RBM           Roll-back Malaria
ROC           Regional Operations Committee
SIL           Specific Investment Loan
SWAp          Sector-wide Approach
TB            Tuberculosis
QAG           Quality Assessment Group


                                       Vice President:     Callisto E. Madavo
                         Country Manager/Director:         Mats Karlsson
                           Sector Manager/Director:        Alexandre V. Abrantes
                Task Team Leader/Task Manager:             Ousmane Bangoura

                                            GHANA
                               HEALTH SECTOR SUPPORT


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         6
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            8
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            14
6. Sustainability                                                                20
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 22
8. Lessons Learned                                                               24
9. Partner Comments                                                              27
10. Additional Information                                                       30
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             31
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             32
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             35
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             36
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             39
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                40
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            41
Annex 8. Borrower's Comments                                                     45

Project ID: P000949                                                      Project Name: HEALTH SECTOR SUPPORT
Team Leader: Ousmane Bangoura                                            TL Unit: AFTH2
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                       Report Date: June 4, 2003


1. Project Data

                   Name: HEALTH SECTOR SUPPORT                                    L/C/TF Number: TF-21578; TF-29254;
                                                                                                     IDA-29940
   Country/Department: GHANA                                                              Region: Africa Regional Office

        Sector/subsector: Health (96%); Central government administration (4%)
                  Theme: Health system performance (P); Other financial and private sector
                            development (S); Fighting communicable diseases (S)

KEY DATES
                                                                               Original               Revised/Actual
         PCD:    10/25/1995                                        Effective:                         06/18/1998
   Appraisal:    06/25/1996                                            MTR:                           06/01/2000
    Approval:    10/21/1997                                         Closing: 06/30/2002               06/30/2002

    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVERNMENT/MINISTRY OF HEALTH
                      Other Partners:      1) Participating in the Health Account: Danida, DFID, Government of the
                                           Kingdom of the Netherlands, The Nordic Fund; ii) Not participating in the Health
                                           Account: European Commission, JICA, USAID, CIDA, WHO, Unicef, UNFPA,
                                           GTZ, AfDB, ABEDA, OPEC Fund, Saudi Fund for Development.

STAFF                      Current                                             At Appraisal
Vice President:            Callisto E. Madavo                                  Jean-Louis Sarbib
Country Director:          Mats Karlsson                                       Kazi Matin (Acting) AFC10
Sector Manager:            Alexandre V. Abrantes                               Helena Ribe
Team Leader at ICR:        François Decaillet                                  David Peters
ICR Primary Author(s): Ousmane Bangoura


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                          Outcome:S

                     Sustainability:L

Institutional Development Impact:SU

               Bank Performance:S

           Borrower Performance:S


                                                      QAG (if available)              ICR
                                  Quality at Entry: S                                 S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No
Outcome: S

Note to the reader: the ICR uses the term "Program" for the overall Government of Ghana program
for the health sector and "Project" for the IDA-financed portion of this Program namely, the Health
Sector Support Project.

The purpose of the Credit was to assist the Government of Ghana in reforming the health sector through the
implementation of its Medium-term Health Strategy "Towards Vision 2020" and the Program of Work
1997-2001. This strategy was supported by several bilateral agencies and multilateral organizations
including IDA. The IDA contribution to the program was the Health Sector Support Project (HSSP- Cr.
29940) which used an innovative approach, i.e., a sector-wide approach (SWAp). Implemented as a
flagship operation, the HSSP has been, so far, the most successful sector-wide operation in the Africa
Region. Although the approach was new to the Bank and the Borrower at the time it was approved, the
project has been completed on time and fully disbursed. The overall program for the health sector was
executed out by the MOH without any major disruptions. Compared with initial projections, the
performance gains in health status and performance were rather impressive, taking into account the fact
that improvements in outcomes are long-term endeavor and effective sector-wide partnerships take time to
mature. In addition, the results need to be viewed taking into account the difficulties faced in developing
institutions and capacities at all levels of the health sector. Factors that contributed to the success included:
good macro and sector policies management along with intensive capacity-building which improved budget
and sector management performance. This ICR was scheduled to be a core accountability ICR. However,
because of its learning potential (such as its relation with the proposed follow-up program, the innovative
character of the approach, and its successful implementation) the team is considering an in-depth analysis
of this experience that will focus on the lessons learned as required by a learning ICR.

The HSSP development objectives were identical to the objectives of the Program of Work (POW)
1997-2001 (see Sec.3.1. for detailed description) and were rather broad, i.e., (a) improve health status by:
(i) increasing access to a basic package of health services, (ii) improving quality and efficiency of health
services, and (iii) forging linkages with other partners in health development; (b) improve financing by
increasing state budgetary allocation to the health sector and donor funding and by improving revenue
generation from households; (c) reduce population growth; (d) reduce malnutrition; (e) improve access to
water and sanitation, and (f) reduce poverty). The HSSP objectives were relevant and timely because: (i)
they pursued the implementation of a renewed policy for the health sector and, through this policy, sound
sector reform; and (ii) they were consistent with CAS objectives and with the overall macroeconomic
situation of the country. As of the POW 1997-2001, the main strategies were to: improve access, quality
and efficiency of service delivery; strengthen and reorient tertiary and secondary services to support
Primary Health Care; develop training; strengthen capacity in the public sector; promote private sector
involvement; and foster intersectoral action. In order to monitor progress and perform evaluation of both
health status indicators and the performance of the Ghana public health system, two sets of indicators were
designed for the POW 1997-2001 and for the SWAp. Their targets, baseline values and results achieved so
far are reflected in Table 1 and in Annex 1.

Overall, the projected 1997-2001 POW indicators for the health sector were achieved; however, in some
cases, improvements fell bellow expectations. Given that the targeted levels were determined based on the
assumption of a rather robust economic growth, and that the actual economic growth was much less
substantial, it is reasonable to state that the health sector was successful, its performance was improved,
and there was impact on the health status of the population. While the above is a general conclusion on
which both Government and donors agree, it is also worth mentioning that with regard to the outcome
indicators (which are measured in Ghana as well as in the other countries of the Region using demographic
and health surveys (DHS) carried out at five-year intervals) reliable data were only available for 1993 and
1998 when DHS were performed (and not 1997 and 2001). Therefore, the data do not characterize the


                                                        - 2 -

program during the period under review. However, other more recently available information, mostly on
sector performance and isolated data on outcomes, suggest that outcome trends in 1993-1998 continued
during subsequent years.

Table 1: POW 1997-2001: Outcomes and Outputs Indicators
                               Outcomes                                                 Outputs
Indicator/Matrix        Baseline      Projected (end   Actual      Indicator/Matri Baseline    Projected   Actual
                          1996          program)       /Latest     x                1996         (end      /Latest
                                                      Estimate2001                             program)   Estimate2001
Percentage of       7.0% of recurrent          12.0%        11.0 %Outpatient             0.39          0.5      0.49
GOG recurrent         GOG excluding                                visits per       per capita
budget spent on                  debt                              capita (Public   nationally
health.                                                            only)
Infant Mortality         66 per 1000     50 per 1000   61 per 1000DPT3 coverage       49.6%        75.0%      76.0%
Rate                           (1993)          (2001)       (1998)rates (1-yr.
                                                                   olds)
Under five              132 per 1000    100 per 1000  110 per 1000OPV3 coverage       49.0%        75.0%      98.0%
mortality rate                 (1993)          (2001)       (1998)rates (1-yr.
                                                                   olds)
Maternal              214 per 100.000 100 per 100.000  214-740 perAnte Natal          85.0%              -    98.0%
Mortality Ratio                                (2001)     100.000Care coverage
                                                       (estimated)(1 visit)
Total fertility                   5.5               5           4.6Births attended    38.0%        60.0%      50.0%
rate                                                               by skilled
                                                                   health staff
Life expectancy                  55.7              60            57TB cure rate       15.0%        85.0%      45.0%
Years                                                                                 (1997)
Percent                         27.3                -            25Proportion of      10.0%        40.0%       9.1%
under-fives                   (1995)                               children using
underweight                                                        bed nets
* 2001 figure Source: MOH

The improvement in health sector performance is more specific to the program's results and more
informative of its overall success than the health outcomes. In addition, the Government's program should
be given credit for its contribution to health sector reform, decentralization, shifting of funding from
tertiary care to primary care, further development of outreach services (including initiatives with
Community Health Planning and Services), improved financial management, planning and monitoring,
introduction of quality assurance, strengthening of disease surveillance and strengthened donor
coordination.

In spite of the above-mentioned improvements, the question remains as to whether or not these gains were
influenced by the Bank's involvement through the IDA credit. While IDA financing represented only a
small fraction of the total program costs (about 5 percent), all credit proceeds were pooled into the health
account and, more importantly, were not provided evenly. Furthermore, the ICR team believes that an
evaluation of Bank efficiency should not be based on how much and what it financed, because the Bank's
impact and contributions to the program are not necessarily linked to the dollar amount provided, but rather
to the new ideas, policy changes, and influence that the Bank was able to bring to the program. Because
the overall sector program is on track and the implementation is successful, the specific details of activities
and their amounts financed by the Bank are less important.

Among the remaining issues to be addressed are the persistent inequalities in access to services, insufficient
funding, human resource issues such as losses and inadequate staffing of underserved regions, and
inadequate private sector and intersectoral involvement. While the solution to these issues also depends



                                                          - 3 -

upon macro-economic improvement and reforms, and action in other sectors, infectious disease control
programs are an area in which the public sector could have performed better. The disease control
programs with unsatisfactory performance included: (i) tuberculosis (detection rate 30-40 percent and cure
rate 45 percent instead of 85 percent targeted); (ii) malaria (9 percent instead of the 40 percent targeted
with respect to children under five and 8 percent of pregnant women sleep under impregnated bed nets);
(iii) Guinea worm (after a marked reduction of reported cases by 70 percent between 1997 and 1999, the
epidemic re-emerged and 7,402 and 4,750 cases were reported in 2000 and 2001, respectively); and (iv)
HIV/AIDS (Voluntary Counseling and Testing--VCT) attendance was low, condom use was 20 percent,
HIV prevalence was estimated in 2001 at 3 percent and the number of cumulative reported cases of AIDS
during the period 1986 to 2000 reached 44,000). The new Government is aware of these issues. In fact,
Guinea worm control program is recovering although additional investments are needed on water supply in
the most infected regions. There is an evolving political and financial engagement to strengthening the fight
against HIV/AIDS, malaria and tuberculosis. The implementation of new strategies to address them has
started and will continue with support from donors during POW 2002-2006.

Sustainability: (L)


If sustainability is seen as the probability of continuing the reform and SWAp processes, HSSP could be
safely considered likely sustainable because:
 i. There was considerable capacity-building in the sector and, in particular, in the districts;
ii. The reform process passed "the point of no return." The new Government has retained the reform
     objectives of the GOG strategy for the health sector and intends to focus through POW 2002-2006 on
     areas in which POW 1997-2001 was less successful. (However, in December 2002, at the Summit
     meeting on the sector program in 2003, the Minister of Health announced that a new policy document
     would be issued to redefine the government's vision and strategies for the health sector).
iii. Donors are determined to continue to support the sector's overall policy and work plan.
iv. Collaboration with the private not-for-profit sector, including mission health facilities, was an
     important asset of POW 1997-2001, and the new POW will focus on reliance on the entire private
     sector.
 v. Both GOG and donors continue to adhere to the SWAp process and the newly proposed IDA project is,
     in fact, a follow-up to HSSP.

Nonetheless, from an economic viewpoint HSSP has not diminished the need for external financing. The
follow-up IDA credit will bring to the health sector approximately US$90 million, or more than double the
amount of HSSP which was about US$35 million. Other foreign sources are expected to contribute
US$325 million (against US$192 million during 1997-2001), and Government US$638 million (against
US$500 million in 1997-2001) while the total estimated program cost for five years will increase from
US$824 million to US$1,113 million.

Institutional Development Impact: SU

The project had a substantial impact on the institutional development of the sector. During project
preparation, the situation in the sector was reviewed and a new policy was developed. This new policy the
(Medium-term Health Strategy) included a package of priority interventions and a framework for its
implementation (the POW 1997-2001), which proposed a set of quantified targets for the year 2001.

During program implementation, policy reforms including the separation of the provision of services from
the purchasing and policy function were implemented. Management, planning, and budgeting were
strengthened. Clear financial management and procurement procedures and tools, prerequisites for a


                                                       - 4 -

successful sector-wide approach were developed. Strategies and operational plans for all levels of the
sector, common management arrangements, and planning guidelines and formats were also developed.
Decision-making was further decentralized to about 400 Budget and Management Centers (BMC).
Allocative efficiency issues were addressed through support to primary health services and districts as well
as to rural areas of the less developed geographical areas such as the Northern and Central districts. The
sector developed and implemented user fees (cash and carry policy) and a system of exemptions was
introduced. Procurement and financial management were considerably strengthened.

Nonetheless, there is broad consensus among donors that institutional development in the health sector
could have been stronger if sweeping public sector reforms, relating to salaries and incentives systems and
the overall decentralization policy had been tackled in a timely manner. Other factors that affected
institutional development were that actual financing was less than expected, and the disbursement,
procurement, and financial management procedures (all of which are requirements specific to this type of
project but difficult to meet) were not in place at the time of Effectiveness.

Bank Performance: (S)

Bank performance was outstanding during preparation; the team succeeded in overcoming other donors'
and stakeholders' hesitation to move to a sector-wide approach, assisted the Government with updating the
sector policy, helped develop agreements on resource pooling and common implementation arrangements,
and acted as a catalyst in the overall sector reform process. The team had difficulty keeping to the
timetable because of the slow movement toward reforms and changes in the leadership of the Ministry of
Health (MOH), and because other donors were not able to move as quickly as the Bank. However, during
project supervision, Bank performance was only satisfactory because of difficulties encountered at
Effectiveness when the Bank was not ready to disburse due to the "fine-tuning" required of disbursement
procedures to address HSSP's features. The fine-tuning occurred with the Bank reacting to problems
during implementation rather than, proactively, at the preparation stage. As a result, the supervision team
dedicated considerable time to procedural rather than substantive issues, and IDA funds were disbursed late
and unevenly. Despite this situation, the achievements in substantive areas were remarkable. Overall, Bank
performance is, therefore, rated Satisfactory.

On the positive side, it should to be mentioned that there was continuity in Bank staff involved in this
project and strong support from the World Bank Office in Ghana. The project was used as a model during
Country Portfolio Performance Reviews to improve the quality of the overall country portfolio.

Supervision was carried out regularly and there was an adequate skill mix in the team involved in HSSP.
The supervision budget was sufficient because all of the supervision team members, except the Task Team
Leader, were based in the country office and because the Bank team did not try to control all aspects,
seeking cooperation and work sharing with other donors in their areas of comparative strengths, when
necessary. The Bank played a critical role in the implementation of the common management arrangements
agreed to under the SWAp. Management (Country Manager, Sector Manager) oversight and input in
supervision were strong. Bank participation in donor coordination was effective and appreciated by other
donors. The World Bank Office in Ghana hosted monthly donor coordination meetings. However,
aide-mémoires written and signed jointly by the core donor group were rather general in nature with little
emphasis on specific actions to be carried out by individual partners, and did not provide evidence that
there was enough follow-up on specific issues. Additionally, the focus on service delivery was weaker than
the concern for overall sector reform.

Borrower Performance: (S)



                                                      - 5 -

Borrower's performance during project preparation was highly satisfactory because of its dedicated
leadership. It was able to quickly internalize the reform process by setting up a task force and working
groups, and by organizing numerous consensus-building meetings with all local stakeholders; to develop a
strategic vision for the development of the health sector which was translated into operational plans and
endorsed by the Government; and to design institutional changes which were agreed upon with key
government agencies and departments. Performance was satisfactory during project implementation
because of successful capacity-building, Borrower's increased leadership, and sustained donor support.
The MOH institutionalized a participative and transparent process of sector review and planning, and
monitored program implementation adequately. As mentioned earlier, there were areas in which
performance gains were modest, such as intersectoral actions in nutrition and sanitation, private sector
support, equity in access, and utilization of services. All these areas are receiving due attention by the new
Government in its policy orientations which include new thrusts such as prepayment, use of private
provision of services, poverty alleviation, and protection of access to services by under-served groups.
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:

The HSSP general objective was to support GOG reforms in the health sector through its assistance to the
implementation of the "Medium-term Health Strategy Towards Vision 2020" and the POW 1997-2001.
Therefore, the HSSP development objectives were identical to the objectives of the Program of Work
1997-2001. Development objectives were also consistent with: (i) essential priorities for health
development in Ghana and in Africa at the time, as identified by Government and by two World Bank
studies: the World Development Report 1993 and Better Health in Africa, and (ii) with the national
development strategy outlined in Ghana Vision 2020, their ultimate aim being to improve the health status
while acknowledging that the achievement of this objective did not depend on the health sector alone.
Quantified targets were developed, and baseline values and projected achievement levels were available
with regard to inputs, processes, outputs, and outcomes/impact. These targets allowed monitoring during
implementation and the final evaluation.

3.2 Revised Objective:

The program objectives remained unchanged during implementation.

3.3 Original Components:

HSSP had no pre-identified components. It provided support to all strategies of the POW 1997-2001 as
described above.

These components were derived from the lessons learned in the implementation of key health sector
development initiatives previously implemented in the country and which took into account the need to
cover: (i) all levels of health-related activities delivered by various providers (including government and
mission, private and traditional health providers); and (ii) activities of other sectors contributing to health
regardless of the source of the resource (i.e., including public resources, private contributions and external
assistance). The sector-wide approach was selected over other strategies as the means to (i) improve
Government leadership and ownership over the program, (ii) rationalize donor inputs and build stronger
donor partnerships in support of the country sector reform program, (iii) promote the participation of all
stakeholders, and (iv) encourage efficiency of service delivery and improve the performance of the
Borrower's institutions in managing resources, all aspects that were lacking in the design of traditional
investment projects but necessary for a greater and sustainable development impact.


                                                        - 6 -

3.4 Revised Components:

The POW 1997-2001 was implemented through annual subprograms in accordance with the procedures set
out in the Common Management Arrangements. Annual operational plans and budgets were prepared,
reviewed, and amended as needed by cooperating partners. These plans and budget defined the activities to
be carried out, policy reforms and other measures to be implemented, the expenditures to be incurred, and
the sources of financing of such expenditures. Costs of these annual POWs financed by the IDA Credit
were as follows:

Component:                                         Cost:

1997 Program of Work and Budget;          $ 1,912,690.00;
1998 POW & Budget;                        $ 3,285,400.00;
1999 POW & Budget;                        $ 6,010,764.00;
2000 POW & Budget;                        $11,814,239.00;
2001 POW & Budget;                        $11,202,277.00.

3.5 Quality at Entry:

The HSSP design was innovative, and the team were pioneers in using a new credit instrument and taking a
reasonable amount of risk. Compared with the other SWAps launched in the Africa Region in the health
sector (Zambia, Ethiopia, Sierra Leone, Mozambique, Mauritania, and Senegal), the design of the Ghana
HSSP was the most ambitious and met all criteria of an integrated sector-wide comprehensive program
(i.e., comprehensive sector policy framework, expenditure framework and resource envelope,
comprehensive participatory planning, pooling of resources, common implementation arrangements, and
joint monitoring).

HSSP quality at entry and readiness for implementation has not been assessed by QAG. In retrospect,
HSSP took approximately 8 months to become effective (from 10/21/1997 to 06/18/1998). This delay can
be explained by the rather complex, but necessary, conditions for Effectiveness of an innovative project
with which neither the Bank team nor the Borrower had previous experience or exposure. However, the
delay in credit disbursement could have been prevented, to a certain extent, by earlier and increased
involvement by the Bank's Legal, Disbursement, Financial Management, and Procurement departments in
the overall discussions on sector-wide processes and, in particular, project preparation and design.

Project at Risk at Any Time:

The project was not at risk at any time. The program design was flexible enough, avoiding the risk related
to the available financial resources. Notwithstanding changes in sector leadership and the election of a new
government that took office in early 2001, the main guiding principles of the program remained unchanged.
The Government maintained its financing commitments to the POW despite a less favorable
macroeconomic environment. Government and external partners were able to use the common
implementation procedure efficiently and maintain a viable partnership. Sector capacity increased greatly
during project implementation avoiding the financial risk associated with such a complex program.
Contributive factors included: extensive staff training, clear financial guidelines, new and improved
accounting tools and supervision, strengthening the capacity to undertake procurement and to manage funds
particularly in decentralized units. Furthermore, an external auditor regularly audited BMCs. These
capacity building activities were complemented by activities undertaken in the broad area of public sector



                                                     - 7 -

financial management reform.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:

There is evidence and general consensus among Government, donors, and stakeholders that during the
period under review the health sector reform progressed, the health delivery system raised its performance,
and the health status of the population also improved. However, the following paragraphs qualify this
assertion.

Baseline information was adequate, in quantitative and qualitative terms, and projections were made to set
quantified targets for the year 2001 in terms of inputs, outputs, and outcomes/impact. These targets were
determined, inter alia, on the basis of rather optimistic macroeconomic growth of 8% and improved
financing from the public budget and other sources. As mentioned above, HSSP inputs cannot be
categorically correlated with any specific outputs and outcomes because it was agreed to pool resources
and finance the entire program by reimbursing incurred expenditures based on eligibility criteria and
compliance with agreed procurement procedures. While these agreed modalities offered substantial
advantages and fostered good performance and cooperation, they also made it impossible to identify HSSP
specific outputs and outcomes.

Therefore, the HSSP achievement of Development Objectives could only be approximated through GOG's
degree of achievement of the POW 1997-2001 objectives and targets. The approximation stems from the
fact that (i) IDA financing represented a modest fraction of the total program cost (5%), and was not
always disbursed in a timely fashion, (ii) the financing from other sources also fluctuated, and (iii) the
entire macroeconomic situation did not improve as originally envisioned. Moreover, progress in GOG
program implementation was quite clear in some areas (infrastructure development, improvement in sector
performance, capacity building and decentralization, etc.) but was less successful in others (such as human
resources development, equity, intersectoral action, community participation, integration of disease control
programs). The magnitude of the HIV/AIDS epidemic was underestimated at the beginning of the project
as was the case, almost without exception, in all the other countries of the Region.

All things considered, there is a consensus that the POW 1997-2001 reached its objectives even though it
may not have attained, on the whole, projected quantified targets at the level forecast in the initial
projections. This is remarkable if one takes into account the macroeconomic problems faced by the country
during the period under consideration, the high level of poverty, and the emergence of the HIV/AIDS
epidemic. Hence, HSSP achievement of DOs could be rated as satisfactory. As indicated in the previous
section, it is difficult to accurately document the impact on health status for the year 2001, because the last
DHS survey was carried out in 1998 and the next one will not take place until 2003. However, there were
many achievements both in health status and in sector performance. (See Annex 1 and Annex 8 for
supporting data).

4.2 Outputs by components:

HSSP was designed to provide support to the GOG program for the health sector as described in the POW
1997-2001, and fund all eligible activities of the POW. Items such as staff salaries, land acquisitions,
goods or services acquired without observing agreed procurement methods were not eligible. Therefore,
HSSP had no pre-identified components and supported all POW 1997-2001 strategies.




                                                      - 8 -

(a) Improve access, quality, and efficiency of primary health services.
(b) Strengthen and re-orient secondary and tertiary service delivery to support PHC.

These first two strategies are interrelated. There is clear evidence that the geographic accessibility to health
services has increased as a number of new health facilities have been built and existing infrastructure have
been rehabilitated, re-equipped, and expanded. There are now 2 new district hospitals and 11 health
centers upgraded to district hospitals, 126 new health centers, 3 new regional hospitals. However, the
problems with health care provider shortages and distribution were not substantially reduced: there was 1
doctor per 22,811 inhabitants in 2001 (less than in 1996 when the ratio was 1:16,178) ranging from 59,650
in the northern regions to 10,927 in Greater Accra; and 1 nurse per 2,043 inhabitants (which is a better
ratio than in 1996 when there was 1:2,985) ranging from 3,104 in the northern regions to 1,522 in Greater
Accra). Provision of round-the-clock services was introduced in hospitals, the package of PHC services
was improved (including retraining of health workers and the continuous supply of essential drugs which
led to 95-100% drug availability at district level), and outreach services were expanded. The latter
resulted, inter alia, in improved immunization rates, but not in the substantial coverage of mother and child
health activities. Community health services called Community-based Health Planning and Services were
also set up. Informal agreements were developed with not-for-profit private sector, particularly the
Christian Health Association of Ghana (CHAG). Health messages were disseminated to the public. The
Capacity of district and sub-district health management and administration systems was strengthened
through funding, training, and equipment.

During the period 1997-2001, substantial progress was made to integrate vertical programs (TB, MCH,
Leprosy). However, the integration was not fully achieved, and did not significantly improve the
performance of some programs or interventions (TB, Malaria, Guinea worm, Integrated Management of
Child Illness, reproductive health) because of managerial problems, shortages of personnel, absence of
proper strategies, or both.

Progress was also made in quality as measured by the proportion of tracer drugs available in districts or the
number of in-service training activities, quality assurance (establishment of professional associations,
registration of providers, accreditation of health institutions, quality assurance teams, development of
standards and case management protocols, monitoring of drug quality), and in quality monitoring
(surveying of patient satisfaction).

Regarding affordability of services, a system of exemptions was created for immunizations, antenatal care,
care to be given to the aged (70+ years), pregnant women, children under 5, persons with certain diseases
(TB, leprosy, psychiatric disorders), and specific preventive treatments (ANC, PNC, immunizations).
Amounts spent on exemptions rose from Cedis 827,000,000 in 1996 to Cedis 26 Billion in 2001 (US$3.3
million). But the implementation of the exemption policy was uneven across districts. The evaluation
made by Government in the "Health of the Nation 1997-2001" found the exemption system successful with
regard to diseases and age-related services and less satisfactory with regard to exemptions for the poor.

This resulted in increased availability and quality of services and improved utilization and efficiency. In
2001 outpatient visits per capita reached 0.49 (0.49 in the Northern regions, 0.55 in the Greater Accra)
from 0.38 in 1996, a 30% increase over the period; the hospital admission rate reached 35 per 1,000
inhabitants in 2001 compared with 28.4 per 1,000 observed in 1997; bed occupancy increased in the
northern regions because of the exemption policy but seemed to have decreased nationally from 70% to
65%. Utilization of public district hospitals was similar to that of mission hospitals. However, utilization
rates (relatively low overall) could have been higher if the supply of services was matched with more
activities to raise demand.


                                                       - 9 -

While communicable diseases still account for about two-thirds of the registered contacts at the OPD, the
proportion of non-communicable diseases has increased over the past decade. Malaria, acute respiratory
infections, and diarrheal diseases are the major causes of morbidity. Maternal mortality also remains a
great public health problem.

HIV/AIDS is on the rise and is likely to become a significant cause of morbidity and mortality in the future.
The epidemic is still at a low level (compared with Côte d'Ivoire or other Eastern and Southern African
countries) with an HIV sero-prevalence rate estimated at 3% in the general population. However, there are
reported levels of 17% among Sexually Transmitted Infections (STI) patients, 23% in hospitalized TB
patients, and up to 82% among commercial sex workers in Accra/Tema. About two-thirds of the reported
AIDS cases were females. The Ghana AIDS Commission (GAC) estimates that the national
sero-prevalence rate will rise from 3% to somewhere in the range of 4-9% in 2014, depending on the
efficiency of control measures. In response, the HIV/AIDS epidemic has recently received far more
attention from Government. The GAC was created in 2001 and recently a comprehensive strategic control
plan was issued. The proposed interventions of the MOH in the area of HIV/AIDS are based on prevention
of new infections, care and support for infected and affected people, and monitoring and evaluation.

(c) Develop a program to train adequate numbers of health teams.

At the beginning of the program there was an estimated shortfall of 15% of staff of all categories and large
inter-district variations in staffing. To remedy the situation, GOG increased the production of health
providers and developed training programs for health workers in clinical, public health and management
skills, as well as hospital administration, including finance and budget. It established staffing norms and
made efforts to retain the staff in the public sector by better remuneration and performance rewards in
some regions. The creation of the Ghana Health Service (GHS) was justified, in part, by the need to
improve staff performance and rewards, otherwise difficult to achieve under the relatively slow civil service
reform program. Several draft policies were developed including analytical work on the factors influencing
the retention of health workers in disadvantaged and hardship areas. Two proposals were made to improve
working conditions and to curb the "brain drain." However, a comprehensive human resource strategy was
not developed for the sector as a whole, nor capacity built to implement it. In spite of some improvement in
the personnel situation, human resource problems in terms of numbers and distribution persisted, and brain
drain intensified. The increase in training facilities and their output during 1997-2001 led to only small
increases in personnel in the public sector. Based on figures provided by the MOH for the years
1997-2000 the ratio doctors/inhabitants decreased while the ratio nurses/inhabitants improved. The lack of
incentives to work in remote areas or difficult conditions did not significantly improve the availability of
staff. A conflicting situation remains between the need to pay incentives to retain staff, or attract staff to
poorly served areas, and concern over wage inflation. Solving the human resource development problems
is among the priority thrusts of the forthcoming POW that envisages a more targeted deployment of staff to
critical geographical areas coupled with decentralization of personnel administration to regional levels, a
more attractive package of incentives, greater reliance on private providers particularly in urban areas, and
the strengthening of the human resource information system.

(d) Improve capacity for policy development and analysis, resource allocation, performance monitoring
and evaluation, and regulation of service delivery and health professionals.

The most important achievement of the policy reform in the sector was the launching and establishment of
common financing and implementation arrangements under the SWAp that followed the adoption of the
MTHS by GOG and its partners. Donor contributions to the common basket increased during 1997-2001.


                                                      - 10 -

Likewise, the contributions of the other partners providing support to the sector policy outside the common
basket arrangement have grown. Decentralization of decision making to regional and district management
teams was strengthened. New planning, budgeting, and monitoring tools and procedures were set up. The
Medium-term Expenditure Framework helped define realistic budget envelopes. The roles and functions of
statutory regulatory bodies were defined and new boards established to strengthen the regulatory functions
within the health sector and ensure quality.

Among other noteworthy achievements were the institutional reorganization of the MOH, which included
the separation of the purchasing and regulation function from the service delivery function now entrusted to
GHS and Teaching Hospitals, the creation of a private sector unit, and the progress made in
decentralization. The new Government's agenda attempts to correct some of the shortcomings of the POW
1997-2001 by proposing greater focus on the control of preventable conditions such as infectious diseases
(Malaria, TB, Guinea worm, STIs/HIV/AIDS), on emerging chronic disease, and on reducing inequities in
access to and utilization of health services. The new POW 2002-2006 reflects a clear commitment from the
Government to better link health sector policy to poverty reduction.

(e) Strengthen national support systems for human resources, logistics and supplies, financial
management, and health information.

Management was improved by defining the organizational structures, outlining job descriptions,
responsibilities and functions, creating decentralized planning and budgeting systems, strengthening
financial management and monitoring, and building capacity at all levels of the system. The establishment
of BMCs contributed to decentralizing decision making and to a clearer relation between planning,
budgeting, and performance. BMC capacity was strengthened and more than 90% of the 400 existing
centers were certified after meeting the criteria set for good performance. The support system was
improved by the establishment of an equipment management unit with qualified biomedical engineers and
the revitalization of the transport and estate management units. The 1996 Public Management Reform
Program facilitated management improvement in the health sector. The sector capacity was recognized in
1997 when the health sector was selected among the few pilot ministries for the launch of the Medium-term
Expenditure Framework. With regard to the health management information system, a set of BMC
indicators was developed for each BMC and another 20 indicators for monitoring the sector in its entirety.
Regular sector reviews took place, including performance monitoring, at all levels (central, regional,
district) with the participation of donors. Procurement capacity was substantially strengthened with the
creation of the MOH Procurement Unit, intensive training of all relevant staff, development of procurement
support documents, annual independent procurement audits, etc. As a result, NCB and ICB were carried
out successfully. Among the remaining issues to address are the need to further improve procurement
capacity, to strengthen the legislative/regulatory procurement framework, and improve the performance of
the Central Medical Stores.

(f) Promote private sector involvement.
(g) Strengthen intersectoral collaboration.

These two last strategies were less convincingly pursued. No guidelines, policies or mechanisms were
instituted to make the health sector work effectively with other sectors. The sector's collaboration with the
Ministry of Finance (MOF) seemed to be better but was minimal in the case of the Ministry of Local
Government and the District Assemblies. Although the MOH was actively involved in the design of the
Ghana Poverty Reduction Strategy (GPRS), intersectoral collaboration which took place mainly at the
district level, was weak at the central and regional levels where few arrangements were in place to host
such collaboration (e.g., the school health program was not pursued adequately). Furthermore, the


                                                      - 11 -

prevalence of Guinea worm remained high because of weak collaboration with the water sector program.

The establishment, in 1997, of a private sector unit in the MOH did not lead to greater collaboration with
the private sector due to its limited capacity. Collaboration with the CHAG, the main not-for-profit
provider, was not regulated by a signed contract although 51 CHAG hospitals and 73 health centers have
agreements with the MOH for the payment of their staff by MOH and 43 hospitals are BMCs and are
funded from the Health fund, no performance contract has been established to date. (In 2001, subsidies to
CHAG from the health fund represented 2% of the Government health budget and 40% of CHAG
expenditures. Such subsidies were sparse in respect of other private health care providers.)

Consequently, progress in nutrition, sanitation, education, food and agriculture, social welfare, and
economic development was identified as a priority of the forthcoming POW which would also pursue better
collaboration with the private sector (not-for-profit and for-profit) and an enhanced use of the private sector
to provide services to the population and achieve public health objectives during 2002-2006.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:

Not applicable

4.4 Financial rate of return:

Not applicable

4.5 Institutional development impact:

The project had a substantial impact on the institutional development of the sector. During project
preparation, the health sector policy was developed. The "Vision 2020" document set forth this policy and
consensus was reached with a large array of partners on the policy and the instrument to guide its
implementation. The Medium-Term Health Strategy 1997-2001 included a package of priority
interventions and the POW 1997-2001 went further and proposed a set of quantified targets for the year
2001. Five donors (DANIDA, DFID, Government of the Kingdom of the Netherlands, The Nordic Fund
and the World Bank) pooled their resources and agreed to use common implementation arrangements while
other donors aligned their programs to the sector's plan of work. Government ownership and leadership
gradually became stronger during program implementation. The provision of services was separated from
the purchasing and policy functions of the MOH through the creation of Ghana Health Services.
Management, planning, and budgeting received important support and this resulted in the development of
strategies and operational plans for all levels of the sector, a common planning and budgeting cycle,
common management arrangements, and the development of planning guidelines and formats. Also, the
decentralization policy took off, decision making was further decentralized to about 400 BMCs and their
capacity was strengthened. The proportion of the well-performing BMCs constantly increased, reaching
more than 90% in the last years of implementation. Allocative efficiency issues were addressed resulting in
more support to primary health services and districts as well as to rural areas and the less developed
geographical areas such as the northern and central districts. The sector developed and implemented user
fees (cash-and-carry policy) and a system of exemptions was introduced.

With support from the World Bank Country Office in Ghana and other donors such as DANIDA, the
Netherlands, and DFID, procurement and financial management were considerably strengthened. Financial
management was improved, and new procedures and supportive documents were developed to ensure
appropriate financial management centrally and at the BMC level. An internal audit capacity was



                                                      - 12 -

established at regional, district, and even BMC levels for various areas of responsibility. An independent
audit of at least 50% of BMC transactions (in monetary terms) was carried out every year and each BMC
was audited at least once every three years. More than 90 percent of 348 BMCs met their financial
readiness criteria in 2001 compared with 20-30 % of the BMCs that had minimum capacity to manage
funds when the project started.

Procurement capacity at both the central and local levels was also substantially improved with the creation
of a Procurement Unit in the MOH, adoption by the MOH and development partners of World Bank
procurement procedures, development of annual, sector-wide procurement plans based on the Annual Plans
discussed and agreed upon in September/October of each year with development partners, procurement
training, and provision of technical support by donors. The World Bank prior-reviewed all procurement
operations funded by the Government and donor-pooled resources in the sector with a focus on
procurement of goods and, in particular, drugs. An external auditor also audited procurement operations
annually. The audit reports proved to be useful in monitoring the implementation of the new procurement
procedures and in increasing trust among the partners in the health sector. As a result of these actions, the
international tenders completed in 1999 indicated an average of 37% savings for 20 key items based on
historical costs. Additionally, the transparency of the procurement process throughout the public health
sector has greatly increased.

The Health Information System also made progress. In addition to the POW impact indicators, a set of 20
sector-wide indicators was selected and used to monitor the health status, overall sector performance and
achievements in policy, and institutional and system development. Specific indicators were developed for
each BMC. Annual performance reviews were conducted for district, regional, and national teams.
Reports on these indicators were provided to the collaborating partners as an input for the supervision
missions and joint review meetings. Regular audit reports were provided including the audit report of
financial statements. An annual evaluation of the POW was done jointly by the MOH team and external
consultants. An analysis was carried out to determine how the poor are benefiting from public
expenditures on health, and together with the evaluation of the five-year POW, it served as a basis for the
new POW 2002-2006. In 2001, MOH undertook a detailed review of all the sector-wide indicators and
developed a new set of indicators.

Another reform was the introduction of performance-based contracting and financing. The MOH intended
to finance BMCs based on an informal contract and a set of indicators to measure performance. This
attempt was not successful due to inadequate data reporting and the delayed and incomplete release of
funds for the implementation of district plans.

In the opinion of the ICR team, the implementation of the SWAp greatly contributed to the success
described above by speeding up progress in policy, planning, systems development, and capacity-building,
allowing project benefits to reach all levels within the sector without shifting attention away from primary
health care or from priority public health programs/interventions despite the poor performance of some of
these programs. The SWAp was also instrumental in improving allocative and technical efficiency and in
protecting government allocations to the health sector (see below). The implementation of the
Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) streamlined donor assistance, thereby reducing duplication of
efforts and wastage. The establishment of a common health account enabled the Borrower to strengthen its
fiduciary system and its ownership over the program through the institution of a single procurement,
financial management, and disbursement system. The innovative approach taken in these areas could be a
lesson to be replicated in other countries for implementing health sector reforms.

Institutional development in the health sector could have been stronger if, through public sector reform,


                                                      - 13 -

issues such as salaries and incentives systems, and the decentralization policy had been tackled in a timely
manner. Other factors that affected institutional development were: (a) donor financing was smaller than
pledged and was provided late with some exceptions; (b) except for the initial core donor group which
agreed to pool their funds, all other donors remained outside of the pooling system; (c) the financing from
the public budget did not attain the expected levels and the overall low scenario target of US$7 per capita
(the POW also mentioned US$11 per capita in its high scenario) for the year 2001 was not reached; and (d)
while from the inception of the operation there was broad agreement on the principles to be used, many
practical details of disbursement, procurement, and financial management procedures were only fixed
during program implementation. A few problems persisted and remain to be addressed with assistance
from the follow-up credit.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
HSSP was implemented satisfactorily and reached its objectives in spite of smaller than expected economic
growth. Each major donor agency agreed on the SWAp principles, accepted the MOH's leading role and
the sector policy and some decided to pool resources and use common implementation procedures. All of
these steps were unprecedented and stronger than in any other country that embarked upon sector-wide
programs in the Region. Among the major factors that contributed to the success of the project were: (i)
GOG commitment to the reform undertaken in the health sector and its determination to lead the reform
process; (ii) successful strengthening of the sector's capacity; (iii) donor support and collaboration; (iv)
agreement on the merits of the SWAp process and recognition of its challenges; and (v) transparency
among partners. Notwithstanding this success, progress was reached gradually, and, in some cases, was
uneven and slower than expected. In a few other cases, such as human resources and infectious disease
programs there was little progress.

Among the factors outside of the control of government or implementing agency that affected
implementation, there were:

Overall macroeconomic problems. The POW 1997-2001 was based on the assumption of a robust
macroeconomic growth, estimated to increase from 5 percent in 1996 to 8 percent in 2001 according to the
first medium economic plan 1996-2000. The actual economic growth was smaller (4.3 percent on average)
and this affected the financing of health and other sectors and also impacted the quality of life and
purchasing capacity of the population not only with regard to health services but also more generally. For
the period 1996-2000, overall GDP growth was far below the target of 7.8 percent and less than the
budgetary forecast of 5.3 percent (GPRS) with a high of 4.7 percent in 1998 and a low of 3.7 percent in
2000. The inflation rate with an average of 24.7 percent for the period, reached a high of 40.5 percent in
2000. The exchange rate was four times higher in 2001 than it was in 1997. Under the circumstances, the
improvement in health outcomes and sector performance is more remarkable. The overall economic
stringency did not allow for a strong revision of salaries and incentive systems in the public sector and
contributed to brain drain and rapid staff turnover in this sector.

Delayed, smaller than pledged, and irregular donor funding to the program. The estimated donor
contribution to the health sector program in 1997-2001 was US$200 million while the total actual external
contribution was US$161.8 million. More importantly, however, was the fact that only a few donors were
able to disburse regularly (such as DFID and DANIDA). IDA was among the donors that started to
disburse late, for reasons already mentioned. Many other donors continued to support the program by
means of "earmarked funding" on which GOG had a less clear say while other donors continued to directly
participate in the capital investment program and offered support, at times, not completely in line with



                                                     - 14 -

sectoral priorities (such as investments in regional hospitals).

Continued reliance of some donors on "earmarked funding" hindered, to some extent, program
implementation. Some donors and all UN technical agencies preferred to work under so-called "earmarked
funding" arrangements. They did not pool their resources in the common basket but aligned their programs
to the sector policy. This occurred because of difficulties in adapting individual donor policies and
procedures to SWAp requirements but also because of the concern of some donors with respect to
particular issues specific to their respective organizational policy and constituency. To a certain extent, the
fact that GOG was less successful in some problem areas contributed to the maintaining of many different
donor financing modalities (e.g., pooled resources, earmarked funding, a combination of pooled and
earmarking, direct funding to programs or districts, budget support, etc.). This impeded coordination of
various interventions and monitoring of the implementation of the overall program for the sector.

Unsatisfactory reporting of donor expenditures on health prevented the financial management
information system, introduced by the MOH to capture donor financing, from being fully functional.
Reports on donor financing came late and some items were not fully reported such as the costs of technical
assistance, external training, overheads, the financing of NGOs, etc.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
The slower pace of the implementation of GOG decentralization process delayed the health sector's
progress in decentralizing the decision making to local governments at regional and district levels. There
were also considerable difficulties in reconciling the GHS and Teaching Hospitals Act with the Local
Government Act. However, a renewed attempt to streamline procedures and improve the situation is in
process.

The absence of a strong public sector reform contributed to the persistence of human resources issues that
plagued the health sector in 1990s. This occurred in spite of measures taken by MOH in order to augment
the number of students, offer training, better working conditions, and career development opportunities.
The net growth in the number of health professionals was very low as almost all staff trained decided to
migrate because of more attractive work and living conditions abroad. For those who stayed, there were
few incentives for high productivity and work in remote areas. As a consequence, brain drain was massive
and seemed on the increase. Training output per year compared to attrition rate (Numbers
trained/Numbers left country) was as follows: Doctors: 130/60; Nurses: 495/700.

Few arrangements and policies were established to develop intersectoral collaboration and tackle issues
requiring a coordinated multi-sector action. This resulted in only marginal improvements in matters such
as water, sanitation, nutrition, and impacted negatively on the actions to control the growing HIV/AIDS
epidemic.

Little capacity for financial management and procurement. These weaknesses were recognized by the
health sector and capacity was built at project preparation phase and during implementation. Agreement
was reached on procurement procedures to be used for the financing from the Health Fund, use of UN
agencies to procure drugs and vaccines, creation of a MOH procurement unit, development of about 400
Budget Management Centers and the gradual strengthening of their capacity. The POW 2002-2006 places
procurement and financial management among the sector's priorities for the future along with improving
the procurement regulatory framework in the country.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Complexity of the reform process. The MOH embarked upon an ambitious reform process that included



                                                     - 15 -

the split of the policy regulation and purchasing function that fall under the MOH from the health service
delivery function assigned to the newly created Ghana Health Service and the Teaching Hospitals Board
(GHS/THB) and supported by private health providers through contracts with private providers
outsourcing part of the service delivery. The reform in this area constituted a major innovation and it was
implemented to a large extent. Nonetheless, there remain some critical areas that require continuous
attention in future operations:

(i) The relationship between the MOH and GHS/THB remained unclear and the lack of clarity resulted in
an undue power struggle within the sector. The main areas of conflict between the MOH and GHS/THB
structures are: human resource management, procurement, and capital investment.

(ii) The MOH capacity for decentralized planning remained inadequate. MOH is planning for the sector
using a bottom-up approach for which it needs to collect and integrate plans from districts, but has no staff
beyond the capital city. All staff in regions and districts, including administrative and public health
personnel belong and report to GHS/THB. This became an issue because of GHS/THB's tendency to give
more importance to their institutional autonomy than to collaboration with MOH for the achievement of
overarching sector objectives.

(iii) The high turnover of staff of the MOH and GHS has resulted in little institutional memory.

(iv) An incomplete process of separation of MOH and GHS functions. A detailed description of the
process of separating GHS from MOH is not yet available and contributed to the situation described in the
previous critical areas. This description will include a statement on how to strengthen stewardship of the
health sector and support the process of decentralization, and an estimate of the cost of implementation,
and human resource needs in both GHS and MOH.

(v) The recent change of Government casts doubt with regard to the survival of some reform orientations
such as the cost-recovery policy (to be soon replaced by prepayment arrangements) although the proposed
rather complex insurance scheme lacks economic thinking and a feasibility study.

Insufficient collaboration with and involvement of the private sector. Progress in the integration of
private providers in planning and service delivery was slow. The private sector remained largely
unregulated, because existing regulations were not updated and enforced, thereby affecting quality of
service, efficient resource use and equitable distribution of resources. Contracts to regulate the
collaboration between the public and the not-for-profit private sector are still to be developed and the
involvement of the private for-profit health sector remained very small. Participation of local NGOs and
Community-based Organizations has been weak in policy dialogue and in joint meetings and other private
sector partners have not been invited. During the December 2002 Health Summit, the MOH announced the
creation of a "Strategic Initiative Fund" aimed at supporting greater participation of NGOs and the private
sector in service delivery. However, the detailed implementation of the initiative has to be worked out.

Insufficient access to health services: The projected capital investments for the first five-year POW were
over ambitious and only about 40 percent of this target was achieved. Despite investments to improve
physical access that included the development of outreach services, the use of health services remained
minimal. The growing financial barriers and the widening inequities in access substantially precluded the
poor from taking advantage of available health services. The exemption mechanisms have not worked
properly with regard to the poor and the national health insurance system has not materialized.

Problems with integration of vertical programs. The integration of the vertical programs is among the


                                                     - 16 -

thrusts of the reform process. During 1997-2001 the process was begun but not completed. At present, the
heads of the said programs belong to the MOH, while GHS has the facilities where activities can be
implemented in an integrated manner, and it employs and supervises the staff. During the period under
review most of the formerly so-called "vertical programs" i.e., malaria, TB, and Guinea worm control
programs and IMCI performed poorly and blamed their lack of performance on the integration process,
although for the Guinea worm control program, the reverse in the declining trend observed recently was due
to a breakdown in water supply, surveillance, and health service delivery. Earmarked funding (including
the new Global Health Fund for HIV/AIDS, malaria, and TB control) is increasing for specific programs in
order to optimize their performance. The question now is how can this be done without undermining the
arrangement for the integral funding of the sector as a whole.

Utilization of health services remained low because it did not get enough attention at the beginning of the
program. Performance contracts devised as a means of holding BMC managers to outputs and to apply
rewards and sanctions have not been functional and have not been pursued. Supervision was weak. Few
specific activities were developed to improve the demand for services such as actions on gender issues,
behavior change, communication and social marketing, and on increasing involvement of the users of
services in the management of health facilities. This resulted in poor quality of public service delivery and
overall low utilization rates.

Insufficient improvement in planning, budgeting, and monitoring and evaluation prevented a focus on
results. Planning guidelines were developed and resource allocation to different levels of care as well as to
different regions became more equitable. However, the allocation of resources was not result-oriented as
its criteria (based on population, Infant Mortality Rate, cost of service delivery, and existing infrastructure)
did not include the needs for health care nor adjustments depending upon the performance of BMCs and
health status changes. In addition, there was no structure to check results against allocations and the
implementation of district plans was often disrupted by the late and incomplete release of funds. There
were problems with definition, measurement, and reporting of data because some indicators were not well
defined, while others were difficult to interpret or to measure on a regular basis, and some of the impact
target indicators were not reported, particularly those that could monitor social outcomes such as
behavioral changes. This resulted in inconsistencies from diverse sources and in the impossibility to track
differences between regions and gender. The MOH is working on developing new resource allocation
formulas to take into account needs for health care and a new set of indicators has been selected allowing
for better analysis of the relationship between inputs, outputs, and outcomes.

Persistent problems with financial management and procurement are also mentioned above as an issue
faced by the entire public sector. This is because the building of capacity in fiduciary functions for the
entire sector requires more scale and time than a traditional Bank health project. For the entire Ghana
health sector, ranging from major hospitals to small medical centers, it has been estimated that 1,800
fiduciary staff are needed. At the beginning there were 300 in the MOH. This has been built up to over
900 at project closing. Notwithstanding the progress described above, problems occurred frequently in the
smaller BMCs (External Audit Report for the year 2001), disbursement for health districts was often
delayed, and BMC's compliance with readiness criteria was not regularly reassessed. As regards
procurement, the major constraints were related to the lack of dedicated procurement officers at the
periphery while the center was losing its staff, the poor implementation of written procurement procedures
particularly by directors in tertiary institutions, regional health administrations, and regional hospitals, and
the lack of integration between procurement, stock-taking, and financial accounts.

5.4 Costs and financing:




                                                       - 17 -

At appraisal, the total program cost was estimated at US$773.4 million. Three sources of financing were
envisaged:
     a. Government, with a contribution of US$573.4. Government contribution was expected to be
         financed from the public budget (US$537.2 million) and from internally generated funds (IGF)
         mainly through user fees which were expected to contribute US$36.2 million.
     b. IDA with a credit of US$35.0.
      c. Other co-financing partners with an expected contribution of US$165 million (this included pooled
         funds into the health account, earmarked financial contributions for the achievement of the health
         sector's objectives or both).
It is worth mentioning that during the period 1997-2001: (i) the health sector also conducted and spent
money for activities other than those included in the above-mentioned total program cost (mostly in the area
of tertiary care); and (ii) a few partners contributed through both financing channels (pooled and earmarked
resources). Compared with these appraisal estimates the actual spending of the program was somewhat
different:

Government contributed less than foreseen (92.5 percent) and contributed substantially less in real terms
from the public budget ($349.2 million while the initial estimated contribution was of $537.2 million),
although in nominal terms the government budget allocated to the health sector increased by 2.6 times
between 1997 and 2001. This situation was generated by weak macroeconomic performance and should
not be seen as a sign of disengagement. To partially offset this smaller contribution, the Government
obtained US$98.5 million in commercial loans, but the non-concessional external borrowing dropped
dramatically from US$50 million in 1997 to US$1.5 million in 2001 reflecting the Government's efforts to
replace commercial loans during a period of fiscal turnaround (Annex 2, Table 2.2).

The most important change was the much higher contribution from the IGF (US$82.9 million compared
with initial estimates of US$36.2 million). During the period 1997-2001, user fees represented 12 percent
of public expenditure (instead of 4.7 percent estimated) and this seems to have affected the use of services
by the poor and vulnerable groups and service utilization rates. To tackle the issue, exemptions for certain
groups were included in the user fee policy. The amount spent on exemptions increased during the program
and the exemptions policy has fostered the utilization of health services in the poorest (northern) regions.
The exemption mechanisms have, however, not worked satisfactorily in practice for several reasons:
inadequate dissemination of information, delays in reimbursement, inconsistent financial accounting,
management practices and providers' attitudes regarding the exemptions policy at the facility level. The
new government intends to gradually abolish the cash-and-carry system at the service delivery point, and
identifies prepayment and the creation of health insurance arrangements among the solutions to be
implemented during the POW 2002-2006. The costing of an interim (revised) exemption policy is
underway.

Equally important, the contribution of co-financiers was smaller than expected (77.3 percent), although
IDA disbursed nearly all the credit (97.7 percent). Donor funds to the health sector increased from US$28
million in 1997 to US$39.7 in 1999 and US$37.6 million in 2001, but failed to reach the estimated US$40
million level per year. Donor share of total expenditure increased from 17.6 percent in 1997 to 35.4
percent in 2001 (on average 23.4 percent instead of 25.8 percent). Only 45 percent of donor spending (10
percent of the overall public health spending) was made through the health account. World Bank financing
represented 22.8 percent of total donor financing and 5 percent of total expenditures. Disbursement of
donor funds (including from the health account) was very small during the first year and increased
steadily during the program implementation period (disbursement from all sources was 7 times higher in
2001 than in 1997; similarly, IDA disbursement was about 6 times higher in 2001 than in 1997- Annex 2,
Table 2.3). This was a result of the Borrower's inexperience and lack of capacity, and because the Bank


                                                      - 18 -

and other financiers'procedures were not suitable for this innovative type of operation and were not tested
and adapted before Effectiveness. According to the Bank team in Ghana, until the very end of the project,
disbursements were made on the basis of a memo issued by the Disbursement Division in response to the
critical situation encountered in the first year. About 75 percent of the credit proceeds were disbursed
through the health account in reimbursement of already incurred expenses and 25 percent in direct
payments to international suppliers including UN agencies. (These direct payments in foreign currency
were appreciated, contributing for instance to avoid the shortages of vaccines (UNICEF). World Bank
disbursements were not linked to sector performance as planned because the Bank finally did not agree to
"detach" disbursement from procurement.)

The overall funding was inadequate. The total cost of the program compared with the SAR cost estimate
is currently estimated at US$689.5 million. This is about 10 percent less than the US$773.4 million
estimated in the SAR. The overall financing to the program was less affected because of the increase of
internally generated funds (user fees). The funding of the health sector remained low compared with the
cost for reasonably good service provision. Per capita public health expenditures decreased from US
$10.16 in 1996 to US$8.14 in 1997, US$6.83 in 1999 and US$6.4 in 2001 (compared with US$14 per
capita in private expenditure according to the result of the Ghana Living Standard Survey--GLSS 1998/99.
The total spending on health was about 1.6 percent of GDP. To improve the efficiency of the public
spending, efforts were made to shift resource to recurrent expenditures and to the regional and district
levels. The share of the health sector in government total expenditures and recurrent expenditures increased
, respectively, from 4.9 percent and 7 percent in 1996 to 6.9 percent and 11 percent in 2001 while the
government capital budget decreased from 4.8 percent in 1997 to 1.9 percent in 2000 and less than 1
percent in 2001. The district level's share of the non-wage recurrent budget - GOG revenue and health
fund - also increased from 22 percent to 45 percent against 42 percent projected, while that of the regional
level increased from 17 percent to 23 percent. The share of the headquarters and tertiary institutions
dropped from 29 percent and 22 percent, respectively, to 16 percent and 19 percent. This reallocation of
expenditure should be seen as a measure of the sector's performance in the decentralization of resources.
However, the system performance may have been improved even at the existing funding level, if resources
were used more efficiently. This would have required structural changes in Government funding with more
emphasis on public preventive and promotional health services, services for the poor, and a changed mix of
the public and private service delivery, especially for curative care.

Poverty is still high while inequalities in health seem to be widening: Ghana remains a poor country with a
population of 19.7 million in 2001 (population growth rate: 2.3 percent per year) and a GNI per capita of
US$330 compared with US$470 for all Sub-Saharan Africa and US$430 in low-income countries. Overall
poverty decreased between 1991/92 and 1998/99 from 51.7 percent to 39.5 percent. Extreme poverty
declined from 36.5 percent to 26.8 percent over the same period. Despite this overall positive trend,
poverty decline was unevenly distributed across regions and socioeconomic groups, and gender.
Concerning health, the 1998/99 GLSS survey found that reported illness increased rapidly among the poor
(the lowest two income quintiles) between the 1991/92 and the 1998/99 surveys. Additionally, large
regional differences exist and seem to be increasing in health access, need and use of services, and in health
status between the poor and the non-poor and between rural and urban populations. For instance, infant
and under-five mortality in the three northern regions are generally higher than in the south. Further, the
poorest quintile (the lowest 20 percent) consumed only 12.5 percent of health expenditures whereas the
richest quintile accounted for 31 percent. While 37.2 percent of all Ghanaians have access to a health
facility less than 30 minutes away, only 25.4 percent of all rural population and 23.2 percent of rural poor
have access, compared with 62.1 percent of urban and 49.7 of urban poor (the proportion was 77.6 percent
in greater Accra and 8.2 percent in Upper East region). The utilization rate (i.e., proportion of the
population who consulted a health practitioner in the four week period preceding the survey) ranged from


                                                      - 19 -

16.7 percent for the rural poor to 22.4 percent for urban population. Although resource allocations have
become more fair, financial resources are still not always allocated to areas proportional to need and human
resources are severely unevenly distributed.

In 2001, the Government adopted the Highly Indebted Poor Country Initiative (HIPC). The GPRS (PRSP)
was developed and the new Government initiated a process to ensure that sector ministries analyze and
integrate measures to reduce poverty in their programs. The health component of the GPRS includes a
strong emphasis on promoting equity of health outcomes, with a special focus on diseases that most affect
the poor as well as access for the poor. There is a very good consistency between the GPRS and the new
health program (POW 2002-2006) which aims at "Bridging inequalities." In order to make health services
available to all people, health insurance has emerged as the alternative choice of health financing. However
a thorough analysis of insurance-based schemes has not been undertaken, including mechanisms for
protecting access by the poor and vulnerable groups, and for securing reliable funding at all service levels.
Moreover, the long-term implication has not been carefully explored taking into account budgetary
constraints.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:

Durable policy and reform development, convincing institutional development, and growing donor
commitment to the policy and the SWAp processes would point to a "highly likely" rating. However, the
rating is only "likely" because, in financial terms, the sector's dependence on external financing did not
decrease and problems related to staff turnover and brain drain, and diseases of public health importance
were not markedly reduced.

Policy and reform: The reform process seemed to have passed "the point of no return." Strong
constituencies have been created among political parties and national institutions around the sector
program. The new Government has retained most of the reform objectives of the GOG strategy for the
health sector and intends to focus through the POW 2002-2006, on areas in which the POW 1997-2001
was less successful.

Institutional: There was considerable capacity-building in the sector and in particular in districts. The
collaboration with the private not-for-profit sector, including mission health facilities, was an important
asset of the POW 1997-2001, and the following POW will focus on reliance on the entire private sector.

Donors: Donors are determined to continue to support the sector's overall policy and plan of work. Both
GOG and donors continue to adhere to the SWAp process and the proposed IDA project is in fact a
follow-up to HSSP. In addition to current donor funding, global initiatives (RBM, GAVI, GFAMT, etc.)
are expected to bring additional financial resources to the health sector.

Financial: The level of local resources mobilized for the health sector increased in nominal terms during
POW 1997-2001. The health sector is among the priority thrusts of the GPRS. From an economic
viewpoint HSSP has not lessened the need for external financing: the follow-up IDA operation in the sector
will bring to health approximately US$90 million including US$15 million in grants or more than double
the HSSP support of about US$35 million. Other foreign sources are expected to contribute US$325
million (against US$192 million during 1997-2001) and Government US$638 million (against US$500
million in 1997-2001) while the total estimated program cost for five years will increase from US$824
million to US$1,113 million. (In fact, the total cost of the POW 2002-2006 reflects an agreement



                                                      - 20 -

underscored in the HSSP appraisal report and shared by other donors that--at least in health
development--sector-wide approaches are meant to be part of a long-term commitment on the part of the
Government and its external health sector partners for at least a period of 15 to 20 years). The new
strategic orientations for the POW 2002-2006 point to prepayment and health insurance as a replacement
of the user fees policy, but it will take time to implement the rather complex reform steps leading to a triple
separation of functions (policy and regulation, financing/ purchasing of services, and service delivery). As
described in the documents available at the time of the ICR, prepayments were not seen as a solution to
sector financing problems leaving unclear the modalities that might be used for reducing resource
shortages. Moreover, the abolition of user fees will result in an immediate reduction of internally generated
revenues. (Prepayment and insurance were endorsed by the new Government as a solution to inequities and
a means to contract out health service delivery to the private sector. The document made available by
MOH projects the amount to be collected through premiums on the basis of the maximum amount
generated through cost-recovery/user fees in past years which is approximately US$1 per capita. However,
the Minister of Health stated in his remarks made at the December 2002 Summit meeting that he expects
contributions at about US$0.4 per person and per month which is about the entire spending in the public
sector per year and almost 10 times more than what the cash-and-carry policy brought to the sector).

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:

There is no need for special transition arrangements because HSSP activities were already integrated into
the regular operation of the MOH. However, the project was envisaged as the first phase of a longer-term
investment program. Additional financing would be required to realize the full potential of the processes,
systems, and skills that the project created. Both GOG and partners intend to pursue arrangements made
during POW 1997-2001. A new POW 2002-2006 was designed as well as revised implementation
arrangements and a new set of monitoring indicators with the objectives to: (i) focus on measuring health
service outputs and health outcomes; (ii) allow for an analysis of the relationship between inputs, outputs,
and outcomes; and (iii) support local decision making. The preparation of the Bank's follow-up project
(recently approved by the Board) provided the opportunity to update and adjust some of the Bank
procedures to the requirements of the sector-wide approach (in particular in areas of procurement and
financial management) though the adaptation process is not yet complete. Bank assistance will be provided
in part through a Specific Investment Loan--SIL and in part as a grant. Although the Bank has agreed to
pool all its resources into the health account, some donors will continue to provide part of their financial
assistance through earmarked funds (for instance DANIDA) and others are in the process of directing part
of their financial assistance through a general budget support mechanism (for instance United Kingdom and
the European Commission). The ICR team believes that the pooling of all Bank resources will not diminish
its leverage over the health program because this leverage must be assessed not only through the sector
program but with regard to the entire country portfolio.

However, the achievements and sustainability of the POW 2002-2006 and of the Bank's follow-up project
(HSSP II) will require stronger policy dialogue in the areas of institutional development and service
delivery, more technical assistance, closer supervision and monitoring and evaluation from the World Bank
and other partners. This results from: (i) the tough challenges the country is facing with high financial cost
implications (i.e., scaling up priority health interventions/programs such as HIV/AIDS, malaria, and TB;
developing a pluralistic service delivery system; improving the availability and efficiency of health
personnel in deprived area; implementing a pro-poor financing system including insurance; and improving
the implementation capacity and results-based monitoring, while reorganizing the structure and functions of
the MOH and its decentralized units), and (ii) the fact that the proposed solutions to most of the
impediments to sector performance are not well articulated or fully costed and their implementation will be
constrained by the evolving macroeconomic situation. Some solutions must be developed and more clearly



                                                      - 21 -

defined, by exploring all opportunities in the country and not relying solely on government subsidies.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:

Bank performance during project preparation was highly satisfactory. The Bank initiated the SWAp
process after an adequate analysis of the situation in the sector, sensitized the other donors about the need
for reform and the benefits of a comprehensive approach, and helped the Borrower in both the reform
process and SWAp preparation. This was remarkable given that SWAp constituted a new and innovative
system of development assistance delivery with no prior testing or lessons learned. It also implied a major
change from business as usual to comprehensive sector-wide policy development and planning with the
involvement of numerous partners who shared developmental objectives but had different procedures.
Challenges were equally important at the Bank, because although there was consensus on and support for
SWAp processes, the organization was not ready as regards the legal, disbursement, and procurement
procedures required by the implementation of an innovative program. Pooling resources in a "common
basket," using "common implementation procedures" implying an agreement between all partners and
Government on procurement procedures, disbursing in a "time-slice" manner by reimbursing the cost of
eligible incurred expenditures, accepting to decentralize not only implementation but also resources,
procurement and disbursement to many BMCs, etc. were all a great challenge. In all respects, the project
team performed very well. The support from the Ghana World Bank office was also substantial. The
Country Director was personally involved, and the assistance of the field-based procurement and financial
staff was instrumental in the success.

The HSSP became effective late and started to disburse late. The ICR team believes that this could be
prevented in future projects, but it could not be completely avoided in the case of HSSP. This was
because the Borrower and Bank team had no prior experience, there was need to create capacity in the
country and also because the adaptation of Bank procedures to the requirements of an unconventional
operation only happened during implementation (and it is yet to be completed).

7.2 Supervision:

The Bank supervised the project thoroughly, provided technical support to the Borrower and also helped
maintain momentum with donors and the reform process. The frequent presence in the field of the TTL
during the most critical stages, the support from the field staff, and the involvement of the Country Director
and the sector management whose oversight and input in Project Supervision Reports significantly
increased during the last years of implementation were important and welcomed by partners. There was
appropriate skills mix as well as staff continuity in project supervision.

The causes of delayed and uneven disbursements were described above. The ICR team believes that
supervision during the last years was less intense. This was due in part to the assignment of a TTL who
was not based in the field and managed a number of other projects. The ICR team believes that the main
underlying causes of supervision weakness may be attributed to the use of inappropriate instruments
(jointly signed Aide-mémoires at the end of rather formal discussions such as the spring Summits to
evaluate program implementation in the previous year and autumn Summits to agree on the activity plan,
budget, and procurement plan for the next year). The documents submitted by Government and the
resulting Aide-mémoires were general in nature, and while they identified many of the issues relatively early
, there was no adequate follow-up on the actions agreed upon to remedy the situation. The Bank seemed to
have been present more at the discussion table than in the field and, according to the donors interviewed by


                                                     - 22 -

the ICR team, there were no joint field visits with the other partners. Lastly, the Bank leadership
diminished towards the end of the HSSP. During this period, the donors maintained their collaboration but
no other partner took the lead. At the time of the December 2002 Summit that the ICR team attended, the
HSSP partners expressed different legitimate concerns and received clarification from the MOH team but,
very rarely, did an agreement emerge to change the course of action or reprioritize. The donors seemed
more concerned with maintaining good relations with the Borrower than in following up on issues. Some
feared that a specific question on a particular issue might indicate an intention to micro-manage; others
were newly appointed and did not have a full grasp of the situation.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:

Overall Bank performance was satisfactory. Bank performance varied from "highly satisfactory" during
lending and the first years of project implementation to "satisfactory" during the final years of HSSP.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:

Borrower performance during program preparation was "highly satisfactory." It started with the early
review and update of the sector policy (i.e., the Medium-term Health Strategy) and the issuance, in 1996, of
the health sector five-year POW for the period 1997-2001, on the basis of which the sector reform process
started to unfold. It continued with the decision to use a SWAp process and to work in an open manner
with a large array of stakeholders including donors and NGOs. Important decisions were made with regard
to: (i) pooling of external resources in a Health Fund; (ii) continuing to work with donors who did not agree
with this method for the achievement of the health sectors developmental objectives; (iii) decentralization;
(iv) improved sector financing; and (v) quality and efficiency. GOG was also determined to lead the reform
process and tried to comply with all SWAp requirements including those relating to financial resources
(pooling in a common basket; external audits on pooled funds including Government funds) and to the use
of common implementation arrangements.

7.5 Government implementation performance:

The overall Government implementation performance was "satisfactory." The Government supported the
health sector program and allocated a larger share of the public budget to the health sector. However, the
dollar amount due to smaller revenues was less than anticipated and even dropped because of lower
revenues and high inflation. The Government also initiated more general reforms in the public sector and
pursued a policy of decentralization that led, inter alia, to the launching of local governments thus
contributing to the success of the reform process in the health sector. It is worth noting that the pace of
reforms in other sectors was slower than the reform process in the health. The health program's strong
momentum was maintained through parliamentary debates, media, and Government commitment.

7.6 Implementing Agency:

The MOH improved its capacity in planning, monitoring and evaluation; it set up BMCs to decentralize
program implementation, financial management, and procurement (and gradually strengthened the capacity
of BMCs); it improved the health management information and the disease surveillance systems. With
donors' support, MOH established a Procurement Unit and strengthened financial management and
procurement. The policy, planning, and purchasing function was separated from the health service delivery
function with the latter being entrusted to GHS and THB. MOH performed remarkably well in the area of
donor coordination. It held two review and planning meetings every year to discuss the sector's



                                                      - 23 -

performance during the previous year and the plan, budget, and procurement plan for the next year. MOH
also developed innovative management instruments such as Financial and Management Agreements, health
delivery arrangements at the outreach including the Community Health Planning and Services. New
arrangements for payment of services were introduced. They included prepayment pilots, user fees with
exemptions for preventive care, diseases of public health importance, and for the poor. The MOH was
clearly in the driver's seat with regard to reform implementation and capacity building.

There were also areas in which performance gains were modest such as human resource development where
the problems arising from lack of providers and, in particular, the retention of providers in the public health
sector persisted. Modest performance gains were also found in disease control programs, intersectoral
actions in nutrition and sanitation, private sector support, equity in access, and utilization of services. In a
few of these areas, such as the disease control programs, the Borrower as well as the Bank and partners
could have performed better. In some other cases, such as the human resources program, modest results
can be attributed to the slow pace of GOG reforms in the public sector, economic stringency, and
globalization that have intensified migration of the health workforce from the country.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:

Borrower performance during project preparation was "highly satisfactory." Performance was
"satisfactory" during project implementation because of: (i) successful capacity building, (ii) the
Borrower's increased leadership; and (iii) sustained donor support. The MOH institutionalized a
participatory and transparent process of sector review and planning, and monitored program
implementation adequately. However, in a few areas in which MOH could control most of the
determinants and had large donor support, improvement was less than expected. This occurred despite
identification of issues, and was due to insufficient corrective actions by the Borrower and inadequate
supervision by the Bank and other partners. These weaknesses notwithstanding, overall Borrower
performance is ranked "satisfactory" because of the complexity of the lending instrument, successful
capacity building and implementation of the reform program, as well as unprecedented leadership and
donor coordination.

8. Lessons Learned

·        Good governance, continuity, and sustained commitment of both the Borrower and its
partners are of paramount importance. The program under review illustrates well these requirements both
with regard to how a strong commitment can determine success and also with regard to how political
transformations in the country and changes inside the partner group could potentially undermine it.
Particularly difficult to deal with is the political change as this is a process in which partners should not
interfere and which brings about different values, political objectives, and new people. In Ghana, the
recently appointed MOH team initially endorsed the sector policy and objectives as defined in the 1990s.
Soon after, however, it began to speak about redefining the Government's strategies and vision for the
health sector. Radical changes in donor policies occur less frequently but the continuous change of teams
of the partners in Ghana resulted in institutional memory loss. The ICR team had difficulty in finding
someone with institutional knowledge and an historical background of the program. Maintaining a close
presence, developing appropriate relationships, and constantly supporting the Borrower, proved important
and led to the success of the program.

·        Donor coordination is a difficult task that requires negotiating skills, recognition of technical
merits, presence in the field, and leadership. SWAps are demanding because they assume genuine
adoption of Government policy by all development partners. Donors find it easy to agree on general policy



                                                       - 24 -

principles, but they often backtrack because of internal policies and pressure. In Ghana, for instance, after
deciding through an exemplary participatory and transparent process on sector priorities, some donors
continued to pursue new, additional objectives. Similarly, in the preparation of the follow-up program,
after the determination of the financial gap, the World Bank itself unexpectedly increased its financing to
the sector leaving the donors to wonder about the utility of the entire exercise and transparency. Lastly,
donor coordination requires leadership. As shown in section 7.2 above, in Ghana, the Bank provided
leadership but this function diminished towards the end of the HSSP. During this period, donors
maintained their collaboration but no other partner took the lead. In situations in which it cannot provide
leadership, the Bank should work with the other donors and help identify and support the partner most
suitable for the task. The need for a strong donor coordination unit within the MOH was also identified by
donors.

·        Partnership should be inclusive, not limited to a core group of external partners. The major
building blocks of an effective sector-wide approach were achieved under POW 1997-2001: development
of a CMA for disbursement, planning and budgeting, financial management, and performance monitoring;
MOU between the MOH and partners spelling out the responsibilities of both parties including the conduct
of joint annual summits, production of annual POWs and budget, production of quarterly financial
statements, and conduct of annual external audit; production of a code of conduct on collaboration
including information sharing; pooled funding mechanisms; organization of joint annual appraisal
processes, joint semi-annual meetings and quarterly business meetings. All of these features have greatly
improved the policy dialogue and capacity building. However, the partnership seemed to have been
dominated only by the core donor group participating in the health fund, leaving aside other external
partners while the internal partners (local NGOs, private sector, other ministries, departments and agencies)
received less attention. This impacted program performance negatively. There is a need for greater
involvement of all major donors and for an enhanced participation of civil society, the private sector and
other ministries, departments, and agencies.

·        Testing before launching innovative sector-wide operations, capacity-building at all levels,
and in particular in districts, early finalization of procedures, and agreement between the
Government and partners are prerequisites of successful implementation. All departments of the Bank
involved in the design and implementation of innovative operations should not only agree on the principles
of the operation but should also adapt their procedures in a timely manner. Otherwise, many foreseeable
pitfalls will delay implementation. In an operation such as that in Ghana, which is based on reimbursement
of incurred eligible expenditures, to avoid delays in disbursement, procurement and disbursement
procedures should be finalized during project lending. If cumbersome effectiveness conditions cannot be
avoided, the Borrower should be encouraged and technically supported to develop its capacity and use the
agreed procedures before Effectiveness, thus allowing retrospective financing and enabling immediate
disbursement from the credit. Similarly, a great deal of capacity building should occur before effectiveness.
The Ghana experience clearly demonstrates these needs and, in particular, that developing capacity to
manage and implement at all levels of the health system and especially at decentralized levels is essential.

·        Supply-based services need matching demand-raising activities. The assumption frequently
made -- that under-utilization of services is determined by lack of access to quality affordable services --
often leads to the adoption of costly measures to supply more and better services. While this assumption
may be true in the long-term, quite often, the supply of services does not immediately increase utilization
rates. Hence, the need to develop, as early as possible, specific activities aimed at improving the demand
for services. These include action on gender issues, civil society participation, strengthening health
education and promotion, etc. Because the latter activities are less costly than those of the former category,



                                                     - 25 -

they could also be used to reach other objectives such as educating the consumer on health issues,
increasing their involvement in health facility management and decision making, motivating the civil
society, etc.

·         Developing monitoring indicators to continuously assess progress toward reaching
developmental objectives and making timely decisions is paramount. Experience from this project clearly
demonstrated that sector-wide approaches need specific monitoring indicators. This is based on the
assumptions that (i) health needs should determine investments, and (ii) with more resources, sector
performance will be enhanced and health status improved; while true, more often than not, they yield
measurable results relatively late. Many other factors can also blur this relation, such as the situation in
other sectors or the time needed to collect relevant information and to effect changes in both data collection
and assistance policy. Moreover, working with many partners requires a time-consuming consensus
process. All of these difficulties were clearly encountered in the project being analyzed (e.g., information
collected for monitoring purposes was not always useful for, or used in decision making, and the evaluation
data available on health outcomes did not characterize well the program as it referred to an earlier period of
time than that in which health status improvement due to the program could actually occur) and such
situations ought to be avoided in future operations.

·         Appropriate indicators and planning of data collection to provide the required information for
monitoring and evaluation at mid-term and project closing are also important. The experience in Ghana
illustrates two situations that need to be avoided:
(a) Proposing measurable improvements in indicators which are well known to undergo changes only very
late. This is usually done to increase attractiveness and speed up the approval process but results in
unsatisfactory evaluation ratings. It also creates false expectations by promising the achievement of
unrealistic outcome/impact targets during the relatively short timeframe offered by an initial program, and
it is rather common to many projects. Similarly, behavior change is more often than not slower than
anticipated.
(b) Agreeing on a set of monitoring and evaluation indicators for which data are available at the base-line
does not suffice, if at mid-term and at project closing comparable and reliable information cannot be made
available. Surveys and other data collection methods should be planned and carried out to provide
evaluation data in a timely manner and, if necessary, data collection should be financially supported from
the Credit. Also, assumptions made when designing quantified targets to be achieved by the program
should be clearly stated to allow meaningful adjustments of these targets, if substantial change occurs
during implementation in the environment in which the project was implemented. Finally, surveys come
with error margins that sometimes preclude any interpretation of the dynamics of the phenomena they are
examining. All of these points should be taken into account at the project design stage and clearly stated in
project documents.

·         Producing an ICR prior to the design of follow-up projects could be more beneficial. There is
always a dilemma between: (a) aiming at delivering the ICR at an early stage in which case the lessons
learned and the findings of the ICR could actually be used in the design of a new operation in the same
country, or (b) waiting until project closing to have access to final disbursement and output/outcome data
for the entire duration of the project. The latter alternative provides a more accurate evaluation, but is of
little benefit to a follow-up operation aimed at maintaining continuous financial support to the sector. In
the case of Ghana, the ICR benefited more from the information provided for the launch of the follow-up
project than this very project would gain from the ICR. Also, Government support to an ICR after
negotiations of a follow-up project is harder to obtain and is perceived by the Government and donors as an
unnecessary exercise. Therefore, it seems reasonable to attempt to conduct the ICR in two phases: ideally



                                                      - 26 -

an early draft should to be available for the ROC meeting, and the final ICR should be completed after
project closing.

·        Frequent external and quality assessment reviews could prevent or help quickly overcome
difficulties arising from the implementation of a new approach/lending instrument. The HSSP was not
assessed by QAG (quality at entry and quality of supervision) in order to provide advice to the
implementation team. The mid-term review did not take place until one year prior to the project completion
date. To some extent, this explains the delay in the Bank' s design of procedures to address SWAp. The
process was begun, but not yet completed. Some tools like supervision reports, PSRs, and ICRs still need
to be adapted according to SWAps.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:

Following is a brief synopsis of the Government of Ghana's contribution to the ICR. The Government's
complete report can be found in Annex 8

The performance of the health sector in Ghana has been greatly influenced by the development of the
Medium-term Health Strategy (MTHS) and the supporting Five-year Program of Work (POW 1997-2001).
These two documents constitute the basis for the current health sector reforms in the country. The program
outlined a framework for achieving far-reaching decentralized planning and financial management and
placed emphasis on integration of services and capacity and institutional development. As part of this
process, a unique partnership arrangement was developed with the donor community involving, to a large
extent, implementation of a common health sector program and use of common management arrangements
including monitoring. Joint annual reviews were conducted to determine progress and further improve
implementation. The Government's report assesses the performance of the health sector in the
implementation of the POW 1997-2001 and provides information on key lessons and issues which have led
to the development of the second five-year program (POW 2002-2006).

Implementation of the MTHS was based on five strategic objectives found in the POW 1997-2001--(i)
improving access to services; (ii) improving quality of the service; (iii) improving efficiency in the use of
resources and avoiding waste; (iv) improving adequate collaboration with other partners; and (v) improving
adequate funding for the delivery of health services--and which sought to standardize operations in key
areas and focus on identified priority interventions. POW 1997-2001 also set targets to be met in terms of
health status improvement, outlined strategies to be pursued, stated resources required, and defined a
resource envelope and shifts in resource allocation toward the district level necessary to support the
strategies. During its implementation, each level of the health sector had a specific focus.

The implementation of POW 1997-2001 was based on the principles of the Sector-wide Approach
(SWAp), which is characterized by drastic shifts in the way donor funds are received and disbursed, and by
consensus building and empowerment of managers for all services at all levels. Such shifts were made
possible due to the emphasis on systems development and the new partnership relations with donors. M&E
of the sector's performance essentially followed the three components of the reforms and can be viewed
from three dimensions: (i) monitoring advances in policy, institutional, and systems development; (ii)
monitoring the performance of Budget and Management Centers; and (iii) assessing the health status of the
population.

Under the POW 1997-2001, the health sector made substantial gains, and the overall trend showed



                                                     - 27 -

significant progress toward meeting targets established for the period. In general there has been significant
improvement in the uptake of services over the period (in particular outpatient attendance per capita,
hospital admissions, immunization coverage and supervised deliveries increased significantly; however, the
TB cure rate did not improve) that may be attributed to progress made in ensuring quality of care and in
improving overall management systems.

The World Bank fully participated in the program's implementation, and took the bold step of channeling
all support to the health sector through the health fund. While the Bank took a back seat, it provided
critical technical support, particularly through the local office.

Several lessons have been learned throughout project implementation:
1. While there was overall improvement in the management system that supports decentralized budget and
     operations (especially in procurement and financial management systems, including joint consultative
     and audits mechanisms that contributed to increasing partner confidence), there are still areas that need
     to be looked at in the future such as the persistent inequalities in health outcomes relating to gender,
     socioeconomic status, and by virtue of geographical location.
2. The scope of institutional reforms still require further development of the relative roles, responsibilities,
     and capabilities of the various agencies, NGOs, the private sector, and the communities.
3. Physical investments and the investments in staff were not entirely driven by the objectives of the POW
     1997-2001.
4. Although there were important innovations in donor fund management, neither GOG, nor donors fully
     delivered on their commitments at the same time as revenue rose faster than expected giving an
     indication of adverse effects on access by the poor.

Several challenges will also have to be considered in shaping the partnerships for future operations. The
Government's policy of replacing the current system of payment with a health insurance scheme and the
introduction of a close-to-client system for the delivery of the basic package of services constitutes key
considerations for the design and implementation of health programs. In addition, problems of emerging
diseases such as HIV/AIDS, TB, malaria, and the need to eradicate Guinea worm will define the package
of services to be delivered, while the human resource problem of attrition and distribution will need to be
addressed.

In meeting these challenges, the sector will need to be properly placed to respond to the needs of the
communities and households in ways that will improve consumer health behavior and consumer
health-seeking behavior. Mechanisms will also have to be sought to ensure that the needs of the poor and
vulnerable are met in the overall context of poverty reduction; these mechanisms include those necessary to
mobilize the private sector and NGOs, and for improving inter-sectoral activities for health. The Second
Five-year POW (2002-2006) will continue to build upon the five strategic objectives adopted for the POW
1997-2001.

(b) Cofinanciers:

DANIDA comments

Co-financiers were consulted individually and jointly in Accra and their views were incorporated in the
ICR. DANIDA did a comprehensive review of the program with focus on DANIDA's assistance. This
document is available in the ICR file. An excerpt of the report is quoted below.

Quotation: "The support during Phase II was guided by the 5-Year Program of Work (1997-2001) and the



                                                      - 28 -

Common Management Arrangements (for procurement, financial management, planning, performance
monitoring and reporting) developed by the Ministry of Health (MOH) in close consultation with its main
development partners, including Danida, within the framework of the government's Medium Term Health
Strategy. The modalities of collaboration between the MOH and its partners were further developed, and
now constitute one of the most advanced and well-functioning sector-wide approaches (SWAp).

Major achievements of the SWAp include increased efficiency, increased resource allocations to the health
sector, in particular to the lower levels of care, the documentation and political acknowledgement of the
health inequalities between population groups, putting the issue of the under-financing of the public sector,
and in this respect the importance of redefining public-private roles, firmly on the agenda. Finally a more
concrete result is that construction of large sophisticated hospitals has been halted.

Despite improvements during the POW I, a number of systemic problems remain, the major ones being that
(i) inequalities in health seem to be widening, (ii) people do not access the services they need, (iii) funding
is inadequate for a reasonably good provision of service, (iv) human resources are lost and poorly utilized,
(v) the quality of services is poor, (vi) there is only limited integration of the private sector for service
delivery, and (vii) the potential for multisectoral collaboration is largely untapped. Malaria, acute
respiratory infections and diarrheal diseases are the major causes of morbidity, while HIV/AIDS is on the
increase and will become a significant cause of morbidity and mortality in the future. Infant, child and
maternal mortality remain high." End of quotation.

WHO Comments

WHO comments are found in the following pages entitled "Discussions with World Bank
Mission--10/12/02." In summary, they confirm the evolving political and financial commitment from the
GOG and donors for the control of infectious diseases such as Malaria, HIV/AIDS, TB, and Guinea
Worm and the immunization and safe-motherhood programs in response to the low performance of these
vertical programs, as suggested by the implementation of the Roll-back Malaria (RBM) strategic plan, the
review in 2002 of the tuberculosis control program, the strengthening of the response to the HIV/AIDS
epidemic, the massive effort made to increase the EPI coverage on a country-wide scale, and the level of
financing mobilized through traditional donors and the newly established Global Fund against Malaria,
AIDS, and Tuberculosis. WHO comments point out the immediate needs to be undertaken, including: a
national maternal mortality survey, an assessment of the situation of non-communicable diseases in
addition to the massive investments required on water supply to combatting Guinea Worm.

Additionally, the following areas were outlined for an enhanced collaboration between WHO and the Bank
in their support to the Ghana health program. These will seek to:

l Ensure that outstanding issues of Health Sector Reforms are addressed such as defining roles,
     responsibilities, and functions of the MOH and its agencies and clarifying the linkages and lines of
     communication.
l Ensure that the recommendations of the WHO Commission for Health and Macroeconomics report are
     factored into the Medium-term Health Strategy, given the long-term vision of health improvement as
     envisaged in the report.
l Provide evidence (through proper data collection and best practices) to support the need for increasing
     investments in health and a proper implementation of all targets expressed in the several initiatives such
     as RBM and the MDGs.
l Advocate that special attention be paid during the implementation of the sector-wide approach to
     priority diseases i.e., Malaria, HIV/AIDS, and TB given the difficulties and unpredictability of flow of


                                                       - 29 -

    funds to the districts; and that special safeguards be made for the health sector allocation in developing
    the budget support approach.
l Support the implementation of Health Insurance and ensure the financial sustainability of the Expanded
    Program for Immunization--EPI.
l Support strategic issues regarding human resources development particularly strengthening training
    institutions' capacity.

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):


10. Additional Information

Additional information on the program background and milestones in its development is in the
Government's contribution. (See Annex 8)




                                                     - 30 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                            1
               Indicator/Matrix                         Projected in last PSR             Actual/Latest Estimate
Percentage of GOG recurrent budget spent      12.0%                              11.0 %
on health.
Percentage of district hospital BMCs with     n.a                                100%
budgets and plans according to format.
Percentage of BMCs with quarterly             n.a                                100%
expenditure returns.
Development of a single set of procurement    n.a                                Completed -- SBDs in use.
procedures.
Completion of staffing establishments for     n.a                                Completed
BMCs.
Family Planning - Couple years of protection n.a                                 15%
Percentage of essential drugs stocked at      n.a                                80-100%
district level
Contracts for mission hospitals, NGO, and     n.a                                None
private service providers developed and in
use.
Health Status
Infant Mortality Rate                         50 per 1000                        61 per 1000 (1998)
Under-five mortality rate                     100 per 1000                       110 per 1000 (1998)
Maternal Mortality Ratio                      100 per 100.000                    214-740 per 100.000 (estimated)
Percentage under-fives underweight            27.3% (1995)                       25%




Output Indicators:
                                                                            1
               Indicator/Matrix                         Projected in last PSR             Actual/Latest Estimate
Percentage districts with timely              n.a                                85%
communicable disease surveillance report
Outpatient visits per capita                  0.5                                0.49
Hospital admissions per '000 population       n.a                                34.9
DPT3 coverage rates (1-yr. olds)              75%                                76%
Measles                                       n.a                                82%
OPV3:                                         75%                                98%


Ante Natal Care (1 visit)                     60%                                98%


Supervised delivery                           n.a                                50%


Percent of children using bed nets.           n.a                                9.1%


Percentage district, regional, and teaching   n.a                                35%
hospitals reporting on patient satisfaction.

1End of project
Source: MOH




                                                              - 31 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                      Appraisal       Actual/Latest    Percentage of
                                                                      Estimate          Estimate         Appraisal
                          Component                                  US$ million       US$ million
1997 PROGRAM OF WORK                                                                        1.91
1998 PROGRAM OF WORK                                                                        3.28
1999 PROGRAM OF WORK                                                                        6.01
2000 PROGRAM OF WORK                                                                       11.81
2001 PROGRAM OF WORK                                                                       11.20

Total Baseline Cost                                                       0.00             34.21
                            Total Project Costs                           0.00             34.21
                    Total Financing Required                              0.00             34.21



Table 2.2: Program Projected Costs and Actual Expenditures per Financing Sources ( in US$ millions)
              1997           1998           1999           2000          2001          TOTAL       % of total
              (a)            (a)            (b)            (b)           (b)           1997-2001   cost
GOG                     80.6           93.0          108.0         119.4         136.3        537.2          69.5
                        68.0           85.0           90.0          53.8           49.4       349.2          50.1
 Loans                    0.0           0.0            0.0            0.0           0.0         0.0           0.0
                        50.0           32.0           10.5            4.5           1.5        98.5          14,2
IGF                       6.2           6.7            7.2            7.7           8.3        36.2           4.7
                        13.0           14.0           21.8          16.6           17.5        82.9          12.0
External Aid            40.0           40.0           40.0          40.0           40.0       200.0          25.8
                        28.0           24.0           39.6          32.6           37.6       161.8          23.4
TOTAL                  126.9         139.7           155.2         167.1         184.6        773.4        100.0
                       159.0         155.0           162.0         107.5        106.00        689.5        100.0
Source: MOH Financial Statements
Government financing includes Internally Generated Funds generated by the user fees scheme and commercial
loans.
Cofinanciers include: (i) funds pooled into the health account and (ii) earmarked funds.

Table 2.3: Disbursement into Health Account and IDA financing (in US$ million equivalent)
All Sources                                                World Bank
   Year    H/Fund      Project/Dir   Total     Exchange Health        Project/Dir   Total   % h/f    % Total
                       ect                     Rate C/$    fund       ect
      1997         2.8          3.7        6.5       1844                     1.9       1.9         0         29
      1998         5.5        18.2        23.7       2330         3.3                   3.3        60         14
      1999        18.0        16.6        34.6       3442         6.0                   6.0        33         17
      2000        19.1        18.0        37.1       6784         8.8         3.0       11.8       46         32
      2001        21.6        26.0        47.6       7150         8.3         2.9       11.2       39         24
      Total       67.1        82.5      149.5                    26.4         7.8       34.2       51         23
Source: MOH Financial Statements

Health Fund: Direct disbursements to the Health Account (in reimbursement of already incurred expenses)
Agencies: Advance payments to UN Agencies (vaccines, drugs, equipment, etc.)
Direct Payments: Direct payments to international suppliers



                                                        - 32 -

Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                 1
                                                        Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category                  ICB               NCB                     2          N.B.F.          Total Cost
                                                                              Other
1. Works                                  0.00               0.00              0.00              0.00            0.00
                                         (0.00)            (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
2. Goods                                  0.00               0.00              0.00              0.00            0.00
                                         (0.00)            (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
3. Services                               0.00               0.00              0.00              0.00            0.00
                                         (0.00)            (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
4. Miscellaneous                          0.00               0.00              0.00              0.00            0.00
                                         (0.00)            (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous                          0.00               0.00              0.00              0.00            0.00
                                         (0.00)            (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                          0.00               0.00              0.00              0.00            0.00
                                         (0.00)            (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
    Total                                 0.00               0.00              0.00              0.00            0.00
                                         (0.00)            (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
As is the case for other sector-wide operations, the exact mix of civil works, goods and services to be financed
by the Credit had to be reflected in the annual plans of the POW.

Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                 1
                                                       Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category                  ICB               NCB                    2          N.B.F.          Total Cost
                                                                             Other
1. Works                                  0.00             11.70               8.10             0.00            19.80
                                         (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
2. Goods                                 30.20              1.70              14.30             0.00            46.20
                                         (1.89)            (0.00)            (6.27)            (0.00)           (8.15)
3. Services                               1.20              0.00               0.22             0.00            1.42
                                         (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
4. Miscellaneous                          0.00              0.00               0.00             0.00            0.00
                                         (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous                          0.00              0.00               0.00             0.00            0.00
                                         (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                          0.00              0.00               0.00             0.00            0.00
                                         (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
    Total                                31.40             13.40              22.62             0.00            67.42
                                         (1.89)            (0.00)            (6.27)            (0.00)           (8.15)
Source: MOH

Figures in parenthesis are the amount financed by IDA Credit as reflected in the Bank's disbursement system.
 1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.

 2/Includes civil works and goods procured through national shopping (US$0.3 million) and direct sourcing (US$22.1
   million).




                                                        - 33 -

Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                   Percentage of Appraisal
     Component                    Appraisal Estimate               Actual/Latest Estimate
                             IDA          Govt.      CoF.        IDA          Govt.       CoF.       IDA    Govt.  CoF.
POW 1997-2001               35.00         573.40    165.00       34.20       530.60      127.60      97.7    92.5   77.3



  Government financing includes Internally Generated Funds generated by the user fees scheme.
  Cofinanciers include donors 's (other than World Bank) funds pooled into the health account and earmarked funds.




                                                       - 34 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

Assessing the economic soundness of an entire Governmental health program and then attributing a
particular project achievement to IDA financing, which was only 5 percent of total program costs, presents
numerous methodological challenges. It is known that Ghana has better than average health indicators, in
comparison with other countries, for the amount of money it spends on health care. Although there were
several problems identified in the ICR that could be considered economic costs in addition to the US$662
million spent on the program (e.g., brain drain), given that the five-year POW has met its targets related to
life expectancy, infant mortality, under-five mortality, and total fertility, it seems reasonable to expect that
the overall program achieved a positive cost-benefit ratio.

In addition to the economic benefits derived from improvements in life expectancy and mortality rates, there
are several other measurable improvements in technical and allocative efficiency that might be considered
when weighing costs versus benefits. The project improved allocative efficiency through its support to the
decentralization process. Between 1997 and 2001, the share of the budget that went to hospitals declined
from 28 to 16 percent while the share that was allocated to the districts- and therefore primary health care -
increased from 22 to 42 percent. Technical efficiency also improved by increasing utilization of health
services and introducing new strategies to streamline drug and supplies management and transport.
Introduction of World Bank procurement guidelines saved up to 37 percent of expected costs in 1999
according to one study.

Benefits accrued were not evenly distributed. A benefit-incidence analysis of public sector health spending
in Ghana in 2000 showed that for all types of services, poorer households are benefiting less from publicly
subsidized services than richer households, with the richest 20 percent of households benefiting more than
twice as much from the subsidies as the poorest 20 percent (F. Castro-Leal, J. Dayton, L. Demery, & K.
Mehra (2000) Public Spending on Health Care in Africa: Do the Poor Benefit? Bulletin of the World
Health Organization, 78:1). More positively, despite the fact that the poor were benefiting less from
government subsidies on health overall, health spending was fairly progressive in that the subsidy to the
poorest 20 percent represented a higher proportion of that group's total household expenditures than did the
subsidy to the richest 20 percent.

Inequities in financing were addressed with in several ways during the project. A new resource allocation
formula was developed to spread public sector resources more fairly between levels of care and regions.
Among the resource allocation criteria were population and later infant mortality (IMR), used as proxies
for health services needs. While the population-based criteria have reduced the inequity across the regions,
there is still significant variation. A new allocation formula is under discussion, with the goal to ultimately
increase the level of recurrent spending in the deprived regions from 32 to 39 percent.

Financial protection for the poor was also a concern the project attempted to address by introducing and
refining an exemption system. User fees were introduced in 1985, and by 2001, contributed more than 10
percent of total revenue to the public sector. Utilization dropped, particularly for the poor, and numerous
studies confirmed that the fees were presenting a barrier to access. In 1998, an exemption policy was
introduced in which certain individuals (children under 5, the elderly) as well as certain services (primary
outpatient care, prenatal and postnatal care, immunization) did not have to pay fees. Unfortunately, the
system has not functioned well, and as the benefit-incidence data show, little impact can be seen since its
implementation. Improving the exemption system is a main priority of the second Program of Work and is
already underway.




                                                      - 35 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              11/1993                   4    PUBLIC HEALTH, TTL (1);
                                             HEALTH ECONOMICS (1);
                                             NUTRITION (1); NUTRITION
                                             OFFICER(1)
              03/1994                   4    PUBLIC HEALTH, TTL (1);
                                             POPULATION (1); NUTRITION
                                             (1); IMPLEMENTATION
                                             OFFICER(1)
              03/1995                   4    PUBLIC HEALTH, TTL (1);
                                             HEALTH ECONOMICS (1);
                                             SOCIOLOGIST (1); PUBLIC
                                             HEALTH (1)
              09/1995                   4    PUBLIC HEALTH, TTL (1);
                                             HEALTH ECONOMICS (1);
                                             SOCIOLOGIST (1);
                                             FINANCIAL
                                             MANAGEMENT(1)
              11/1995                   4    PUBLIC HEALTH, TTL (1);
                                             HEALTH ECONOMICS (2);
                                             PUBLIC HEALTH (1);
              04/1996                   2    PUBLIC HEALTH, TTL (1);
                                             HEALTH ECONOMICS (1)

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              07/1997                        PUBLIC HEALTH, TTL (1);
                                             HEALTH ECONOMICS (1);
                                             PUBLIC HEALTH (1);
                                             FINANCIAL
                                             MANAGEMENT (1);
                                             DISBURSEMENT (1);
                                             LAWYER (1);
                                             PROCUREMENT (1)

 Supervision
              04/30/1998                5    PUBLIC HEALTH, TTL (1);          HS             HS
                                             HEALTH ECONOMICS (1);
                                             FINANCIAL
                                             MANAGEMENT (1); FIN
                                             MANAGEMENT REVIEW
                                             (1); HNP SPECIALIST (1)
              09/30/1998                4    PUBLIC HEALTH, TTL (1);          HS              S
                                             HEALTH ECONOMICS (1);
                                             PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                                             (1); HNP SPECIALIST (1)
              05/13/1999                5    PUBLIC HEALTH, TTL (1);          HS              S
                                             FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT



                                              - 36 -

                      (1); PROCUREMENT (2); HNP
                      SPECIALIST (1)
      10/01/1999    3 TTL (1); PROJECT OFFICER       HS    S
                      (1); PROCUREMENT SPEC (1)
      11/03/2000    6 TTL (1); HNP SPECIALIST (1);   HS    S
                      LSR. PROC. SPECIALIST (1);
                      PROC. SPECIALIST (1); FIN.
                      MGT. SPEC. (1); PROJECT
                      OFFICER (1)
      06/15/2001    6 TASK TEAM LEADER (1);          HS    S
                      HEALTH SPECIALIST (1);
                      ASSISTANT (1);
                      PROCUREMENT SPEC (1);
                      FIN. MGT. SPEC. (1); SR.
                      PROC. SPECIALIST (1)

ICR
      12/07/2002    2 TTL (1);                       S     S
                      HNP SPECIALIST (1)




                      - 37 -

(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation           108.9                         378.2
  Appraisal/Negotiation
  Supervision                          264.3                         601.1
  ICR                                   12.5                           49.0
  Total                                385.7                       1,028.3




                                            - 38 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                                    Rating
   Macro policies                                      H      SU    M  N  NA
   Sector Policies                                     H      SU    M  N  NA
   Physical                                            H      SU    M  N  NA
   Financial                                           H      SU    M  N  NA
   Institutional Development                           H      SU    M  N  NA
   Environmental                                       H      SU    M  N  NA

Social
            Poverty Reduction                          H      SU    M  N  NA
            Gender                                     H      SU    M  N  NA
            Other (Please specify)                     H      SU    M  N  NA
   Private sector development                          H      SU    M  N  NA
   Public sector management                            H      SU    M  N  NA
   Other (Please specify)                              H      SU    M  N  NA




                                                    - 39 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)

6.1 Bank performance                                        Rating

   Lending                                                    HS     S       U      HU
   Supervision                                                HS     S       U      HU
   Overall                                                    HS     S       U      HU

6.2 Borrower performance                                    Rating

   Preparation                                                HS     S       U      HU
   Government implementation performance                      HS     S       U      HU
   Implementation agency performance                          HS     S       U      HU
   Overall                                                    HS     S       U      HU




                                                    - 40 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

 Adams I. Implementation of User Fee Policy in Ghana: A Review of the Issue. Information for Action,
 Volume 1, Number 2 and 3 (January-March 2002), p. 3-13.

 Adams I, Darko D, and Accorsi S. Utilization of Hospital Services in Ghana: A Review of Hospital
 Performance in the Last Five Years. Information for Action, Volume 1, Number 1 (July-September
 2001), p. 3-9.

 Adams I, Darko D, and Accorsi S. Effects of the Exemption Policy on Utilization of Hospital Services
 in the Three Northern Regions of Ghana (1998-2000). Information for Action, Volume 1, Number 2
 and 3 (January-March 2002), p. 14-18.

 Adams I, Accorsi S, and Darko D. Assessment of Health Sector Indicators: A Review of the Current
 and Proposed Sector-wide Indicators. MOH/CHIM, April 2001.

 Adams I, Darko D and Accorsi S. Trends in Outpatient Morbidity 1985 to 2000. Information for
 Action, Volume 1, Number 1 (July-September 2001), p. 43-47.

 Aide-Memoire for July 2002 Summit. MOH/Partners 2002.

 Aide-Memoire for December 2001 Summit. MOH/Partners 2001.

 Aide-Memoire for June 2001 Summit. MOH/Partners 2001.

 Aide-Memoire for October 2000 Summit. MOH/Partners 2000.

 Aide-Memoire for May 2000 Summit. MOH/Partners 2000.

 Aide-Memoire for May 1999 Summit. MOH/Partners 1999.

 Aide-Memoire for September 1998 Summit. MOH/Partners 1998.

 Aide-Memoire for April 1998 Summit. MOH/Partners 1998.

 Aide-Memoire for September 1997 Summit. MOH/Partners 1997.

 Aide-Memoire for March 1997 Summit. MOH/Partners 1997.

 Canagarajah S, Xiao Y. Ghana's Public Spending on Health and Education sectors 1992-98:
 Efficiency and Equity Issues. World Bank, January 2001

 CHAG 2002. Annual Report 2001-June 2002

 CHAG 2002. Partnership for Progress: Improving CHAG, MOH and GHS Relations. Memorandum
 submitted to the Minister of Health, March 22, 2002.

 CHAG 2001. Annual Report 1999-2000.




                                                - 41 -

Core Welfare Indicators Questionnaire (CWIQ) Survey (1997)- Statistical Service- Accra- Ghana-
February 2001.

Dangme West District. 2001 Annual Report-January 2002.

Dangme West Health Insurance Scheme. Annual Report (October 2000-September 2001).

Danida 2001. Pre-appraisal Report. Danish Health Sector Programme Support, Phase III, Ghana.
Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Copenhagen, August 2002.

Danida 2001. Annual Report 2001. Health Sector Support Office.

Ghana Poverty Reduction Strategy (GPRS). Poverty Reduction Policy Framework. Final Draft. GOG
February 4, 2002.

Garshong B., Ansak E., Dakpallah G., Adjei S., A Study of Factors Affecting the Implementation of the
Exemption Policy in Ghana. Information for Action, Volume 1, Number 2 and 3 (January- March
2002), p. 22-31.

Health of the Nation. Reflections on the First Five-year Health Sector Programme of Work 1997-2001
. Ministry of Health, August 2001.

Joint MOH-Donor Mission 1996 (a). Procurement Mission. Mission Report (30 Oct.-96).

Joint MOH-Donor Mission 1996 (b). Financial Management Appraisal of Ghana's Proposed Health
Sector Programme. Final Report (5 Nov.-96).

Krasovic K, and Paul S. Reproductive Health and Health Sector Reform- Kinking Outcomes for
Action. World Bank Institute. May 2000

Mensah, K. Attracting and Retaining Health Staff: A Critical Analysis of the Factors Influencing the
Retention of Health Workers in Deprived/Hardship Areas. Final Report, February 2002.

MOH 2003. The Ghana Health Sector Annual Program of Work 2003.

MOH 2002. Common Management Arrangements (CMA II) for the Implementation of the Second
Health Sector Five-year Programme of Work 2002-2006. MOH, January 2002.

MOH 2002. Financial Statement 2001. November 2002.

MOH 2002. Implementing the Health Insurance Schemes Nation-wide: The Way Forward

MOH 2002. Health Sector Response to Ghana Poverty Reduction Strategy. 1st. draft

MOH 2002. Management Arrangements for Implementation of the Medium-term Programme of Work
(2002-06).

MOH 2002. Review of Performance of the Health Sector 2001. June 2002.




                                                - 42 -

MOH 2002. Second Health Sector Five-year Programme of Work: 2002-06. January 2002.

MOH 2002. The Ghana Health Sector Annual Program of Work 2002: Consolidating the Framework
for Action.

MOH 2001. Financial Statement 2000. July 2001.

MOH 2001. The Ghana Health Sector Annual Program of Work 2001.

MOH 2001. Private Sector Unit. Strategic Framework.

MOH 2001. Review of 20 Sector-wide Indicators For Health.

MOH 2001. Review of Financial Management Systems. Draft report. November 2001.

MOH 2001. Ex-post Procurement Audit for the Year 2000.

MOH 2001. Review of Performance of the Health Sector 1996-2000. June 2002

MOH 2000. Ex-procurement Audit For the Year 1999.

MOH 2000. The Ghana Health Sector Annual Program of Work 2000.

MOH 2000. Strengthening District Health Systems ­ A Proposal to Attract Health Professionals to
deprived/Hardship Locations. January 2000.

MOH 1999. Review of Performance of the Health Sector 1999: Consolidating the Gains: Managing
the Changes. Ministry of Health & Health Partners, April 2000.

MOH 1999. The Ghana Health Sector Annual Program of Work 1999.

MOH 1998. Review of Performance of the Health Sector 1998. April 1999.

MOH 1998. The Ghana Health Sector Annual Program of Work 1998.

MOH 1997 . Management Arrangements for the Implementation of the Medium-term Programme of
Work 1997-2001.

MOH 1996. Health Sector Five-year Programme of Work (1997-2001).

Project Status Reports- Archived Versions- Sequences 1 to 9. World Bank

Rob Verhage, Johan van de Gronden, Kofi Awanyo and Samuel Boateng. Procurement Reform in the
Ghana Health Sector Support Program. In Journal of Public Procurement , Vol. 2, No. 2 , National
Institute of Governmental Purchasing Inc.

WHO 1999- Lessons Of Experience From Sector-wide Approaches in Health.

WHO 2000. World Health Report 2000: Health Systems: Improving Performance. World Health


                                              - 43 -

Organisation 2000.

WHO 2002. Commission on Macroeconomics and Health Report. Geneva 2002.

World Bank 2001. Education and Health in Sub-Saharan Africa- A Review of Sector-wide
Approaches- Africa Region Human Development Series- January 2001.

World Bank 2002. Fiduciary Arrangements for Sector-Wide Approaches- OPCS- April 2002.

World Bank 2002. Health Sector Program Support II. Project Appraisal Document.

World Bank 1997. Staff Appraisal Report. Republic of Ghana. Health Sector Support Programme.

World Bank 1994. Better Health in Africa.

Xiao Y., Canagarajah S. Efficiency of Public Expenditure Distribution and Beyond: A Report on
Ghana's 2000 Public Expenditure Tracking Survey in the Sectors of Primary Health and Education.
World Bank Working Paper Series, Number 31. June 2002.




                                              - 44 -

Additional Annex 8. Borrower's contribution

Following is the complete report submitted by the Government of Ghana.

                           -----------------------------------------------------------


HEALTH SECTOR SUPPORT PROGRAMME

                             (CREDIT 2994-GH)


   IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT

                                  MINISTRY OF HEALTH
                                                 GHANA




                                                     - 45 -

Introduction

1.      The performance of the health sector in Ghana has been greatly influenced by the development of a
Medium Term Health Strategy and a supporting 5-Year Programme of Work (1997-2001). These two
documents constitute the basis for the current health sector reforms in Ghana. The programme outlined a
framework for achieving far reaching decentralized planning and financial management and placed
emphasis on integration of services, capacity and institutional development. As part of this process, a
unique partnership arrangement was developed with the donor community involving to a large extent
implementation of a common health sector programme and use of common management arrangement
including monitoring. Joint annual reviews were conducted to determine progress and further improve
implementation. This report assesses the performance of the health sector in the implementation of the
programme of work and provides information of key lessons and issues which has informed the
development of the second five year programme.

    Backgound

2.      The health sector in Ghana has had a long tradition of working with partners. However the
partnership arrangement was characterized [by] several vertical, theme based and projectised programmes.
In many instances development assistance, instead of helping build capacity was channeled in such a way
that they rather had destabilizing effects on health systems especially at the district level.

3.      A number of reasons accounted for such a scenario. In the first place development assistance was
required to respond to demands by parent organizations and the overwhelming pressure to map results to
outputs led to the introduction of different fund accounting and reporting systems in the health sector. In
some cases projects were set up with their own financial management, procurement and monitoring systems
sometimes with special supporting staff. This effectively undermined the principle of capacity development
and did not provide the framework for sustainability.

4.      The proliferation of several projects also tended to make demands on district health systems such
that main sector priorities were sometimes neglected or poorly implemented. The system of directly funding
health partner priorities at the district level became disruptive and did not allow the district health teams to
focus on agreed priorities. For some districts it became necessary to develop multiple annual programmes
based on the different funding sources.

5.      Initial attempts at donor coordination started as far back as 1988. It was based on an existing UN
agency meeting, which, unlike other countries at the time included the World Bank and the IMF. Further
strengthening by the Bank's CDF led to a consultative group arrangement, which was characterized by
quarterly meetings of heads of missions and was co chaired by the Bank and the Ministry of Finance.
Further attempts at de-emphasizing specific donor driven programmes was made with the adoption of lead
agency roles by donors in specific areas. Under this principle the donors elected one agency to speak on
their behalf on matters relating to specific health area.

6.      In 1992 a National Consultative Meeting was held as an initial forum for the initiation of reforms
in the health sector. At this forum, 14 working groups were identified to examine issues and the way
forward in key areas of health care delivery. An interagency steering committee was put in place to
coordinate activities of the working groups and the reports of these working groups provided the first
outline of a Medium Term Health Strategy. Several consensus meetings were held leading to a firm
agreement on the following priority areas for health development:


                                                      - 46 -

a.       Re prioritisation of health services to ensure universal accessibility to basic cost effective service
package covering health promotion, prevention and cure.
b.       Decentralisation of health management with special emphasis on the districts.
c.       Developing effective linkage between private and public service providers
d.       Expansion of facilities to ensure universal accessibility.
e.       Training and retention of service providers particularly in the rural areas.
f.       Ensuring adequate supply of drugs, equipment and consumable
g.       Improving quality assurance, monitoring and regulation of services
h.       Empowering households and communities and involvement of communities in the management of
health care delivery.
i.       Improving financing of services
j.       Advocacy and support for Intersectorial and sector specific action

7.       These areas constituted key areas requiring reforms in the health sector and defined the framework
for the development of the Medium Term Health Strategy. In time these were reorganized into five strategic
objectives on which the reform of the health sector is based. These were:
a.       Improving access to services
b.       Improving quality of the service
c.       Improving efficiency in the use of resources and avoiding waste
d.       Improving adequate collaboration with other partners
e.       Improving adequate funding for the delivery of health services

8.       To implement the medium term health strategy a Five Year Programme of Work based on the
strategic objectives was developed along with several other policy documents, which sought to standardize
the operations in key management areas such as financial management and procurement. A Common
Management Arrangement was agreed on as a Memorandum of Understanding was drafted to help in
unifying arrangements for the implementation of the programme of work.

The Five Year Programme Of Work

9.       The 5-year Programme of Work provided the framework for implementing the Medium Term
Health Strategy within a 5-year time frame by defining sector priorities for the medium term and setting
targets to be met within the period. It also outlined strategies to be pursued, stated resources required and
defined resource allocations and shifts necessary to support the strategies.

10.      The Programme of Work also identified priority interventions to be focused on within the period.
These were:
a.       Immunization through EPI
b.       Reproductive Health Programme
c.       Preventive and Control of Infections with Epidemic Potentials
d.       Health Protection and Promotion
e.       Prevention and Control of micronutrient deficiencies
f.       Management of selected endemic diseases
g.       Emergency Care for accident and trauma

11.      In dealing with these priorities the following targets were expected to be met:
a.       To increase life expectancy from 55.7 to 60 years.
b.       To reduce infant mortality rate from 66 to 50 per thousand live births.


                                                     - 47 -

c.       To reduce under five mortality rate from 132 to 100 per thousand live births.
d.       To reduce maternal mortality rate from 214 to 100 per one hundred thousand live births.
e.       To reduce severe malnutrition in children under five years from 8% to 4%.
f.       To reduce total fertility rate from 5.5 to 5.0.

12.      The main strategies adopted to meet to realize these objectives were:
a.       Improving access to services by construction of new facilities, rehabilitation of existing facilities
and provision of additional services. Access was also to be improved by providing fee exemptions for the
poor and steps were to be taken to increase the overall demand for services.

b.       Improvement in quality of care by establishing, implementing and monitoring of service standards,
improving conditions and scheme of services and improving working environment by strengthening
management and supervision and by providing necessary equipment required for service delivery at all
levels.

c.       Improvement in efficiency through the establishment of the Ghana Health Service, which was
effected by an act of parliament (The Ghana Health Service and Teaching Hospitals Act, 1996, Act 525).
By the enactment of this Act, the Ministry of Health became responsible for coordinating the policy
formulation process and providing an overall policy direction for the sector and for monitoring the
performance of the various agencies. The Act also made the Ghana Health Service and the Teaching
Hospitals responsible for service provision. As part of the strategy systems were put in place to strengthen
managerial skills, improve human resources available for service delivery, streamline drug and supplies
management, improve equipment management and the management of transport.

d.       Improving partnership through contractual arrangement with providers in both the public and
private sectors. Promoting community participation and establishing linkages with the local government
system and other ministries, departments and agencies. The promotion of traditional and alternate medicine
was embarked on.

e.       Improving financing through advocacy to secure government commitment for increased budgetary
and work with partners to increase donor funding for the sector. Systems for improving revenue generation
were also put in place and steps were taken to promote alternative financing mechanisms including health
insurance.

13.      In the implementation of the programme of work, each level of the health sector had a specific
focus. At the district level all activities were aimed at strengthening primary health services and ensuring
access to basic health care. At the regional level, Steps were taken to re-orient and strengthen secondary
and tertiary services in support of the district level, while the national level focused on training and
management development, policy analysis, development of central support systems and promoting the
involvement of the private and other sectors.

14.      Resource requirement was estimated at $773.4 million over the five-year period with the
Government of Ghana contributing $537.2 million and health partners contributing $200 million. The
difference of $36.2 million was to be realized from internally generated funds. A firm agreement was
reached on how the resources will be allocated and a policy of resource shift to the district level was
adopted. Over the five-year period the district level's share of the recurrent budget was to increase from
22% to 42% while that of the regional level increases from 17% to 23%. The share of the headquarters and
tertiary institutions was to drop from 28% and 31% respectively to 16% and 19%.




                                                       - 48 -

15.     The implementation of the Five Year Programme of Work was based on the principles of the
Sector-Wide Approach, which was characterized by drastic shifts in ways of receipt and disbursement of
donor funds. The establishment of the health fund allowed partners to contribute to one account, which was
used to support the Programme of Work. Although provisions were made for earmarked funding such
funds were also directed at specific components of the Programme of Work. Such shifts were made largely
possible due to the emphasis on systems development and the new partnership relations with donors. The
programme was also based on systematic consensus building and the empowerment of managers for all
services at all levels.

16.     Monitoring and evaluation of the sector's performance under the Five Year Programme of Work
essentially followed the three components of the reforms and could thus be seen from three dimensions:
a.      Monitoring advances in policy, institutional and systems development
b.      Monitoring the performance of Budget and Management Centres
c.      Assessing the health status of the population.

The process involved joint reviews with strong donor participation based on agreed parameters including
the sector wide indicators. The reviews formed a main input into a mandatory biannual meeting in which
donor participation was very strong. At these meetings government also presented a multi sectoral group
including the Ministry of Finance, the private sector and other stakeholders.

The first meeting, which was held around April, reviewed performance of the previous year and mapped
out areas of emphasis for the coming year. The second meeting, which was held in September, reviewed the
half-year performance and the programme of work for the next year. These two meetings evolved into the
main fora for review and agreement on donor/Ministry of Health conduct. Based on an agreed set of
indicators, the sectors performance was tracked annually and the level of performance was discussed and
accepted or questioned. These were captured in an Aide Memoire, which was signed by all partners
contributing to the health fund and was widely disseminated at the end of each summit.

Achievements

·       Services

17.     The health sector made substantial gains in the implementation of its programmes under the Five
Year Programme of Work. The overall trend showed significant progress towards meeting the targets set
for the period. A consistent upward trend in the annual number of OPD visits was observed over time, with
a 44% increase between 1997 (6,400,154 visits) and 2001 (9,199,549 visits). The trend in OPD attendance
per capita was stable during the 1996-1999 period, meaning that the increase in the number of outpatient
visits was similar to the estimated growth of the population (Figure 1). A sharp increase of 18% was
observed in the year 2000 (from 0.38 visit per capita in 1999 to 0.45 in 2000), and a further 9% increase
was observed in 2001 (0.49 visit per capita), being much higher than the annual growth rate of the
population. The target of 0.5 visits per person by the end of 2001 was almost achieved. Outpatient
attendance of 0.49 per capita is still relatively low. Meaning that only one in two persons is likely to visit
the outpatient department in a year.




                                                       - 49 -

                                                                 0.6

                                     CAPITA                      0.5                                                 0.49
                                                                                                            0.45
                                           PER
                                                                 0.4             0.38    0.39     0.38

                                              VISITS             0.3

                                                    OPD

                                                       OF        0.2


                                                                 0.1

                                                         NUMBER
                                                                  0
                                                                                1997     1998    1999      2000     2001


                                                                                                YEAR

        Figure 1: Trend in outpatient attendance per capita (Ghana, 1997-2001).

18.     Regional distribution of OPD attendance showed Brong Ahafo (BAR), Ashanti (AR), and Greater
Accra (GAR) Regions having higher than national average OPD attendance per capita at the end of the
period: 0.63, 0.56 and 0.53 visit per capita, respectively (Figure 2), whereas the lowest attendance was still
observed in the Northern Region (0.33 visit per capita).


                                                               0.7


                                                               0.6
           CAPITA
                                                                    Nationalaverage

                 PER                                           0.5


                                                               0.4
                    VISITS

                                                               0.3
                          OPD

                             OF                                0.2


                                                               0.1
                               NUMBER
                                                                0
                                                                     WR            CR GAR  ER  VR   AR   BAR   NR UWR  UER
                                                                                                REGION

        Figure 2: Distribution of outpatient attendance per capita by region (Ghana, 2001).

        This pattern of OPD attendance by region in 2001 was significantly different from the OPD
        distribution observed across regions at the beginning of the POW, when the lowest attendance was
        observed in the most deprived areas of the country (i.e. Northern, Upper East, Upper West and
        Central Region). The highest increase in OPD attendance during the 1998-2001 period was
        observed in these poor regions, with UER and UWR showing a level of outpatient attendance per
        capita similar to or higher than the national average in 2001 (Figure 3). Northern region however
        remained the region with the lowest attendance at the end of the period.




                                                                                                  - 50 -

              0.70


              0.60


              0.50
                                                                              1998
              0.40


               0.30


               0.20


                0.10
                                                                              2001

                0.00

                     WR    CR GAR  ER    VR   AR  BAR   NR  UWR  UER
                                     REGION

            Figure 3: Distribution of outpatient attendance per capita by region in 1998 and 2001.



   18. A consistent upward trend in the annual number of hospital admissions was observed over time,
        with a 26% increase between 1997 (524,129 admissions) and 2001 (659,514 admissions). This
        increase was higher than the population growth, therefore an increase in admission rate was
        observed from 28.4 per 1000 in 1997 to 34.9 per 1000 in 2001. In particular, fluctuations were
        observed in the 1997-1999 period, followed by a sharp increase in the year 2000, and a plateau in
        2001 (Figure 4). However, the admission rate for the country is still relatively low (34.9 per 1000),
        implying that about one person in 30 is likely to be admitted in a year.


              40


                                                                   34.9         34.9
              35


                                                     29.7
              30
                        28.4           27.5

              25



              20


              15



              10


                5



                0

                        1997           1998           1999            2000        2001
                                                     YEAR

        Figure 4: Trend in hospital admission rate (Ghana, 1997-2001).



19.     The highest admission rate was observed in Upper West (UWR), Eastern (ER) and Upper East
(UER) Regions, with Greater Accra Region (GAR) showing the lowest admission rate (Figure 5). The
higher use of private facilities, and the large underreporting from the private sector, may explain this
apparent admission pattern in GAR.




                                                        - 51 -

                     60


                     50


                     40
       1000)                              National average

                     30
            (PER

                     20
                RATE

                     10


                                  0
                                      WR  CR     GAR      ER    VR    AR   BAR   NR UWR UER

                                                                 REGION

    Figure 5: Distribution of hospital admission rate by region (Ghana, 2001).

    Just as the trend for outpatient attendance per capita showed, the pattern in hospital admissions
    observed in 2001 was significantly different from the distribution across regions observed at the
    beginning of the POW, with the highest increase in admission rates being observed in the northern
    belt (Figure 6). UWR had the highest admission rate in 2001.

                                   50

                                   45

                                   40

                                    35
                     1000)                                                              1998
                                   30


                          (PER      25

                                    20

                              RATE  15

                                    10

                                     5

                                     0

                                       WR CR                                            2001
                                              GAR    ER   VR  AR BAR    NR UWR UER

                                                         REGION

      Figure 6: Distribution of hospital admission rate by region in 1998 and 2001.

20. Although no particular target was set for the period, it is generally agreed that health facilities
    operate most efficiently at a level of about 80-90 percent occupancy. However, lower occupancy
    rates were observed in Ghana (with more than one third of the hospital beds not being occupied by
    patients), especially in district and regional hospitals. The national average was 64.6% in 2001,
    which was a 9.7% increase over the previous year. Wide variations in BOR were also found across
    regions, ranging between 48.6% in UER to 89.1% in GAR in 2001 (Figure 7). High BOR in GAR
    and AR is related to the large inpatients intake to the teaching hospitals, and, in the case of GAR,
    to the presence of two busy psychiatric hospitals. After excluding psychiatric hospitals, BOR in
    GAR was 64.6%, in line with the national average. Wide differences were also observed across



                                                                  - 52 -

       levels of facilities in the regions.


                               100


                               90

                               80


                               70
                                                                            National average
                               60

                               50

                               40
          PERCENTAGE
                               30

                               20

                                10

                                 0
                                    WR   CR   GAR   ER   VR    AR   BAR   NR    UWR     UER

                                                          REGION

     Figure 7: Distribution of Bed Occupancy Rate by region (Ghana, 2001).



21.    A consistent upward trend in EPI coverage was observed over time for DPT3 and measles
vaccines, with the immunization coverage against measles increasing from 58.5% in 1997 to 82.4% in
2001 and for DPT3 from 59.6% to 76.3% in 2001.


                              90

                              80

                              70
                                                                                     DPT3
                              60

                              50

                              40

                    PERCENTAGE30

                              20

                              10                                                     Measles

                                0
                                     1997   1998      1999    2000     2001

                                                      YEAR

     Figure 8: Trend in immunization coverage against measles (Ghana, 1997-2001).

       However, it is worth noting that a consistent upward trend in coverage was observed between 1997
       and 2000, whereas a decrease was observed in 2001 for the first time during the first POW.

22.    Percentage supervised deliveries increased from 40.6 to 50.4% over the period. Coverage for 2001
ranged between 35.6% in the Central Region and 63.4% in the Upper West Region.




                                                           - 53 -

                              70



                              60

                                 National average
                              50



                              40



                              30

           PERCENTAGE
                              20



                              10



                               0
                                  WR      CR    GAR   ER   VR    AR   BAR   NR   UWR   UER


                                                            REGION

      Figure 9: Distribution of the percentage of supervised deliveries by region (Ghana, 2001).



23.      TB cure rate is low in Ghana and it shows one area where it has been difficult to demonstrate
progress. A cure rate of 44.9% was observed in the year 2000 as against a cure rate of 46.3% in 1997.
Large inter-regional variations in cure rate were observed in 2000, ranging between 11.1% in Eastern
Region and 70.5% in Upper West Region.


                               80


                               70


                               60


                               50
                     RATE
                               40


                         CURE  30


                               20


                               10


                                0
                                   WR     CR    GAR   ER   VR    AR   BAR   NR  UWR   UER


                                                            REGION


      Figure 10: Distribution of TB cure rate by region (Ghana, 2000).

24.      In general there has be significant improvement in the uptake of services over the period. This may
be attributed to progress made in ensuring quality of care that may have had an impact on demand for
services. It may also be due to improved reporting and an overall improvement in management systems
making facilities and programmes more efficient.

    Institutional reforms

25.      The implementation of Act 525 has led to the firm establishment of the Ghana Health Service with



                                                             - 54 -

the appointment of the Governing Council and key management staff. Work on management systems has
also progressed with the definition of the organizational structures, outline of job descriptions,
responsibilities, functions and the adoption of planning, budgetary and financial management systems and
procedures. The reorganization of the Teaching Hospitals has also proceeded with the appointment of
Hospital Boards and Chief Executives and other key managers.

26.     The Ministry of Health has also undergone organizational restructuring to assert itself as a civil
service organization under the Civil Service law. An additional Division of Traditional and Alternative
medicine has been created and the Ghana Health Service provides additional advisory duties to the Minister
of Health on medical, nursing, pharmaceutical and financial management matters.

27.     Statutory Regulatory Bodies have had their roles and functions clearly defined in the reorganized
health sector. The existing Boards particularly Medical and Dental Council, Nurses and Midwives Council
and the Pharmacy Council have been tasked with the responsibility of building the human resource and
ensuring quality in the professional areas. New Boards such as the Food and Drugs Board,
Traditional/Alternative Medicine Board, Private Health Practitioners Council have also been established to
strengthen the regulatory functions within the health sector.

Human Resource Development

28.     Human resource development has also been one of the very difficult areas where progress can be
demonstrated. At the beginning of the programme of work there were over 1,069 doctors and 12,192 nurses
in the public health sector. By the end of the period this had dropped to 828 and 9,247 respectively. This is
against the background of increased production of staff by the universities and training institutions. The
exodus of health workers to other countries due to unfavorable salary schemes account for the lack of
improvement in the human resource situation. During the period several strategies were explored as a way
of stemming the staff wastage to the public health sector. Additional duty hours allowance, which
significantly bridges the gap between salaries of those in the public and private sectors, has been introduced
and although it has not reversed the trend, it has significantly slowed down the exodus. Other schemes to
help in retaining staff are yet to be put in place.

29.     The distribution of human resource has also not improved over the period. There are significant
inequities in the inter and intra regional placement of staff leading to substantial inter regional differences.
The population doctor and population nurse ratios below illustrates.




                                                     - 55 -

                   60000




                   50000



                   40000




                   30000


                                    National average
        PERCENTAGE 20000


                   10000




                       0
                            WR    CR     GAR          ER    VR     AR    BAR    NR   UWR    UER


                                                             REGION

     Figure 11: Distribution of population to doctor ratio by region (Ghana, 2001).

 The average population to doctor ratio was one doctor per 22,811 population in 2001. Large
 inter-regional variations were observed in 2001, ranging between 1 doctor per 59,650 population in NR
 and 1 to 10,927 in GAR. The population to nurse ratio, in 2001 averaged 1 nurse for 2,043 population,
 with a range between 1 to 4,198 in BAR to 1,380 in ER.


                       5000


                       4500


                       4000


                       3500


                       3000


                       2500
                                      National average
                       2000


                       1500


                       1000


                        500


                          0
                              WR    CR      GAR        ER    VR     AR    BAR   NR    UWR   UER


                                                              REGION


     Figure 12: Distribution of population to nurse ratio by region (Ghana, 2001).

 NR and UWR were among the most deprived regions in the country, have the lowest provision of public
 sector doctors per person, whereas high concentration is observed in Greater Accra and Ashanti Regions,
 where the teaching hospitals are located. The most deprived regions in the country in terms of provision
 of nurses were Brong Ahafo and Northern Regions, whereas the highest provision was in Greater Accra
 and Ashanti Regions, where the teaching hospitals are located.

Support services

30.     The period saw significant efforts at revamping the health infrastructure. Rehabilitation works




                                                                - 56 -

were undertaken and a programme to re-equip facilities were carried out in 250 health centers, 48 district
hospitals and 6 regional hospitals. Various works and equipment installation were also carried out in the
two Teaching Hospitals and the Psychiatric Hospitals. 27 training institutions were also renovated. At the
end of the period the network of health facilities in the public health sector had increased from 952 to 1,1
35.

31.      Several other support systems were put in place. The establishment of functional, appropriately
staffed Procurement Unit for procurement of goods, civil works and services, the establishment of an
equipment management unit with qualified biomedical engineers, the revitalization of the transport and
estate management units all made for efficient support systems during the period.

Financing the programme of work

32.     Budget reforms to support the policy of resource shift and to afford Budget and Management
Centers more control over their resources were initiated. The table below shows how resources were shifted
over the period and provides an overview of the reallocation of expenditure to the regional and district
levels and it measures the sector's performance in the decentralization of resources. A consistent trend of
reallocation of expenditure to the regional and district levels was maintained over the period.

                             1997                       1998                     1999    2000    2001
           Level             GOG      DONOR    IGF      GOG     DONOR    IGF

           HEADQUARTERS      29%      -        2 %      5 %     27 %     0 %     14%     22%     25%

           TERTIARY          22%      -        30%      22 %    4 %      94 %    21%     14%     16%
           INSTITUTIONS
           REGIONAL          15%      -        2 %      13 %    30 %     0 %     24%     20%     16%
           DISTRICT          34%      -        66%      60 %    39 %     6 %     41%     44%     43%

        Percentage of recurrent expenditure by level and year (items 2-5).

The World Bank's Participation

33.     The World Bank participated fully in the implementation of the programme of work in different
areas. As a contributor to the health fund, the bank took the bold step of channeling all support to the
health sector through the health fund. This allowed the sector to take full charge of its programme.
However although the bank took a back seat, it provided critical technical support especially in the area of
financial management and the development of the procurement system. The local office was crucial in
providing technical support for the development of the procurement manual, bidding documents and the
management of the tendering processes through prior review of procurement packages. This was done on
behalf of all contributing partners and ensured the development of confidence in the procurement system.

Constraints And Challenges

34.     The principle of the Sector Wide Approach in itself presented some challenges in the
implementation of the programme of work. Firstly as a concept, which is driven by changes on the margin,
the absence of drastic changes made it difficult for visible demonstration of the reform process especially
among health workers who must necessarily drive the process. Most of the changes occurred in the
development of management systems on the assumption that this will create the necessary environment for
advances in service delivery. While improvements in service delivery was demonstrated, it cannot be said



                                                     - 57 -

that this was due to the advances made in the development of management systems.

35.      There are still concerns on how to take on board programmes that were vertically run before the
implementation of the programme of work and how to take on board global initiatives without resorting to
direct funding. The lack of acceptable progress in the Tuberculosis control programme is an indication of
how weak such programmes are provisioned for and managed under the health fund approach. It seemed as
if the main solution was in reorienting directly funded programme managers and district directors to see
such programmes as part of the overall programme of work.

36.      Although much has been done in the area of human resource development, the system still suffers
from massive brain drain. The central issues of incentives and salary enhancement, which have been put
forward as strategies to stem the exodus of trained staff, are yet to be accepted and funded.

37.      In the area of monitoring and evaluation, the main constraint was that the whole exercise was
focused on donor requirement and donor expectations. The annual reviews thus provided a snap shot of the
system and sought to address donor concerns rather than respond to public expectations.

The way forward

38.      Several lessons have been learnt over the period. Firstly there was an overall improvement in
management system that support decentralized budget and operations. There was also better appreciation
and clarity in the procurement and financial management systems leading to increased partner confidence.
The joint consultative and audit mechanisms also proved to be very constructive in enhancing the
partnership process. However there were still areas that needed to be looked at for the future. At the end of
the five year period there were still inequalities in health outcomes relating to gender, socioeconomic status
and by virtue of geographical location.

39.      The scope of institutional reforms still require further development of the relative roles,
responsibilities and capabilities of the various agencies, the Non Governmental organizations, the private
sectors and the communities. It is also envisaged that further decentralization with respect to human
resource administration and management may be required to achieve equity objectives.

40.      One of the major lessons has been the fact that physical investments and the investments in staff
were not entirely driven by the objectives of the programme of work.

41.      Although there were important innovations in donor fund management neither GoG or donors fully
delivered on their commitments at the same time revenue rose faster than expected giving an indication of
adverse effects on access by the poor. This was against the backdrop of ineffective exemptions system,
which was poorly targeted to the poor.

42.      Several challenges will also have to be taken on board shaping the partnership process for the
future. The government's policy of replacing the current system of payment with a health insurance scheme
and the introduction of a close to client system for the delivery of the basic package of service will
constitute key considerations for the design and implementation of health programmes. In addition to this,
problems of emerging disease such as HIV/AIDS and tuberculosis, malaria and the need to eradicate
guinea worm will define the package of services to be delivered while the human resource problem of
attrition and distribution will need to be sorted out.

43.      In meeting these challenges, the sector will need to be properly placed to respond to the needs of


                                                      - 58 -

communities and household especially in ways that will improve consumer health behaviour and consumer
health seeking behaviour. Mechanisms will also have to be sought to ensure that the needs of the poor and
vulnerable are met in the overall context of poverty reduction. Mechanisms for mobilizing private sector
and non governmental organization and for improving intersectoral action for health will also need to be put
in place. In addition continuing improvements in reforming the regulatory environment will need to be
pursued.

44.     On the basis of the above, the Second Five Year Programme of Work will continue to be pillared
on the five strategic objectives of increasing access, improving quality, improving efficiency, fostering
collaboration and ensuring financial sustainability. A strong monitoring support will be required especially
as these objectives will need to be realised in a more pluralistic health sector. The joint monitoring
mechanism will need to be strengthened and infused with additional skills in monitoring third party
involvement in health.




                                                     - 59 -

- 60 -

