Page  1
April 17, 1998
The Hon. Richard Kwame Peprah 
Minister of Finance 
Ministry of Finance 
P.O. Box M.40 
Accra Ghana
Re:  Dutch Grant for the Health Sector Program Support Project Grant 
TF021578
Dear Sir:
I am writing on behalf of the International Development Association (IDA) to 
indicate IDA's  agreement, as administrator of grant funds provided by the Kingdom of 
the Netherlands, to make a grant in an amount not exceeding one million Dutch guilders 
(NLG 1,000,000) (the Grant) to the Republic of Ghana (the Recipient).
The Grant is made in response to the Recipient's request for financial 
assistance and for the purposes and on the terms and conditions set forth in the Annex 
to this Letter Agreement.  The Recipient represents, by confirming its agreement 
below, that it is authorized to contract and withdraw the Grant for the said purposes 
and on the said terms and conditions.
Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing, on behalf of the Recipient, by 
signing, dating, and returning to us the enclosed copy of this Letter Agreement.  Upon 
receipt by IDA of the copy of this Letter Agreement countersigned by you, this Letter 
Agreement will become effective as of the date of the countersignature.
Very truly yours,
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Peter Harrold
Country Director for Ghana
AGREED:
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
By ____________________
   Richard Kwame Peprah
   Minister of Finance
Date:
April 24, 1998
ANNEX
Purposes, Terms, and Conditions of the Grant
1.
Purposes and Activities
The purposes of the Grant are to support the Government of Ghana’s reform of the 
health sector through implementation of its Medium-Term Health Strategy and the Sector 
Program of Work in order to improve the health of Ghanaians by increasing access to, 
and the quality and efficiency of, health services and by forging linkages with other 
partners in health development.  The activities (the Activities) for which the Grant 
is given are as follows:
(a)
Improving access to, and the quality and efficiency of, primary health 
services by: (i) establishing standards of practice for priority packages of health 
services; (ii) retraining health workers, (iii) rehabilitating clinics, health centers 
Page  2
and hospitals; (iv) acquisition of essential drugs, equipment and supplies; (v) 
strengthening the capacity of district and subdistrict health management and 
administration systems through training and acquisition of equipment; 
(vi) disseminating health messages to the public and collaborating with other 
ministries on intersectorial health issues through carrying out joint workshops and 
other health related activities; and (vii) implementing a decentralization program for 
the delivery of health services to the districts and subdistricts.
(b)
Strengthening and reorienting secondary and tertiary service delivery to 
support primary health services, through rehabilitation of facilities, training, 
provision of technical advisory services and acquisition of drugs and medical 
equipment.
(c)
Strengthening the capacity of the Recipient’s Ministry of Health (MOH) to 
collaborate with other ministries and agencies dealing with health, nutrition, 
population, water supply and education in delivering well coordinated health packages 
to the public through training and the provision of technical advisory services.
(d)
(i)
Development and implementation of training programs for health 
workers in 
clinical, public health and management skills, as 
well as hospital 
administration, including finance and 
budget.
(ii)
Strengthening the capacity of local health training institutions, 
including 
the rehabilitation of schools, acquisition of supplies and 
teaching materials, 
revision of curricula and retraining of 
tutors.
(e)
Improving the capacity of MOH in policy development and analysis, 
resource allocation, performance monitoring and evaluation and regulation of delivery 
of health services through: (i) training of relevant staff of MOH, (ii) carrying out 
of health-related studies and dissemination of findings, and (iii) provision of 
logistical support for the development and revision of health policies.
(f)
Promotion of private sector involvement in the delivery of health 
services.
(g)
Strengthening the capacity of national health support systems in Program 
implementation, including personnel management, drugs and supplies management, 
equipment management and strengthening of financial management and information systems 
through training of staff. 
2.
Implementation Generally
The Recipient shall: (a) carry out the Activities with due diligence and 
efficiency; (b) promptly provide the funds, facilities, services and other resources 
required for that purpose; (c) furnish all information covering the Activities and the 
use of the proceeds of the Grant as IDA shall reasonably request; (d) from time to 
time exchange views with IDA's representatives on the progress and results of the 
Activities; and (e) take all necessary measures required to enable IDA to visit the 
territory of the Republic of Ghana for purposes related to the Grant. Without 
limitation on the foregoing, the Recipient shall, if IDA shall so request, prepare and 
furnish to IDA promptly upon completion of the Activities a report, in form and 
substance satisfactory to IDA, on the results and impact of the Activities. 
3.
Procurement 
3.1.
Except as IDA shall otherwise agree, procurement of the consultants’ services, 
civil works and goods required for the carrying out of the Activities and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Grant shall be governed by the provisions of the 
Attachment to this Annex.
3.2.
The Recipient shall ensure that all imported goods to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Grant shall be insured against hazards incident to the acquisition, 
transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and that any 
indemnity for such insurance is payable in a freely usable currency to replace or 
repair such goods.  The Recipient shall ensure that any facilities relevant to the 
Page  3
Activities are at all times operated and maintained in accordance with appropriate 
practices and that any repairs or renewals of such facilities are promptly made as 
needed. 
4.
Withdrawal of Grant Proceeds 4.1. The amount of the Grant shall be credited to 
an account opened by IDA on its books in the name of the Recipient (the Grant 
Account), and may be withdrawn therefrom by the Recipient in accordance with the 
provisions of this Section 4, for expenditures in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Activities and to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Grant.
4.2.
The expenditures for the following items may be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Grant and shall be used exclusively in the carrying out of the Activities:
    Amount of the
     % of
    Grant Allocated
Expenditures to
Item
(in Netherlands Guilders)
  be Financed
Subprogram
1,000,000
100%
expenditures
For purposes of this paragraph, the term “Subprogram expenditures” means expenditures 
for civil works, drugs, furniture, equipment, vehicles, training materials, 
consultants’ services, studies, training and incremental operating costs.
4.3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 4.2 above: (a) no withdrawals shall 
be made: (i) for payments made for expenditures prior to the date of signature of this 
Letter Agreement by IDA; (ii) on account of payments for any taxes levied by or in the 
territory of the Recipient; (iii) on account of expenditures in the territories of any 
country which is not a member of IDA or for goods produced in, or services supplied 
from, such territories; (iv) for the purpose of any payment to persons or entities, or 
for any import of goods, if such payment or import, to IDA’s knowledge, is prohibited 
by a decision of the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the 
Charter of the United Nations; or (v) after November 30, 1998 or such later date as 
IDA shall establish by written notice to the Recipient (the Closing Date), except that 
withdrawals may be made for expenditures incurred prior to the Closing Date if the 
corresponding application is received by IDA within four months after the Closing 
Date, after which time any amount of the Grant remaining unwithdrawn from the Grant 
Account shall be canceled; and (b) if, in IDA’s opinion, an amount of the Grant 
allocated to any of the items in the table in paragraph 4.2 above will be insufficient 
to finance the expenditures for such item, IDA may, by written notice to the 
Recipient, reallocate to such item an amount of the Grant then allocated to another 
item which, in IDA’s opinion, will not be necessary to meet other expenditures.
4.4.
When the Recipient shall desire to withdraw any amount from the Grant Account, 
it shall deliver to IDA a written application for withdrawal of such amount in the 
form specified by IDA.  Withdrawal applications shall be: (a) signed on behalf of the 
Recipient by the Minister of Finance or such other person as he or she shall have 
authorized in writing; and (b) be accompanied by such evidence in support of the 
application as IDA shall reasonably request.  Authenticated specimen signatures of the 
person authorized to sign withdrawal applications shall be provided with the first 
application bearing his or her signature.  Each withdrawal application for an amount 
of the Grant and its supporting evidence must be sufficient in form and substance to 
satisfy IDA that the Recipient is entitled to withdraw such amount from the Grant 
Account and that such amount is to be used in the carrying out of the Activities.  IDA 
shall pay the amounts withdrawn by the Recipient from the Grant Account only to or on 
the order of the Recipient.
4.5.
IDA may require withdrawals from the Grant Account to be made on the basis of 
statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (a) civil works and services of 
consulting firms costing less than $100,000 equivalent; (b) services of individual 
consultants costing less than $50,000 equivalent; and (c) goods, all under such terms 
and conditions as IDA shall specify by notice to the Recipient.  
4.6.
Withdrawals of the proceeds of the Grant shall be made in the currency of the 
Grant.  IDA, at the Recipient’s request and acting as an agent of the Recipient, shall 
purchase with the currency of the Grant withdrawn from the Grant Account such 
Page  4
currencies as shall be required to pay for expenditures to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Grant.  Whenever it shall be necessary, for the purposes of this 
Letter Agreement, to determine the value of one currency in terms of another, such 
value shall be as reasonably determined by IDA. 
5.
Accounts and Audits 
5.1.
(a)
The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained records and 
accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Activities of the departments 
or agencies of the Recipient responsible for carrying out the Activities or any part 
thereof.
(b)
The Recipient shall: (i) have the records and accounts referred to in 
subparagraph (a) above for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to IDA; 
(ii) furnish to IDA as soon as available, but in any case not later than six months 
after the end of each such year, the report of such audit by said auditors, of such 
scope and in such detail as IDA shall have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to 
IDA such other information concerning said records and accounts and the audit thereof 
as IDA shall from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Grant 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Recipient shall: (i) 
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with subparagraph (a) above, records 
and accounts reflecting such expenditures; (ii) retain, until at least one year after 
IDA has received the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal 
from the Grant Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 
receipts and other documents) evidencing such expenditures; (iii) enable IDA’s 
representatives to examine such records; and (iv) ensure that such records and 
accounts are included in the annual audit referred to in subparagraph (b) above and 
that the report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to 
whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together with 
the procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon 
to support the related withdrawals.
6.
Suspension and Cancellation
6.1.
IDA may at any time, by notice to the Recipient, suspend the right of the 
Recipient to make further withdrawals from the Grant Account if any of the following 
events has occurred and is continuing: (a) the Recipient has failed to comply with any 
of its obligations herein specified; or (b) the right of the Recipient to make 
withdrawals under any development credit agreement with IDA shall have been suspended.
6.2.
IDA may, by written notice to the Recipient, terminate the right of the 
Recipient to make further withdrawals from the Grant Account: (a) at any time after 
the right of the Recipient to make withdrawals from the Grant Account shall have been 
suspended pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 6.1 above; or (b) if the Recipient 
shall have failed to take action, satisfactory to IDA, within six months after the 
effective date hereof, to carry out the Activities.
Attachment
Procurement
Section I.
Consultants’ Services
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers,” published by the Bank in January 1997 and 
revised in September 1997 (the Consultant Guidelines), and the following provisions of 
this Section I.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection 
Page  5
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants. 
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph.  
The shortlist of consultants for services estimated to cost less than $100,000 
equivalent per contract may comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services for small contracts estimated to cost less than $75,000 equivalent per 
contract may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
2.
Single Source Selection
Services for consultants may, with IDA's prior agreement, be procured in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant 
Guidelines. 
3.
Service Delivery Contractors
Services to be provided by medical personnel shall be in procured in accordance 
with procedures acceptable to IDA. 
4.
Individual Consultants
Services for consultants to be employed may be procured under contracts awarded 
to individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 
5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by IDA of the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Activities shall be furnished to IDA 
for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by 
IDA, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more and each contract for the 
employment of individual consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or 
more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph 
of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, but less than the equivalent of 
$300,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second 
subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines 
shall apply. 
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 1 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
Page  6
apply. 
Section II.
Procurement of Goods
Goods shall be procured: (a) in accordance with the provisions of Section I of 
the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 (the Guidelines); and (b) 
under contracts awarded on the basis of shopping procedures in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. The review procedures set 
forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply to such contracts, 
provided that the word “bids”, in such paragraph 4, shall be read as “quotations.
