Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMCAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3652Z-I
REPORT AND RECO?tEDATION
OF TEE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERATIONAL DE OPMET ASSOCITION
TO THEE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
OF SDR 7.2 MILLION
TO
THE BEPUBLIC OF NIGER
FOR A
POWER ENGINEERING AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
July 2, 1984
do dcuamet h. restricted disibution ad may be used by recipients only in the pedfonance of
their official duties. Its eontents omy not Otherwise be disclosed without World Bak authorization.



CUERENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency UnLit      CFAP l/
US$  1.00           CFAP 392
ClAF 1,000      =   USS    2.55
USS  1.00       =   SDR    0.96
FISCAL YEAR
Government of Niger   -   October 1 - September 30
NIGELEC                    January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYIS
AEK        -   Autoritt  du Barrage de Kandadji
CCCE       -   Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique
cmES       -   Centre de retiers de l'Electricite et de 1'Eau-
ESIE       -   Ecole Superieure Interafrecaine d'Electricit'e
FIPEC      -   Piduciaire Paris Expertise Comptable
GON        -   Government of Niger
Gwh        -   gigawatt hour
IDA        -   International Development Association
KfW        -   Kreditanstalt fUr Wiederaufbau
kWh        -   kilowatt hour
LRNC       -   Long Run Narginal Cost
MEI        -   Ministere des Nines et Industr_es
NTP        -   Ninistere des Travaux Publics et de l'Urbanisme
NEPA       -   National Electric Pover Authority
NIGELEC    -   Soc-ete Nig-reenne d'Electricite
PPF        -   Project Preparation Facility
PSN        -   Power Sector Memorandum
SONICHAR   -   Societe Nig6rienne de Charbon
l1  The CF4 Franc (CFAF) ss tied to the French Franc (FF) in the ratio
of FT I to CFAF 50.  The French Franc -s currently floatJng.



FOR OMFFCIL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF NIGER
PRESIDERT' S REPORT
POWER ENGINEERING AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Table of GPatents
Page No.
Credit and Project Summary ....................... .....*     ..       i
I.     THE ECONOMY ....................l.-.9................ 
Background          * 
Economic Achievements in the Seventies                     2
The Early Eighties and the Uranium Crisis  ....           3
Public Finance                                       3
Balance of Payments and Debt                         3
Niger's Reaction to the Crisis ..................         4
Struictural Adjustment 5.................... ......       5
Niger's Future Development Prospects ............          6
II.    WORLD BANK OPERATIONS IN NIGER .......................          7
III.   THE ENERGY AND POWER SECTOR ...............*9**........         8
A.   Energy sector       ....... ...   .................        8
B.  Power Sector       ..............................         10
Power Supply and Demand ......................        10
Power Sector Organization        ....................  11
Existing Facilities ............... ...... ....       12
Sector Development and Planning .............  .      13
NIGELEC Organization, Menpower and Training ..        15
Tariffs *..* ...............................          16
NIGELEC Finances .... ..........          .......     17
Background ..............................        17
Past Financial Performance ...............       17
Present Financial Position ..............        18
Future Finances ... ..o.. ....... ...........    19
Accounting and Audit ...........  ....... .......     20
Sector Development and Rationale for
Bank Involvement ......      ..............  ......  20
IV.    THE PROJECT ........... **..Owe ....                           21
*                    Background         *******............*......**...        21
Project Objectives .................... . ...  ......    21
Project Description ...... ... ...  ....... ... .. ... ..  22
Project Cost and Financing Agreements ...........        22
Project Implementation and Monitoring ...........        23
Procurement ....*o ..............................        24
Disbursement ......o.. o.* ** ..*..* **** ***o ... o ***  24
Project Benefits and Risks .........   ..............    25
V.     LEGAL INSTRUE3NTS AND AUTHORITY '...'' ..............          25
VI.    RECOMMENDATION ***................        *... RECOMMENDA*.ION  26
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Contents (Cont'd)                                       Page No.
ANNXES
I.     Niger Social Indicators Data Sheet ...................       27
II.    Status of Bank Group Operations in Niger .............       32
III.   Supplementary Project Data Sheet ...... 0..............      34
IV.    NIGELEC' Income Statements Funds Flow
Statements and Balance Sheets:  1979-1987 *........      36
V.     Project Timetable ....... .*.**********.**...  .......       39
VI.    Disbursement Schedule ........  .....*.....  ..........      40
VII.   Selected Documents and Data available
in the Project File  ..........*     ..................   41
NAP    Niger Energy Resources and Infrastructure in 1982
(IBD Nap No. 17253)



REPUBLIC OF NIGER
POWER ENGINEERING AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrover:               Republic of Niger
Beneficiary:            Societe Nigerienne d'Blectricite (NIGELEC)
Amount:                 SDR 7.2 million (US$ 7.5 million)
Terms:                  Standard
Relending Terms:        The Government of Niger would pass on an amount
equivalent to US$ 1.9 million to NIGELEC in the form
of equity. The Government would on-lend the remaining
US$ 5.6 million to NIGELEC for 20 years, including a 5
year grace period, at an interest rate of 10.08% pa.
The foreign exchange  risk on the amount re-lent would
be borne by NIGMELC.
Project Description:    The proposed project would assist Government to define
a least-cost long-term program of power development
and to improve the organization and management of the
power sector. The project would also help NIGELEC
improve its internal organization, nanpower planning,
training, financial management, and its distribution
system. The project would provide for:
(a) a pover planning study to devise the least-cost
program of system development, engineering for
preparation of bid documents for the next power
project in the program, and technical assistance
in the supervision of these studies;
(b) a study of future sector organization;
(c) a study of NIGELEC's internal organization,
management, and manpower requirements;
(d)  training of NIGELEC engineers and technicians;
(e) a study of NIGELEC's tariff based on long-run
marginal cost principles; and
(f) equipment to rehabilitate and improve the
operational efficiency of part of NIGELEC's
distribution system.



- ii -
Benefits and Risks:     No significant technical risks are associated with
project implementation. The expected benefits of the
project are: definition of future power development,
streamlined sector organization and utility
management, and improved efficiency of the electrical
distribution system.
Project Costs
The proposed project is estimated to cost US$ 7.9 million, including
foreign costs of US$ 6.9 million, and excluding taxes and duties. The
Government of Niger plans to exempt imported goods and services from taxes and
duties, and to assume responsibility for all taxes on locally supplied goods
and services. The breakdown of the project cost estimate follows:



- iii -
Nillicn of US$ -----
Local     Foreign     Total
1. Power Planning
Power Planning Study                          0.15       1.45        1.60
Engineering for preparation of bid
documents for next Power Project            0.19       1.27        1.46
Planning Specialist                           0.02       0.05        0.07
Subtotal                                 0.36       2.77        3.13
-     2.  Sector Institutions Study                      0.01       0.10       0.11
3. Study of NIGELEC Organization, Management,
and Manpower Requirements                   0.05       0.17        0.22
4.  Training                                      0.04       0.77        0.81
5.  Tariff Study                                  0.03       0.14        0.17
6.  Distribution equipment                        0.27        1.70       1.97
7.  Base Cost                                     0.76        5.65       6.41
8.  Contingencies
Physical                                      0.04       0.28        0.32
Price                                         0.18       0.99        1.17
9.  Total Project Cost  a/                        0.98       6.92        7.90
Financing Plan b/
Millions of US$ -
Local     Foreign     Total
IDA                                0.58        6.92       7.50
Government and NIGELEC              0.40         -        0.40
Total                                0.98       6.92       7.90
a/ Including up to US$ 1.0 million to be financed under the Project
Preparation Facility.
b/ The proportion of IDA financing forms part of the Special Action Program
in Niger.



- iv -
Estimated Disbursements (US$ million equivalent)
IDA                                    FY84         FY85      FY86     FY87
Annual                      0.7 a/        2.9      2.5       1.4
Cumulative                  0.7           3.6      6.1       7.5
Rate of Return:  Not Applicable
Staff Appraisal Report: None
Map: 17253
a/ Including reimbursement of PPF advances.



INTEI. ATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT
CREDIT TO THE REPUBLIC OF NIGER FOR
A POWER ENGINEERING AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
*         1*.      I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed devel-
opment credit for the equivalent of SDR 7.2 million (US$7.5 million equivalent)
on standard IDA terms to the Republic of Niger to help finance a proposed Power
Engineering and Technical Assistance Project.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.       A report entitled "Economic Memorandum: Niger" (No. 11092-NIR) was
distributed to the Executive Directors on May 13, 1976. An economic mission
visited Niger in July 1983 in connection with an IMF Standby mission, and the
main findings of the mission are incorporated in the following paragraphs.
These findings were subsequently updated by a mission in December 1983. Annex I
contains updated country data.
Background
3.       With its 1.27 million km2 of land, Niger is about 2.5 times the size
of France. Niger is a landlocked country, and its closest access to the sea is
about 600 km from Niger's southern border. Nearly 90% of the total population
is concentrated in a thin band along the southern border. Only 12% of the land
is considered arable, and only 2.5% is actually under cultivation. Rainfall is
limited (350-750 mm) and often irregular, and soil fertility is low and de-
clining due to its intensive use. The total population was estimated at 5.7
million in 1982 and is growing at about 3.1% per annum. Per capita income was
estimated at US$310 in 1982. Niger's social indicators are among the lowest in
the world. Life expectancy at birth, which is only 43 years, is low even by
African standards. The adult literacy rate is only 8% and the primary
enrollment ratio only 23%.
4.       Niger belongs to the West African Monetary Union which Irovides its
members with a common currency (the CFA Franc) fully convertible into French
Francs. The full convertibility of the CFA Franc and the liberal foreign trade
policies pursued by the Monetary Union members have kept the Nigerien economy
very open in the past. This openness was further strengthened by the very
strong trade links that have always existed between Niger and i.s neighbors,
particularly Nigeria. Another particularly important characteristic of the
1/       This section is substantially unchanged from the President's Report
for the Economic and Financial Management Improvement Project (Report
No. P-3657-NIR).



- 2 -
Monetary Union is the strong discipline imposed over monetary and fiscal
policies of the member countries, in return for the guaranteed convertibility
of the currency. As is generally the case in open economies, exceasive credit
expansion quickly leads to increased imports, balance of payments deficits, and
a loss of foreign reserves. This being recognized by the Union member
countries, their common Central Bank is empowered with strong controls over
domestic credit ceilings.
5.       Like other Sahelian economies, Niger's is dominated by subsistence
agricultural activities with millet and sorghum accounting for 80% of the
cultivated area. Livestock is also an important source of income for a large
segment of the population and is one of the country's major export commodi-
ties.  Despite its meager agricultural resource base, Niger has traditionally
been self-sufficient in food production except during the Sahellan drought in
the early 1970s. The discevery of large uranium deposits in the late sixties
and their development, propelled the mining sector into an important position
in Niger's economy. The sector is now the country'e principal foreign exchange
earner and an important source of government revenues.
Economic Development in the Seventies
6.       Dur4ng the past decade Niger went from a period of despair to a period
of almost unlimited hope for the future. Between 1970 and 1975 Niger
experienced one of the severest and longest droughts of its history. Its
livestock herd was decimated, and food production declined dramatically. At
the height of the drought in 1974/75, Niger registered a food grain deficit of
nearly one million tons. Real per capita GDP declined at an average annual
rate of 0.5% during the first half of the decade. On the expenditure side,
per capita consumption declined by 6% per annum although gross domestic
investment grew at a modest annual rate of 3.2% with the help of increasing
foreign aid. Uranium production and export began in early 1971, but the
impact of the sector on the national economy was only moderate in the first
half of the seventies as prices were stable.
7.       During the second half of the decade, Niger's fortune improved
dramatically. More favorable climatic conditions allowed an accelerated
recovery of the agricultural sector. With intensive government programs the
Nigerien livestock herd was rapidly reconstituted. Food production steadily
increased and by 1979 Niger was once again self-sufficient and even managed to
show a substantial surplus. Moreover, the uranium sector experienced a boom.
By 1977, uranium exports accounted for 53% of total exports of goods end non-
factor services, end that share increased to 70% at the end of the decade.  As
uranium prices and quantities exported increased rapidly, Niger's total export
receipts increased from CFAF 12 billion in 1975 to CFAF 85 billion in 1979.
The contribution of the sector to public revenues followed the same trend.
The share of uranium in total government revenues increased steadily from 18%
in 1975 to an all time high of 46% in 1979. Government uranium revenues grew
from CFAF 4 billion to CFAF 25 billion in the same period. As a result of the
good performance of agriculture and mining sectors, real GDP grew at an
average annual rate of 7.2%; per capita consumption grew at an annual rate of
4.5% and gross domestic -nvestment at an average rate of 16.7%.
8.       On balance, therefore, Niger's economic performance during the 1970s
was very good, particularly by Sahelian standards.  This was due in large part



to the sound economic policies of the Government which encouraged a rational
use of foreign a±d and export earn±ngs, and which limited pricing and other
policy distortions that are common among other West African countriea.
The Early Eighties and the Uranium Crisis
9.       The decade of the eighties 3tarted with serious signs pointing to a
long lasting crisis for the uranium sector. Between 1979 and 1982 real prices
of uranium exporta fell by more than 50%. Uranium export earnings stagnated
at around CFA? 95 billion and uranium revenues declined sharply from CPAF 25
billion in 1979 to CFAF 13 billion in 1982. During the same three years,
agricultural production also deteriorated.  Unfavorable climatic conditions
forced Niger once again to supplement its food production by increasing quan-
tities of grain imports.  Food grain deficits in 1981, 1982 and 1983 reached
about 100,000 tons per year. During 1983, in particular, the country experi-
enced a serious drought. As a result of these developments, real GDP stag-
nated in 1981 and 1982 and declined by nearly 3% in 1V83.
10.      Public Finance.  Unfortunately the serious slowdown in economic
activity was not followed by an equal slowdown in Niger's public expendi-
tures. The lack of clear signals from the uranium market experts left the
Nigerien authorities uncertain about the future of the sector. Expecting a
quick recovery of uranium prices, the Government continued to implement its
ambitious Five-Year Development Plan by increasingly relying on foreign
borrowing to finance the public investment expenditures. It was not until
1982 that action was initiated to adjust to the reduced export and revenue
prospects.
11.      As the uranium boom came to an end in 1980, overall Government reve-
nues stagnated in 1981 and 1982 at a level of CFAF 75 billion and even de-
clined in 1983 to 0FAF 72 billion. Meanwhile, overall Government expenditures
continued to grow rapidly, increasing from CFAF 124 billion in 1979 to a level
of CFAF 173 billion in 1982. This was not only the result of the Government's
aggressive investment strategy but also due to the unsatisfactory financial
performance of the parastatal sector which had expanded rapidly during the
late 1970s. Poor management and frequently uneconomic government policies and
regulations led to large operating losses in many public enterprises, adding
an additional burden to the government budget. The overall government deficit
lncreased from CFAF 65 billion in 1979 to CFAF 103 billion in 1982, requiring
progressively higher levels of borrowing which, in turn, created a severe pub-
lic debt burden. Public debt service as a percentage of Government revenues
:ncreased from 2% in 1979 to 20% in 1982.
12.      Balance of Payments and Debt.  The heavy investments in equipment and
infrastructure associated with the opening of a second uranium mine and the
implementation of a large public investment program resulted in increasing
current account deficits for Niger's balance of payments, in particular after
the uranium exports started to stagnate and agricultural imports increased
during 1980-82. The financing of this growing deficit forced the country to
accumulate a heavy foreign debt which reached CFAF 296 billion in 1983.
13.      Although official development assistance to Niger more than doubled
between 1977 and 1981, nearly 50% of its foreign debt was contr^-ted on com-
mercial terms. As a result, debt service payments increased d±. atically from



- 4 -
$9 million in 1977 to $1s0 million in 1983, equivalent to 11% and 46% of the
country's exports of goods and services, respectively. This ratio is expected
to continue to increase rapidly during the next two years.
Niger's Reaction to the Crisis
14.      Faced with the rapid deterioration of the country's economic and fi-
nancial situation, Niger's Head of State instructed his Government in 1982 to
(a) introduce urgent austerity measures in the 1982/83 budget and (b) prepare
a consolidation program for 1983/84 and 1984/85 aimed at restoring balance to
the financial situation of the public sector. Subsequently, in 1983, a number
of changes in the Government's organizational structure were made which
strengthened the Ministries of Plan and Finance and gave the Prime Minister
overall responsibility for the economic and financial management of the
country.
15.      A strict auaterity program was implemented in 1982/83.  Government
wages and salaries were frozen at the level of the previous year. Some bene-
fits provided to high school students were discontinued, and government pur-
chases of goods and services were severely controlled. Most importantly, pub-
lic investment expenditures were reduced by 21% and a tighter control on
foreign borrowing was imposed. As a result of these measures, the Government
overall deficit was stabilized at the previous year's level, despite a 33%
increase in public debt service payments. The measures also had a favorable
effect on the balance of payments by reducing the trade and current account
deficits by 50% and 40%, respectively. However, Niger's economy remained
depressed during 1983 due to the continuing sluggish performance of the urani-
um sector and the low level of agricultural production as a result of the
severe drought.
16.      During 1983, the Nigerien Government prepared, with the assist_ace of
the World Bank, a two-year consolidation program for the period of 1983-85 to
help the domestic economy adjust further to current financial constraints. The
first phase of this program (1983/84), which is supported by an IMP Standby
Arrangement of SDR 18 million and a C?F of SDR 12 million, calls for a 35%
reduction in the overall government budgetary deficit and a further 25% reduc-
tion in the current account deficit of the balance of payments. To achieve
these objectives, the Government is committed to: (a) implement a fiscal
reform program and improve tax collections; (b) limit the growth of current
expenditures to 5%; (c) initiate measures to stabilize the financial situation
of seven major public enterprises; (d) reduce public investment expenditures
by nearly 40%; and (e) reschedule the public debt due in 1984. The Paris Club
met in November 1983 and approved Niger's request for a rescheduling of its
official debt. The Government is currently preparing for debt rescheduling
negotiations with the country's -rivate creditors later in 1984.
17.      As for the second phase of the consolidation program, the Government
is scheduled to start discussions on a new IMF program for 1984/85 in July.
In addition, it has requested the assistance of the World Bank to formulate a
medium-term program of structural reform to lay a sounder foundation for
economic growth and development in the future.



-5-
Structural Adjustment
18.      The resources needed for the development of Niger -- humrn and
financial, domestic and foreign, public and private -- are likely to remain
severely constrained during the remainder of this decade and beyond. Major
changes in domestic policies focused on increasing the efficiency with which
these scarce resources are used are, therefore, critical if a significant
turn-around in Niger's growth prospects is to be achieved.  Broadly, this
involves a reduction of distortions in the structure of economic incentives in
the country as well as improvement in the allocation of public resources.
19.      The structure of prices in Niger is considerably less distorted than
in many of its neighboring countries because of the relative openness of the
econowy. Ptrces of agricultural inputs and outputs, for example are broadly
in line with world markets as are energy pr;ces.  However, the overall incen-
tives structure has favored a rapid expansion of the public 3ector to the
detr-ment of private initiative. A large number of parastatals have been
established to enable the Government to intervene directly in the domestic
economy-. But the efficiency of the public enterprises has generally been lov.
In agriculture, in particular. parastatal organizations have become both
highly costly and inefficient in providing input supply services and marketing
outlets to farmers and greater private sector involvement is needed to enable
the sector to fulfill --its leading role in the country's long-term development.
Similar problems exist in other key sectors of the ecoumy. A major reform of
the parastatal sector, -ts policies and its institutional framework, is thus
an important component of the structural adjustment program.
20.      Also, Niger's current industrial incentives system has considerable
shortcomings. Industrial promotion policies, together with the trade regime,
have favored activ-t-es which are not necessarily in line with the comparative
advantage of the country and have resulted in an inefficient use of cap-tal
and only limited employment opportunities.  Also, the allocation and admin-
istration of industrial incentives has, de facto, d-scr;minated against small
and medium-scale industry development and have given the Government excessive
control over private investment decisions.
21.      In general, the Government will need to focus its scarce financial
resources and administrative capacity on only a limnited and selective set of
production growth and poverty alleviation problems for which market forces
alone would be insufficient. Moreover, much more efficient allocation of
budgetary resources will need to be achieved through improved planning/pro-
gramming procedures to ensure that existing development projects are more
fully ut-l-ized and maintained, and that new investments are only commenced
when they are of the highest priority.  Bes-des taxation, public resource
mobilization must also be improved through the introduction of new cost
recovery mechanisms. Finally, the Government will need to restructure its
large accumulated debt, which threatens to jeopardize the country's future
economic and soc-al development.
22.      The Government of Niger fully recognizes the need for a program of
structural reform if the country is to have any hope of maintaining a minimum
level of development momentum. However, the formulation and implementation of
the necessary policy changes will take considerable time and will require high
levels of external technical and financial assistance.  An Econoric and Finan-



- 6 -
cial Management Improvement Project, which was recently approved by the
Executive Directors, constitutes a first step in this process. Besides the
strengthening of country's pr-lic adzinistration, the Project will assist the
Government in defining a medium-term adjustment program to complement its
short-term stabilization efforts.
Niger's Future Development Prospects
23.      Whereas structural adjustment is essential in Niger to permit the
economy to realize its productive potenial, it is, in itself, not a sufficient
condition to achieve sustainable long-term growth. A concerted development
effort is required to reduce the country's severe real resource constraints
and expand the production base of the economy. Primarily, this w11 involve
further development of the agricultural sector and, to a lesser extent, of the
energy and mining sectors.  It also requires the accelerated development of
Niger's human resources in combination Ywth an active program to slow popula-
tion growth.
24.      Vith the fundamental change in its economic outlook as a result of
the downturn of the uranium sector, Niger will, once again, have to rely pri-
marily on its lIm4ted agricultural resources for its economic development in
the medium term. However, the future of its agriculture is uncertain. Past
increases in production were achieved through more intensive use of better
soils and greater use of marginal lands. Continuation of these practices
world severely reduce aoil fertility over time. The maintenance of food self-
suffYciency in the eighties and beyond can only be achieved through gradual
improvements in yields on lands that are already under cultivation. Given
past low levels of investment in human resources and the limited state of the
existing agricultural technology suited to Niger's conditions, the needed
improvements will be very difficult to achieve without major and continuing
support from the international community. Also, support for greater use of
modern agricultural inputs, the development of sma1l scale irrigation schemes,
and applied research will bie cracial to the future development of Niger's
agriculture.
25.      Other development potential might exist in (non-uranium) mining and
energy. Limited geological surveys and exploration have produced mixed
results. An important coal deposit of apparently good quality was identified
in 1983, but the landlocked position of Niger and the transportation cost for
even the local market casts serious doubt over the economic viability of the
development of the coal deposit.  Probably more promising is the ongoing oil
exploration which may have identified a small oil reserve that could in time
reduce Niger"s oil import bill. More efforts and better plann-ng of geogical
surveys and exploration will be needed to have a better assessment of energy
and mining development potential.
26.      Efficient use of these potential resources will require further
development of the education system. Primary education will need to be
expanded as rapidly as feasible, and professional and vocational training
designed to meet the specific needs Df the Nigerien economy will need to be
made available to develop humra capital as a productive resource and reduce
the country's skilled manpoder conatraints. However, the -ncreasing scarcity
of public revenues will require original solutions to the financing of such
human resources development. On the other hand, the current rate of popula-



-7-
t-on growth of 3.1% per year means that the economy would have to devote an
increasing share of its resources just to maintain existing low levels of
income. Consequently, reduction of the population growth must accompany the
development program.
PART II - WORLD BANK OPERATIONS IN NIGER 1/
27.      Twenty-four IDA credits have so far been approved for Niger, totaling
USS225.9 million.  Annex II contains a simmary statement of these credits as
of March 31, 1984. Eight credits have been for the rural sector (drought
relief, rural development, forestry, irrigation and livestock), and five for
roads, primarily aimed at upgrading the main and feeder road networks. The
nine other credits covered telecommunication, education, and industrial
development, and economic and fianwcial management suprort to the Government.
28.      The Bank's operational strategy in Niger is two-fold:  to assist the
country in the formulation and implementation of appropriate adjustment pro-
grams for the short- and medium-tern future; and to address the countryts
long-term growth and development issues. Paced with the severe financial
crisis in 1982, the Government of Niger has increasingly turned to the Bank --
and to the IMF -- for technical and financial assistance in the preparation of
appropriate policy responses. This has led to a rapid expansion of the BankVs
dialogue with the country on macro-economic and sectoral policy issues during
the last two years, both separately and in conjunction with project lending.
29.      Lending operations have supported Niger's long-term development by
emphasizing productive investment and institutional reform, particularly in
the agricultural sector. Here, the severity of natural constraints and the
present state of technical knowledge made development slow and difficult.
However, experience with ongoirF projects has demonstrated that potential does
exist. Bank Group lending has supported projects to increase production
through gradual development of irrigation potential, provision of services to
past.oralists, and crop-livestock integration. Future lending in the sector
will continue in these directions, while seeklng especially to improve
technical packages, lover irrigation costs and introduce smaller-scale,
grassroots-initiated development projects.  Other sectors that will continue
to be the focus of Bank Group operations will be human resources (health and
education), water supply, energy and transportation.  Finally, depending on
the success of the Nigerien Government's efforts to define and implement a
program of broad policy reform, Bank Group lending in FY86 or FY87 could
include other forms of non-project lending such as sectoral or structural
adjustment type operations.
30.      Niger's performance in project implementation and disbursement has in
1/       This section is substantially unchanged from the President's Report
for the Economic and Financial Management Improvement Project (Report
No. P-3657-NIR).



-8-
general been quite satisfactory, particularly in light of the environmental,
institutional, and managerial constraints within the country.  However, due to
the current slump in the world economy, the country is having difficulty meet-
ing counterpart financing requirements which during the uranium boom were set
at levels of 20-30% of total project costs. In view of the determined steps
which the Government is taking to resolve 4ts financial difficulties, IDA has,
under its Special Action Program, introduced increased cost sharing arrange-
ments for new, as well as ongoing projects and, where necessary, introduced
revolving funds to pre-finance project expenditures. The proposed project
includes the former feature -- 95% IDA financing of project costs and a re-
volving fund.
PART III - THE ENERGY AND POWER SECTOR
A.       Energy Sector
31.      In 1981, total energy supplied to Niger was equivalent to 1,032,000
tons of oil, or 180 kg/capita. Table 1 shovs energy supply, conversions, and
end use by sectors of the economy. Puelvood accounted for about 80% of gross
supply, and domestic coal contributed 1.5%. The remainder was imported in the
form of petroleum productB and electricity. Households consumed over three
quarters of total energy, virtually all in the form of fuelvood for cooking.
The transportation sector used almost half of the petroleum products; in-
dustry, mining and households consumed the rest. The low level of development
of the electric power subsector is illustreted by its low share in total net
supply (2.3%) and a consumption per capita of only 50 kWh in 1981. Estimated
average growth rates over the period 1976-1982 (including years of vigorous
economic growth and subsequent recession) are: fuelwood 2.8% (tracking pop-
'ulation growth), comercial energy in the modern sector 14.7%, total energy
4.6%.



-9-
TABLE 1
Niger Energy Balance 1981
(thousands of tons of oil equivalent)
Primary Energy          Energy Products
Coal     Fuelwood     Petroleum   Electricity   Total
Products
Gross Supply
Domestic                 15        840                                     855
Imports                                          164           10          174
Re-exports (uplift)                              -1B                       -18
Subtotal            15        840           146           10        1,011
Conversions                  -15                                     5           -10
-30           10          -20
Electrical Distribution
Losses                                                           -3           -3
Net supply for end use        -         840           116           22           978
Consumption
Households                         743             5            5          753
Transport                                         56            -           56
Industry/Cc.mmerce                  97            37            8          142
Mining                               -            18            9           27
TOTAL                         840           116           92 978
32.      The level and structure of petroleum product prices provide the right
signals for efficient energy use. Electricity tariffs (revised on October 1,
1983) are based on marginal costs of an all-diesel inr'-atent program to 1990.
The current structure is adequate for the medium term, and ltinger term tariff
issues will be examined as part of the proposed project. Despite scarcity of
fuelwood, its prices are well below economic costs that include cost of either
reafforestation or desertification. The second IDA-assisted forestry project
(Credit NIR-226) includes financing of studies covering organization of fuelwood
markets, stumpage fees and pricing.
33.      Except for uranium (which in the foreseeable future cannot be trans-
formed into energy for domestic use), Niger's energy resources (see Map 17253)
are limited. Three-quarters of its territory ia desert, and less than 2% is
covered by natural forest. In the north-central desert, near Anou-Araren, coal
reserves total 9.4 million tons. Elsewhere in the desert regiou, coal and
lignite deposits have been identified, but not sufficiently explored. Small
quantities of petroleum that have been discovered north of Lake Chad, are being
further evaluated. In the southwestern part of Niger, which forms part of the
Niger River Basin, an estimated 1,330 GWh of average annual generation could be
developed at three hydro sites. An Energy Assessment Mission which visited
Niger in October 1982 identified three major issues:



- 10 -
(1)   Puelvood shortage.  Niger's meager fueiwood resources will
continue to provide up to four-fifths of the country's gross
energy supply, mostly for cooking. Overexploitation of f)rests
has made desertification the most pressing energy problem.
Possible solutions are the introduction of more efficient
woodstoves and/or replacement of fuelvood by commercial fuels,
which might be domestic coal, lignite, or imported kerosene.
(2)   Containment of Energy Import Costs.  Riger's commercial needs for
energy other than fuelvood, which are growing much faster than
the economy, were fully supplied by imports until 1981. Since
then, the substitution of domestic coal at Anou-Araren for gas-
oil as a fuel for power generation has resulted in savings of the
order of 26,000 tons of oil per year. This temporary reduction
of imports is likely to be offset within two or three years by
growth of other requirements for petroleum fuels.
(3)   Development of the Electric Power Subsector.  The main problem is
future supply of the Niger Valley, where transmission capacity
imposes a ceiling on imports from Nigeria that will be reached
around 1990, while fuel costs for diesel generation will rise
rapidly. Planning has been hampered by dispersed
responsibilities among pover sector entities and institutional
weaknesses.
B. Power Sector
Power Supply and Demand
34.      The electric power sector in Niger has progressed rapidly over the last
20 years, from a small beginning in the early 1960's to a reasonably well
organized supply system.  During this period the economic development of the
country was to a large extent stimulated by the exploitation of uranium ore
deposits near Arlit (see Nap 17253). The consequences for the power sector were
an immediate requirement for electrical energy in the mining enclave and,
because of the spinoff effects of the mining boom in other sectors, repid growth
of demand in the populated regions of the Niger Valley (including the capital
Niamey), and along the southern border with Nigeria. In 1982 the total
electrical energy requirement was 271 GWh, of which 51% was used in the Niger
Valley, 35% in the uranium mining enclave, and 14% in the remaining secondary
load centers. The nu=ber of low-voltage customers (mostly residential) reached
39,600 at the end of 19982. In urban areas, the percentage of population having
electric power service varies from 24% to 31%, but only 3.3% of the total
population has access to electricity. Outside the uranium mining district, the
sectoral distribution of electricity consumption is as follows (1981 data):
Households                        36%
Public administration             25%
Large industry                    21%
Small industry and commerce       11%
Miscellaneous                      7%
TOTAL       100%



Electricity supply in Niger is a state monopoly that has been delegated to three
entities:  Societe Nigerienne d'Electricite - WIGELEC, Soctkte Nig4rienne de
Charbon - SONICHAR, and A:torite du Barrage de Kandadji - ABK.
Power Sector Organization
35.      NIGELEC, incorporated in 1968, operates state-owned paver system assets
in urban centers of Niger as concessions. Under the concession system, a public
utility company is granted a license for a fixed number of years, to take over,
construct and operate all facilities required, to levy agreed tariffs, and to
-recover its capital at the end of the concession period. Several major cate-
gories of assets - for exanple, hydropower installations and the entire trans-
mission network, including substations and meters - are regarded as the property
of the State and must be returned or made good by the company when its conces-
sion expires; even if it has financed all, or part, of their cost. The conces-
sionaire, like most public enterprises in francophone countries, is under the
'tutelle" of more than one Ministry for technical and financial matters, and
does not usually have control over planning in the sector. It is not uncommon
under the concession system for the Government to construct hydroelectric works
through a Ministry different from those exercising the 'tutelle' and then hand
them over to the concessionaire for operation and maintenance. The principal
benefit claimed for the system is the participation of private capital in a
field of public monopoly, ensuring commercial and efficient operation while the
State in various degrees retains a measure of ownership and control. HoveverJ
where Government has a controlling interest, concessionaires are little more
than managing agents, and their autonomy has been eroded.
36.      In Niger, the State holds 95% of NIGELEC'3 shares; the remaining 5% is
owned by state agencies, three municipalities and the french Caisse Centrale de
Cooporation Economique (CCCE). Two ministries exercise supervision: Xinistere
des Travaux Publics (ITP) is responsible for technical regulation and cortrol of
the concessions; Ministere des Nines et Industries (MKI), represents the State
as majority shareholder on NIGELEC'S Board and supervises financial manage-
ment. The State takeover of NIGELEC has made the concession system an anachro-
nism, because the basic aim of attracting private investment no longer
applies. The disadvantage is evident especially in power planning, where res-
ponsibilities are blurred. Wiat2in the concessions, NIGELEC may extend service
as its financial means permit, but it has no formal obligation to do so.
Elsewhere, in new secondary load centers, NTP pays for 4i"tial iJ.-ostment in
electrification and then transfers the facilities to NIGELEC as a new conces-
sion. Besides supplying electric power in urban centers covered by concession
agreements, NIGELEC operates water supply systems in these load centers as agent
for Government. For this service it receives an agreed re4muneration. NIGELEC
supplies water of satisfactory quality and it has sufficient expertise to keep
water supply equipment in working order. Although separate accounts are kept
for the water supply and electricity departments, deficits of water supply tend
to be covered by electricity revenues until Government settles the water
account. Problems of the water supply sector, including their relation to the
power sector, are being addressed in an ongoing project financed by Credit 1309-
NI.
37.      SONICHAR was formed in 1978 for the purpose of building and operating a
coal mine and power plant in the Agades Region. The main shareholders are: GON
(63%), the uranium mines (16%), the Islamic Development Dank (17%), and NIGELEC



- 12 -
(0.5%). Until 1981, the uranium industry in the north central part of the
country met its own pover needs by captive diesel generating plants. Following
the discovery of a small coal deposit in the Region (9.4 million tons), the
^o°rernment of Niger (GON) planned a 32 NW coal-fired plant (about 800 km from
Niamey and 180 km from the m.nes) to substitute a domestic energy resource for
imported petroleum fuels used by the existing diesel plants, and to supply
future mines. SONICHAR implemented the mining and power generation components
Of the project, and NIGELEC built the main transmission facilities. SONICHAR
sells its net generation to NIGELEC for transmission and distribution to the
uranium mines and to the cities of Arlit and Agadez.
38.      The Autorite du Barrage de Kandadji (ABK), established in 1980, is an
autonomous agency, reporting directly to the President of Niger, in charge of
Preparation and eventual implementation of the Kandadji Hydroelectric Project
and related irrigation developments. Current ABK activities comprise surveys,
mapping, engineering, agricultural and socio-economic studies.
39.      The main sector organization problems are:
(1)   The concession system, which is conducive to divided ownership of
power assets and operating responsibilities, and consequently to
fragmented power sector planning;
(2)   The ambiguous role of ABK an hydro power planner and national
developsent agency; and
(3)   The coobination of power and water supply of urban centers within
NIGELEC, which in practice has led to support of water supply
operations by revenues from electricity sales.
The proposed credit includes financing for a sector organization study which
will review the concession system and, within that context, the roles and
reaponsibilities of the different agencies.
40.      Under an Economic and Financial Management Improvement Projset that was
recently presented to the Executive Directors, a review of selected parastatal
enterprises (including NIGELEC) has commenced with the objective of redefining
the state role in economic activities and identifying institutional reforms.
Conclusions affecting the power sector will be reviewed in conjunction with the
recommendations of the sector organization study under the proposed project.
During negotiations, GOO agreed to review these recommendations with IDA upon
completion of both studies, and to agree on a timetable for a program of action
not later than June 30, 1986 (Credit Agreement - Section 3.03).
Exisin  Faiiis
41.      Because of sparse population and large distances, there is no national
power sYstem. NIGELEC supplies the Niger Valley from a small system comprising
a generating station at Niamey (two 12 NW gas turbines and four 3 NW diesel
sets, total 36 4W), and transmission lines Niamey-Tilabery (66 kY) and Niamey-
Birni, Kebbi (132 kV), the latter connecting Niger and Nigeria (para. 42). In
the north-central desert enclave, a secondary system consists of the SONICHAR-
owned coal fired plant at Anou-Araren (32 MN), and NIGELEC-owned transmission
and distribution facilities. NIGELEC1 purchases SOiICHAR's output and delivers
the power via a 132 kV transmission line to two uranium mines at Arlit and ad-
jacent townsites, and via a 20 kV line to Agades.



- 13 -
42.      In 1976, the power systems of Niger and Nigeria were linked by a 132 kV
transmission line Niamey-Birnin Kebbi (264 km). Since then, Lossa, Tilabery and
Dosso have been connected to the emerging Niger Valley system- The contract
with Nigeria provides for import of up to 30 NW of non-firm power until 1996.
The price (US$0.03/kWh), which is renegotiable every five years, has so far
stayed well below the cost of electricity generated by use of petroleum fuel
(fuel cost alone is US$0.10/kWh). Niger is importing the maximum possible quan-
tity of energy while the local power plant in Niamey serves as standby in case
of interruption of supply over the interconnection. In recent years, over 90%
of the Niger Valle7r electrical energy needs have been supplied from Nigeria,
with a consequent large saving in fuel expenses. However, as line outages may
last one or two weeks, full standby capacity in Niger must be provided.
43.      Although NIGELEC provides reasonably reliable service, distribution
operations are plagued by many technical and administrative weaknesses.  In the
Niger Valley system, a distribution maste- plan for Niamey, prepared in 1978,
has served as a guide to planning, but financial limitations permitted only
partial implementation. Because of excessive line losses and voltage drops,
restructuring of the network around the new GOudel generating station northwest
of Niamey is urgent. Elsewhere in the country, NIGELEC serves eighteen isolated
towns and villages from small diesel installations totalling 13 MW, and asso-
ciated distribution systems. Loads in these centres are small, but growing
rapidly and accounting for a significant share of gas oil consumption.  Where
feasible, existing load centres and new ones, such as Say and Kollo (para. 45),
should be connected to the Niger Valley system to minimize fuel consumption.
Sector Development and Planning
44.      The SONICHAR steam-electric plant at Anou Araren was built to supply
power to four uranium mines, at a time that only two were in operation. Con-
d-tions in the world uranium market make it unlikely that new mines in Niger
will be opened in the foreseeable future- Therefore, adequate power supply in
the Agadez-Arlit system is assured for many years, and planning should focus on
the Niger Valley.
45.      NIGELEC's short-term expansion aims at maintaining sufficient standby
thermal capacity to cover the peak demand, while taking maximum advantage of the
contract with Nigeria's National Electric P'over Authority (NEPA) to import
energy and to save fuel expenses. Table 2 shows development of the Niger Valley
load since 1978, planned generating plant additions to 1990, and the outlook for
load growth to the year 2000.  At Goudel, northwest of Niame3y, a new diesel
generating station will be built with CCCE financing; the first 12 KW set is
scheduled for commissioning in 1985. A second and possibly a third unit may
follow befor9 1990. Since the transfer capacity of the interconnection with
Nigeria (40 NW) imposes an energy import ceiling that will be approached in the
same period, thermal generation requirements will increase rapidly. The only
planned transmission expansion is a 60 km, 66 kY line Niamey-Say with two step-
down substations to supply Kollo and Say, to be completed in 1985 with financing
by the Government of Belgium. The proposed credit includes financing for rehab-
ilitat-on and selective strengthening of the distribution system in Niamey, say
and Kollo. The investments proposed by NIGELEC complement the works already in
progress with other external financing- Since the proposed additions are com-
ponents of a much larger system, specific calculations of the returns on the
investments are not possible. However, loss reductions and fuel cost savings
are expected to result in rapid recovery of capital costs.



- 14 -
TABLE 2
Niger - Power Balance Niger Valley System
Installed   Peak    Energy b/   Peak
Year        System Additions           Capacity    Load b/              Balance a/
NW        MW       GlWh        Mw
1978                                     12         17.2      75        - 5
1979                                     12         21.5      87        - 9
1980                                     24         27.6    108         - 4
1981                                     24         29.8    121         - 6
1982                                     24         36       139        -12
1983       Existing: Diesel
4 x  3 - 12
Gas turbines
2 x 12 - 24         36        33       144        + 3
1984                                      36        37       145        - 1
1985       Goudel 1 - 12 KW               48        41       163        + 7
1986                                      48        42       167        + 6
1987       Goudel 2 - 12 MV               60        46       180        +14
1988                                      60        49       195        +11
1989                                      60        54       212        + 6
1990                  c!                  60        58       230        + 2
2000                                               152       600
a/ Excluding up to 40 XW non-firm supply from Nigeria.
b/  1978-1982 recorded, 1983-1990 projected.
ci Unless a hydro plant is commissioned in 1990, a third diesel unit
at Goudel will be required.
46.      The prospect of rising prices of petroleum products and imported
energy, as well as considerations of energy security, have led GON to examine
the development of indigenous hydroelectric resources. Niger's main water re-
source is the Niger River, which traverses the extreme southwestern part of the
country.  Three hydro sites in the Niger Basin have been identified:
Average Annual           Installed
River             Site               Output               Capacity
GWh                    NW
Niger         Kandadji                700                    125
Niger            "W"                  550                    105
Mekrou        Dyodyonga                82                     26



- 15 -
Kandadji is the only project studied to technical feasibility level. Since the
study did not consider other hydro alternatives and ignoreN' the interconnection
with Nigeria altogether, the economic justification of Kandadji remains in
doubt. Concentration of study effort on a single project, rather than on an
optimum sequence of investments, has resulted in uncertainty about the direction
of loil-term power development and the role of sector institutions. The
proposend credit includes finanding for a planning study to take account of all
planning options, including strengthening of international intorconnections.  It
also provides finanoing to cover engineering for preparation of bid documents
for the power project identified in the least-cost sequence as the next stop in
system development.
NIGELEC Organization, Manpower and Training
47.      NIGELEC power operations are organized along simple functional lines
under two directorates of Generation/Transmission and Administration/Pinance,
and a Distribution Department that is also responsible for the isolated load
centres. The company has a skeleton planning group and a data center, both
reporting directly to the general manager. Powers of the general manager and
the responsibilities of Directorates and Departments have been defined initially
at the corporate level, and later for the distribution and customer management
services in Niamey. Other organization units are still ill-defined; the result
is overstaffing in terms of numbers and underutilization of scarce skills. It
is especially important to continue and complete the organization of generation
and transmission to ensure coordinated operation of Goudel and Niamey II, as of
1985, to operate a future load dispatch center and eventually to plan and
operate a mixed hydro-thermal power system.
48.      Although NIGELEC employs about 1,000 people, the company has a serious
shortage of suitably trained managerial, technical and administrative per-
sonnel.  Management depends on 12 Nigerien professionals (occupying eight tech-
nical and four administrative posts) and about 70 technician-level staff who are
not suitably trained as supervisors. External technical assistance comprises
seven specialists (most on short-term assignments) who cannot provide continuity
to management assistance and do not have enough time left for training. The
supply of power engineers is expected to improve in the next few years, because
Niger has fourteen students in training at the Ecole Superieure Interafricaine
d'Electricite (ESIE) in Abidjan, an institute specializing in training of power
utility engineers.  In-house, NIGELEC operates a Centre de Metiers de 2'Elec-
*         tricite et de l'Eau (CMEE) that trains personnel in a variety of technical and
administrative skills (diesel plant operators, electricians, bookkeepers,
supervisors of secondary load centers, etc.).  Since 1973, CMEE has trained
about 160 people for NIGELEC, and about 110 for SONICHAR, but present operation
is hampered by shortage of operating funds, teachers, classrooms, and equip-
ment.  The training program cannot be integrated with personnel requirements as
long as the latter are not defined by corporate planning.
49.      The proposed credit includes firancing fQr a study to define NIGELEC's
future organization structure, to assess manpower needs, and to develop training
programs aimed at supplying those needs. Since CCCE finances the Goudel power
station under construction, CCCE also has an interest in improving NIGELEC's
organization, staffing, and training. As the diagnoses of NIGELEC's situation
by IDA and CCCE are similar, an informal understanding has been reached on a
task division. Through the Goudel credit, CCCE will finance the first stage of
the study, oriented towards xedium-term organization needs during the period of



- 16 _
thermal generation expansion up to 1990. Any additional organization and
manpower studios, related to long-term system devealopment, would be finanoed by
IDA under the proposed credit.  Terma of reference for the CCCE-f4nanced study
will be reviewed by IDA. CCCE will keep IDA informed of progress and results to
ensure continuity of eventual further assistance to NIGELEC, if possible by the
same consultant. The implement4tion of training in specific technical skilla
muot await the outcome of the study. However, from the diagnosis of the present
situation, it is already clear that available talents are not effectively used
because supervisors do not know how to organize work and instill aocount-
ability. The proposed credit includes financing of training seminars in
supervision skills during the final atage of the manpower survey. Furthermore,
it is proposed to support the training of future power engineers by providing
scholarships enabling 14 studenta to pursue or complete their studies at ESIE
over a three-year period.
Tariffs_
50.      From 1956 to October 1983, NIGELEC's tariff structure remained
unchanged, while the level was revised only three times (1974, 1977 and 19B0).
Due to power imports from Nigeria since 1976, operating costs in Niamey are
relatively low, and its consumers subsidize service to isolated load centers
where fuel costs add significantly to the cost of operating diesel plants.
Rising costs, general inflation and growing debt service charges siace the end
of 1980 have eroded the financial position of NIGELEC (paras 54-55). In 1982,
MTP commissioned a tariff study, financed by the Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau
(KfW)  that.was completed in December 1982. The study derived a new tariff
structure based on LRXC principles, a tariff level for 1983, and an indexing
mechan4sm to adjust tariffs corresponding to fixed cost (capital-related) and
variable cost (fuel and purchased energy) components of the tariff structure.
By Decree of September 23, 1983. the Government authorized the new structure and
increased rates to take effect on October 1, 1983. The Decree also stipulates
that future increases are to be related to NIGELEC's fixed and variable costs.
The new low-voltage tariff replaces declining block rates by a twolpart
tariff. The new medium-voltage tariff features significant increases of rates
for contracted power and the introduction of fixed charges. Since the energy
rate at peak hours is based on costs incurred during the air-conditioning season
(March to October), the revised rate structure should provide customers with a
strong incentive to conserve energy at that time. The new tariff w-ll increase
NIGELEC's average revenue per kilowatthour by an estimated 26% to FCPA 54 (US$
0.14)
51.      Since 1981, NIGELEC has been responsible for the supply of power to the
uranium pines by purchasing bulk power from SONICHAR which owns the coal-fired
power plant. As less than half of the capacity can be absorbed by the market,
-electric power is being generated at a high cost that is passed on by charging a
special tariff to the uranium mines. The buying and selling prices are fixed
annually by agreements among SONICHAR, NIGELEC, and the uranium mining
companies. At the end of 1982 NIGELEC's purchase eost was CFAF 75 (US$
0.19)/kWh and its selling price to the mines CFAF 83 (US$ 0.21)/kWh. NIGELEC's
present markup on energy purchased from SONICHAR covers costs o: NIGELEC's
wholesale supply in the Agadez-Arlit system. However, since the retail tariffs
to the towne of Agadez and Arlit are fixed by the national schedule, sales to
customers other than the mines are a source of loss to NIGELEC.



- 17 -
52.      LRMC cnalyses of the MTP study of 1982 are based on system expansion to
1990, tncluding at that time a thirl and fourth diesel unit at Coudel, but
excluding investments in additions to be commissioned after 1990. Hence the
reaults are useful mainly to support tnterim measurea. The proposed project
includes financing for a comprehensive tariff review after completion of the
planning 5t'.dy, to take into account the long-term least cost expansion program,
and the implications for NIGELEC of future SONICHAR operations. During
negotiations, GON agreed to discuss with IDA the recommendations arising from
the study, and to agree on a plan of action by December 31, 1986 (Credit
Agreement - Section 3.03).
NIGELEC's Finances
Background
53.      Financial information on NIGELEC is neither up to date nor completely
reliable. Tardy compilation of statistics, staff shortages and deficient
accounting systems are contributing factors.  W_th financing provided under the
Water Supply Project (Credit 1309-NIR), NIGELEC has retained Fiduclaire Paris
Expertise Comptable (FIPEC) (i) to examine the 1981 accounts and to advise on
improvement of accounting systems; and (ii) to audit the 1982 accounts. In July
1983 FIPEC's report on the first phase became available and provided unaudited
information covering the years 1979-1981. The audit of 1982 accounts began in
September 19B3 and draft accounts for 1982 became available recently. The audit
report has not yet been received but will be available in the near future. To
assess NIGELEC's financial situation, NIGELEC and IDA staff have prepared income
statements, funds flow statements and balance sheets for the period 1983 through
1987 using forecasts of income and expenditure, investments and borrowings
prepared by NIGELEC, and estimates of current assets and liabilities prepared by
the staff in cooperation with NIGELEC. Income statements, funds flow statements
and balance sheets for 1979-1987 are shown in Annex IV.
Past Financial Performance (1979-1981)
54.      NIGELEC performed relatively well during the four years ended December,
1982. Rates of return on historically valued net fixed assets in operation
exceeded 10% in both 1980 and 1981 while the contribution to investment from
internal cash generation averaged 32% over the four year period. Sales growth
averaging 17% (excluding the mines), and a tariff increase of about 50% in
October 1980 contributed to NIGELEC's performance. Inflation, rising costs and
delayed tariff increases which were eventually implemented in October, 1983,
contributed to poor performance in 1982 when an operating deficit was suffered
and the rate of return on average historical net fixed assets was negative.
Despite this situation, NIGELEC's management reduced operating expenses,
improved collections and reduced stocks by instituting rigid controls which they
expect to continue for future years. In 1982, despite the poor operating
performance, NIGELEC generated 59% of construction expenses partially funded
from delayed payment of creditors. Year-to-year comparisons are not possible
because of the following changes in NIGELEC's operations and accounting rules
during the period:
(a)   As of mid-1981, NIGELEC began to purchase and sell SONICHAR power
with corresponding large increases of revenues and operating
expenses.



- 18 -
(b)   NIGELEC changed accounting procedures as of January 1, 1982,
simplifying asset accounts and depreciation rules.
55.      During 1979-82, 51% of total construction expenditures was borrowed and
34% financed by internal cash generation. Government grants provided 10% of
capital requirements and the balance (4%) at the end of 1982 was met from
overdraft. Collections for electricity were unsatisfactory, receivables being
equivalent to six months' billing. Electricity operations also subsidized
NIGELEC's water supply operations to the extent of CFAF 2.3 billion (US$5.8
million) by the end of 1982. While NIGELEC's operating ratio improved to 90% in
1983 its liquidity was poor at the end of 1982, the current ratio being 1.0;
bills due to suppliers and others were 56% of cash operating expenses, implying
that payment was being delayed, and the net cash position was overdrawn by CFAF
1060 million (US$2.7 million).
Present Financial Position
56.      While NIGELEC's electricity sales in early 1982 continued vigorously
with the completion of several large public buildings having large air con-
ditioning loads, the deepening recession and austerity measures by GON
(including an effective energy conservation program) resulted subsequently in
stagnating sales to NIGELEC's traditional customers, to a level of about 178 GWh
at the end of 1983. Sales to the mines are assumed to stabilize at 88 GWh per
year. Sluggish sales, ristug costs and an inadequate tariff level until October
1, 1983, contributed to an estimated operating deficit for 1982, of CPA? 130
million (US$332,000). An operating surplus of CFAF 1485 million (US$3.8
million) is estimated for 1983 arising from the measures taken to reduce
expenses, increased tariffs and a mark-up of 6% on SONICHAR bulk prices for
sales to the mines. At end 1983 both the current ratio (1.0) and debt service
coverage (1.2) are estimated to be inadequate. The major reason for cost
increases was the approximate tripling of NEPA's sales price of electricity to
Niger from CFAF 3.8 (USil.0) in 1981 to CFAF 10.0 (USd2.6) for 1982 and
following years. Agreement between Niger and Nigeria on new prices for the next
five years (1982-1986) was reached during 1982, but neither Government has
ratified the accord. NEPA continues to bill NIGELEC at the old rates with the
stipulation that invoices are subject to retroactive adjustment-1/
57.      GON authorized a tariff increase effective October 1, 1983, that is
estimated to raise revenue per kWh sold by 26%. Early in 1983, CCCE made a loan
of CFAF 5.0 billion (US$12.7 million) to GON to cover amounts due to public
enterprises including CFAF 2.0 billion (US$5.1 million) for NIGELEC. The latter
amount was used to pay off most of the water supply subsidies accumulated to the
end of 1981 but large deficits in the Water Operations in 1982 and 1983 have
increased the arrears to CFAF 2.1 billion (US$5.4 million) at the end of 1983.
While NIGELEC's operating ratio improved in 1983 to 90%, its liquidity remained
precarious: at end-1983 both the current ratio (1.0) and debt service coverage
(1.2) were inadequate; the estimated ratio of receivables to revenues was still
50% with short term bank borrowings of CFAF 1.7 billion (US$4.2 million).
1/ Financial projections from 1982 onwards are based on the negotiated new
NEPA tariff.



- 19 -
Future Finances (1984-1987)
58.      Project-ons of NIGFLEC's financial pos-tion through 1987 have been
prepared on the assumption. that the power sector should not be dependent on
GON's limited resources, but should as far as possible borrow to finance
investment and should provide the balance of investment, working capital and any
other requirement from internal cash generation. NIGELEC should reach such a
position by about 1987, when the construction of a new source of supply is
expected to make major financial demands on the entity. Sales to customers
other than the mines are proJected to grow at an average 8% per year, to reach
241 GWh in 1987; sales to the mines would remain stable at 88 Gwh. The recently
introduced tariff should improve the financial performance and NIGELEC should
have an operating surplus of CFAF 2854 million (US37.2 million) -n 1984.
Pending the outcome of the long-term planning study and agreement on a
development program for the sector (which would require a review of NIGELEC's
financial objectives), tariffs should be fixed for 1985 and subsequent years to
cover operating costs, debt serv-ce, working capital (excluding cash) and
provide a 'reasonable" annual contribution to investment from internal cash
generation (Credit Agreement - Section 3.02 and Project Agreement - Section
4.03). The contribution to investment will be defined each year before the end
of September, based on a minimm percentage of 35% of the average of the
prev-ous, current and following years' investment expenditures.
59.      F_nancial forecasts assume for customers other than the mines, tariff
increases of 5% -n 1985 and 7% in 1986. The future mine tariff depends mainly
on SONICHAR'S costs. Since NIGELEC's financial position Is only affected by the
markup, the existing differential between purchase cost and selling price is
retained in the projections. The resulting financing position of NIGELEC for
1984-1987 would be as follows:
Financing Plan 1983-1987
CFAF        uSS       Percentage
Internal Funds                     27,520           70.2         105
Less: Debt Service
and Workitng Cap-tal            16,189           41.3         62
Contribution to Investment         11,331           28.9         43
Borrowings                         12,720           32.4          48
Equity: IDA Credit (Part)             739            1.9          3
Government                  1,450            3.7          6
Total Investment             26,240            66.9        100.0
This financing plan shows that 57% of capital investment would require external
financing, composed of 48% borrowings and 9% equity transfers by Government.
The high contribution to -nvestment (43%), compared to an estimated local
content of 20% of the capital -nvestment program, suggests that NIG&FLEC should
be able to -ncrease its borrowings, thereby reducing the burden on existing
consumers.  Despite the brief forecast period, there are major uncertainties in



- 20 -
the ffnancing plan insofar as -t depends on factors outside NIGELEC's control,
notably the trenad in petroleum fuel prices, the cost of imported electric power
-when the current (unratified) agreement expires in October 1986, and the rate of
repayment of Government arrears. Each year, before the end of September, the
forecast for the following year -will be reviewed, and agreement reached on
tariff - or other adjustments necessary to fulfil the covenant. Assurances to
this effect were obtained at negotiations (Credit Agreement - Section 3.02, and
Project Agreement - Sect-ion 4.03).
60.      During negotiations, the financing plan for NIGELEC covering the period
1983-1987 was discussed with GON and NIGELEC, focussing on the following issues:
(a) the need to improve liquidity by reducing the delay in payment of
receivables from Government, Government agencies. municipalities
and other consumers from an estimated six months, *to within four
months of billing ani to eliminate the arrears in payment of water
subventions. Government and NIGELEC will submit a plan to achieve
these objectives as a condition of Cred-t effectiveness (Credit
Agreement - Sections 3.05 and 5.01 and Project Agreement - Section
4.04);
(b)  adequate provision for cost of electricity consumption in budgets
or GON and state-controlled agenc-es and enterprises (Credit
Agreement - Section 3.05);
(c) settlement of payables (particularly for fuel supplies), possibly
by offsetting debts against receivables from state enterpr_ses;
this matter is under review within the framework of the para-
statal enterprises study (Credit Agreement - Section 3.03); and
(d)  the pos-bility of increasing proposed borrowings for the capital
investment program (para. 58).
Accounting and Audit
61.      The first external audit covering NIGELEC's 19B2 accounts has been
carried out in conformity with an agreement uwder the ongoing Water Supply
Project (Credit 1309-NIR). Under the proposed project, agreement would be
reached that NIGELEC's accounts will be audited annually in future by
independent auditors acceptable to IDA, and whose report would be subr.1tted to
IDA within eight months of the fiscal year-end for the first two years of
Project execution and within six months thereafter. (Project Agreement - Section
4.02).
Sector Development and Rationale for Bank Involvement
62.      Stimulated by the uranium boom between 1975 and 1980, Niger's economy
expanded rapidly, and so did the power sector with energy imports from Nigeria
increasing the short-term supply.  Long-term planning remained ill-defined, and
the resulting uncertainty has been detrimental to institutional development and
investment plann-ng. IDA involvement can be justified on two grounds. First,
the RBnk Group is well-equipped to manage the required broad-based technical
assistance. Secondly, other lending agencies, reluctant to act alone, are
looking for Bank leadership. The long-term objectives of the Bank Group are:



- 21 -
(a) reducing the cost of electrical energy by development of economically
attractive indigenous hydro power, strengthening of the interconnectior. with
Nigeria, reduction of losses and generally improving sector efficiency; (b)
promoting the development of a national power sector entity with an appropriate
degree of managerial and financial autonomy and accountability; and (c)
efficient pricing and resource mobilization. The proposed credit would be the
Association's first operation in the Niger power sector.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background
63.      Towards the end of 1980, GON solicited Bank support for the Kandadji
Hydroelectric Project, then prepared to feasibility stage.  IDA's examination of
the Project during 1981 and 1982, in conjunction with other hydro sites and
increased power imports, indicated the need for comprehensive information on
Niger's power sector. The concept of the proposed project emerged from a sector
survey mission of Narch 1982, which identified technical assistance needs in
three major areas: long-term pover planning, institution building and
strengthening of NIGELEC's distribution operations. In subsequent discussions
with GON, the Bank Group agreed to finance a power planning study. A project
appraisal mission visited Niger in March 1983 to define the scope of the power
plnnning study and other components of the proposed project. Negotiations were
held in Washington in Nay, 1984 with the Nigerian Delegation led by Dr. Annou
Nahamane, Minister of State for Planning. There is no Staff Appraisal Report.
Annex III contains supplementary project data.
Project Objectives
64.      The objectives of the proposed project are.
(a) Accelerating the decision on the direction of future power
development in Niger, specifically by defining an optimal sequence
of investments in electric power generation and transmission;
(b) Strengthening of the power sector's organization, planning
capabilities and financial performance;
(c) Improving system efficiency by rehabilitation and selective
reinforcement of the distribution system; and
(d) Training.



- 22 -
Project Dess-ription
D5.      The ProJect comprises the following components:
(a) Power Planning (para. 46)
(i)     a study of the power needs in the iuger Valley to the year
2020 and of selected secondary load centers to 1990;
(i:)    engineering for preparation of bid documents for the first
pover project in the least-cost development sequence
defined by the plann-ng study, and accepted for
implementation by GON and IDA; and
(iii)   services of a planning engineer to assist NIGELEC in the
supervision of the planning study (a)(i), from evaluation
of consultants proposals to approval of the final report.
(b)  Sector Institutions (para. 39). A study of the present and future
organization of the sector, including a review of the concession
system and of the relationship between NIGELEC and GON.
(c)  NIGELEC (paras. 49-50). A study of NIGELEC's longer term internal
organization, management, and manpower requirements 1/; and
(d) Training (para. 49)
C i)    Training of NIGELEC technicians that are to fill
supervisory positions, in organization and management
skills; and
(ii)    Provision of scholarships for training future NIGELEC
power engineers at ESIE (42 student-years).
(e)  Tariffs (para. 52).  A tariff study based on long-run marginal
costs, upon completion of the power planning study;
(f)  Distribution (para. 43). Provision of cables for primary and
secondary distribution, transformers, and meters.
Project Cost and Financing Agreements
66.      The total cost of the project is estimated at USS7.9 million equiva-
lent, excluding taxes and duties, with a foreign exchange component of US$6.9
million. GON plans to exempt the project from any local taxes and duties. Cost
estimates are based on July 1983 prices, with 5% added for physical contingen-
cies. Price contingencies are based on the following inflation rates: 1983 -
8.0%; 1984 - 7.5%; 1985 - 7.0%; 1986 and 1987 - 6.0%. In view of the present
difficult financial position of GON, and the firm action it is taking to cope
with the s-ituation, the proposed IDA cred't of US$7.5 million equivalent would
1/ This component will be coordinated with the program financed by CCCE to
define NIGELEC's manpower needs over the near term (para. 49).



- 23-
finance 95% of the total cost of the proposed project, corresponding to 100% of
foreign exchange costs, and 59% of local costs.  The remaining 5% of total
project costs would be financed by the Government.
67.      The proceeds of the proposed IDA credit would be passed by GON to
NIGBLEC as follows:
(a) USS1.9 million equivalent, applied to consulting services for the
power planning and sector organization studies, would be passed on
as Government equity to NIGELEC (Credit Agreement - Section
3.01). These funds would be used to examine aspects of the power
sector for which GON is responsible under the rules of the
concession system. An equity transfer rather than a loan to
NIGELEC recognizes the existing legal situation as well as
anticipate institutional reforms.
(b) US$1.9 million equivalent, applied to engineering for preparation
of bid documents for the next power project identified by the
least-cost development program, would be on-lent to the entity
(expected to be NIGELEC) that will carry out and operate the
facility, on standard Bank terms (maturity 20 years, including a
five-year grace period, at an annual interest rate of 10.08%;
Credit Agreement - Section 3.01). The designated entity would
bear the foreign exchange risk. Disbursement of these funds would
be subject to agreement between GON and IDA on choice of project
and designation of owner (Credit Agreement - Section 3.04); and
Cc) US$3.7 million equivalent, applied to consulting services for
financial, internal organization and manpower studies, training,
and financing of distribution equiplent, being of direct benefit
to a revenue-earning entity, would be on-lent to NIGELEC on stan-
dard Bank terms (maturity 20 years, including a five-year grace
period, at an annual interest rate of 10.08%). NIGELEC would bear
the foreign exchange risk (Credit Agreement - Section 3.01).
The execution of a subsidiary agreement between Government and NIGEILC, covering
GON onlending, would be a condition of credit effectiveness (Credit Agreement -
Section 5.01).
68.      In order to allow (i) start up of the sector organization study in
parallel with the ongoing study of parastatal enterprises (para. 40); and (ii)
an early start to the power planning study, which includes field investigations
that can only be completed during the low flow season of the Niger River, GON
requested and obtained in July 1983 an advance of USS1.0 million under the
Project Preparation Facility (PPF) to finance the initial phase of the power
planning study, and the sector organization study.
Project Implementation and Monitoring
69.      NIGELEC would be responsible for the implementation of the proposed
project, and receive technical assistance in the supervision of the power plan-
ning study to be carried out by a consulting firm. Annex V shows the project
timetable; project completion is expected for June 30, 1988. For the planning
and sector organization studies, NIGELEC would be executing agent of the



- 24 -
Ministry of Nines and Industry.  A planning engineer to assist NIGELEC has been
contracted. Terms of reference for the power planning stuty have been agreed
upon, proposals by five consulting firms have been evaluated and a contract with
a consultant accepted by IDA was signed in December 1983. The planning study
commenced in February 1984. GON has agreed on the terms of reference for the
sector organization study proposed by IDA, and has suggested a consultant
acceptable to IDA.             '
70.      During negotiations, assurances were obtained that NIGELEC will submit
to IDA:
(a) quarterly reports within 60 days of the end of each calendar
quarter providing information on progress of the project, comments
on problems (for example, procurement, disbursement, scheduling)
and action recommended or taken; the reports will also include the
amount of receivables in arrears and the scheduled reduction
thereof; (Project Agreement - Section 2.05);
(b)  copies of consultants' reports on studies finaced under the
proposed credit; (Project Agreement - Section 2.05); and
Cc) a project completion report within six months of implementation of
all project components (Project Agreement - Section 2.05).
Procurement
71.      Consulting services are being obtained in accordance with World Bank
Guidelines.  Distribution equipment totalling US$ 2.1 million including
contingencies would be procured through international competitive bidding (ICB)
procedures in accordance with World Bank Guidelines. All bidding packages over
USS150,000 for goods would be subject to tne Association'& prior review of
procurement documentation resulting in a coverage of abcut 90% of goods
contracts. Ihe remainder would be subject to random poL.t review by the
Association after contract award.  All equipment would be installed for account
of NIGELEC.
Disbursement
72.      The proposed credit would be disbursed to cover:
(a) 100% of costs of consulting services for studies and technical
assistance (US$1.2 million);
(b)  100% of foreign costs of distribution equipment (US$1.7 million);
(c)  100% of foreign costs and about 40% of local costs of detailed
engineering for preparation of bid documents for the next pover
project in the expansion program (USS1.4 million);
(d) 100% of foreign costs of training (US$0.8 million);



- 25 -
(e) refunding of the project preparation advance (up to US$1.0
million); and
(f) unallocated (US$1.4 million).
Since the project is a composite of heterogeneous parts, the estimated
disbursements (Annex VI) are not derived from existing profiles but from other
similar projects. To allow sufficient time for submission of final invoices and
payment of retention money, a closing date of December 31, 1988, is set.
Project Benefits and Risks
73.      Fragmented responsibilities for the power sector have resulted in lack
of sound long-term power planning and uncertainty about future investment
requirements.  The project would fill the planning gap and pave the way for
institutional reforms that would define future responsibilities for sector
development. Organization, management and training problems within NIGELEC
would also be addressed. Financing of a small package of distribution equipment
will improve the efficiency of the Niger Valley system operations. No
significant technical risks are associated with project execution. Terms of
reference for studies have been detailed in close cooperation w-th GON and other
sector agencies to ensure that they meet project objectives. Continuing GON
support -s expected in the implementation of study recommendations.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
74.      The Development Credit Agreemient between the Republic of Niger and the
Association, the Project Agreement between NIGELEC and the Association, and the
Recommendation of the Committee provided for in Article V, Section l(d) of the
Articles of Agreement of the Association, are being distributed separately to
the Executive Directors.
75.      Special conditions of the project are noted in Section III of Annex
III.  They include the following conditions of Credit effectiveness:  (i) the
signing of a subsidiary agreement between Government and NIGELEC covering GON
transfer of the proceeds, from the Credit to NIGELEC as equity and onlending;
and (ii) provision to IDA of plans to reduce the delay in payment of receivables
from Government, Government agencies, municipalities and other consumers to
within four months of billing.
76.      I am sat-isfied that the proposed Credit would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Association.



- 26 -
PART VI - RECONMENDATION
77.      I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed Credit.
A.W. Clausen
President
Attachments
July 2, 1984
Washington, D.C.



27                                       ~~~~~~~Annex I
Page 1 of 5
NICER                   - SOCIAL INDICATOS DATA SlIELT
SICER                                  REVELENCE GROUPS (IEILGTNO AVERAGES) la
MOST                      (MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) lb    -
6          RFCE b        L  INU[COME            HIDDLE[S7Tco
19bu~        9,./-190   rSTImIATS-   AFRLCA S. OF SAHARA      AFRICA S. OF SMIIARA
AREA (TOUSAND SQ. N)
TOTAL                              1e7.0        1267.0      1267.0
.I6SLWL1IRAL                        127.2        11.0        130.2
GOP      CAt TA (UM)                     t-130.0     I0.U        330.0               254.b                     1147.9
ENEY WSUWIOU FE  CArITA
(IILUbRKAMS uf CUAL EUEIVALEhT)        5.0        24.0         54.U                79.5                      724.2
rafjIsLnON SD VLIT STATITICS
FPUILATL0.HID-YLEAA (tlI0S.ANhS)    Zd70.0      4000.0       5704.0
URdAN PUPULAFIOJ (; OF IOTAL)          5.8          6.4        13.d                19.5                       25.5
ruVULeTIuIu PROJECrtOCS
POWULATIUi IS YEAR 2000 LILL)                               10.S
STATIUAAAY POPULATION (MILL)                                 41.4
YEltA STATIrOAY PUP. IIACSED                               2155
mruULA,TEW 1 ESITt
rEKt i. ci.                          2.1          3.2         4.4                29.5                       56.5
EL  s.). so. ACRI. LASS             2Z.0         3U.d        42.5                94.1                      I]l.8
vorULATIuO  9E STRUCrURE (t)
0-L! YRS                           44.8        46.3         4b.8                45.U                       45.9
I'-64 YRS                           52.7         5l.1       S.7                 52.1                       51.2
b5 AND AUVEC                         2.b          2.0         2.5                 2.9                        2.3
1*uruLTLtl buIIJTUr RArE (Z)
rO-AL                                2.3          3.3         3.Z                 2.5                        2.4
CRESX                                4.1          7.0         7.2                 6.2                        5.3
c.LUIIE dAlT. RATE (PES T113S)        51.9         50.7        51.5                47.9                       47.b
CKRU1: 1RATII SLATE (PEt TOWS)        2b.d         23.8        Z0.2                L9.2                       15.2
CRitSS R irWgULTIUJ; CTIi              3.5          3.5         3.4                 3.2                        3.2
i-xIILY PLA.NIZC
.IcEPros. A'SUAL (TiSius)
U;SasS (. ur .UAAIE   UEN)            ..           ..
FooD AMID ununo
Ila"3 UF FUOD PROD. PEK CAPITA
(1509-7I.I530)                       112.0        96.V         a9.U                87.d                       95.7
PNs CA'rIA SUPPLY OF
CAtSUKIES (Z UF RaJUSULlE?E&TS)    101.U         U9.0        92.u                W8.0                       97.1
rPurFt  lhS (CLAfs PSe  DAY)        65.0         57.0        65.0                51.2                       5b.U
:F wIlCII ANI0AL AND PULSE         2u.u         19.0        2b.UI/c             1.1                    .  17.2
CdLLD) ((AS 1-4) u£ATH RATE           44.r         Jo.'        34.8                25.7                       23.o
HFALT.9
LIFE axrEcr. ar BIRTH (YEARS)         37.2         44,5        44.5                47.4                       51.9
INFANT MIrT. RATE (PER TROUS)        191.2       171.3        143.4               126.5                      117.6
aCCESS To SAFE MATER (ZPOP)
rOTAL                                 --        20.0         27.0/d              24.7                       25.4
L;RA                                  ..         31.0        3s.d7fl             56.s                       70rS
aU;RAL                                ,          19.0        2e.07;i             18.3                       12.3
ACC'S^S ru EACKETA 11SPuSAL
(Z .A PoFLLATtOX)
TUrAL                                 ..          I,u         l.u/d              ZJ.1
knsZ                                  ..         1J.0        3e.d7i              bS_7
KLC;AL                                             ..         3.07i              2119
rurGL%rLY.c PEA FdYSLCIAa          52170.1(     5UOu.0      3S79U.t,/e          27ss2u0.b                  1215.6
PUP. PeA ;URSISC IRSONI            5Ub4.0lf    70Zu.0        46504J.Of           34se.'                     2292.0
-Jr._ PSK 1aStITAL SE
rUIAL                             2210.0      Z220.U       1430.U/d           1i16.2                      1075.
CHL;AX                                ..        36u.0       420.073             3UU.6                     4*2.3
NCKAL                                 ..      4230.0       z020.0d             3177.5                     392t.. 7
AnxIShsId:S PlEt d4SYITAL MW          lu.&L&       J4.7/h
HDUISIIIC
AVUSACE SIZE UF dWUSEIIDLD
T5115L                                ..           ..          .                    ..
KSLIIL,L                                           ..              ..                 ..
.VwSAGE N:. OF rtstsUs/tuo
VITAL
bRKAL                                 ..           .-
.ACs6SS m ELSECT. (4 OF UkLb.LLILCS)
TOTAL                                  .            ..                              
tAL WO                                             .. *                            - ---



-28 -                                                      Annex 1
Page 2 of 5
NICER - SOCIAL IIIIflCATOSC AATA SHIR
NI109            NESI   OIW510IITCN AVIUACI8 LI.
MIT                       (Hun REESET 1571110f) Ar
ZST,.KAFRIC  S.OF A                 AAFR£1C1A 3. orSAAR
to at   1 97A     ZUC"    UIL       A.  _8"CA S. or
ALJUSTDU £ROLLNET MlIUS
PRIMAY I  TOTAL.                    3.0        14.0        21.O/r             63.9                      97.2
HALE                     7.U        1.U         29                 73.                      103 1
FIMALK                   342         9.U        17.0               31.0 
sgcUw.AY, TUrAL                     0.3         1.J         4.Ofr             12.5                      11.2
HALE                     0.5         2.D         5Ag               16.7                      23.5
FINAL                    0.1         1.0        21.O                1.1                      14.2
VOCATIONAL (A OV bWIONOSY)            4.3         2.7         1.340              7.3                       3.2
WPtIL-TACII IIATIO
PRIMAY                             43J0t       39.U        *1.O/c             4.4                       412.9
MECONOASI                          11.OZL      20.U        26. OJa            25.1                      23.7
ADULT LlTCUACT MATN CZ)               D.9          ..         9.S               36.3                      37.1
PASSENGEr CUS/TIOUSAND POP            0.3         1.4         2                  3.3                      1O.6
RADIO SCLIVIRS/TIUSAND POP            J.3        36.2        45.                45.3                      97.6
TV R=ECELVS/TlWgUSAD 10                ..          *-         0.9                2.2                      16.6
NeWsPAPER ("AILY GENCUAL
LEIMESTI) CIRULATlON
Pea TSIUSAND POPULATlON              u.3         U.5         o.ble              4.7                      18.2
CINQA AJtUAL ArITEDANCE/CAPITA         ..         0.2          ,.                1.0                       0.6
LASlOICZ
TOTAL flOa LlPue (THOUS)            946.0      1276.U      1772.U
FeNALE (PECENT)                     9.u         9.7        l0.1               34.5                      36.1
AGRICULTURE (PEAMT)                95.U        9J.U        91.0               70.9                      10.6
LiouSTRY (PCnCUT2                   1.0         2.U         3.0                9.4                     1L.3
PAIrLCtL?AXu1  IAT; (PERCENT)
TUTAL                              32.9        31.6        31.1               40.9                      37.0
.-                bLa                 2        538.1       56.0               53.0                      47.1
FEALe                               5.9         6.1         6.2               26.9                      27.0
ECOunLXC DE*EOuENCY RATIO             1.4         1.5         1.0                1.2                       1.3
PERCC.T of PIIVATE IRCUIE
IL-£LVED BY
iI41EST 54 OF ILOUSEIOLDS            ..
'ltdEfl 2512 or iOUSEHOLDS
LOWEST 20   OUSOS                    .. OF                   .....
LOWEST 404 Uf nOUSLIOWLS             ..
i5TINATtD A450LUDE POVERTY ISCONr
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..          ..       133.0/c            165.9                     534.2
dURAL                                ..          ..        63.0717            87.4                     253.9
ESTiIATeI RELATIVE POVERTY ISCOnE
LCVEL (USB PEA CQITA)
URBAN                                ..          ..       133 .01            1OO.8                     491.5
awU.L                                ..          ..        S3.07               4.0 L6 18.L
ESTLMATE:D POP. BtLOW ABSOLUTE
PuVESI  ICO,g LEVEl. (4)
UIAS                                 ..          ..          ..               39.5
kJRAL                                ..          ..        35.01              6.0..
, 0I AVAILABLL
* ?r APPLICABLE
y greS
/a  The group 4v rages for each IndiLcatr are populatlon-iLghted arithmetic  anse. Coverage of countrles amo   the
indicators depends on steilability of data end Is not uniform.
lb  Unless otherwise aoted, -Data for 1960  refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; 'DOat for 1970' between 1969 and
1971. And 4ata for %ost aecent LstimateC  between 1979 and 1981.
Ie  1977: /d 1976; 1. 1978; If 1962: /& 1964; lh 1966; /i 1975.
*ay 1983



- 29 -                                                                                       Annex 1
Page3 of 5
*FIMITIUI OF emIa IMtICAytP
meet.  Sltbasa  S. dat. .1. dra   Ire A-I.tws   tset  J.do  the aset metb.-tett.e sa  rtf Ie it theid .1- heited shee tier may eelb ha tevvu..=                         1i-
repel. her-s  .  it. 1ath .1 u-aad-dim  4.1 It.tslat ted r-ept. vesd by dilrIeelirevutilse. 9 t relituilb.th  date.  the date art, ti-h-atre. eai .1
d    'ar...iers  etetas  tedir-i  teaS., ..d                            - are s.aim   4tit1..ee    ett.-  v-melitea.
*etrl...ntyIerp  tar ( 51) thr...m   lil, t-hP.rt.r. grabi tirs      1  -idlliehrSat.aS tidal - a.  bea., m. .1.  IsseeS cisat-  er ai-istioval                         of
g-mt  ha   aelytt I-1'I P  teesa.ti.te              .g.lat   ..stt     ISrs Ft  dIpd.- A. thde w.RAttbtt poP SessiS  et.e.-                                     . .sth
etettl.d  I. tietttt  anr.g    cI      tmirs all  eathe.*I~ a4e*attu  eve .sttp    ab. .1 .rhre    h   s,e.   l    atst.i at e   sse    b    str-e
rairr-e. --                                                .r                        MIp-.
--athCiead t.    .       -as.     1  -Pm..Ilattse.eri.   T-twtMITMetl    -I   ftp.i.tt.divide  by.  tr-   at   ueiei. l
tS&ilthsdt- ldt.                                                                                essii.r   bitt.)  yv .a   ft.gatssdt.tded be ..Amar etptetet
terD crpt  pe.tttnt                                                                                                            ftrbI td ktrhu e1de  -   tbi. tll-  tie,  toitt-asetlster
tilsa Iit -ae                                                                        Puttistiet er Mopiet -d .M.tP. tibastad 1, MAPupetrte ttstst
t3V!ttPt1aiII~tt  - cr percapit  setMate.  at -eI  et aset Wpik.                         ASveiabta te P1itir  as pleat. AParal a.1 tytetatad  e.pttul sad
rILeseaMt             su= rea`t -utes, a. bl W   id e   sc  (til-It hatt.)                         rah titat -ees.e..  lbeptiat.ar  eu-              hi.e   ptmua-th, tiet1e
IWo,n lita.  .d tilt dna..                                                                        by .    e   ase     etl.   laeteblteh-.t. l.rtttdull prt1ttpeilp rottadlal
teeer  ted  etswlad.  twist tapittele. heettr. tee6 hiealth ead
isc   n rylt. rEt cotta - beet spa. -I cesepttso .1  teret ..Ioa  eeeI.1   sM peivastltt   etattad hl C tleptet:atlahs   urittat l.
yrtsap .aruy lmtt   ..Rtact.. Pe-e .tr     . Itte   a. sad bydre. teeterI. a.ttat  t-ore  eldeet., *te.l  hr titer trp1-Itttet                            .U.2 seslt estd
t                      .15e.bvs esutty   . htagre-  citetetves.  per  ant.                                               paid. * itmitd rates  admeditl tetiti.lu   tatlea    teet
hitita.. .ea  orrrl imptti. sad aslest aedetriy etr.
piwOLiiytm MDS VITAL FrAyTStlci                                                                     t.tate   bepitale ae Itioeda   May etide  tetas.
Teesttlilsppe~id-ter(.  --td.  - ha tr  wly tIs till. tit0  sad 11W                      Wlttcc  Ittttb    - T.tal  ee   .t edeeetee-    ti S.e lsbrrgee
ie imeytteta: dtvtde S1;d by ttmb.ue atI bt.
ab. Et, Pe2tt Hle.rraet I.I1: tta I . - ailsatF.ta1.to total1 papalettI
*       diP ferset daltulttse .1 vitae urea. -l~~~~~~~ eFt.rt reiparlaltty  1 data                  maittll
9.-20      C_tere.  Ictat    rjtem                       . UeeS      IS te                 sta.4  cat.  -nt..  £  erd-.r m  tulue  map .ima  tt ha  mtdad tt
t.i "Up  "..ttttebja wta  Sm  asd that. eertatt  as iMittlity                             the hee.hetd foi M.tt.ttr.i pertpu...
.capta ter=    lte. tAd  set. Istti P          - .p.ta . Xtbtiao   et  71.1                   dwtlategt raPtettlet.  B-illept. .eeie  Lea.p..t                 t-tere ad
ioan.  Ti  perseet. tee trt tilt  nttat.   hen W     thin  level                     steers  p.tti.
seeet~   asite I  iattlty ac.td.ad   Is te..  cie  -as pvc racily                    AI..   t. tlerrttl  Cefet.  d ltb -ttl   rat. as   -itta
Pt-iam  erm.teec   lio  ee-tr  I. the  _"atta  ec et thee at.                                 Cuntta  d            all eu  .tt' oFettyt  ttctlt i            Mrtr   -Pea.tg
eebt.tlee   f .tealttyasd .Stelitty trasa tar Prejarlat Purpmc                         at tetel,  M...t aS  r_lttl.t  re1. .  p.ttleiy.
ittttsur  espelacte  1- itatutlusaippm ata  ther  t. at a-utit
aStotar  bitte   -tts. ; ill.  I. abteva  etely sitar1 ietttttp.atet                           r
eee  -th   t Lsavrte  T.-i of tit  d-trpay  ecte rate. lty                        A rti1ai'eilit   .   el.-Ceettiul   sftl
ta1sit .esrtlo  ad      0rpsc.ttt   trty htttt.r                                                 ac Iat.   l 1-1 M      at the  ptlcr!t. l -G         a..I. iattage  admeeett
ptpuaui  tIes.    -   etttettd at the bawl, .  th  rrjtI.sd.  tera-te-                          prter, usahe-a-c. pupatetlaca  tonally  _L. d.e tbttdr   msar  b-I
tils,. at Itsm pdaylatla. t the psi 211li. si the ruts v  dtett..1 siears. bet adjtuc   In dttiqrtt lmotla at prtcar  adeetiet f.r
Terta tsomplet   treld-l.  ertr  etettv-aey                                              her  tat  peil. are1 ha.mycte  the-    -  .tfttl u         1 too aVae.
papetatiattie. wiltha reache.                                                      letasar    ree paess Ictu   mats -s f.a te    C.ptt.  at0- aei .e e
fras         - Hd-arpe. uset  pe              Usate -le-    tI1e  bettalin  .1                  pta.t'.  a--ere. eatatostee     -, tyr uee  tIa., u   lVrel         t
tetara:lit  ISMi. aS  tilt data.                                                         pepkie cath1  ad 12 tc IF year.viasere.tdee treae
el-      il),lt-sa1    tti L-dta -lieeatt. fI                          .W_aIIVen  teeto4.e.tofmrarv- ttelititte
paptata; tllo.   tilt,  al litw  deto                                                       P.-1-teee ra.1-to - nmer .ns             !Mraa     - Thea) utttdtt. eatlt    i
PapaltleeCrethbe. Eeret -  att   bevel gret            raedol tucI mi-pie  a    aae                                    tride     ishielat-herem   ehrti  h    r
peer  "oL.ttut  It, liSle-It., li60-PC. .ad riOt1-at.                                           rmamdtul ate,  -..
peo.tatuCml -       eteret      rau-baigrabri   i arI.                                         Svt t -tr , rf rte ...eet) -.  ut.rtur.  apdtt  (abl t-  tas taed at)a
Crvda 11th inet lPer uhett) -    aa  Ive hIrtla P.t tiatiWd ci mi-                             Osiu
year paptette  lies   il,  tadj  Ai-t eats.  pme.-                  1  1--                     t  -atl-el
Crvd.heathtate   ur ttataud   -  "e. srh.e.laaido   t-.e                                htvu Care            Lkvr theota   eP--att.)   Ple.r ra. etpc    mAr
peett-    t  ithO.ii.t.,ste   tutu data.                                                         ttrttetly    a.ee   ih    uni;ectesliee    era
tie.teredurte  el.    arVaa   .hewFI     agtvtesa  ad It hear eI'd                                                                          LIttery ttht lee.L
her  atta  ierfl.clve ier ,-                       luseng.enpaet  e-pett                el  sctetle  lhe0atsvd rmeaiateat17         --I rp,  tmee. for  edi
ieitttty  re-u; eatly  t.e-ytt avrage  adeesit tis, tie, asIruadacut  u eecai pailt                  -1t theaFad  i puplatle  reeldet e
liet~~~~~~                                                          itretas ~~~~~~~iieetn     I  et,atra  as  it pare7 S edw   -te -uratt   al redl
eel married  Ce            Iv .-ma ate.sSu,.                                                  .rie -it-it. Crrt.att   .ia.t t -Tim   th                     1nru
ttaj eri wa.   n                                                                                      itee    ,         isteriitit  etttpir. dletd -eirte
,--I   -4  .,                     ._[~~~~~~~~~~M                       1~t he  daly"it    appan at  I-ec  rear tic. eel
ice  ae  tv   tetstd    yea  heat..  Cttlse  catpeasr  gC.". (..R.                            Civsats   atse    r(cte tr Year.  - 1seed at th Vtse  ml
data.                                                              lame ftl~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~vici.
aerseataleotI et l-  .:loa    mre.  vtai    W. ccr    e  ta"IIpita  n                        sr.5,5.tpee  hat -v-mI.   ug               Iwaavln.  tdu. ec. .r
day.gealabe tpplat Seeu  beetle  prdati. . tpart. ltvvpetlstit   oP0 uSRIm.btote   Is&                                                  rt.eatrea.           a
aeeot  a  raet u tck    ccat;  n itd  soteal-its.  etedo,                              Ocaparble;alilt,   ltas tiat data
it Vttr    .sited prcatt~oiSIe, te l.tt.ta                                              Vtl  trre             ehLabor lur  a.  per-etam  or tael lborM tese
artty.    healthetIits  iteet  tt.te    bodM                    ile                          etlgc   euteee  taud   leher Ib         ere: 1910, lit0 tad 3Ii  data.
at h.inhelhi: til-I, llt  od  INt0 dat.                                                red retety-rrtd eatper-eAW f -t t tallbor tor.; till,
F            'ap;y-tIt5:  a.-tur4ye  ist   -daitid   .  W'a -P...                            r 1ttentl - at -"      reI        ueI  e.  idimi      urtea ta
te.eol.estcatar al   es tt-rtet  raabltm  e-p itit  pees.d. I.    teetv1rss-rerptda   aa.vl.   at  cue.- -ae                                                    ea
aleces   at0 tree ad  .t.l pr-teu yet dup atd It ure  at r_ima  Mi                        eeoeane  tee. ci."as  keats ppmAttwe.t all1 aterrvey
peltPI.I. prtes   rvi    so1t     ure. elstl he aes  pt-tr..  lima                              LIlt, lil0, cud till deco   Tei  are hae a.M  -  LD. peitteptutwo rate
ttatdrdt m   ise   the,that.elis Sirue ut toist Prrtetel2treetrteesv.    utieter.f LIr WpopIatatte  s.d t-S, tie   -sis.  a
'eltdpetl aataraeI.,  -v. -rId, __-ee  ye rae   i                                           e  .tmt c ttra  t-"-.tL    tre
Ther  taidaeltocp;tltl, til  s.d  tilt date.                                                 tratttr chseler  aeto -  at  ciseal.tatr  Ii as  IS ee   us 
det -ieatmt.a  et ...F    v  iF epee day  tl-IS ,tl  as iii                                             S=
c Ftre  dat  drleiirtlf   ete;te                -eesdtl  data                                 Iteehot-at..P-                                                                 
at ttte   tit.utao  ll  dte                                                                   etodheteerret"ttII..leab.  at tt
ciu  t1s.   L.--trrctta l-.r,Mltal-ume  ra uV0-         .S rvat-                            erl le    7t Fd.tc   itrt   et  a    ete  ritmu I- t
zro   er.  hoelI,iai,sd  el)wihr_t_the  rem   t   af                                                                                                              S edat
etra  - ter v  peete tota, vile, ta  rrs)eredh          -erru
dtepeesl         -11   F   -e peeette-e u   thirropret   peeatet   rtrtce   deupuetB--i9.1



- 30 -                                                          Annex 1
Page 4 f 5
CRf WA - HME
M  P   R.3IN1211 iUS
mm SM A  PM=  N 1w-                                      AMIUAL D0 C9IP    0 I (%. 1Wl4  1972 a=)
UN  Y1llim      %                     1972 - O      19S - F2
UP at llulit Pdom              1,405.0      100.0                    3.0         - 2.0
ame DometU    bwswnKt m37.5                  24.0                    7.5
an" htf1U1 saving                164.6       12.0                     -             -
Camt Joeat ELI=                - 172.9       12.0                     -             -
Zworb of Coca. D                426.3        30.0                    5.8         - 15.2
7Mrb of Good. 38                  8.6        43.0                    6.1         - 15.1
aQM    LMMY          AND
Vau Addd (Yator Cost)
TAKE  m   AID ~  s$malm 
A4iu1tur                        4D          32.0
4inw                             156        10.0
Su-iAM                           559        )B0
TM                   1,503        100.0
- z
Ccutnil Oovemt
(CMF  Blum)                           of GW
-197wJ1975 1979/1ED 1931/19M2      1s15      1D       1992
currant  V                    2.4      74.7     jO.1           13.4     17.0      14.0
of widi undim               (2.5)   (17.5)   (12.5)          (1.5)     4.0      3.0
tEmenditurs           17.5      48.3     56.9          10.5      11.0     12.0
Ca FtSIac                  4.9     Z.T4      13.2           2.9     73        3.
041tte bpindibn                1.9     58.9     78.9            1.1     14.0      16.0
Ote .. Am..t.m.
OV0 IazEe                      3.0    -32.5   -65.7             1.       8.0      10
MMEY, MI=  AND PIMS
1971    1972    1973    1974      1975       1976     1977     1978       1979    19        19B1     199.
-CA-mF l t i of Yar)
1y ad Quasi 0                      12.1    12.9    15.5    2.3       22.3       29.3     37.2      54.2      64.7    77.9      94.1     83.0
Ba   medit to Piiblic SctDr        -2.3    -3.5    -3.4    -7.2    -11.5       -12.3    -16.4    -11.9      -18.1    -7.5      -3.0     15.5
hrk cadit to Private Swtor         9.7    10.7    12.5    21.0       28-5      2.6       32.7     54.2       75.5    {sa      10o.9    112.7
PECITM at lEE NU33
GC1iw  Price Ltex (1970 - IOD)   104.2   114.4   1278   132.1    144.1         178.1    219.2    241.6      259.2    285.9   351.4    39.3
hmul persotap cbm7gm I:
Gtnezul Prioe Idex                          9.8    11.7      3.4      9.1       23.6     23.0      10.2       7.3    10.3      22.9     12.0
hrk cndit to Public Sector
Bukc credit to Privte Sector         .     10.3    16.8    6.O        35.7       0.4     14.3      65.7      37.5    17.6      13.6     11.7
Stff atistes
Not aplicaabLe



- 31 -                                      Annex I
Page 5 of 5
0mW DIl - NCIU
MIM13 P IQIS UAID CAPTL KM
(n   =1lUu  of curnt I")
BAIA    CF PAS                   1975     t91       1992                         mNDiZE RRaID: (hla AvenEe: t19SD12)
elporta of Good., 35             167.8    660.2    426.3                                                       lB mtuImi       %
inf of, Gold9 Ms26.5    927.1    608.6
*            t       * _)         5      Z.9   -1p.5 Icvwtodc                                                      73.4       16.0
Uiwdus                           561.2       79.0
ou                                22.0        5.0
*Interet Iint (net)              -10.7   -55.8    -73-3                               AL                          i456.6     100.0
Vorlare' RI ittioie             -18.7    -7j.5    -24.4
Oftr Fwtor mm  (nt)                .0       -         _                         EI lN              l  31, 19S2
Net rawfers                       77.1     99-1477.1
af Qaiwrt Aoouatb                 8.0  -258.8   -172.9                          Pablic Debt, lwauing pannteSd  6)5.4
Im-.u,aintd Private Debt         1;D.7
Toa1 out1aodzi  and diAbrsed    724.1
DLrect Foleipn Inat t (not)       15.8      -        -
Net KW   1w_.t                    17.0    190-.3    27.8                        D   S V(S RATM for 193
- Dabirmb                      (t18.8)    -        -                          Public Debt, In6alilg g,iiut.d   26
- Ue~,in.ab                     (1.5)   esd-       -Ji-Guarantel Private Debt                                    12
btabl aut   1ing -d dishmed       39
Oter Item  t/                    -19.8     77.6     84.7
Unym iaoiiig, hoist 17, 193
Oege in Phere (ml of year)    5.0          -9.1    460.4
Pbrzu1. Deervs (aid of year)      51.4    1.5.9     29.6                        Oatatwlig nd disbued              102.5
Pul and Palated MIterials         12.8      8D      10.0                        lblltud                           10.0
a % of Iqiorte                                                                OkibtbtmdIi  inmbad1n tuibhed  210.5
RAME aF ElZHAA
1971             Ii-00 - CA 277.03
1972             IB1.W - CMAF 252.21
1973             11 .0=  - CFAF 222.70
1974              = X0  - CFAF 240.50
1915             UM1.0 =  CPAF 214.32
1976             U;SI.O - CFAF 245.0
197             Ul1.OD - CPAF 245.00
198              UI  .00 - CFIA 22D.
1979             IBII.00 - CFAP 212.72
1960             lB.0 - CFAP 211.30
19B1             USS1 .00 - CPAPF 27.73
1932             llSSIOO - CPA? 3862
1/ Incbxling ermrs wi Cmmiax.
* Staff estimits



- 32 -
ANNEX 2
Page 1 of 2
REPUBLIC OP NIGER
POWER ENGINERING AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN NIGER
A. STATEMENT OF IDA CREDITS a/
(as of March 31, 1984)
Borrower: Republic of Niger
US$ Million
Credit    Fiscal                                 Amount (less cancellatio) d/
Number.    Year           Purpose                IDA b/ c/       Undisbursed
Twelve credits fully disbursed                   47.2                 -
612      1976     Third Highway                    15.6                0.6
851      1978      Irrigation                      15.0                0.0
885      1979      Livestock                       12.0                5.8
886      1979      Feeder Roads                    10.0                2.7
967      1979     Dosso Agricultural Dvt.          20.0               18.2
1026      1980     Second Maradi Rural Dvt.         16.7               11.9
1151      1981     Education                        21.5               13.3
1225      1982     Industrial Development           16.0               11.5
1226      1982     Second Forestry                  10.1                7.8
1309      1983     Water Supply                      6.5                6.4
1394      1983     Fourth Highway                   23.6               23.3
Total                          214.2              101.5
of which has been repaid      (2.9)
Total now outstanding
and held by IDA                211.3
Total undisbursead                                101.5
a!  The status of the projects listed in Part A is described in a separate
report on all Bank/IDA f4nancial projects in execution, which is updated
twice yearly and circulated to the Executive Directors on April 30 and
6etober 31.
b/  Prior to exchange adjustments.
c/  Computed at the rate of the approval dates.
d/  Computed at the March 31, 1984 rate of US$1.0642 - I SDR



- 33 -
ANMN 2
P2,a 2 of 2
B. STATMT OF IPC INVESTMENT AS OF MARCH 31, 1984
Loan                                       Amount
¶Nuaber    Year   Borrower      Parpose    of Loan   Equity  Undisbursed
UTJS$ 1 ilion
619-NIH   1982 Les Noulins      Flourmill    2.22    0.33          1.84
du Sahel S.A.
(IDS)



- 34 -
ANNE 3
Page 1 of 2
REPUBLIC OF NIGER
POWER ENGINEERING AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I
(a) ProJect first presented to IDA                    November 1982
(b) Agency which prepared the project                 MNI/NIGMEC/IDA
(c) Time taken to prepare the project                 Four months
(d) Departure of Appraisal Mission                    March 1983
(e)  Completion of negotiations                       Nay 27, 1984
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness                    October 24, 1984
Section II:   Special IDA Implementation Action
None
Section III: Special Conditions
Ca) After review of the recommendations of the power sector organization
study, in conjunction with the conclusions of the study of para-
statal enterprises, a timetable for a program of action will be
agreed upon by GON and IDA by June 30, 1986 (para. 40);
(b) After review of the tariff study, a program of implementation of
the recommendations, as agreed between GON and IDA, would be
prepared by December 31, 1986 (para. 52);;
(c) Government to authorize tariff increases in 1985 and subsequent
years adequate to cover operating costs, debt service, working
capital and provide a reasonable contribution to investment
esDenditures, until the long-term development program is defined
(paras. 58 and 59);
(d) Government and Government agencies to make appropriate budget
allocations to meet their electricity bills (para. 60);
(e) Upon conclusion of the study of parastatal enterprises, Government
to arrange the settlement of JIGELEC's accounts with other
parastatal entities (para. 60);
(f) Government to transfer to NIGELEC, on an equity basls, US$1.9
million equivalent from the proceeds of the proposed Credit (para.
67);



- 35 -
AJ= 3
Page 2 of 2
(g) Government to extend to NIGMELC US$5.6 million equivalent from the
proceeds of the proposed Credit on standard Bank terms (para. 67);
and
(h) Disbursement of funds for engineering for preparation of bid
documents for the next power project is subject to agreement between
GON and IDA on choice of project and designation of entity that will
carry out and operate the future project (para. 67).
Conditions of Effectiveness
(a) Signing of the subsidiary loan agreement between GON and NIGELEC
(para. 67);
(b) Government has taken the necessary steps to transfer USS1.9 million
equivalent on an equity basis to NIGELEC (pars. 67);
(c) Government has provided the Association with a satisfactory plan to
reduce its arrears to NIGELEC to the total of the previous four
tonths' billing (para. 60); and
{d) NIGELEC has provided the Association with a satisfactory plan for
reducing its receivables to the total of the previous four months'
billing (para. 60).



RHIPUBLIC OF NIGER
POWRR ENO[NEER[NO AND TECHINrCAL ASSISTANCE PROJRCT
HIGCEEC:  Income Statements 1979-1987
(Millions of FOPA)
Actual ab b/                   _            Forecast c/
Years gnded Decembor 31        1979      l980       1981       1982         1983      1984       1985       1986       1987
Oaw  Sales                          91        130        189       230          263        271       297        302        329
Average Price/kWh (FCFA)          28.4       32.6      44.5       42.3         59.4       68.6      72.5       79.1      93.5
Energy Revenue                    2581       4226      8530       9722        15628      18592     21560      23901      30782
Rechargeable Works                 745       1300       1137       998          869        860       800        900       1000
Other Revenue                      437        403       437        829          769        845       750        830        800
Coats Reallocated                  750       1097       1673       793           --         -_        __         _          __
Total Revenues                 4513      7026      11777      12342        17266     20297      23110      25631     32582
... ....  "soon      Mason   .....          Masan   .....5        MM5...      .....    U.
Operating Expenses
Gas-Oil                          892       1192      1478       1875         1798       2018      3329       3991      6301
Bulk Purchase-SONICHAR            -          -       2283       3065         7631      8800       9836      11027     12284
Bulk Purchase - NUPA             383       470        447        387         1454       1495      1500       1500      2250
Haterlala                        970       1338      1382       1947         1510       1572      1600       1950      2200      c
Personnel                        702        926       984        712          763       810        900        950      1000 
Other Costs                     1069       1559      1919       1279         1279      1305       1260       1270       1490
Depreciation A Provisionr  d/   422        642       2023       3041         1161      1262       1950       2073      31c8
Taxes                            167     __3          262        166          185        181       200        220        240
Total Expenses                 4605      6380      10778      12472        15781      17443     20575      22981     28673
Operating Income (loss)         -92       646         99       -130         1485      2854       2535       2650      3709
Interest                           172        562       931        715          657       651        720        976       1039
Interest During Construction                                                               135 -35              562        142
- Charged Operations             172       562        931       .715          657       516        385        414       897
Not Income                     -264         84        68       -845          828      2338       2150       2236      2812
Rate Base (Historic)                         6242      8818      10804        10933      10178     12772      15063      17523
Rate of Enturn %                             10.3      11.3       -1.2         13.6       28.0      19.8       17.6       21.2
Operating Ratio %                102.0       90.8      91.5      101.1         90.3      85.0       88.2       88.a       87.9
j/  FIP00's report of July 1983.
/  Draft 1982 aceounts.
/  NIGELEC forecasts and statf estimates.
/  Provisions are Included only for historical figures.
WAPEG
Kay 1984
.,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ .                                   * . 



REPUBLIC OF NIOER
POWER ENGINEERINO AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Funds Flow Statements 1979-1987
Ntilions of UCPA)
Actual i/        b/            _              Foreceat c/
Total
Years Ended December 2            1 j7    1980       1981    1982    1983          84Bj    1985      1986      1987    1283-8
Inteinal Fund.
operating Income (Deficit)           -92      646       999    -130    1485       2854      2535      2650     3709    13233
Depreoiation & Provleionu            422      642      1629    I003    1161       1262      1950      2073     3106      9554
Consumers Oontributions              587    1236        536     380      869       860       800       900      1000     4429
Conaumera Deposits                    34   _  6              40 4.        44        60        60        70        70      304
Total Internal Funds               951    25O-      3204    12-98    3559       5036      5345     5693      7887    27520
ODerating Requiremente
Working Capital Inoresee
(Decreaae)                        -122    1340       150   -2211       213      -919       342      987      3509      4132
Interest                             172      562       931     715      657       516       385       414      897      2869
Debt Repayment                       155      115       434    1352    1522       1364      1449      1088       751     6174
Other                              .7        ~-123              -_ 
Total Operating Requirements    278    2            1392    -144    2392          61              - 9 27  2489  5157    13175
Available for Investment           673      518     1812    1442    1167        4075     3169      3204      2730    14345
CapiLtl Investment
Construction                        3496    5228       2673    2447    1969       6285      7090      6820      2902    25066           1
Iaterest during Construction                                                       135 _.5             562       142      ll74         w
Total Investment                  346W   5228    -      2   2        1          64-20 75            382       044    26240
Balance to Be Financed            2823    4710       861     1005      802      4345      4256     4178       314    1'895
Financed By
Borrowings                          2275    2728       1113     915      100      3336      4208      4440      636    12720
State Grant. A Subventions            66    1025        176      29      100      1536       553                --_      2189
Total Exter.al Sources            234t    3753       I289     944      200      4872      4161      4440     616    14909
Funds Surplus (Deficit)           -482    -957       428      -61    -602       2527       505       262      322      3014
Funds at Beginning of the Year          12    -470    -1427    -999   -1060    -1662           865      1370      1632    -1060
Funds at end of the Year              -470   -1427       -999   -1060   -1662        865      1370      1632      1954      1954
Annual Contribution to
Construction %                      19.3      9.9      67.8    58.9    59.3       63.5      42.7      43.4     89.7      54.7
Three Year Averege %                    -.    13.6       52.5    61.0    32.3       77.3      44.8      53.8      78.6        --
Annual Debt Service Coverage           1.0      1.9       1.9      0.4      1.2      2.2       2.4       3.1       4.1       2.5
1  YIPEC a report of July, 1983.
b/  Draft 1982 accounts.
S/ Staff estimates. 
VAPEO
May 1984                                                                                                                                W



RRPUCLIC OF NMGER
POWKR ENOINIERING AND ''ECHWICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Balance Sheeta 1979-1967
(Millions of FCOA)
Actual a/           b/ _                   Forecast c/
Years gnded December 31           1979       1980       1981      1982        1983      1984     1985      1966      1987
Assets
Fixed Aasets
Plant in 8ervlce                 9377      13308      19317     21900       22987    24543    33048    34848    45049
Loie: Depreciation               1809       2123      4824       5827        6968    8250    10200    12273    15381
Operating Plant                  75I       11185     14493      160713      15999    16293    22848    22575    29668
Work in Progres                  2544       3815       428        221        1103      5967     4887    10469      3312
Current Asaets
Cash                               10        111        320        --          --       865     1370      1632      1954
Inventorieo                      1592       1787       1890      1041        1379      1473     1983      2091      2703
Receivables                      2066       3455      5155       4319        8035      7643     6656      6164      7886
Water 9upply Subventionn          992       1600      2283       2351        2100      1700      1450     1200      1000
4660      6953       964P       7711       11514   -11681    11459    11087    13543
Other Assets                      107        132        182       253         253       253       253      253       253
Total Asaets                  14879      22085     24751      24258       28869    34194    39447    44T34    46776
==o.      ....         u.. .         . ...           urn...    urn... Mn1=. w.=u
Equity and Liabilities
Equity                                                                                                                             oo
Equity, Reserves ant
Subventions                    7185      8248       7559       7588        7688      9224     9777      9777     9777
Retained Earnings                -264         84        68       -845         -17      2321     4471      6707      9519
Total Rquity                   6921       8332      7113       6743        7671    11545    14248    16484    19296
Long Term Debt
Debt Due                         2553       5166      5845       5408        3986      5958     8717    12069    11954
Current Liabilities
Payables                         2010       2669      4609       5248        8w40      9061     7992      6371      5996
Governqent                        241        435        829       852         850       850      850       850       850
Customers' Deposits               157        193        233       278         322       382       442      512       582
3bnk Overdraft                    480       1537      1319       1060        1662       -        -         _         _
Total Current Liabilities    2888         4834      6990       7438       11674    10293      9284      7753      64 2
Consusera Contributions            2517       3753       4289      4669        5538      6398      7198     8098      9098
Total Equity & Liabilities        14879      22085      24751     24258       28869    34194    39447    44384    46776
Uw        Minu       urn...     .Mn          ...       ===      mama      ..m=.  .=mu=
Debt % of Debt + Equity              26.9       38.3       47.2      44-5        34.2      34.0      38.0     42.3      38.3
Current Ratio                          1.6       1.4        1.4        1.0         1.0      1.1       1.2       1.4      2.1       IV
a/  FIPRO'a report of July, 1983.
b/  Draft 1982 accounts.
c/  Mission estimates.
YAP E1
Nay 1984



REPUBLIC OF NIGER
POWER ENGINEERING AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Project Timetable
1983       1984             1985           1986             1987
Li 11111 .LI 33  ILiI2 EI  2 3i4i
POWER PLANNING STUDY                                                        1
SUPERVISION PLANNING STUDY                             r-       -C  r-" :
ENGINEERING TO BID DOCUMENTS OF NEXT                                               .    _-_=__
POWER PROJECT                                                                                         .
INSTITUTIONAL STUDY                                     l_ _
ORGANIZATION, MANAGEMENT AND
MANPOWER STUDY
TRAINING                                                         ,                    I          -
TARIFF STUDY
SUPPLY OF DISTRIBUTION EQUIPMENT
WAPEG
May 1984



- 40 -
ANNEX 6
REPUBLIC OF NIGER
POWER ENGINEERING AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Disbursement Schedule
(US$ millions)
IDA  FY and Quarter                Quarterly              Cumulative
Disbursements          Disbursements
1985        Q2                       2.0 a/                  2.0 a/
Q3                       1.0                    3.0
Q4                       0.6                     3.6
1986        Q1                       0.8                     4.4
Q2                       0.7                     5.1
Q3                       0.5                     5.6
Q4                       0.5                     6.1
1987        Q1                       0.5                     6.6
Q2                       0.7                     7.3
Q3                       0.1                     7.4
Q4                       0.1                     7.5
a! Including reimbursement of US$ 1.0 million PPF advances.



- 41 -
ANNEX 7
Page 1 of 2
REPUBLIC OF NIGER
POWER ENGINEERING AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Selected Documents ard Data Available in the Project File
File Code: Document 129734 (Index)
A. Selected Reports and Studies on the Sector
A.1  Power Subsector Memorandum 4075-NIR - December 30, 1982.
(in English and French).
A.2  Energy Assessment Report.
"Issues and Options in the Energy Sector" - 4642-NIR.
B. Selected Reports and Studies Relating to the Project
B.1   Niger Commission Energie - Fevrier 1983.
Preparation du Plan Interimaire 1984-1935.
Fichier des projets.
B.2  Compte-rendu de mission de Nonsieur Clavel (CCCE).
Objet - Centrale de Goudel, 20 juillet 1982.
B.3   Audit de NIGELEr - Marche- sur consultation FIPEC, 4 fevrier 1983.
B.4   Analyse financi6re NIGELEC.
FIPEC (Fiduciaire Paris Expertise Comptable), juillet 1983.
B.5  Etude  de la tarification de 1'electricite au Niger.
Ing-enieur Buiro Von Miller, GmbH - December 1982.
B.6  Procbs-Verbal de la R-eunion 22-29 decembre 1982.
Tarification energie electrique SONICEAR.
(Ministere des Mines et Industries)
B.7  NIGELEC - Cahier de Charges 1952.
B.8  NIGELEC - Statut 1968.
B.9  NIGELEC - Projet de convention et de Cahier de charges, aofit 1982.
B.10 Republique du Niger - Ordonnance 74-31, 15 novembre 1974.
(Regime de la production, du transport et de la distribution
de l'energie eFlectrique).
B-11  Liste nominative des stagiaires _ormes au CMEE.
Sept. 1973 - Sept. 1982 NIGELEC.



- 42 -
ANNEX 7
Page 2 of 2
B.12 Compte-rendu de mission de Monsieur Lauliac au Niger
(5 au 9 juin 1983), 15 juin 1983.
(Document CCCE - Formation).
B.13 Lettre CCCE (Niamey) - NIGELEC, 7 juillet 1983.
(Formation).
B.14 Note sur le programme de formation accompagnant V'investissement
de Goudel.
(Document CCCE - Niamey, 7 f6vrier 1983).
B.15  Developpements Reseaux HT & MT Niamey et environs
(NIGELEC, octobre 1983).
C. Selected Working Papers and Studies
C.1   Analysis of NIGELEC Finances.
(by Mr. Charles MacNealy, Financial Analysist Consultant to
Appraisal Mission, Narch 1983).
C.2   betailed computer print-outs of financial forecasts.
C.3 Assumptions in the financial forecasts.



[   (      js   \ ALGERIA >yP  Jt                                                                                  ;
3   AI       NIGR 
rA r  /    -t
ounr}.4L -Ifrlw-___ o 
coa>st(f gy - i, ./ 'Y;A:
°'   .,ulS-itol G..n.ot
.  ,                                                                                    C)~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
N I G E R 
ENERGY RESOURCES AND
INFRASTRUCTURE IN 1982                                                                                          A./
Uranium Deposi- (Developed)
*                                  Coal Depos I (Developed)
Linite Occurrence lUideveloped)
. 2C-          I    I Active Petroleum Explorol.on Pef mis t                                      j
4-   Petroleum Fends
EXISTING 1952  PLANNED TO 1957  POWER PLANTS
*t           0           D-esel                                    I.Gu,GUMW
*                        Gas Turbine                             ._             .
*                         Cool Fired Steam Plant    _ -                     *       -
Hydro (Unde. Study)                                .
TRANSMISSION LINES
330 kv                                 7-
tr  -         6c6kv                                                i              ALi6    \
-r __-        20 kv                     *       } 20\
Pawed Roads
Eorth Roads
Tracks
R.vers                                                                                                   -
S   Deportment Capitoas            I                                              -    - .   - --
-- -- Department Boundories                                                                     A A *.- ------
Internot.onal Boundories                                                                  AGADEZ i
( iLONitER, C      Sc    1CC   'SC     c 2CC   7S                               .C 
MiLES                     'CC                   /               T.o.i    tA n    i  .vt/                 '
AM  A  L  I                                                                                   3:-b-
., ;°A=' ..K ..
-         I- _i_.-    5 .  \    P      K
- -    ,J a E N I N  9     /~~~~~~~~K--
I  ho ro.-,, rO_             O_
'K~~~~~.1b -                                                                                              -o&b&
a            '-                                                                                                              -. ZINC~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Kf
*                                                   nTo0       r..~UNomPMohP..E                                         . /R
12'   VOLTA~-                                     0    ~                   ..~ 
N.  NIAMEY ~~~~~.<~~4iooo - tX      i~~~~~  -  -        \.MARAD$    -~~~~        I       G-
B E N I rj~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



;                         t-                       \9',      -.                                             IBRD 1/253
L L   B Y A   A  D
//' 
/                                                                                       
.... ......~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5...
|  r    AGAMB Df                .C1
*~,-.                             W-                                     I                           L
I   *n_ n                                                |      ~    l  i  2   ~  E a   rlin  rVi .
% ~ ~     ~    ~     - --C.          nn                                          < /                     c   Hb    A    DC.
Z=                 1    ~~~~~~~~-'     r 0oo -                             N ; D .,-                                         ' .
w:~ .a.                  -o                                                     CHAD,n~ _
N       I      G       E       R      I      As                                                    |      )
* -*                r.'AMeROONV                        I



