OFFICIAL
D CU M ENTS       CREDIT NUMBER 1511 NIR
Development Credit Agreement
(Power Engineering and
Technical Assistance Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF NIGER
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMIENT ASSOCIATION
Dated         v V                 , 1986


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1151 NIR
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated       OV              Borr Qwer o98 , between
REPUBLIC OF NIGER (hereinafter callel the Borrower or Niger) and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Association to
assist in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement by extending the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B) the Project will be carried out by NIGELEC (as herein-
after defined) with the borrower's assistance and, as part of
such assistance, the Borrower will make available to NIGELEC all
the proceeds of the Credit as hereinafter provided; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter alia
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions hereinafter set forth and in the Project
Agreement of even date herewith between the Association and
NIGELEC;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated June 30, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agree-
ments of the Association being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the
respective meanings therein set forth and the following addi-
tional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "NIGELEC" means Soci6t& Niggrienne d'Electricitf, a
societe anonyme d'economie mixte existing under the laws of
Niger.


﻿- 2 -
(b)  "NIGELEC Documents" means, collectively, the Borrower's
.Ordonnance No. 74-31 dated November 15, 1974, NIGELEC's Statuts
dated September 7, 1968 and the Niamey's Cahier des Charges dated
July 16, 1952, as amended from time to time.
(c) "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Association and NIGELEC of even date herewith, as the same may be
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules
to the Project Agreement and all agreements supplemental to the
Project Agreement.
(d)  "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered intc between the Borrower and NIGELEC pursuant to Section
3.01 (c) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time
to time, and such term includes all schedules to the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement.
(e) "Financing Agreement" means the agreement to be entered
into between the Borrower and the entity referred to in Section
3.04 of this Agreement pursuant to Section 3.01 (d) of this
Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such
term includes all schedules to the Financing Agreement.
(f) "FY" means the Borrower's Fiscal Year which runs from
October 1 to September 30.
(g)  "Project Preparation Advance" means the project pre-
paration advance granted by the Association to the Borrower
pursuant to an exchange of letters dated May 6, 1983, and July 7,
1983 between the Borrower and the Association.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Bor-
rower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to
in this Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent
to seven million two hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights
(SDR 7,200,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended
from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the


﻿-3-
Association, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall
so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods
and services required for the Project and to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit.
(b) Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit
Account and pay to itself the amount required to repay the
principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges there-
on. The unwithdrawn balance of the authorized amount of the
Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be cancelled.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed
by the provisions of the Schedule to the Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1988
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The Asso-
ciation shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge at the rate of one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit not with-
drawn from time to time. The commitment charge shall accrue from
a date sixty days after the date of the Development Credit Agree-
ment to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn
by the Borrower from the Credit Account or shall be cancelled.
(b) The commitment charge shall be paid: (1) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Commitment charges and service charges shall
be payable semiannually on January 1 and July 1 in each year.


﻿-4-
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each Janu-
ary 1 and July 1 commencing July 1, 1994, and ending January 1,
2034, each installment to and including the installment payable
on January 1, 2004, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of
such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one
and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.09. The currency of the Republic of France is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
Section 2.10. NIGELEC is designated as representative of
the Borrower for the purposes of taking any action required or
permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to
the objective of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 hereto,
and, to this end, without any limitation or restriction upon any
of its other obligations under the Development -Credit Agree-
ment, the Borrower shall cause NIGELEC to perform in accordance
with the provisions of the Project Agreement all the obligations
therein set forth, shall take and cause to be taken all action,
including the provision of funds, facilities, services and other
resources, necessary or appropriate to enable NIGELEC to perform
such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any
action which would prevent or interfere with such performance.
(b) The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Credit
allocated to Categories (2) (a) and (b) and Category (3) included
in the table set out in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 hereto
available to NIGELEC on an equity basis.
(c) The Borrower shall. relend the proceeds of the Credit
allocated to Categories (1) and (2) (c) and (e) included in the
table set out in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 hereto to NIGELEC
under a Subsidiary Loan Agreement to be entered into between the
Borrower and NIGELEC.


﻿-5-
(d) The Borrower shall make available the funds allocated
to Category (2) (d) also included in the table set out in para-
graph 1 of Schedule 1 hereto to the entity referred to in Sec-
tion 3.04 hereof under a Financing Agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and such entity, both agreements referred to
in (c) and (d) above to be entered into under terms and condi-
tions which shall have been approved by the Association which
shall include: (1) repayment of principal over a period of 20
years (including a grace period of 5 years) and an interest rate
of 10.08% per annum; and (2), as regards the Financing Agreement
and if NIGELEC is not the entity referred to in Section 3.04
hereof, a condition to the effect that the proceeds of the Credit
allocated to said Category (2) (d) shall be made available by
such entity to NIGELEC free of any charge to NIGELEC and for the
purpose of assisting NIGELEC in carrying out Part A (5) of the
Project on behalf of such entity and a condition to the effect
that such entity shall be responsible for the repayment of such
funds to the Borrower.
(e) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsi-
diary Loan Agreement and the Financing Agreement in such manner
as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Association
and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and except as the
Association shall otherwise agree., the Borrower shall not assign,
amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or the
Financing Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall take all administrative and
other action required on its part to enable NIGELEC to comply
with Section 4.03 of the Project Agreement.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall, promptly upon com-
pletion of the study on parastatal enterprises financed under a
Project Preparation Facility No. P-251 granted for a proposed
Economic and Management Improvement Project, exchange views with
the Association on the recommendations emanating from such study,
as regards the settlement of NIGELEC's outstanding accounts with
other parastatal enterprises and arrange settlement thereof.
(b) The Borrower shall, promptly upon completion of the
studies included in Parts A (2) and A (3) of the Project, ex-
change views with the Association on the recommendations emanat-
ing from such studies.


﻿- 6-
(c) The Borrower shall, promptly upon completion of the
exchanges of views referred to in paragraph (b) above and in any
event no later than June 30, 1986 for Part A (2) of the Project,
and December 31, 1986 for Part A (3) of the Project: (i) prepare
in consultation with NIGELEC a plan of action, satisfactory to
the Association, on the basis of the recommendations emanating
from such studies and the comments of the Association thereon;
and (fi) promptly thereafter carry out such plan of action and
take all necessary action for NIGELEC to carry such plan of
action.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall ensure that NIGELEC will
not carry out Part A (5) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, unless
the requirements referred to in paragraph 4 of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement have been fulfilled.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall implement the plan
referred to in Section 5.01 (c) of this Agreement and, from time
to time, keep the Association apprised of the implementation of
said plan.
(b) The Borrower shall, starting with its FY 1984-1985,
make budget allocations adequate to pay for its estimated elec-
tricity consumption and that of its departments and agencies.
(c) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall, starting with FY 1985-1986, settle its electri-
city accounts so that the total amount outstanding does not
exceed the previous four (4) months billing.
ARTICLE IV
Remedies of the Association
Section 4.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the Gen-
eral Conditions the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) NIGELEC shall have failed to perform any of its obliga-
tions under the Project Agreement.
(b) As a result of events which have occurred after the
date of the Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situa-
tion shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that
NIGELEC will be able to perform its obligations under the Project
Agreement.


﻿-7-
(c) The NIGELEC Documents shall have been amended, sus-
pended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially
and adversely the ability of NIGELEC to perform any of its
obligations under the Project Agreement.
(d) The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of NIGELEC or for the suspension of its operations.
Section 4.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the Gen-
eral Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (d) thereof:
(a) the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 4.01
hereof shall occur and shall continue for a period of 60 days
after notice thereof shall have been given by the Borrower to the
Association and NIGELEC; and
(b) any event specified in paragraph (c) or (d) of Section
4.01 hereof shall occur.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions, namely:
(a) that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on
behalf of the Borrower and NIGELEC;
(b) that the Borrower has taken all appropriate action to
make available to NIGELEC on an equit basis the equivalent of
the proceeds of the Credit allocated to Categories (2) (a) and
(b) and Category (3) included in the table set out in paragraph 1
of Schedule 1 hereto;
(c) that the Borrower has furnished to the Association a
plan satisfactory to the Association to eliminate its arrears
currently owing to NIGELEC; and
(d) that the timetable referred to in Section 4.04 of the
Project Agreement has been furnished to the Association.


﻿-8-
Section 5.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be fur-
nished to the Association, namely:
(a) that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by NIGELEC, and is legally binding upon NIGELEC in
accordance with its terms; and
(b) that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by the Borrower and NIGELEC and is legally
binding upon the Borrower and NIGELEC in accordance with its
terms.
Section 5.03. The date     f 44                    is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Condi-
tions.
Section 5.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Sections
3.02, 3.03 and 3.05 of this Agreement and the provisions of Sec-
tion 4.02 of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date
on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a
date ten (10) years after the date of this Agreement, whichever
shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. Except as provided in Section 2.10 of this
Agreement, the Minister of Planning of the Borrower is designated
as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section
11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purpose of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministere du Plan
B.P. 862
Niamey
Niger


﻿-9-
Cable address:                        Telex:
MINIPLAN                            5230 CND
Niamey
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                        Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
REPUBLIC OF NIGER
By /3          O1
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Regional Vice President
Western Africa


﻿- 10 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1) Electrical dis-          1,630,000          100% of foreign
tribution sys-                            expenditures
tem equipment
(2) Consultants
(a)- For Part A 1         575,000          100%
of the
Project
(b) For Part A (2)        180,000          100%
of the
Project
(c) For Parts A (3)       375,000          100%
and (4) of
the Project
(d) For Part A (5)      1,290,000          100% of foreign
of the                               expenditures
Project                               and 40% of local
expenditures
(e) For Part A (6)        740,000         100% of foreign
of the Project                       expenditures
(3) Refunding of               960,000         Amount due under
Project Prepara-                          Section 2.02 (b)
tion Advance                              of this Agreement
(4) Unallocated              1,450,000
TOTAL              7,200,000


﻿- 11 -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country
other than that of the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower; provided, however, that if the
currency of the Borrower is also that of another country from the
territory of which goods or services are supplied, expenditures
in such currency for such goods or services shall be deemed to be
"foreign expenditures".
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Association that the proceeds of
the Credit shall not be disbursed on account of payments for
taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or
services, or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or
supply thereof; on this basis, if the amount of any such taxes
levied on or in respect of items in any Category decreases or
increases, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower,
increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable
to such Category as required to be consistent with the aforemen-
tioned policy of the Association.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of: (a) payments made for
expenditures prior to July 19, 1984, except that withdrawals may
not be made in respect of Category 2 (a) on account of payments
made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement; and
(b) expenditures made on account of category (2) (d) unless: (i)
the studies show that   the proposed project is technically and
economically feasible; (ii) the Borrower haf, determined which
entity will carry out and operate such future project; and (iii)
the Borrower has entered into a Financing Agreement with said
entity pursuant to Section 3.01 (e) of this Agreement.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in para-
graph 1 above, if the Association has reasonably estimated that
the amount of the Credit then allocated to any Category will be
insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures
in that Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower:


﻿- 12 -
(i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet
the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit which are then
allocated to another Category and which in the opinion of the
Association are not needed to meet other expenditures; and (ii)
if such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall,
reduce the disbursement percentage then applicable to such expen-
ditures in order that further withdrawals under such Category may
continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.    If the Association shall have reasonably determined that
the procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditure for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit, and the Association may, without in any way
restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the
Association under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice
to the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the
Association's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such
expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for financ-
ing out of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to accelerate the decision
process for the future development of the power sector in Niger,
and to prepare the groundwork for needed institutional changes in
that sector. To that end, the Project consists of the following
Parts:
Part A:
(1) Study of power planning needs of the Niger Valley to the
year 2020 and selected secondary load centers to 1990.
(2) Study of the present and future organization of the power
sector, including a review of the concession system and the
relationship between NIGELEC and the Borrower.
(3) Tariff study upon completion of the power planning study
included in (1) above.
(4) Study of NIGELEC's longer term internal organization, man-
power planning and training requirements.
(5) Engineering for preparation of bid documents for a future
power project, if such a project is justified on the basis
of the recommendations of the power planning study included
in (1) above.
(6) Implementation of training programs for NIGELEC's super-
visory staff and scholarships to power engineering students.
Part B:
Acquisition and utilization of distribution equipment to
improve the efficiency of the Niamey distribution system and upon
completion of the transmission line Niamey-Say to electrify the
towns of Say and Kollo.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1988.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the S al of the Association
thereunto the           day of J_4_h_A
198
FOR SECRETARY


