CREDIT NUMBER 106 PAK
Project Agreement
(Lahore Water Supply, Sewerage and Drainage Project)
BETWEEN
*                     PROVINCE OF WEST PAKISTAN
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED MAY 12, 1967


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 106 PAK
Project Agreement
(Lahore Water Supply, Sewerage and Drainage Project)
BETWEEN
PROVINCE OF WEST PAKISTAN
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED MAY 12, 1967


﻿AGREEMENT, dated Alay 12, 1967, between the
PROVINCE OF WEST PAKISTAN, acting by its Governor (here-
inafter called the Province) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOP-
MENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS by a development credit agreement of even
date herewith (hereinafter called the Development Credit
Agreement) between the Islamic Republic of Pakistan
(hereinafter called the Borrower) and the Association, the
Association has agreed to assist in the financing of a project
for water supply, sewerage and drainage works for the
Lahore metropolitan area and to make available to the
Borrower a development credit in various currencies
equivalent to one million seven hundred fifty thousand
dollars ($1,750,000), on the terms and conditions set forth
in the Development Credit Agreement but only on condi-
tion that the Province agree to undertake certain obliga-
tions to the Association as hereinafter in this Project
Agreement set forth;
WHEREAS Sweden has by an agreement of even date
herewith agreed to make available to the Borrower a credit
in a principal amount of Swedish kroner equivalent at
present parity rate as near as possible to one million
seven hundred fifty thousand dollars ($1,750,000) to be
used for the Project; and
WHEREAS the Province, in consideration of the Associ-
ation's entering into the Development Credit Agreement
with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations
hereinafter set forth;
Now THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as
follows:


﻿4
ARTICLE I
Deftnitions
SECTION 1.01. Wherever used in this Project Agreement,
unless the context shall otherwise require, the several terms
defined in the Development Credit Agreement and in the
Regulations (as so defined) shall have the respective mean-
ings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Particular Covenants
SECTION 2.01. (a) The Province shall cause LIT to carry
out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in
accordance with sound engineering, financial and public
utilitv standar(ds and practices.
(b) The Province shall employ or cause LIT to employ
competent and experienced consultants acceptable to the
Association on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association for the purpose of assisting LIT in the carrying
out of the Project.
(c) The Province shall cause LIT, in the carrying out of
the Project, to employ contractors acceptable to the
Association on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association and LIT.
(d) The Province shall cause LIT to engage independent
auditors, acceptable to the Association, to audit the accounts
of the Division.
SECTION 2.02. (a) The Province shall re-lend the pro-
ceeds of the Credit, or the equivalent thereof, to LIT on
terms and conditions to be determined by agreement
between the Province and the Association.
(b) The Province shall make available to LIT, or cause
to be made available, promptly as needed and under con-
ditions satisfactory to the Association, all funds, facilities,
/


﻿5
services, land, and other resources required for the carrying
out of the Project.
SECTION 2.03. (a) The Province shall cause LIT at all
times to conduct the business of the Division in accordance
with sound public utility practices under competent man-
agement. The Project shall be under the direction of a
competent Project Director acceptable to the Association.
(b) The Province shall cause LIT at all times to operate,
maintain, renew and repair its water supply, sewerage and
drainage facilities and equipment and machinery therefor
in accordance with sound engineering practices.
SECTION 2.04. (a) The Province and the Association shall
cooperate fully to assure that the purposes of the Credit
will be accomplished. To that end, each of them shall
furnish to the other all such information as it shall reason-
ably request with regard to the general status of the Credit.
(b) The Province and the Association shall from time
to time exchange views through their representatives with
regard to matters relating to the purposes of the Credit and
the maintenance of the service thereof. The Province shall
promptly inform the Association of any condition which
interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the accom-
plishment of the purpose of the Credit or the maintenance
of the service thereof, or the performance by the Province
of its obligations under this Agreement or any condition
which shall increase or threaten to increase materially the
estimated cost of the Project.
SECTION 2.05. (a) The Province shall cause LIT to
furnish to the Association the plans, specifications and work
schedules for the Project and any material modifications
subsequently made therein, promptly upon their prepara-
tion and in such detail as the Association shall request.
(b) The Province shall cause LIT to maintain records
adequate to identify the goods financed out of the proceeds


﻿6
of the Credit, to disclose the use thereof in the Project, to
record the progress of the Project (including the cost
thereof) and to reflect in accordance with consistently main-
tained sound accounting practices the operations and
financial condition of the Division; shall furnish annually
to the Association the financial statements of LIT together
with a signed copy of the audited report within four
months after the end of the fiscal year; shall enable the
Association's representatives to inspect the Project and
all properties of the Division, the goods and any relevant
records and documents; and shall furnish or cause to be
furnished to the Association all such information as the
Association shall reasonably request concerning the
expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit, the Project, and
the goods, and the operations and financial condition of
the Division.
SECTION 2.06. Except as shall be otherwise agreed by
the Province and the Association:
(a) the Province shall cause all goods financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit and the Swedish Credit to be
used in the territories of the Borrower exclusively in the
carrying out and subsequent operation of the Project; and
(b) the Province shall cause title to all such goods to be
obtained by LIT free and clear of all oncumbrances.
SECTION 2.07. (a) The Province shall cause LIT to take
out and maintain with responsible insurers or make other
provisions satisfactory to the Association for insurance
against such risks and in such amount as shall be consistent
with sound practice.
(b) Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the
Province shall cause LIT to undertake to insure the
imported goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit and of the Swedish Credit against marine, transit
and other hazards incident to acquisition, transportation


﻿7
and delivery thereof to the place of use of installation and
for such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a
currency freely usable by the Province to replace or repair
such goods.
SECTION 2.08. The Province shall cause LIT to set and
maintain rates for water supply, sewerage and drainage
services which will provide sufficient revenues:
(i) to cover operating expenses, including taxes, if any,
and interest and to provide adequate maintenance
and depreciation;
(ii) to meet repayments on long-term indebtedness to
the extent that such repayments exceed the pro-
visions for depreciation; and
(iii) to finance the iiornial year to year extension of the
water supply, sewerage and drainage system and to
provide a reasonable portion of the cost of future
major expansion of such system.
ARTICLE III
Effective Date; Termination
SECTION 3.01. The Project Agreement shall come into
force and effect on the Effective Date. If, pursuant to
Section 6.03 of the Development Credit Agreement, the
Association shall terminate the Credit Agreement, the
Association shall promptly notify the Province of West
Pakistan thereof and, upon the giving of such notice, this
Project Agreement and all obligations of the parties here-
under shall forthwith terminate.
SECTION 3.02. This Project Agreement and all obliga-
tions of the parties hereunder shall terminate when the
entire principal amount re-lent by the Province to LIT in
accordance with Section 2.02(a) of this Project Agreement
shall have been repaid by LIT to the Province in accordance
with the terms and conditions of such re-lending.


﻿0
8
ARTICLE IV
Miscellaneous Provisions
SECTION 4.01. Any notice or request required or per-
mitted to be given or made under this Project Agreement
and any agreement between the parties contemplated by
this Project Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or
request shall be deemed to have been duly given or made
when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at its address hereinafter
specified, or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or
making such request. The addresses so specified are:
(a) For the Province:
Chief Secretary
Government of West Pakistan
Lahore, Pakistan
Alternative address for cablegrams and
radiograms:
West Pakistan
Lahore
(b) For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D. C. 20433
United States of America
Alternative address for cablegrams and
radiograms:
Indevas
Washington, D. C.
SECTION 4.02. Any action required or permitted to be
taken, and any documents required or permitted to be


﻿9
executed, under this Project Agreement on behalf of the
Province may be taken or executed by the Chief Secretary
to the Government of West Pakistan or such other person
or persons as the Province shall designate in writing.
SECTION 4.03. The Province shall furnish to the Associ-
ation sufficient evidence of the authority of the person or
persons who will, on behalf of the Province, take any
action or execute any documents required or permitted to
be taken or executed by the Province pursuant to any of the
provisions of this Project Agreement and the authenti-
cated specimen signature of each such person.
SECTION 4.04. This Project Agreement may be executed
in several counterparts, each of which shall be an original
and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties hereto have caused this
Project Agreement to be signed in their respective names
by their representatives thereunto duly authorized and
delivered in the District of Columbia, United States of
America, as of the day and year first above written.
PROVINCE OF WEST PAKISTAN
/s/  S. M. SULAIMAN-
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
/s/ A. BROCIES
General Counsel


