Report No. 23643
Report No: I068062 <--Please check for duplicates!
Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet (Initial)
Date ISDS Prepared/Updated: 02/11/2002
Section I - Basic Information
A. Basic Project Data
Country: ROMANIA         Project ID: P068062
Project: Energy Efficiency       Task Team Leader: Varadarajan Atur
Authorized to Appraise Date: February 14, 2002 IBRD Amount ($m):
Bank Approval: May 21, 2002      IDA Amount ($m):
Managing Unit: ECSIE     Sector: PY - Other Power & Energy Conversion; VY -
Other Environment
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)        Status: Preappraisal completed
I.A.2. Project Objectives:
The objective of the proposed GEF project is to foster a large increase in
energy efficiency investments in Romania. The project will support the
development and implementation of commercially viable investments, which
can provide sustainable and increasing reductions in green house gas (GHG)
emissions without public subsidy. The project will achieve this by
reducing the perceived high risk and high transaction costs of initial
investments, and overcoming the current barriers to expanding investment
through the creation of a self-sustaining, market-based energy efficiency
project development and financing facility, the Romanian Energy Efficiency
Fund (FREE).
I.A.3. Project Description:
GEF financing of US$10 million has been approved under Operational Program
5 to support the establishment and operation of an Energy Efficiency
Project Development and Financing Facility. This facility will be operated
under the Romanian Energy Efficiency Fund (FREE or the Fund) that has been
set up as an independent, autonomous legal entity in a private-public
partnership. GEF funds will be used to capitalize the Fund and partially
defray initial transaction costs.
Although the funding will initially come mostly from GEF (public funds),
it is important that FREE will be independent and separate from any
government agency. The Fund will be overseen by a board consisting of
members from both public and private sectors. FREE will enter into a
performance contract with a professional fund manager who will manage the
investment aspects in a commercial manner, in charge of selecting which
projects to finance to assure a sound portfolio in terms of sectors, risks
and terms. The Fund seeks to make a profit, with investment financing to
clients on commercial terms. GEF resources would revolve, and the Fund is
designed to be self-sustaining after an initial period of three years.
Active partnerships with commercial financing institutions, leasing
companies and energy service companies (ESCOs) will be strongly
encouraged. In addition to financial services, the Fund would offer its
clients expertise in energy efficiency to support them in project
development and financial packaging. Technical assistance from the GEF



contribution and donor funds will provide support for the latter.
The initial capital for the fund will be provided by GEF. The project is,
however, designed to attract a substantial amount of commercial
cofinancing. Two modalities of co-financing, parallel (or side-by-side)
financing and direct fund management are appropriate for the project.
During project preparation they were discussed with a variety of foreign
banks with Romanian branches, Romanian Banks, multilateral agencies and
private foreign capital sources, some of whom have provided non-binding
letters of interest. Several key factors weigh heavily on the success of
the co-financing, namely:
Degree to which the co-financiers believe the Fund Manager will have
autonomy to operate the fund in a purely commercial manner, free from
political interference from GoR, FREE and its Board;
Quality and credibility of Fund Manager selected;
Perception by co-financiers that there is a viable demand for financing
for energy efficiency projects that meet the eligibility criteria of FREE,
while also providing an attractive risk and financial return profile to
the co-financiers.
The initial implementation of the Project through GEF financing would
provide the necessary comfort to the co-financiers who are likely to join
when the first successful deals have been concluded.
Project Components
Investment Part (US$ 8 million). Most of the GEF contribution will be used
to provide the initial seed capital for the newly established Romanian
Energy Efficiency Fund (FREE or the Fund) which will be managed by a
professional Fund Manager. Loans will be made on a commercial basis to
creditworthy customers from this fund that will revolve with interest and
principal payments flowing back into it for additional loans. Borrowers
will be targeted who have good growth prospects and where the energy
savings from the investments would generate positive cash flows which
would be partially used to repay the loans.
In the first phase, the Fund will focus primarily on
restructured/privatized industries, which can establish basic
creditworthiness. To minimize risks, initial project selection will focus
on (a) small projects (averaging about $450,000); (b) projects which are
technically simple, and do not involve substantial process change; (c)
projects with rapid financial payback (e.g. less than 3 years); and (d)
diversity in the project portfolio. The main energy efficiency
technologies that meet these criteria are burners and boilers, variable
speed drives (VSDs), condensers for power factor improvement, compressors,
controls, steam traps. Operations in the first 1-3 years would start up
slowly, with the full focus on development of a few projects with the best
chances of success (success being both achieved energy savings and
repayment of the loans). Initial transaction costs are expected to be
very high, but well worth the investment over the medium term.
Project financial support may include debt financing, equipment leasing,
payment for services, and/or various combinations of these. The Fund is
designed to be flexible such that the Fund Manager can offer the financial
products which the evolving market demands. The product mix and terms need
to be flexible so that the management can react easily to any potential
problems, such as changes in macroeconomic circumstances.
- 2 -



FREE's financial transactions would start up slowly in the initial years
and will most likely not be sufficient to generate a fee income covering
the set up costs of FREE initially. As experience is gained, the number of
projects can be increased sufficiently to achieve self-financing after
about three years. Analysis during project preparation has shown that the
project will need to have an implementation period of at least eight years
to be able to signal a sustainable operation. With a positive external
environment, the most likely outcome would be that almost all the initial
seed capital would be returned to the Romanian government for the use in
other projects dedicated to the GHG reduction agenda.
The actual investment implemented under the project will bea multiple of
the initial capitalization. The Fund will revolve, and the interest
payments and principal repayments will be used for new loans. It is
estimated that investment of more than US$ 65 million will be financed
during the project life of 8 years. This amount will have been triggered
by GEF seed capital of US$ 8 million and other funds, including a minimum
20- contribution to project costs by the borrowers and some commercial
cofinancing.
Technical assistance (US$ 2 million). This component covers three broad
areas:
1. Management fees of the Fund Manager for the first three years when the
Fund is not yet self-financing,
2. FREE's operating costs during the same period, and
3. TA activities in initial project development, workshops and seminars
for partners and clients, training for FM and partners in EE financing
techniques, and monitoring and evaluation (the last for the full 8 years).
The first two items are perceived necessary to provide the combination of
financial and technical skills necessary to successfully develop energy
efficiency projects. The third category of TA above covers those TA tasks
which are directed mostly towards potential clients and partners to enable
the development of successful investment projects and strengthen the
necessary partners of the fund in providing essential services and
generate and disseminate information to potential financiers and borrowers
about the benefits to be achieved with energy efficiency investments. It
is in this TA category that the project will actively collaborate with
several other organizations (see below). More specifically, TA is required
in the following areas:
Project development: During the first three years, energy audits and
feasibility studies will have to be carried out to develop bankable
proposals that have good chance to be financed by the Fund. For the first
projects, the Fund may cover the total cost of the proposal; very soon
however the clients will have to contribute to the development, with their
share of the cost rolled into the loan amount.
Workshops/Seminars: In order to support project development, partners of
the Fund (consultants, ESCOs and other aggregators) and trained how to
develop proposals targeted at the requirements of the Fund and potential
clients have to be educated through outreach activities about the benefits
of energy efficiency investments and the procedures of the fund. The
material for these two kinds of activities has to be developed on the
basis of success stories and development of training and promotional
materials. It is expected that at about midpoint of the project an
international seminar on the FREE experience and replication potential
would be organized.
Technical capacity building and development of alternative deal structures
-3 -



for energy efficiency investment for both the Fund Manager and selected
partners such as ESCOs and BACs. It is expected that the delivery of these
new deal structures would also need increased support.
Monitoring and Evaluation activities are paramount for the success of the
project. Since it is expected that a large number of projects will be
implemented over the lifetime of the project, M&E efforts will have vary
over time in their intensity. In the beginning of the project monitoring
of project implementation and verification of energy savings and C02
emissions, including reporting to GEF, will be intense. For the first
projects, and those that will test investments in new sectors, different
technologies, or other innovations, a verification of the actual savings
will take place. For projects that are replicating previous projects, a
short M&E form will be developed. During the first few months of project
implementation, an M&E methodology and an implementation plan will be
developed. The M&E information will provide the basis for the development
of success stories to be used, e.g., in the outreach activities.
Discussions with UNDP/UNOPS/GEF and ECOLINKS have indicated a firm
commitment of these two organizations in collaborating with FREE in
pipeline development, training and dissemination activities with in-kind
investment. Other potential donors, in particular USAID and GTZ have both
indicated support in project development activities under their existing
TA activities. In addition, there are also reasonably good prospects of
receiving some TA funds from CIDA and from EU Phare in the near future and
from DFID in the outer years. Discussions are continuing to define the
exact nature and scope of such TA collaboration, but it is unlikely that
such arrangements could be firmed-up before start of the Project. The
Project thus has to rely initially on GEF funds. As and when donor funds
become available, the GEF TA funds would correspondingly be reallocated to
the Fund's seed capital for investment financing.
The total amount of the overall Technical Assistance to be initially
financed by GEF of US$ 2.0 million is allocated among the three categories
as follows:
FM retainer (maximum over 3 years)     900,000
FREE operating costs (over 3 years)     600,000
TA (for project dev., dissemination, M&E, etc; over 3-8 years)        500,000
TOTAL TA        2,000,000
I.A.4. Project Location: (Geographic location, information about the key
environmental and social characteristics of the area and population likely
to be affected, and proximity to any protected areas, or sites or critical
natural habitats, or any other culturally or socially sensitive areas.)
Projects in the entire territory of Romania are eligible for financing.
Most of them are expected to be in established industrial areas.
B. Check Environmental Classification: ERROR: Invalid UNID; UNID must be
a 32-digit hex string.
Comments: Projects to be financed by FREE are expected to be
environmentally beneficial, reducing energy consumption and thereby
emissions, not only of GHGs, but more importantly of air pollutants, over
the status quo.
C. Safeguard Policies Triggered
Policy Applicability
-4-



Environmental Assessment (OP/BP/GP 4.01)
Forestry (OP/GP 4.36)
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04)
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37)
Pest Management (OP 4.09)
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)
Cultural Property (OP 4.11)
Projects in Disputed Territories (OP/BP/GP 7.60)*
Projects in International Waterways (OP/BP/GP 7.50)
*By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice
the final determination of the parties' claims on the disputed areas
Section II - Key Safeguard Issues and Their Management
D. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues. Please fill in all relevant questions.
If information is not available, describe steps to be taken to obtain
necessary data.
II.D.1a. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the
proposed project. Identify and describe any potential large scale,
significant and/or irreversible impacts.
Projects to be financed by FREE are expected to be environmentally
beneficial, reducing energy consumption and thereby emissions, not only of
GHGs, but more importantly of air pollutants, over the status quo. None of
the projects to be financed exclusively by FREE is expected to have any
large scale, significant and/or irreversible impacts.
II.D.1b. Describe any potential cumulative impacts due to application of
more than one safeguard policy or due to multiple project component.
not applicable
II.D.1c Describe any potential long term impacts due to anticipated future
activities in the project area.
not applicable
II.D.2. In light of 1, describe the proposed treatment of alternatives (if
required)
not applicable
II.D.3. Describe arrangement for the borrower to address safeguard issues
During project preparation, the project team carried out an evaluation
regarding the adequacy of current Romanian environmental laws and
institutions to address potential environmental issues associated with
subprojects to be supported under the project. Following is the summary of
this evaluation: Romania has very comprehensive environmental legislation
that approaches the EU environmental regulations and guidelines. The only
missing regulation concerns asbestos management. It is expected that this
issue will be addressed in the upcoming revision of the Law on the
Environment. Secondly, the capacity of the individuals with the
responsibility for overseeing and reviewing EIAs is very high. However,
the physical capacity of handling the enormous workload in this area is
wanting.
FREE's Operational Manual includes an environmental section describing the
EA procedures for the project and the institutional mechanisms for the
- 5-



environmental screening and assessment. The draft manual will be submitted
to the Ministry of Environment and the World Bank for approval as a
condition of Negotiations.
The Fund Manager will be responsible for screening the subprojects and
ensuring that necessary follow-up actions are taken. The environmental
screening and assessment procedures will apply to all subprojects financed
by FREE over the 8 year period of the project, and not just the ones
financed through the initial capital for the Fund provided by GEF. The
staff of the Fund Manager will receive environmental awareness training. A
set of guidelines and screening mechanisms has been prepared as part of
the draft Operational Manual of FREE which will allow the Fund Manager
staff to determine the general environmental effects that a project will
have for which a loan is being requested and identify those projects,
expected to be in a minority, which require an environmental assessment.
The target investments for FREE financing involve small to medium sized
projects for replacement of old polluting technologies and thus are
expected to fall under category C or B. In case of category B projects,
the preparation of environmental management plans approved by the local
environmental protection agency usually would be a condition of
financing. Large projects under category A are not the target of this
project. However, should such a large project (e.g. cogeneration) be
considered with shared financing under cofinancing arrangements, the
clients would have to prepare an EIA which would have to be reviewed and
approved by the Bank. For projects in categories A and B, affected groups
must be consulted.
In order to be eligible for financing, the subprojects need to meet all
Romanian environmental requirements, approvals, and procedures, and shall
be consistent with the World Bank environmental policies and procedures,
as well as the guidelines of the Bank's Pollution Prevention and Abatement
Handbook. Any client of FREE needs to have valid operating permits and
must not have any environmental liabilities in terms of pollution fees and
fines. In case the prospective client does not have a valid authorization
issued by the Romanian authorities, he has to provide evidence that the
company has applied for them, and which steps have been made so far in the
authorization process. In accordance with the Romanian legal provisions,
an economic player has the permission to further operate until the
finalization of the authorization process, if a Corrective Action Plan
(Conformity Plan) has been agreed upon with the environmental protection
agency.
After loan approval, the Fund Manager will be required to monitor the
environmental compliance. Indications that compliance is not being met
will lead to consultation with the local environmental protection agency
that will pursue the necessary action, and will be reported to the Bank.
II.D.4. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for
consultation and disclosure on safeguard policies, with an emphasis on
potentially affected people.
There is a widespread interest within public and private sectors to
identifying and implementing sustainable mechanisms to finance energy
efficiency investments. During identification and preparation activities
there has been wide consultation and high level participation from those
stakeholders, whose support and commitment are central to the outcome of
- 6 -



this project:
n Companies in the industrial sector who would be the potential clients
for the facility, and their associations;
n Manufacturers, contractors and other service providers, for example,
ESCOs, research institutes and engineering and consulting companies, but
also associations, catering to the industrial and other sectors, who would
be targeted as partners and allies of the EEFF;
n Companies in the financial sector, particularly banks, but also leasing
companies, who would be targeted as cofinanciers and potential partners of
the EEFF; and
n Actors in the environmental sector who would be allies for FREE,
particularly those interested in global environmental issues.
High-level management and energy managers of companies in the industrial
sector which has been identified as the primary target for financing
energy efficiency investments have been engaged during the market
assessment. However, this has been on a rather general level with the
purpose of informing project design, rather than developing a project
pipeline. This will be the responsibility of the future management of the
financing facility which will be in charge of making all commercial
decisions. The other main target of outreach activities are the partners
with which the financing facility might cooperate during project
identification and preparation. Among those potential partners are
associations of industrial and small and medium enterprises, manufacturers
and suppliers of energy efficiency appliances, sectoral research
institutes, energy service companies, and others. This broad-based
participation and public involvement culminated in a workshop held in
November 2001. A website (www.free.org.ro) has been developed and went
life in November 2001. It will also serve to publicly disclose the
environmental section of the Operational Manual prior to appraisal as well
as environmental assessments of subprojects during project
implementation.
E. Safeguards Classification. Category is determined by the highest impact
in any policy. Or on basis of cumulative impacts from multiple safeguards.
Whenever an individual safeguard policy is triggered the provisions of
that policy apply.
I Si. - Significant, cumulative and/or irreversible impacts; or
significant technical and institutional risks in management of one or more
safeguard areas
I S2. - One or more safeguard policies are triggered, but effects are
limited in their impact and are technically and institutionally manageable
I S3. - No safeguard issues
[XI SF. - Financial intermediary projects, social development funds,
community driven development or similar projects which require a safeguard
framework or programmatic approach to address safeguard issues.
F. Disclosure Requirements Environmental Assessment/Analysis/Management
Plan:   Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Date of distributing the Exec. Summary of the EA to the ED
(For category A projects)
Resettlement Action Plan/Framework:      Expected         Actual
- 7-



Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Indigenous Peoples Development Plan/Framework:   Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Pest Management Plan:    Expected        Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Dam Safety Management Plan:      Expected        Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected,
please explain why.
The environmental section of the Operational Manual will be disclosed
in-country and through the InfoShop prior to appraisal.
Signed and submitted by          Name    Date
Task Team Leader:        Varadarajan Atur         1/24/2002
Project Safeguards Specialists 1:        Bernard Baratz
Project Safeguards Specialists 2:
Project Safeguards Specialists 3:
Approved by:     Name    Date
Regional Safeguards Coordinator:         Emilia Battaglini        2/11/2002
Sector Manager/Director:         Henk Busz       2/11/2002
For a list of World Bank news releases on projects and reports, click here
- 8 -



