Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 24637-RO
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED GEF GRANT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 8,000,000
(US$ 10,000,000 EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF ROMANIA
FOR THE
ENERGY EFFICIENCY
PROJECT
August 27, 2002
Infrastructure and Energy Sector Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective February 11, 2002)
Currency Unit = Leu
1,000 Lei = US$0.0311
US$1 = 32,113 Lei
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 -- December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
DFID           -      Department for International Development (UK)
EBRD           -      European Bank for Reconstruction and Development
EU             -      European Union
ESCO           -      Energy Service Company
FREE           -      Romanian Energy Efficiency Fund
GDP            -      Gross Domestic Product
GEF            -      Global Environment Facility
GHG            -      Greenhouse Gas
GoR            -      Government of Romania
IAS            -      International Accounting Standards
MEBOs          -      Management and Employee Buyouts
MoWEP          -      Ministry of Water and Environmental Protection
MoIR           -      Ministry of Industry and Resources
MoPF           -      Ministry of Public Finance
NBR            -      National Bank of Romania
OECD           -      Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
PSAL           -      Private Sector Adjustment Loan
SMEs           -      Small and Medium Enterprises
SOEs           -      State-Owned Enterprises
SOF            -      State Ownership Fund
TA             -      Technical Assistance
UNDP           -      United Nations Development Program
UNFCCC         -      United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change
USAID          -      United States Agency for International Development
VAT            -      Value Added Tax
Vice President:   Johannes F. Linn
Country Manager/Director:    Andrew N. Vorkink
Sector Manager/Director:    Henk Busz
Task Tearn Leader/Task Manager:     Varadarajan Atur



ROMANIA
ENERGY EFFICIENCY
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                    Page
1. Project development objective                                                    2
2. Key performance indicators                                                       2
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project   2
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                       3
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices               6
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                               9
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                    14
3. Benefits and target population                                                   14
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                    14
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                        19
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies       21
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design                             21
4. Indications of borrower comrnmitment and ownership                               23
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                     23
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                        24
2. Financial                                                                        25
3. Technical                                                                        26
4. Institutional                                                                    27
5. Environmental                                                                    29
6. Social                                                                          31
7. Safeguard Polici4                                                                32



F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                   33
2. Critical risks                                                                   33
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                   37
G. Main Grant Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                          38
2. Other                                                                            38
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                        39
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                       39
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                        40
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                  44
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                       50
Annex 4: Incremental Cost Analysis and Summary Financial Analysis                      51
Annex 5: Financial Summary
Annex 6: (A) Procurement Arrangements                                                  60
(B) Financial Management and Disbursement Arrangements                        66
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                   74
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                 75
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                76
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                          78
Annex 11: Energy Efficiency Market Survey Summary                                      80
Annex 12: Fund Manager Terms of Reference                                              86
Annex 13: STAP Technical Review Comments and Response                                  90
Annex 14: Focal Point Endorsement Letter                                               97
MAP(S)
IBRD No. 28710-R



ROMANIA
Energy Efficiency
Project Appraisal Document
Europe and Central Asia Region
ECSIE
Date: August 27, 2002                             Team Leader: Varadarajan Atur
Sector Manager/Director: Henk Busz                Sector(s): General industry and trade sector (100%)
Country Manager/Director: Andrew N. Vorkink       Theme(s): Technology diffusion (P), Climate change (P),
Project ID: P068062                               Pollution management and environmental health (P)
Focal Area: G
Project Financing Data- --  -      - - ]  - -        __ .  -        - -- ;- 
[ Loan      [ Credit     [X] Grant     [ Guarantee      [ Other: GEF:
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m): 10.0
Financing Plan(US$    ,m): I  Sour,ce                 _ t - - La-              re',;-'ota--
BORROWER/RECIPIENT                                             0.00           0.00           0.00
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACIL1TY                                    0.00           10.00         10.00
BORROWING COUNTRY'S FIN. INTERMEDIARY/IES                     10.00           3.00          13.00
SUB-BORROWER(S)                                               11.00           0.00          11.00
Total:                                                        21.00           13.00         34.00
Borrower/Recipient: GOVERNMENT OF ROMANIA
Responsible agency: ROMANIAN FUND FOR ENERGY EFFICIENCY (FREE)
Ministry of Water, Forests, and Environmental Protection
Address: 12, Libertatii Blvd., 70005 Bucharest, Romania
Contact Person: Mihai Cozariuc, General Director
Tel: 40-21-312-2599           Fax: 40-21-312-5507           Email:
Other Agency(ies):
Europe and Central Asia Region
Address: World Bank, 1818, H.St., NW, Washington D.C.
Contact Person: Emilia Battaglini, Regional GEF Coordinator,
Tel: (202) 473 3232          Fax: (202) 614 0696           Email: ebattaglini(worldbank.org
Estimated Disbursements ( Bank FY/US$m):
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~z                  V: ~            Q!0_;  ' ~2Tp00 29   09       --2010% -
.  Fyt - f .-r _2tft )3WmSJ .fi,f)2:0,U . . X%f  1.0-oN!- 4  S 07,r . -X> 3'p ap8. -  .,0 , qr  2  v
Annual      1.70      3.60       3.40       1.20       0.06      0.04
Cumulative     1.70       5.30       8.70      9.90       9.96      10.00
Project implementation period: 2002-2007
OCS PAD F- R. dl. M M



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The objective of the proposed GEF project is to enable companies in the industrial sector and
other energy consumers to adopt and utilize energy-efficient technologies, financed under
commercial criteria by the Romanian Energy Efficiency Fund (FREE) and cofinanciers. This
would put the economy onto a sustainable path of lower energy intensity and green house gas
(GHG) emissions.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
The key performance indicators that will be monitored focus on the project's ability to meet the
development objectives and include the following:
Outcome indicators:
*   Increase in commercially financed investment in energy efficiency
*   Reduction in energy consumption and energy bills from commercially financed investments
* Number of financial sector institutions engaged in energy efficiency financing and their lending
activity
* Strong level of energy efficiency investments by end users financed from external sources
Output indicators:
*   Gradual increase in the number of projects financed and their associated lending volume
* Gradual increase in the investment volume in energy efficiency measures financed by FREE
.o  Gradual increase in energy savings resulting from investments financed by FREE
*   Improvements in FREE's self-financing ratio (target: 100% in year 4)
*   Gradual increase in the number of FREE cofinanciers and associated financing volume
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: 221 80-RO Date of latest CAS discussion: June 19, 2001
The project supports the CAS objectives of (i) promoting economic growth through enterprise sector
reform, particularly better utilization of energy resources, and (ii) protecting and sustainably developing
environmental resources. The project would contribute to objective (i) by providing seed capital to a
market-oriented financial facility that would offer financing for commercially attractive energy efficiency
projects which would reduce production costs and improve competitiveness. The host enterprises
targeted would be in the private sector which still experiences difficulties to access Romanian financial
markets and faces very stiff collateral requirements. The Fund will fill a financing gap by originating
transactions not currently being pursued by the Romanian financial sector, by combining expertise in
energy efficiency analysis, structured finance and credit analysis, and by attracting commercial
co-financing.
The project would address objective (ii) by financing investments that would reduce energy
consumption, and thereby contribute to reduction in air pollution and green house gas emissions. The
environmental goals addressed by the project are closely linked to the EU accession standards, which are
also set as an important development benchmark in the CAS.
-2 -



la. Global Operational strategy/Program objective addressed by the project:
The global environment objective of the project is to improve the knowledge and the availability of
mechanisms necessary for financiers and energy consumers to fund viable energy efficiency projects by
removing barriers and lowering transaction costs. Performance indicators with respect to this goal
include:
*   Number of energy efficiency projects and associated investment volume with commercial banks
participating in financing with FREE
*   Gradual reduction of GHG emissions from participating industries and other clients
*   Number of projects identified and presented for funding
*   Ratings of understanding by end users and energy efficiency experts trained by FREE of
successful, financially attractive energy efficiency measures
Context Within UNFCCC National Communications
The proposed project will support the Government in meeting its international obligations and has been
endorsed by the GEF focal point (see attached copy of approval letter). Romania ratified the Global
Climate Change Convention in June 1994, and has since submitted the First and Second National
Communications Concerning the National Process of Applying the Provisions of the Framework
Convention on Climate Change. The GoR target is to stabilize C02 emissions after 2000 at the 1989
level. Romania is (together with the Czech Republic) the largest energy consumer and emitter of
greenhouse gases (GHG) in Central and Eastern Europe after Poland. Romania had been fairly
autonomous in energy supply, but it is becoming increasingly dependent on imports (currently about
30%). While a national policy on climate change has not yet been finalized, reducing local\and global
emissions by improving energy efficiency is among the highest priorities. According to the "National
Study on Climate Change" (p. 186), energy conservation in industry is the most cost- effective C02
mitigation strategy, followed by energy conservation in the transport sector, the development of
industrial and urban cogeneration, loss reduction in heat supply networks and energy conservation
measures in buildings.
The project is consistent with the objectives of GEF Operational Program (OP) 5, Removal of Barriers to
Energy Efficiency and Energy Conservation. Section 5.7 of OP5 includes support for activities that lead
to sustainable "win-win" results that demonstrate local, national, and global benefits through removal of
barriers to undertake GHG mitigation measures.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Energy Intensity and Impacts
Romania's energy intensity (total primary energy supply per 1000 US Dollar of GDP) and GHG intensity
(CO2 emissions per 1000 US Dollar of GDP) are among the highest in the region and are about five to ten
times higher than in UK, France, Germany, or United States (see Table below, based on 1999 data from
the Intemational Energy Agency, http://www.iea.org/statist/keyworld/keystats.html). Inefficient energy
utilization exists in all sectors of the economy, notably in the industrial sector, which accounts for over
60% of energy consumption, but only 33% of GDP. In large part, such high intensity in Romania is due
to aging equipment and antiquated technologies, and is an impediment to improving competitiveness of
Romanian industry. Also, Romania's increasing dependence on imported energy is adversely affecting its
trade balance.
-3 -



Recent studies have estimated that the potential for economically viable savings in industry (ranging
from no-cost to low-cost and to high-cost measures) is very high - perhaps about 50% - providing
opportunities for the global environment and energy users. Detailed studies also have shown that there
are many energy efficiency investment opportunities yielding high financial rates of return and
reasonably short payback periods. Opportunities for cost-effective savings of 20-30% of thermal energy
use in the residential, commercial and public sector exist as well.
Table 1.1: Energy and Greenhouse Gas Intensity
TPES: Total Primary Energy Supply
TPESIGDP    C02/GDP
Romania              1.2773     3.0361
Poland              0.5948      1.9748
Bulgaria             1.5690     3.7733
Czech Republic       0.7363     2.1105
Slovak Republic     8.8902      0.8780
Hungary              0.4880     1.1164
Croatia              0.4457     1.0399
Russia               1.8653     4.5982
Ukraine             2.1380      0.6563
Denmark             0.1005      0.2669
France               0.1502     0.2129
Germany              0.1295     0.3156
United Kingdom       0.1834     0.4263
United States        0.2643     0.6503
The awareness and demand for improving energy efficiency has been increasing. Private enterprises as
well as restructured and/or privatized state enterprises are actively exploring cost reduction and
efficiency improvement strategies as a consequence of steep increases in energy prices (gas, electricity
and district heat), and with a view to improving competitiveness through energy efficient technologies.
The large energy savings potential underpins the very substantial potential for financially viable energy
efficiency investments (see Annex I 1). However, actual investments in energy efficiency are dismally
low. This low investment is in large part due to the absence of appropriate funding mechanisms and a
lack of expertise in identifying and developing commercially viable projects, as well as the incremental
risks involved in developing a proper energy efficiency market.
Financingfor Energy Efficiency
Financing for energy efficiency is lacking mostly due to barriers described in detail in section B.3. 1,
which is also a reflection of the immaturity of Romanian financial markets. The current Romanian
market for corporate lending is simply not competitive. There is in fact basically no competition for
clients, as demand for corporate loans is much greater than supply. Romanian experts quote a total
market of US$3 billion for corporate loans in Romania, less than 10% of GDP, with aggregate banks'
asset value less than 30% of the GDP - the lowest in Europe. Most lending is in addition concentrated in
a few blue-chip clients and some 85% of the lending of most of the Romanian-based foreign banks is in
foreign companies. As a consequence, financing is not available or too expensive for most credit-worthy
smaller firms in the Romanian market. Available lending mainly consists of working capital loans with a
one year or less maturity. These are typically fully or even over-collateralized and available only to
established firms, possibly exporters and/or Romanian subsidiaries of foreign companies. As for project
finance, it is still nascent in Romania, but is expected to grow as the economy grows toward a
market-based one. Currently, project finance is available from foreign banks operating in Romania for
projects that offer risk cover at high premiums. Those few companies that have carried out some very
-4 -



profitable and short-term energy efficiency investments used almost exclusively their own intemal funds.
Financial Sector Reforms: Until 1999, Romania's financial sector was mostly state-owned, with
state-owned banks accounting for about three quarters of balance sheet stock of the banking system and
about 70 percent of total loans. The state-owned banks suffered from years of Govemment interference,
directed lending, and a host of management and institutional weaknesses. By 1998-99, these weaknesses
made the situation in the financial sector untenable in face of the economy's overall deterioration.
Against this backdrop, the Government launched comprehensive institutional and structural reforms in
the sector with the support of PSAL I from the Bank. The reforms were designed to move Romania
closer to a market-based system and eliminate the sector as a source of financing for loss-making SOEs.
A core element of the Govermnent's program was privatization and restructuring of the banking system.
Bancorex, Romania's largest and most troubled bank, Banca Agricola and two smaller state-owned banks
- the Romanian Development Bank and Banc Post - have been privatized with direct investment from
strategic investors. The restructuring and privatization of the banks was accompanied by a series of other
legal, regulatory and institutional reforms and further measures are required to develop a well functioning
financial services sector. The Govemment's main objective in the sector is to bring an end to public
sector banking and to ensure that incentives for a competitive and modern financial system are in place,
especially as Romania proceeds with negotiations for EU accession, which would be supported under the
PSAL-II. The Government also plans measures to strengthen the legal and regulatory framework,
enhance banking sector infrastructure (i.e., payment systems, accounting/audit framework, deposit
insurance, credit information bureau/credit scoring system), improve the functioning of the Government
securities market, develop the capital markets for debt and equity instruments under proper supervision,
and develop the Insurance Supervision Commission. When these changes are implemented, the
Government will have exited from banking and a fully private financial sector will have emerged.
Filling the Financing Gap: The GoR recognizes that the high energy intensity of the economy is a major
impediment to improving the competitiveness of Romanian industry, reducing the negative trade balance,
relieving the burden which high heating bills place on the population and local governments, and
improving the environment and implementing internationally agreed environmental targets. The GoR
also recognizes that the financial sector needs time to evolve from the reforms, after which it could be
expected to offer financing for such investments as energy efficiency. Therefore, GoR's strategy is to fill
the financing gap for promoting energy efficiency investments on commercial basis, which also brings
about a demonstration effect on the financial sector. The proposed project is thus designed as a
demonstration project to operate without interfering with the banking sector or with the non-banking
financial markets.
Other Measures: The Parliament enacted in December 2000 an energy efficiency law that confirms that
efficient use of energy is an integral part of national energy policy, conforming with the Energy Charter
Treaty and the principles of sustainable development. As expressed by the energy efficiency law, the
national energy efficiency policy is based on the following principles: reduce barriers to promote energy
efficiency, promote financing mechanisms, educate energy consumers in more efficient use of energy,
promote cooperation between producers, distributors and users of energy, and promote private sector
energy service companies. By endorsing energy efficiency, the GoR seeks to decrease the energy
intensity of the Romanian economy, introduce new technologies and new energy sources, and reduce the
environmental impact of energy production, transport, distribution and consumption.
- 5 -



3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
B.3.1 Overcoming Barriers in Energy Efficiency
Despite the large potential for financially viable energy efficiency investments in Romania, only few of
those investments are actually being undertaken. Essentially, the market is not functioning in this area.
Although there have been numerous donor-funded technical assistance and technical demonstration
projects to improve energy efficiency, these have achieved very few results in terms of increasing
investments on the ground. The overarching barrier to energy efficiency investment is a lack of
commercial credit for these projects: lending institutions consider both the costs and the risks of lending
for energy efficiency at this time to be too high. The recent failure of an EBRD project provides
instructive experience. It established a credit line for energy efficiency projects with a Romanian bank
that failed to disburse due to lack of incentives and interest and inadequate subproject development.
The following barriers are the major causes of the financing gap. The project will address them and is
expected to substantially overcome them.
*   The transaction costs of identifying, developing and financing energy efficiency projects are
high. The development of a sound energy efficiency loan portfolio requires a level of specialization
that entails high initial costs. To keep risks at a minimum, banks must develop effective
combinations of in-house and advisory expertise on the most attractive elements of this market, the
technology and technical trends in energy-using equipment and energy efficient technology, and the
most secure and profitable types of financial packaging for energy efficiency investments.
Development of personal relationships with enterprises and agencies working on project
development also is required, and the development of such expertise requires major upfront
expenditures. Those costs are entirely at risk if projects do not materialize. For the domestic
Romanian banking sector which is faced with enormous needs to restructure non-performing loans,
seek new partners, and establish a viable basis for future operations, the establishment of a small and
narrowly focused new line of activities is not a priority. The banks are rightly interested primarily in
conservative, traditional lending as a means to regain financial health, such as short-term lending for
working capital in financially strong enterprises.
*   The perceived risk of financing energy efficiency projects is high. Energy efficiency projects are
a new type of project to be financed, in that the retums of this investment are based upon operating
cost savings and not on increased revenue. Not only is the concept of project finance poorly known
in Romania; in addition, energy efficiency project finance is even further from traditional lines of
business. Although many profitable opportunities actually do exist, there is a common perception
outside of the energy efficiency community that the benefits of these projects are only "social and
environmental benefits", and some people are skeptical about financial profitability. An assortment
of small donor-subsidized demonstration projects has at times reinforced this perception.
Furthermore, energy efficiency investments do entail certain types of financial risks that other loans
may not face. Because energy efficiency projects usually involve an assortment of specialized
equipment and materials, and significant design and installation costs, loan securitization presents
special challenges and risks, as appraised collateral values of assets purchased with loans are often
well below loan amounts. In enterprises that are typically short of cash (even if profitable), there
may be dangers that savings on energy bills will be diverted to make other payments, rather than loan
repayments. Although these risks can be mitigated and managed, this requires special innovation and
expertise (and hence, additional upfront costs).
* A combination of financial and technical skills is necessary to successfully develop energy
efficiency projects; institutional combination of these skills is currently not available in
- 6 -



Romania. Domestic banks are generally unaware of the potential for profitable investments in
energy efficiency, lacking information on such opportunities presented in ways banks can properly
consider. While there is a wealth of studies on technical and economic potential for energy
efficiency, they usually do not focus on the financial environment of the company in which the
investments would be carried out and are thus of little use for bank loan officers. A similar lack of
being able to combine technical and financial skills can be observed on part of the
consumer/enterprise side. In some cases, enterprise staff are unaware of the potential for energy
efficiency gains, using different types of technology or equipment. Generally speaking, however,
this barrier is not as large in Romania as some other countries: enterprises and supporting units tend
to have strong technical staff who are aware of many of the opportunities. The major barrier is the
lack of commercial orientation among technical staff, a widespread lack of understanding of financial
packaging or management, and isolation from financial institutions. This is a legacy of the command
economy. Unless this barrier is overcome, enterprise technical staff will continue to have difficulty
convincing their own management of the financial benefits of energy efficiency investments, let
alone skeptical bankers. Finally, making sense of balance sheets and cash flow statements is still a
challenging task in former command economies, particularly in still unstable macroeconomic
situations.
B.3.2 Strategic Choices
Barrier Removal Strategy
To overcome the barriers above and break the longstanding logjam impeding energy efficiency
investments in Romania will require at least three basic things:
*   A proven track record of commercially profitable energy efficiency projects, achieved without
subsidies to end-users. To convince lenders that a number of risks are only perceived and can be
managed, and that initial costs of getting into this specialized business are worth incurring or can be
partially avoided due to prior experience, they need to see the results of successful projects.
*   Institutional development whereby provision of finance and specialized expertise in the technical
appraisal and optimal financial packaging of energy efficiency projects are combined in one
institution, providing easy access for enterprises seeking financing for such investments.
*   Increased flow of information, training and technical assistance to assist potential clients to identify
and prepare commercially attractive energy efficiency projects.
This proposed project is designed to address foremost the first two requirements, through the
establishment and operation of a specialized fund (the Romanian Energy Efficiency Fund, or FREE), for
which GEF would provide the seed capital. Through a technical assistance component, the project will
provide the means for project development, training of partners in project development, and generation
and dissemination of information to potential financiers and borrowers about the benefits to be achieved
with energy efficiency investments.
The project will closely coordinate with the UNDP-executed GEF project "Capacity Building for GHG
Emission Reduction through Energy Efficiency Improvement in Romania," which centers on providing
some of the solutions needed in the third item mentioned above. The main focus of the UNDP project is
to address needs to provide increased practical information to all participants, and to assist enterprises in
identifying and preparing commercially attractive energy efficiency projects. The UNDP project does not
address the urgent needs to develop an effective mechanism for providing substantial amounts of
financing for energy efficiency investment. The proposed Bank/GEF project provides for investment
- 7 -



follow-up to the UNDP/GEF project. During project preparation, UNDP has been represented in the
national Working Group to promote such synergy and the UNDP/GEF project is currently being
restructured with an increased focus on project development activities covering all sectors, thus
improving prospects for a successful collaboration.
Rationale for GEF Support
The current situation in Romania provides an excellent case for a GEF contingent finance investrnent
operation (see Annex 4 for an introduction of the contingent finance concept)-there is both a strong
need for a GEF catalytic role, and the operation of the Fund provides exceptionally high leverage for
GEF funds. GEF lead participation is critical for the project-without GEF's involvement in capitalizing
the Fund, the project cannot proceed in a reasonable time frame, based on the history of the last five
years and discussions with various IFIs and donors (including IBRD). Perceived high risks and
transaction costs involved in supporting energy efficiency investments within the currently undeveloped
market continue to cause lenders to pursue other opportunities and agendas. Without GEF involvement, a
baseline scenario would include a certain degree of progress, e.g. on capacity building and some
investments financed mostly from enterprise intemal funds, but meaningful market-based energy
efficiency investment will remain suppressed, as the basic problems which have impeded investment in
the past remain unsolved. While some enterprises may attempt to seek domestic financing for energy
efficiency projects, especially if there is special donor support, the very high transaction costs posed by a
disinterested banking community stifle even the best intentions-after a point the potential benefits of
one or two projects are just not worth the extraordinary effort.
With GEF support to establish the Fund, both the demonstration value of profitable projects and the
institutional means to attain them are expected to expand domestic financial institutional involvement in
this market through co-financing agreements. The contingent finance concept also offers exceptional
direct GHG reduction value for GEF investment. With successful operation, ultimate costs to the GEF
will only include a small technical assistance component (initially estimated at US$ 2 million) and the
time value of the GEF funds placed in the Fund. Costs per ton of avoided carbon emissions achieved may
be under US$1 (see Annex 4). After successful implementation of the Energy Efficiency project,
remaining GEF funds would be available for use in other priority GHG reduction efforts in Romania.
In its initial phase, the Fund is expected to concentrate on financing low-risk, win-win projects in
commercially viable companies in the industrial sector. In later phases, with more experience, the Fund is
expected to expand its portfolio to other sectors such as heating infrastructure or public buildings where
payback times tend to be somewhat higher.
The Romanian experience is expected to be replicable in other countries of the region where a similar
potential for energy savings and GHG emission reductions through increased investments in energy
efficiency exists and where only scant domestic commercial financing for energy efficiency is available
for similar reasons as in Romania. Examples are Bulgaria, Slovakia, Ukraine, and Russia.
- 8 -



C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
GEF financing of US$ 10 million has been approved under Operational Program 5 to support the
establishment and operation of an Energy Efficiency Project Development and Financing Facility. This
facility will be operated under the Romanian Energy Efficiency Fund (FREE or the Fund) that has been
set up as an independent, autonomous legal entity in a private-public partnership. GEF funds will be used
to capitalize the Fund and partially defray initial transaction costs.
FREE is overseen by a Board of Administration (BoA) consisting of members from both public and
private sectors. FREE is administered by a small professional management team, headed by an Executive
Director, and including a Financial Controller. FREE will enter into a performance contract with a
professional fund management firm which will manage the investment aspects of the Fund in a
commercial manner, in charge of identifying, developing together with clients and financially structuring
sub-projects to finance to assure a sound portfolio in terms of sectors, risks and terms. The Fund seeks to
make a profit, with investment financing to clients on commercial terms. The Fund is designed to be
self-sustaining after an initial period of three years by revolving the GEF funds. GEF funds are
non-reimbursible and Romania will be allowed to use funds remaining at the end of the project for other
GHG emission reductions and related activities.
Active partnerships with commercial financing institutions, leasing companies and energy service
companies (ESCOs) will be strongly encouraged. In addition to financial services, the Fund will offer its
clients expertise in energy efficiency to support them in project development and financial packaging.
Technical assistance from the GEF contribution and donor funds will provide support for the latter.
Commercial Co-financing
The initial capital for the fund will be provided by GEF. The project is, however, designed to attract a
substantial amount of commercial co-financing. Based on discussions with potential co-financiers
(foreign banks with Romanian branches, Romanian Banks, multilateral agencies and private foreign
capital sources) the Project design is very flexible and allows for both parallel and direct co-financing
arrangements.
*   In a parallel arrangement, each co-financier retains control over his own funds and coordinates
with the fund manager in the following ways: sharing the deal flow; sharing due diligence,
consultants and structuring concepts; and harmonizing the terms of financing among different
financing sources, so that the client signs only one financing contract and interfaces with a single
point of contact, namely the Fund Manager.
*   In a direct fund management arrangement, the co-financier would instead establish a dedicated
account over which the Fund Manager would have control (but not ownership). In this case, the
Fund Manager is empowered to make disbursements from the account for any transaction
approved by the Fund Manager (within the context of the Fund Management Agreement between
the co-financier and the Fund Manager) with or without the express consent of the co-financier.
Under either arrangement, the Fund could take subordinated positions, pay a small commitment fee, offer
guarantees, etc., especially in the beginning stages of the implementation, to provide incentives for
co-financiers. Since GEF funds and co-financiers' funds will not be commingled, procurement and
-9-



disbursements under the project would not be influenced by co-financing arrangements. Further, all
co-financing agreements will be subject to review and approval by the Bank.
Co-financing Prospects
Several commercial banks have indicated that they are interested in undertaking parallel commercial
lending with FREE, with FREE's role seen as arranging the parallel commercial financing and
coordinating the transaction (and in some cases originating the deals). Several of those banks have
provided non-binding letters of interest. However, it may be possible to have a direct fund management
arrangement with certain foreign capital sources due to the diseconomies those foreign sources may have
in working on individual transactions (unless they have a local implementing agency). The Black Sea
Trade and Development Bank (BSTDB) has confirmed its interest to evaluate a more structured
co-financing arrangement after the first year of FREE operation, covering an amount of at least US$3
million. The financial instrument could be 3-5 year senior lending to a financial intermediary, or an
offshore vehicle jointly with other co-financiers, or BSTDB could work through existing partners in
Romania such as SEAF or Banca Romanaesca.
Several key factors weigh heavily on the success of the co-financing, namely:
* Degree to which the co-financiers believe the Fund Manager will have autonomy to operate the fund
in a purely commercial manner, free from political interference from GoR, FREE and its Board;
*   Quality and credibility of Fund Manager selected;
*   Perception by co-financiers that there is a viable demand for financing for energy efficiency projects
that meet the eligibility criteria of FREE, while also providing an attractive risk and financial return
profile to the co-financiers.
The Project design and the procurement process for recruitment of the Fund Manager address the
concerns of co-financiers. They are expected to join when the first successful deals have been concluded.
Hence the implementation of the Project would have to commence through GEF financing initially. From
the perspective of financial sustainability of the Project, the financial analysis (see annex 4) shows that
this is not adversely affected by the absence of co-financing because income to FREE from co-financing
would constitute only a small share of overall income.
Project Components
Investment Financing (US$ 8 million)
Loans for Investments: Loans will be made on a commercial basis to creditworthy customers from this
fund that will revolve with interest and principal payments flowing back into it for additional loans.
Borrowers who have good growth prospects will be targeted and where the energy savings from the
investments will generate positive cash flows, will be partially used to repay the loans. Loans will be
made in US dollars or in dollar denominated local currency; repayments will also be made in dollar
denominated local currency. The client will thus bear the exchange rate risk.
In the first phase, the Fund will focus primarily on financing projects within restructured and/or
privatized industries, which can establish basic creditworthiness. Eligible projects will be limited to those
meeting certain criteria to minimize risk and maximize the potential for success. Guidelines for eligible
projects are summarized as follows:
*   The projects and/or the Fund's financial support are expected to be in the range of US$100,000
to US$ 1,000,000. Projects outside the range are not necessarily excluded; however, financing for
-10-



projects with large financial contribution from the Fund would have to ensure adequate
risk-coverage, including sharing of risks with commercial cofinanciers.
*   A well diversified portfolio of projects to assure a balanced risk-return to the Fund.
*   Project to have a relatively short payback time (generally under three to four years).
*   At least 50% of each project's benefits have to come from energy savings (e.g., process or
capacity improvements that have ancillary energy savings benefits are not eligible); and,
*   The technology must be well proven in the proposed application to avoid technological risk.
The main energy efficiency technologies that meet these criteria are burners and boilers, variable speed
drives, condensers for power factor improvement, compressors, controls, steam traps.
Other Types of Financing: In addition to lending, project financial support may include equipment
leasing, payment for services, and/or various combinations of these. The Fund is designed to be flexible
both in terms of product mix and terms such that the Fund Manager can offer the financial products
which the evolving market demands. It is currently not expected that the facility would offer partial credit
guarantees. A partial credit guarantee would be appropriate if the financial sector would refrain from
lending for energy efficiency due to a high default risk which is not the issue in Romania. Equity is
another important part of the overall menu of financing instruments to further energy efficiency.
Convertible, mezzanine and equity investments provided by the Fund should follow at a later stage, when
sufficient debt investments have taken place to assure revolution of funds, and only if market conditions
require it and when exit is feasible.
Fund Operation: FREE's financial transactions willl start up slowly in the initial years and wiml not be
sufficient to generate a fee income adequate to cover the set up and operating costs of FREE initially. As
experience is gained, the number of projects can be increased sufficiently, achieving self-financing of
FREE after about three years. Analysis during project preparation has shown that the project will need to
have an implementation period of at least eight years to be able to signal a sustainable operation. With a
positive external environment, the most likely outcome will be that almost all the initial seed capital will
be returned to the Romanian government for use in other projects dedicated to the GHG reduction
agenda.
The actual investment implemented under the project will be a multiple of the initial capitalization. The
Fund will revolve, and the interest payments and principal repayments will be used for new loans. It is
expected that investment of more than US$ 63 million will be financed during FREE's expected duration
of 8 years. This amount will have been triggered by GEF seed capital of US$ 8 million and other funds,
including a minimum 20% contribution to project costs by the borrowers and commercial co-financing of
about US$ 13 million.
Leveraging of GEF Funds: The project is being developed in the spirit of "contingent finance" as a GEF
financing modality (see Annex 4), and might be considered as a pilot project in the World Bank's
execution of new contingent finance modalities: Aside from a small component of the project supporting
capacity building and above-standard market development costs, GEF resources for investments will be
on-lent to end-users at commercial rates for regular medium-term investment loans. In essence, the Fund
will buy down current perceived risks and transaction costs to allow lending at regular commercial rates.
Over time, the need for this "buy-down" should be reduced, allowing self-sustaining support through the
market. If implementation proceeds as planned, GEF investment resources will be retained through the
remittances of the loans (or perhaps grow), for allocation to other GHG reduction purposes at the end of
the project (see Section F for exit strategy).
GEF resources will be very highly leveraged. Leveraged financing includes, in particular, the growing
- 11 -



financial resources provided by the largely private-sector enterprises through their repayrnents of the
enterprise loans. In essence, for performing loans, enterprises will have paid 100% of the investment
costs when the loans are repaid, and the Fund will have paid no net investment resources. The amount of
financing for energy efficiency purposes also will be increased through the co-financing agreements with
other financiers.
It should be noted, however, that the contingent finance arrangements of this project are expected to
bring exceptionally high leverage for GEF funds even if participation of other financiers is small or
non-existent at project inception.
Recycling offunds: FREE will maintain all funds returned to it, including interest and other incomes
from investments, in a revolving fund account which will also be used for financing eligible projects. All
such re-use will be subject to the same criteria as applicable to the subprojects financed from the GEF
funds under the project.
Technical Assistance (US$ 2 million). This component covers three broad areas:
*   Capacity building part includes activities in initial project development, workshops and seminars for
partners and clients, training for fund manager and partners in energy efficiency financing
techniques, and monitoring and evaluation (estimated cost $500,000);
*   Fund management part includes retainer fees of the Fund Manager for the first three years (estimated
cost $900,000); and
*   FREE administration part includes its set-up and running costs during the first four years (estimated
cost $600,000).
Capacity Building: The first category of TA covers tasks directed mostly towards potential clients and
partners of FREE to enable the development of successful investment projects and strengthen the
necessary partners of the fund in providing essential services and generating and disseminating
information to potential financiers and borrowers about the benefits to be achieved with energy
efficiency investments. It is in this TA category that the project will actively collaborate with several
other organizations (see below). More specifically, TA is required in the following areas:
*   Project development: During the first three years, energy audits and feasibility studies will have
to be carried out to develop bankable proposals that have good chance to be financed by the
Fund. For the first projects, the Fund may cover the total cost of the proposal; very soon however
the clients will have to contribute to the development, with their share of the cost rolled into the
loan amount (estimated cost of US$ 150,000).
*   Workshops/Seminars: In order to support project development, partners of the Fund (consultants,
ESCOs and other aggregators) will receive know-how to develop proposals targeted at the
requirements of the Fund and potential clients also have to be educated through outreach
activities about the benefits of energy efficiency investments and the procedures of the fund. The
material for these two kinds of activities has to be developed on the basis of success stories and
development of promotional materials. It is expected that at about midpoint of the project, an
intemational seminar on the FREE experience and replication potential will be organized
(estimated cost of US$ 60,000).
*   Technical capacity building and development of altemative deal structures for energy efficiency
investment for both the Fund Manager and selected partners such as ESCOs and Business
Advisory Centers (estimated cost of US$ 90,000).
*   Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) activities are paramount for the success of the project. Since
it is expected that a large number of projects will be implemented over the lifetime of the project,
- 12 -



M&E efforts will have vary over time in their intensity. In the beginning of the project
monitoring of project implementation and verification of energy savings and C02 emissions,
including reporting to GEF, will be intense. For the first projects, and those that will test
investments in new sectors, different technologies, or other innovations, a verification of the
actual savings will take place. For projects that are replicating previous projects, a short M&E
form will be developed. During the first few months of project implementation, an M&E
methodology and an implementation plan will be developed. The M&E information will provide
the basis for the development of success stories to be used, e.g., in the outreach activities
(estimated cost of US$ 200,000).
Fund Management: The second part of the TA covers the retainer fee for the Fund Manager during the
first three years. This fee is intended to cover all costs of the Fund Manager, including deal origination,
due diligence and selection, contract finalization, portfolio management, etc., related to the Fund as well
as exploring and concluding co-financing arrangements. The TA will cover this fee during the first three
years of the contract and the Fund will cover such fees thereafter from its own income when the Fund is
expected to become self-financing. The performance contract of the Fund Manager is designed to provide
the incentive to realize self-financing targets through actively seeking to place funds in investment
projects; at the same time, the success fee payable on net asset value of the Fund at the end of five years
will balance the risk-return for the portfolio and ensure that the long-term sustainability of the project is
actively pursued by the Fund Manager.
FREE Administration: The third part of the TA covers FREE's administrative costs, which include set-up
costs and running costs. The set-up costs cover the initial infrastructure (facilities, computers,
communication, etc.) and the running costs cover the salaries of the staff of FREE, costs of the BoA and
the investment committee, communications costs, transportation costs of key staff and members of BoA,
logistics, etc. The TA will finance FREE's administrative costs fully during the first year and on a
declining proportion basis over the next three years. Accordingly, FREE will be expected to cover
gradually increasing portions of its annual operating budget from its own income. The annual limits
proposed for covering these costs by the TA are 100%, 90%, 75% and 50%, respectively, over the four
years.
Donor Support for TA
Donor support is most likely to come in the form of tied or in-kind contributions for capacity building
activities. Discussions with UNDP/GEF and EcoLinks have indicated a firm commitment of these two
organizations in collaborating with FREE in pipeline development, training and dissemination activities
with in-kind investment. Other potential donors, particularly USAID and GTZ have both indicated
support in project development activities under their existing TA activities focused on Romania. In
addition, there are also reasonably good prospects of receiving some TA funds from CIDA and from EU
Phare.in the next two years, and from DFID in the outer years. The exact nature and scope of such TA
collaboration will have to be defined as and when specific donor support become available, but it is
unlikely that such arrangements could be firmed-up before start of the Project. The Project thus has to
rely initially on GEF funds. As and when donor funds become available, the GEF TA funds will
correspondingly be reallocated to the Fund's seed capital for investment financing.
- 13 -



F .    - .~  ;.          - ~Indlcativef .  _  -'B nk; ~--- [ '.of- - -GEF. -
'Component                               t -      - . --- - -  -Ct- -  --  f  -.-n ninclnh-  EF
,._--  :.- -%' .>-'- -t- :'   * .  _ =-_ --  Co ~ _M  1n aJ tI foig  acn6k  - USM i), fln nIng
Investment Financing                        32.00    94.1    0.00      0.0     8.00   80.0
Technical Assistance:                        2.00     5.9    0.00      0.0     2.00   20.0
Capacity Building
Fund Management
FREE Administration
Total Project Costs  34.00   100.0   0.00      0.0    10.00   100.0
Total Financing Required  34.00   100.0   0.00      0.0    10.00   100.0
Note: Sub-project sponsors and cofinanciers will finance US$1 I million equivalent and US$13 million equivalent respectively.
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
None; the project is expected to be implemented successfully within the current Romanian policy and
institutional environment. The project will support the implementation of the energy efficiency law,
which requires large energy users to develop energy efficiency programs to reduce their energy intensity,
by making available a source of funding for energy efficiency investments by energy users.
3. Benefits and target population:
The project benefits include energy savings and related savings in energy bills and improvements in air
quality. The project beneficiaries are foremost the clients of the Fund who implement investment
measures to reduce energy consumption, ESCO companies who serve them and suppliers of equipment
through increased sales. In the first phase of the project, FREE clients will be companies in the industrial
and commercial sectors, which will also benefit from greater productivity and improved competitiveness.
In the second phase of the project it is expected that the building and public sectors will be ready to apply
for commercial credit and finance projects that would benefit also the general population by reducing the
cost of basic infrastructure services and improving comfort. The Fund Manager as well as co-financiers
will participate in the successful Fund operation through higher earnings.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Implementation Arrangements
The project beneficiary is a newly founded entity, the Romanian Energy Efficiency Fund (FREE). It has
been set up through Emergency Ordinance No. 124 of October 8th, 2001 (published in Official Gazette
Nr. 644 on October 15th, 2001, and subsequently approved by the Parliament). FREE is an independent,
autonomous legal entity; specialized in financing energy efficiency investments in Romania on a
commercial basis. FREE will be the final-recipient of the GEF grant through the Ministry of Public
Finance on the basis of a subsidiary grant agreement and an implementation agreement with the Bank.
FREE has a Board of Administration (BoA) of seven persons, with representation from both public and
private sectors. The two public sector representatives have been nominated by the Ministry of Industry
and Resources (MoIR) and by the Ministry of Water and Environmental Protection (MoWEP). The five
members from the private sector include two individuals with strong financial background. The BoA has
been constituted and has started to carry out its functions.
- 14-



- ~~~~~~ Minans"ofOte
*obs -~              o Manag -   i |   !  .  '  . -t~G Agreement-- ........... -  ' ':-ate r
--i-.  Fmancing  -   - .  EE                  n
FRe     aminda70nistered by a small pl mtAgencv  a  d  b an :u .c          B o
th Excuiv Dieco a -.:->  ,Fnd th Financial Cotole hav bee seete an confrme by th Bo  An
office  - m        ,anager wil coplt the. tea afe effctvenss The' Exctv'ieco'n tfwlaru
eBarnk' sandartods .
FREE willb assiisteed by a separat professional Fudmanageren form hallinestment axcutivites aDirpcor.tfolio
manaemEenut.v Tietr nhe FundMangerdevlop Clintsole hand proects selense and evaluates b them unerAkesn
the tchnicnal,r fianiallan crmpedteaayi,adpeae the transarefetiees.Thxcution packaes.tPojectd stffinancingou
tepropoaljecomplmendedio byd the Invetmnt-ote.Tecommercial aspects of the project, will be lefiznmntorn
tod tevaFundtManae whoilfelc projectseslsn dseiaccriong Patof the criEriFe out irnth omonetrac with FReue.
fot ihscuca thatks The EenutityDretrwilb in charge of thsrjc otoiaealcin adecsionrvsinga srctnslyat cmeiald
meanner atovidemostrt thldigattenracigy efficiencisal bankabl busianines and thepojmatimize prFits.nTeiFal
Managoler will alobee tesognsberate tangbeitretlh financial maaeetapctsommunit troj  principrate withth
ManaEr will be asuppoted from sprthe projetfeelsopa udMngrfralivsment activities patofteTAudedh projet.oi
mngmn.The Fund Manager wlbehrdudereloa five-yea contrajct., ThreeFnd Manage remaunteration, icunderaesa
rtaier feehia, denncal oinatind orei cnlosingfe and arsuccess fe.the tretsacione fekaeis. Partlyc fixedandcprtl
dpendsonal prerfrmane;e it wil bnestpaidtfromrntheeTA duringche first thuborntee yersan thereoaftrd from cnithe
Fund'sas incorme.nhedealb ontheInvelstrngn femite. wilhe padbcorrowers,iin linet withe proeva ilnge mareft
norm ahFnd practiceei whomnaThsucsfe will bec paidct fromin t the nrtri et asst vaueo the Fundac atithFEE
end fcuca ta the ontrac peiod Thare pormane basjedt pretaoine feke inludecsos incetie foriexpndin thmera
Lete i-15t
Mangerwil alo nedto eneatetanibe iterst n te inacia comuntyto artcipte it
co-finncing The Fnd Maager wll cosist  fiasmlte;itwlnedoouorcanmbrf
Fund'sincom. Thedeal rigintion/losn  e l  b  adb borrower,ilnewtpevlngmkt
norEEms andministered by aRomalla profucessionalil maaeen teaifrm, theae net anssecaueftive Fundeator Bthe
endor thes cotraskseio. The ExcuieDrecormance baed rtinchrer ofselectingcludesupnervivsin onsulantsandinh
relaed ativties incudig atractng dditona dono c-fiacn otepoet hiaca



client base of the Fund, while at the same time ensuring that defaults are minimized (see Annex 12 for
details). After year 5, there is an option for FREE to negotiate an additional 3-year contract. In addition
to income generated from FREE operations, the Fund Manager wll be able to generate income from other
co-financing agreements. The Fund Manager will disclose to FREE all income to be received from other
sources (clients, co-financiers, etc.) in the performance of his functions under the contract with FREE to
preserve transparency. The Fund Manager will be selected by, or soon after, effectiveness of the project.
It is expected that FREE will administer GEF funds for about eight years. According to the financial
model developed for the project, this implementation time is sufficient to cover the initial losses of the
project and thus signal a successful operation that the private financial sector can then take over (see
annex 4). The World Bank project implementation period however will last only 5 years, during which
GEF funds will have been fully disbursed. FREE has agreed to ensured that appropriate monitoring and
evaluation of energy efficiency activities continues after project closure. The exit strategy (see section F)
foresees that GEF funds (minus any contingent grant and the TA component) will be pulled out of the
Fund at a time when the success of commercial energy efficiency financing has been demonstrated and
private sector has taken over financing for energy efficiency. This will be indicated by the increasing
self-financing ratio and positive net asset value of the Fund, based on a turnover of a large number of
projects, and participation of the commercial financial sector in co-financing schemes.
The GEF funds will be returned to the GoR for use in other GHG mitigation projects in Romania that are
in line with the GEF global objectives. However, there is a non-negligible chance that the Fund will not
be successful. This will be indicated by the fact that prospects of becoming self-financing are remote
after about three years, meaning that FREE is far from achieving the benchmark of 100% in year four; in
this case, the Bank will advise FREE to take steps to minimize costs to match available revenues or close
the project if so warranted.
Client Interface and Services
FREE is marketing itself as a one-stop shop and client-friendly. Accordingiy, its internal procedures will
have to be streamlined, in order to provide efficient services, in project development as well as in
financial products. The Fund Manager will be the public face of the Fund for the clients, and the FREE
administration and investment committee as well as the Board of Administration need to be committed to
make the two-tier structure work as smoothly as possible. Co-financing agreements should provide
clauses enabling the client to sign only one financing contract and having to deal only with one provider
of financial services.
In order to inform clients on services provided by FREE/Fund Manager a coherent communication
strategy will be developed and implemented within six months after the Fund Manager's selection. A
website for FREE promotion is already in place (www.free.org.ro) and will be improved based on
emerging information and stakeholders requirements. The website will provide information enabling
potential clients to quickly determine whether they are eligible for FREE services. Through this medium
and other more traditional means such as seminars, workshops, trade shows, mass media, etc., the
potential clients will be informed on the benefits of energy efficiency investments, eligibility criteria for
projects to be financed by FREE, loan conditions (interest rate, grace period, repayment time schedule,
collateral, environmental and monitoring requirements), FREE procedures including the time for an
application's assessment, existing organization already trained in preparing project, training
opportunities, and so on.
Selected partners such as professional and employers associations, ESCOs, and Business Advisory
Centers have been already contacted and informed on FREE future services. During the initial
- 16 -



implementation period of the project, these stakeholders will be exposed, through workshops and
seminars, to the know-how so as to develop proposals targeted at the requirements of the Fund. The Fund
Manager will also work with appropriate partners in the development of techniques to bundle small
projects, to provide financing for projects proposed by less creditworthy clients through innovative
structuring techniques, etc.
For the first projects, the Fund may cover the total cost of developing bankable project proposals;
thereafter, however the clients will have to contribute to the development, with their share of the cost
rolled into the loan arrangements.
C.4.1 Financial Management and Procurement
FREE will assume full responsibility for project implementation. It will produce supervision reports and
will be responsible for project financial accounting, monitoring and procurement financed under the TA.
The Executive Director will be in charge of the day-to-day management of FREE.
Financial Management Aspects (see Annex 6B for detailed review of Financial Management
Arrangements)
FREE will be in charge of all the financial management aspects of the Project. All financial management
and disbursement procedures will be in accordance with the relevant World Bank guidelines. FREE has
established and will maintain a project financial management system (FMS) in a format acceptable to the
Bank and in accordance with OP/BP 10.02 and the Bank's Financial Management policies and
procedures. This includes suitable staffing, an accounting and reporting software system, planning and
budgeting arrangements, intemal control procedures, disbursement mechanisms and auditing
arrangements.
Before Board presentation, a World Bank accredited Financial Management Specialist performed a
detailed assessment of the system in accordance with the Bank's OP/BP 10.02 and determined that the
Project meets the minimum financial management requirements. Additional actions and steps agreed with
the grant recipient to further strengthen the system are included in the FM Action Plan (see Annex 6B).
Financial Accounting and Reporting: FREE will keep separate Project Accounts, by each financing
source and by each project sub-component, by each financing agreement and by activity. FREE will
prepare quarterly Financial Monitoring Reports (FMRs) for the Project in accordance with formats
agreed with the Bank. The FMRs will be submitted to the Bank no later than 45 days after end of each
quarter. The first quarterly FMRs will be submitted after the end of the quarter in which disbursements
commence, most likely Q4 of 2002 and thus will be due on February 15, 2003.
Audit arrangements: FREE and the project annual financial statements will be audited each fiscal year in
accordance with Bank guidelines, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank, based on terms of
reference agreed with the Bank. FREE has agreed to conclude a contract with selected auditors,
satisfactory to the Bank, within three months of effectiveness of the project. Copies of the audit reports
will be submitted to the Bank within six months after the close of the fiscal year (calendar year). The
audit report will cover the FREE Financial Statements, the Project Financial Statements, Special and
Project Accounts' Statements, as well as all Statement of Expenses (SOEs).
Disbursements: Disbursements from the GEF Grant will be made based on traditional disbursement
methods (i.e., from the Special Account with reimbursements made based on Statements of Expenditures
(SOEs) and full documentation, and direct payments from the Grant Account). FREE will establish,
- 17 -



maintain and operate, under terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank, a separate Special Account
denominated in US$ at a commercial bank acceptable to the Bank. FREE will also use separate project
accounts for the other development partners' contributions to the Project.
Procurement Arrangements (see Annex 6, Table Al for selection methods for consultant services)
The procurement of goods and services of the Bank financed components will be procured in accordance
to the Bank procurement guidelines. The project components not financed by the Bank will be procured
in accordance with the national regulations or the co-financing institutions procurement regulations. The
project elements, their estimated cost and procurement methods are summarized in Tables A and Al of
Annex 6. A procurement plan detailing the packaging and estimated schedule of the major procurement
actions is presented in Table D of Annex 6. All other procurement information, including capability of
the implementing agency, date for publication of GPN and the Bank's review process is presented in
Table C of Annex 6.
The Bank will review, regardless of value, terms of reference, RFPs, evaluation reports and draft
contracts of all consultants financed by the Bank. Expenditures under the incremental operating costs
category will be reviewed annually.
C.4.2 Disbursement Arrangements
Most of the disbursements are expected to be made from the Special Account due to the small size of
payments and the nature of operation (FI). The use of Statement of Expenditures (SOEs) will be allowed
as noted herein. The Financial Controller of FREE has received training in Bank procedures and
requirements, including in the preparation of quarterly Project Management Reports.
Disbursements toward sub-loans (Fund investments under category 1) will be made against sub-loan
agreements approved by FREE's BoA. It is expected that borrowers willl contribute at least 20% of the
costs of their projects. Disbursements toward Fund Manager retainer fee (category 2) will not be made on
the basis of SOEs. Disbursements toward technical assistance and consultancy contracts (category 3) will
be made on the basis of SOEs, subject to a threshold of $50,000 for firms and $20,000 for individuals.
Disbursements toward incremental operating costs of FREE (category 4) will be made against SOEs and
the maximum limit each year will be 100% up to December 31, 2003; 90% up to December 31, 2004;
75% up to December 31, 2005 and; 50% up to December 31, 2006. Disbursements are expected to be
direct payments from the Bank only in the case where FREE's clients and consultants express preference
for this procedure because of nationality of supplier or the size of the contract.
FREE will open a Special Account in a commercial bank acceptable to the World Bank. The authorized
allocation and initial deposit into the Special Account will be US$1.0 million. During the first year, total
disbursements towards technical assistance are expected to be about $650,000 and disbursements
towards sub-loans are expected to be about $1.6 million (against a commitment of US$2.0 million).
C.4.3 Supervision, Monitoring and Reporting
A significant supervision effort will be required, particularly during the first three years when FREE will
establish itself and its operations and coordination with the co-financier will be established. It is expected
that about 15 staff-weeks of effort each year for the first three years and about 10 staff-weeks each year
thereafter will be required for supervision by the Bank.
Project monitoring and evaluation activities will be carried out under the responsibility of FREE, which
will submit quarterly progress reports to the Bank within 45 days of the end of each quarter. Project
monitoring will focus on a set of key financial, technical, and institutional data to ensure that the project
meets its objectives. The financial information required reflects key issues that need to be addressed to
- 18 -



ensure that FREE achieves its self-financing status within a set period. The technical information focuses
on the implementation of energy efficiency projects and the extent to which they can be used for
dissemination of best practices. The institutional issues concern the effective and successful
collaboration of FREE administration, Fund Manager, co-financiers and other project partners.
The Bank will carry out a mid-term review of the project not later than mid-2005. In addition to the
topics covered under the Project Management Reports, the mid-term review will include an in-depth
review of the institutional and financial viability of FREE and the impact it has had on energy efficiency
improvements and the transformation of the market for energy efficiency financing. Based on the
outcome of the mid-term review, the Bank will advise FREE and the government to take measures to
ensure that the project is successfully completed or to close the project earlier than scheduled if so
warranted.
An Implementation Completion Report (ICR) will be prepared by the Bank with inputs from FREE no
later than six months after completion of the project. The ICR will evaluate how well the objectives of
the project have been met, the overall performance of the project, the performance of FREE and the Fund
Manager, and lessons learned.
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
For the energy efficiency financing component, several alternatives were considered by the projecct team
under ESMAP assistance and rejected:
*   Energy efficiency fund administered by ARCE, the Romanian Agency for Energy Conservation in
the Ministry of Industry and Resources. This had been proposed in one of the first drafts of the
energy efficiency law. However, while ARCE has extensive experience in technical evaluation of
energy efficiency projects and has good connections to energy consumers through its regional
offices, it has very little experience in financial evaluation of projects and potential borrowers and in
financial engineering. ARCE has no commercial expertise. In addition, its budget was severely cut in
early 2001, as a part of general reductions of public budgets, limiting further its activities,
particularly of its regional offices.
*   Energy Efficiency credit line administered by a commercial bank. This approach was chosen by
EBRD for its Energy Conservation Financing Scheme. However, the Romanian bank had little
interest or expertise in the project, nor any incentives to develop this specialized business.
Consequently, no loans were made, resulting finally in project cancellation.
*   Guarantee fund available for financial intermediaries. In Hungary, a IFC/GEF-backed project using a
partial credit guarantee seems to have catalyzed commercial financing for energy efficiency through
ESCOs. In Poland, a similar mechanism was chosen for an IBRD/GEF ESCO project in the building
sector. This instrument is most suitable if the banking sector is already engaging in medium-term
lending for investment purposes. In Romania, the banking sector is still being restructured and does
not seem to be ready for this kind of credit enhancement operation.
*   Support solely for ESCO activities. In several Eastern European countries, energy service companies
(ESCOs) have become active, frequently with financing from multilateral agencies, and some of
them seem to be quite successful. In Romania, the ESCO concept is still largely unproven; two
ESCOs are currently struggling with no or very limited access to financing, and a newly formed third
has just received funding from the EBRD, mostly for activities in the district heating sector.
Nevertheless, the Fund proposed here will support, work with and provide financing for any ESCOs
that are able to develop and implement viable projects, as one promising vehicle for channeling
investment financing.
- 19-



*   Direct funding of major EE investments. While some demonstration effect could be expected from
extending loans to some Romanian enterprises for well-defined investments in energy efficiency, it
would probably not lead to an uptake of market-based energy efficiency financing by the financial
sector in Romania. One reason is that companies to be targeted with energy efficiency loans would
need to have very sizeable energy consumption and saving potential. These companies exist in
Romania, but most of them are still state-owned and need to be restructured and privatized.
Given the above experiences and observations, plus the indications during project preparation from
commercial banks in Romania about their lukewarm interest in commercial loan activities for energy
efficiency projects and strong reservations to participate as financial intermediaries in the project, the
project team proposed to set up a special, independent Fund which would have both financing funds at its
direct disposal and direct access to financial and technical energy efficiency expertise.
Without GEF involvement, a baseline scenario would include a certain degree of progress, but
meaningful energy efficiency investment will remain stifled, as the basic problems that have impeded
investment in the past remain unsolved. The estimates of energy savings under the baseline are based on
the level of energy efficiency investments in the past few years, projected into the future, in the absence
of the proposed GEF project. Most end users, particularly in the industrial sector, would use their own
funds to implement low-cost energy efficiency measures. In addition, the district heating and ESCO
financing schemes of the EBRD would allow a limited number of end-users in other sectors to finance
basic investments.
- 20 -



2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
Latest Supervision
Sector Issue                     Project                 (PSR) Ratings
(Bank-financed projects only)
Implementation  Development
Bank-financed                                                 Progress (IP)  Objective (DO)
Improved power supply efficiency and Power Sector Rehabilitation   S            S
structural reform in the power sector  and Modernization
reform
Structural reforms in the utility and  PSAL I                      S            S
financial sector
Structural reforms in the financial and PSAL II
energy sectors; privatization of
state-owned enterprises
hnproved oil and gas E&P, transport  Petroleum Sector Restructuring  S          S
and distribution and sector reform
Other development agencies
Improved efficiency of district heating EBRD: District Heating
systems                           Rehabilitation Scheme
Improved efficiency of energy services EBRD: ESCO Financing
for the public and municipal sectors  Scheme
Capacity building for energy efficiency UNDP/GEF
improvement                       Capacity Building for GHG
Emission Reduction through
Energy Efficiency
Improvement
Project development to improve energy USAID/SECI
efficiency of public buildings and  Energy Efficiency
district heating systems (to be financed Demonstration in Constanza
by EBRD)
Project development to improve energy USAID/EcoLinks
efficiency
Improve operational, financial and  GTZ
energy efficiency in the district heating
sector
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
Project design has drawn extensively on the varied experience with energy efficiency activities in
Romania (see D. 1), on worldwide experience with energy efficiency funds that was gathered mostly at an
ESMAP-sponsored international workshop on energy efficiency funds (see
http://www.worldbank.org/html/fpd/esmap/esmap.html), and on other international experience with
financing of energy efficiency and environmental investments.
-21 -



In the case of the EBRD credit line some essential requirements for a successful operation were not
fulfilled: The entity in charge of financing energy efficiency projects needs to be experienced in
packaging both the technical and financing aspects of energy efficiency investments into bankable
proposals. In particular, it needs to have access to project development funds or to a group of advisors
with whom it can establish alliances in order to identify and develop good projects. The agency also
needs to have a financial stake in the successful performance of the Fund. All of these elements are part
of the design of the proposed project.
Among the most important lessons learned from Energy Efficiency Fund experience worldwide -- which
is confirmed to a large extent by lessons of experience with Environmental Funds - are the following:
1. Maximize the transparency of procedures; minimize governrment interference in financing
decisions. Establish and operate the Fund as a business, not a technology deployment system;
profit-making should be an objective of the Fund.
2. Use existing market players (i.e., banks) for functions (e.g., collections) where possible. In any
case, make sure that financial and technical-economic appraisals are of high quality. Due diligence
must be performed by professional staff with incentives for good performance.
3. The financing institution needs to be very proactive in the development of a project pipeline.
Marketing, particularly to senior management, is a critical step in the success of a Fund. Use third
parties such as ESCOs or industrial associations to market and develop projects for the Fund, thus
avoiding high transaction costs.
4. Focus on short term loans for projects with high rates of return. Avoid placing funds in a few
large loans; spread the risk through many projects. Fund financing should cover only a portion of the
project costs; the borrower should have equity in the project. Lend only to credit-worthy clients;
establish high credit-worthiness criteria, which are rigorously enforced. Full collection of interest and
principal repayment is an overriding concern.
5. Small projects have high transaction costs. They need to be packaged by partners such as ESCOs,
or very simple mechanisms have to be designed which avoid costly audits and feasibility studies,
such as a list of standard energy efficiency measures.
6. Monitor thoroughly to ensure the funds were spent on the project, the project was implemented
properly and operated as designed; monitoring provides an early warning for any problems.
7. Some experts believe that Energy Efficiency Funds require lower than market interest rates to
attract clients and/or some other enhancements for potential customers, such as project development
support.
Lessons 1-6 are reflected in the design of this project. The project team however believes that subsidized
interest rates are not conducive to the creation of a sustainable market for energy efficiency financing.
The intent is to price the financial products on terms that are generally consistent with the nascent
corporate finance market in Romania. The proposed Fund will however set itself apart by offering to its
potential clients its combined expertise in energy efficiency, structured finance and credit analysis, as
well as project development support. Furthermnore, it is expected that the Fund will not engage in
over-collateralization as most Romanian banks do, but rather structure its financial products in such a
way that the cost savings from the energy efficiency investments will result in positive cash flows
following loan payments. CommeTcial banks in Romania will be drawn into the project as conmnercial
co-financiers and as partners of the Fund Manager, carrying out a range of banking services.
-22 -



4. Indications of borrower and recipient commitment and ownership:
The Government of Romania has acknowledged that improving the efficiency of energy use and, hence,
reducing the country's energy intensity, and protecting the environment are critical priorities for attaining
sustainable development. The cabinet of ministers requested the World Bank in a letter of October 21,
1999, approved by the Prime Minister, to support the preparation of a GEF-funded energy efficiency
project. The GEF Focal Point in the Ministry of Environment requested PDF-B grant and execution of
the grant by the World Bank (see Annex 14). As a result of this high-level endorsement, a Working
Group was established with participants from the key public agencies involved and from the private
sector. Until the establishment of FREE, the Working group met regularly to support national consensus
building, review project preparation progress, provide comments and guidance on specific TORs for the
consultants, review their recommendations, and ensure finalization of outputs acceptable to the Working
Group and the Bank.
The current Government that came to office in January 2001, collaborated with the project preparation
team in the structuring of FREE and facilitated its establishment through an Emergency Ordinance,
approved by the cabinet in October 2001.
Interest among the public and private sector in the new financing facility for energy efficiency
investments is high. During identification and preparation activities there has been wide consultation and
high level participation from diverse stakeholders, including government, the private sector, banks, civil
society, whose support and commitment are central to the outcome of this project.
5. Value added of Bank and Global support in this project:
The involvement of the Bank and GEF in the project is regarded as essential in overcoming the gridlock
in energy efficiency financing in the country. Energy efficiency efforts are at an impasse, and frustration
is high among Romanian stakeholders. The lack of an integrated, coherent govermnent policy and
leadership has resulted in marginalization of energy efficiency proponents as opposed to a productive
team effort. The energy efficiency law, by itself, is not expected to change energy efficiency investmnent
activities in Romania dramatically, since any funding sources proposed in the law are at best uncertain.
Donor financing has generated many studies, but funding for investment has been very limited, in overall
amounts as well as in sector focus, i.e. energy efficiency improvements in the district heating and public
building subsectors.
The Bank's stature in Romania, and its expertise in fmnancing innovative energy efficiency projects
worldwide are considered as essential to make a difference and get things going in Romania. The current
situation in Romania provides an excellent case for a GEF contingent financing investment
operation-there is both a strong need for a GEF catalytic role, and the operation of the Fund provides
exceptionally high leverage for GEF funds. GEF lead participation is critical for the project; without
GEF's involvement in capitalizing the Fund and supporting initial project development, there is no
question that neither the Fund nor the project can proceed in a reasonable time frame, based on the
history of the last five years and discussions with various IFls and donors (including IBRD). Perceived
high risks and transaction costs involved in supporting energy efficiency investments within the currently
undeveloped market continue to cause lenders to pursue other opportunities and agendas. With GEF
support to establish FREE, both the demonstration value of profitable projects and the institutional means
to attain them are expected to expand domestic financial institutional involvement in this market, through
increasing cooperation with FREE.
- 23 -



E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments-are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
Cost benefit'   NPV=US$ million; ERR = % (see Annex 4)
Cost effectiveness
* Incremental Cost
Other (specify)
FREE has been set up to finance investments in subprojects improving the energy efficiency of
equipment. This will lead to reduced energy consumption per unit of output and thus cost savings. The
subprojects will be selected by a professional fund manager and will meet the eligibility and development
criteria agreed between FREE and the Bank, ensuring that the subprojects are financially viable and
technically, cornmercially, managerially and environmentally sound. Experience with energy efficiency
projects in the region and the market analysis carried during project preparation show that these project
typically reach rates of return well above 15%. Since relatively few energy efficiency projects have been
financed to date in Romania, it is expected that the Fund will have an ample supply of economically
viable projects. The challenge will be to identify the viable clients proposing those projects.
As explained above (see section C. 1), the Fund is expected to be the only financing facility available for
the foreseeable time to finance energy efficiency projects in the targeted companies. The analysis of
corporate lending and the energy efficiency market assessment show that only a small number of certain
industries with access to foreign credit (i.e., well-performing Romanian 'subsidiaries of foreign-owned
firms)- can secure funds at very favorable terms and conditions to undertake energy efficiency
investments in the absence of FREE, and some other industries finance lower cost rapid payback energy
efficiency measures from internal sources. Those investments form the baseline against which the results
of the GEF project are measured. Projections from the market survey data indicate that baseline
investments amount to about $5.5 million per year, totaling $44.5 million for the 8-year horizon of
FREE's operations. This represents energy savings under the baseline scenario of 107 million GJ of
saved energy, or avoided carbon emissions of 1.7 million metric tons. The GEF case (Base Case,
assuming no cofinancing) shows a net increase in investment in energy'efficiency of $45.2 million over
the baseline scenario. The incremental cost will not be known until the project closes, as it is predicated
upon the Final Value of the contingent grant. The final cost of the project is the TA Grant ($2 million)
plus the Final Value of the Contingent Grant (-$807,000 in the reference case). The total cost of the
project in the reference case is $1.19 million, and the incremental GEF cost per metric ton carbon
avoided is $0.69 (see Table C in Annex 4).
The Fund requires a large deal flow in order to generate sufficient revenues to recover overhead and
operating costs in the first years of the project. Co-financing will allow to defray the losses from the
initial years of operation, to mitigate exposure and spread risk over a wider portfolio of loans, to
minimize the level of the GEF contingent grant amount and, most importantly, to generate sufficient
momentum to ensure sustainability in the market for efficiency lending in Romania. There is a powerful
incentive, both for the FREE and for the Fund Manager to attract co-financiers to participate in the
financing of energy efficiency projects. This will allow the Fund to mitigate risk from a catastrophic
(100% of loan) default and will increase net returns because potential co-financers will contribute to the
transaction costs of making loans by paying fees to the Fund, estimated here at 3.5% of the total
co-financed loan, on a project-by-project basis.
A realistic amount of cofinancing that might be forthcoming from interested cofinanciers such as Black
Sea Trade and Development Bank or several commercial Romanian banks is estimated at a total of US$
13.5 million over 8 years. Assuming that these funds are not available for revolving, they will increase
the overall amount of energy efficiency investments by US$ 16 million. This will lead to increased
-24-



energy savings and carbon reductions over the baseline of 148 million GJ and 2.3 million metric tons,
respectively. The contingent grant will thus be a negative 1.1 million, leading to incremental GEF cost of
US$ 0.38 per metric ton of carbon avoided.
2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=USS million; FRR = % (see Annex 4)
FREE Administrative Costs
FREE is a newly established financial intermediary. It is independent from the govemment and has
attracted competent staff for its management and qualified persons to serve on its BoA. Achieving
self-financing is an important outcome, signaling significant success of the Project. 'Self-financing means
that FREE will be able to cover its operating costs and Fund management costs from its operating
revenue. Operating costs include all administrative expenses including project management costs,
retainer fees for Fund manager, consultancy costs and any debt write-offs, including provisions as per
law. Operating revenues include interest income and fees from Fund financial operations, co-financiers,
interest on cash balance and any other income accruing to the Fund under the project. Financial analysis
shows that FREE will start receiving income from the second year of its operation, gradually increasing
as investments (loans) generate income. The analysis also shows that FREE could be expected to become
self-financing after a period of three years. The Project thus aims to reach complete self-financing during
the fourth year of operation. Accordingly, the annual targets of self-financing ratio to be achieved by
FREE are: 20% for the second year, 50% for the third year and 100% for the fourth year. The TA funds
from the GEF would be excluded from the income of FREE for the purpose of calculating self-financing
ratio. Income remaining after meeting operating costs are to be utilized for investments in energy
efficiency through the revolving fund. Since FREE's administrative costs represent a discretionary
overhead after a certain level, the annual operating budget of FREE will be reviewed and approved by the
Bank and monitored through quarterly reviews in order to ensure that FREE's overheads are kept at
minimum possible levels, to ensure efficiency and maximize the funds for investments.
Fund Management
While investments would provide the income to the Fund, it could be affected by either lack of demand
or default(s) or both. The performance contract of the Fund Manager will be designed to provide the
incentive to realize self-financing targets through actively seeking to place funds in investment projects;
at the same time, the success fee payable on net asset value of the Fund at the end of the contract will
balance the risk-return for the portfolio and ensure that the long-term sustainability of the project is
preserved by the Fund Manager. The majority of funds in the financial markets around the world are
predominantly-equity type, supported by venture capital, which have high upside potential for both
investors and Fund managers. Predominantly-debt funds are not common, and funds dedicated for
environment have begun to appear only recently. In order to attract qualified Fund Managers, appropriate
incentive structure including retainer and success fee were proposed under a performance based contract,
and FREE has received four bids from qualified firms.
The financial model incorporates the results of the market assessment, the institutional set-up of FREE,
the expected operating costs of the FREE administration and the fund manager, and the expected
co-financing based on extensive discussions with co-financiers. The results (Annex 4) indicate that the
key variables that have most impact on the Fund's total return are the credit spreads, default rates and
number of loans made. High initial disbursements greatly improve fund performance and quicken
sustainability, thus devoting sufficient TA to development of the initial pipeline is of great importance.
- 25 -



Fiscal Impact:
The project does not have a negative impact since FREE is independent from the Government and does
not rely on any budgetary support. It is expected that the project will have an indirect positive impact
through its barrier-reducinig activities and market-transformation character. The project will not displace
any financing sources but instead fill a gap (see Section B and Annex 4). Enabling a large number of
enterprises and other endusers of energy to invest in energy efficiency projects will increase productivity
and competitiveness. The ensuing positive fiscal impacts include higher import taxes, and eventually
increased income and profit taxes. The investment in energy-saving technologies will contribute to a
reduced demand for energy imports and thus a lower deficit in the current account balance.
3. Technical:
Sufficient demand for financing from FREE is a key factor for the success of the Project. Accordingly,
intensive market survey work was carried out during project preparation. Annex 11 summarizes the
estimated market potential for energy efficiency investment in Romania, with particular emphasis on the
industrial sectors that have both good economic/technical potential, and prospects to have creditworthy
customers. The potential market for commercially viable energy efficiency financing has been
conservatively estimated at about US$ 210 million. Due to the current economic situation, it is expected
that for the first years of FREE operation, only projects in creditworthy industrial companies will be
financed, though the overall market for viable projects should grow dramatically over the life of the
project, including also the building sector and municipal services.
The projects to be financed should have the following characteristics: relatively short payback time,
investment to be in the range of US$ 100,000 to $1,000,000, at least 50% of each project's benefits have
to come from energy savings, and the technology must be well proven in the proposed application to
avoid all technological risk. The main energy efficiency technologies that meet these criteria are burners
and boilers, variable speed drives, condensers for power factor improvement, compressors, controls,
steam traps. Since some of these technologies are fairly new to many applications in Romania, their
installation and operation will still need the development of special skills in the engineering trade in
Romania. Except for projects carried out under performance contracts, the risks that the technologies will
perform and deliver the savings expected will lie with the end user. The Romanian markets for these
technologies are generally well served by a large range of local producers and dealers of imported
equipment.
The market assessment has identified the conservative overall potential in several industrial sectors, and
also a subset that may serve as initial year pipeline projects. Any project pipeline can only be indicative,
as all final investment proposals will be selected by the Fund Manager and endorsed by the Board of
Administration. Several case studies have been developed which are included in the project files. The
market analysis, however, identified a fair number of companies that can be considered as good
prospective clients for the Fund in the short- to medium-term. Many of these companies were represented
at the FREE launch workshop in November 2001. Romanian experts are now supporting a number of
interested potential clients in the development of detailed bankable investment proposals, which will
serve as the initial pipeline for consideration of the Fund Manager.
During implementation, project development will be actively pursued:
- by the Fund Manager whose terms of reference require this activity;
- through FREE outreach activities such as workshops and seminars targeted at potential clients;
and
- through collaboration with other organizations active in energy efficiency project development
and capacity building (see Section C).
Demand could be adversely affected by macroeconomnic factors. Since the macroeconomic outlook is
- 26 -



encouraging and since Romania exhibited resilience in the face of the current global downtum, this factor
is not considered a major risk. In addition, the proposed size of the Fund is fairly small compared with
the overall market potential. The creditworthiness of borrowers may limit the off-take from the Fund;
however, structured financing techniques should help finance projects where the investments could be
insulated from corporate risks. On the positive side, the recent and continuing adjustments of energy
prices provide intrinsic incentives to firms and other users to undertake energy efficiency investments.
4. Institutional:
The Structure and Establishment of the Romanian Energy Efficiency Fund (FREE)
FREE was established in October 2001 based on an emergency ordinance. It has a two-tiered
organizational structure, consisting of a Romanian Energy Efficiency Fund (FREE), which will receive
the GEF funds through the Govemment of Romania, and a Fund Manager in charge of the investment
operations. FREE will have the role of project implementation unit, but will also be responsible for
attracting donor co-financing to the project, and for implementing the non-commercial aspects of the
project. Within the limits of this structure, the Fund Manager will have as much freedom as possible to
detemine the Fund's portfolio. By requiring that financial professionals have the majority in FREE's
investment committee, other than commercial considerations in the selection of projects and clients are
minimized.
Identifying partnersfor project development
FREE needs to link closely with existing entities in Romania that can participate actively in project
development. Manufacturers, suppliers and dealers of energy efficiency equipment, various industry
associations, ESCOs, engineering finns, and business advisory centers have connections with industries,
and their own particular interests which could be harnessed to identify projects for the Fund and support
potential clients in the preparation of projects. A "finders fee" of 1% of project loan has been included in
the financial model to reflect the cost of developing the pipeline, which is estimated to be sufficient
compensation to potential partners. Many of the potential partners require training in order to provide
effective project pipeline development services; see Section C.
4.1 Executing agencies:
Romanian Energy Efficiency Fund (FREE)
4.2 Project management:
The smooth operation of the new public-private institution constitutes a risk. This will however be
minimized by the existence of clear bylaws, an operational manual, rotation of the chair of FREE's BoA,
and a market-based sitting fee for the Board members, thus eliminating any inherent interest in
interfering in commercial decisions. The Operational Manual includes all aspects of project
'implementation and constitutes the policy basis for FREE's operation, and FREE has adopted the Bank
approved Operational Manual.
4.3 Procurement issues:
None
4.4 Financial management issues:
The first CFAA (Country Financial Accountability Assessment) for Romania is planned to be carried out
in late 2002 - early 2003. When fmalized, the document will present in detail the financial management
risks for the country and the implications for the World Bank operations. From the financial management
perspective, the Project is considered a significant risk operation, the details of which are presented in
- 27-



Annex 6B. The risks to which the project is exposed and the specific measures to mitigate them are
summarized below.
Country generic risks
After several steps in cleaning the Romanian banking system carried out over the past years, materialized
in a significant number of commercial banks being liquidated, the banking systemic risk is still generally
perceived as being significant. The latest couple of cases announced very recently by the Central bank
confirm this aspects, as some commercial banks are regarded as not very safe. The main problems reside
in asset quality, bad-loans percentage, liquidity problems, relatively high foreign currency exposure,
sometimes fraudulent operations, etc. It is perceived that by opening the Special Account at the a sound
commercial bank, acceptable to the Bank, the banking risk is kept at an acceptable level.
Inflation and USD/ROL exchange rate evolution remain a major problem for Romania. Despite a
significant improvement over the past years, inflation for the year 2000 was 40%, while the ROL
devaluation was 42%. The inflation for the year 2001 was reported as 30.3%, while the USD/ROL
exchange rate has increased by 21.9% over the same period. The Government estimated the inflation for
the year 2002 at 22%. The risk for this project is that all cost estimations may be affected by inflation.
This was tackled by using a stable currency for estimates (USD) and updating the ROL equivalent
amounts using the exchange rate at the time of payment.
Romania's public sector financial management still needs significant reforms. There is a certain lack of
accountability in the Governnent's overall accounting and reporting functions. The SAI (Court of
Accounts) is playing its role only to a limited extent, with long delays between the period covered by its
reports and the dat*e these are finalized, thus being outdated by the time of issue (e.g. the report for the
year 2000 was presented in the beginning of 2002). All these aspects lead to a significant risk in respect
of the public sector financial management.
During the recent past fraud, waste and abuse of donor funds have become issues in the region. Perceived
corruption as reported in the press is principally in the area of procurement. Prior and post review of
procurement under the project will be carried out to mitigate this risk.
The risk that the Bank's funds will not be used as intended for financing the defined investment program
is judged as acceptable by introducing several measures, such as the 'ring-fencing' of the project through
the establishment of a dedicated entity (FREE) to implement the project, a comprehensive staffing
structure with segregation of duties within FREE, competitive selection of a professional fund manager,
independent annual audit of FREE and project funds by a reputable audit firm.
The Government of Romania had a few audit items overdue as at 30 June 2001 on a small number of
Bank projects, and it remedied the situation during the second half of 2001.
- 28 -



Project specifilc risks
One risk is the FREE and the fund manager assuming the authority and responsibility for every aspect of
the project, thereby exposing it to possible risks of collusion and corruption. To address this risk: (i) all
financing contracts will be signed jointly by the FREE executive director and finance controller (each of
them with a back up which is a high official, such as a member of the FREE Board); (ii) the contract with
the fund manager to be selected will cover all aspects of the portfolio management, from the initial
screening of potential clients, to the selection mechanisms and throughout implementation of
sub-projects, including repayment of the loans.
The second risk is that the project may be exposed to delays in payments to suppliers due to the
signatures required on GEF funds and the possible unavailability of other sources of financing (public
and private contributions to the project). The FREE will have full rights to operate the GEF special
account and all the signatures required will be obtained in a timely manner. The fund manager, having a
commercial orientation, will be proactive in securing other sources of financing and ensure that these
financing sources are available in a timely manner. In addition, these financing sources will be parallel
financing and their temporary unavailability will not impact the disbursements from GEF funds.
The third risk relates to the fact that the FREE was just recently established, so the experience with the
World Bank procedures is limited. By having selected as key staff qualified professionals, with
experience in project management and financing, banking procedures, budgetary statutory requirements,
trade and commercial accounting skills and auditing, it is perceived that this risk can be kept at a
moderate level. Further, traning has been provided to FREE's financial controller in the Bank's
disbursement procedures and financial management aspects.
Overall, the above mentioned risks are considered as manageable due to the various risk mitigations
measures proposed. Annex 6b presents in detail the full description of the risk mitigation measures.
5. Environmental:                 Environmental Category: F (Financial Intermediary Assessment)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
Environmental Issues: No adverse major environmental issues are associated with this project which is
specifically designed to generate energy savings. Investments will reduce fuel consumption and/or
encourage the use of less polluting fuels which in turn will improve air quality. The Fund will not invest
in those projects where process changes may negatively impact the environment.
Replacement of materials and equipment may lead to dust and noise emissions. Replacement of old
insulation material may involve asbestos removal, and assurances must be provided that any new
insulation materials are acceptable under Romania's commitments to the Montreal Protocol.
Environmental Categorv: Fl (Financial Intermediaries)
Justification/Rationale for categorv rating: All project components should, during operation, provide for
substantial reductions in the use of fossil fuels in general and/or replacement of polluting fuels with
cleaner fuels. There may be some minor adverse effects during construction/ replacement activities.
Status of Category A assessment: N/A
- 29 -



Proposed Arrangements to address environmental issues:
During project preparation, the project team carried out an evaluation regarding the adequacy of current
Romanian environmental laws and institutions to address potential environmental issues associated with
subprojects to be supported under the project. Following is the summary of this evaluation: Romania has
very comprehensive environmental legislation that approaches the EU environmental regulations and
guidelines. The only missing regulation concerns asbestos management. It is expected that this issue will
be addressed in the upcoming revision of the Law on the Environment. Secondly, the capacity of the
individuals with the responsibility for overseeing and reviewing EIAs is very high. However, the physical
capacity of handling the enormous workload in this area is wanting.
FREE's Operational Manual, which will be made available through FREE's web site, includes an
environmental section describing the EA procedures for the project and the institutional mechanisms for
the environmental screening and assessment.
The Fund Manager will be responsible for screening the subprojects and ensuring that necessary
follow-up actions are taken. The environmental screening and assessment procedures will apply to all
subprojects financed by FREE, and not just the ones financed through the initial capital for the Fund
provided by GEF. The staff of the Fund Manager will receive environmental awareness training. A set of
guidelines and screening mechanisms has been adopted in the Operational Manual of FREE which will
enable the Fund Manager staff to determine the general environmental effects that a project will have for
which a loan is being requested and identify those projects, expected to be in a minority, requiring an
environmental assessment. The target investments for FREE financing involve small to medium sized
projects for replacement of old polluting technologies and thus are expected to fall under category C or
B. In case of category B projects, the preparation of environmental management plans approved by the
local environmental protection agency usually will be a condition of financing. Large projects under
category A are not the target of this project. However, should such a large project (e.g. cogeneration) be
considered with shared financing under cofinancing arrangements, the clients will have to prepare an EIA
which will be reviewed and approved by the Bank. For projects in categories A and B, affected groups
will be consulted.
In order to be eligible for financing, the subprojects need to meet all Romanian environmental
requirements, approvals, and procedures, and shall be consistent with the World Bank environmental
policies and procedures, as well as the guidelines of the Banks Pollution Prevention and Abatement
Handbook. Any client of FREE needs to have valid operating permits and must not have any
environmental liabilities in terms of pollution fees and fines, including any pending environmental
related litigation. In case the prospective client does not have a valid authorization issued by the
Romanian authorities, he has to provide evidence that the company has applied for them, and which steps
have been made so far in the authorization process. In accordance with the Romanian legal provisions, an
economic agent has the permission to further operate until the finalization of the authorization process, if
a Corrective Action Plan (Conformity Plan) has been agreed upon with the environmental protection
agency.
After loan approval, the Fund Manager will be required to monitor the enviromnental compliance.
Indications that compliance is not being met will lead to consultation with the local environmental
protection agency that will pursue the necessary action, and will be reported to the Bank.
Status of any other environmental studies: N/A
Local groups and NGOs consulted: See E6.2.
- 30 -



Resettlement: N/A
Borrower permission to release EA:  N/A
Other remarks: None
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
N/A
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft:
N/A
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe
mechanisms of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
N/A
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
N/A
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
No social hardships are anticipated as a result of the project. The project will initially concentrate on
lending to private sector companies in potentially competitive subsectors of industry which has a history
of very high energy intensity. By investing in energy saving measures, those companies will be able to
reduce their operating costs, increase their product quality and improve competitiveness on internal and
external markets. The population will benefit through increase in employment. In a second phase, the
portfolio of the fund is expected to include projects in the municipal and building sectors, thereby
making basic infrastructure services more affordable and improve the comfort of the general population.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups:
There is a widespread interest within public and private sectors to identifying and implementing
sustainable mechanisms to finance energy efficiency investments. During identification and preparation
activities there has been wide consultation and high-level participation from those stakeholders, whose
support and commitment are central to the outcome of this project:
* Companies in the industrial sector who will be the potential clients for the Fund, and their
associations;
* Manufacturers, contractors and other service providers, for example, ESCOs, research institutes
and engineering and consulting companies, but also associations, catering to the industrial and other
sectors, who are targeted as partners and allies of the Fund;
* Companies in the financial sector, particularly banks, but also leasing companies, who are
targeted as co-financiers and potential partners of the Fund; and
* Actors in the environmental sector, particularly those interested in global environmental issues.
- 31 -



High-level management and energy managers of companies in the industrial sector, identified as the
primary target for financing energy efficiency investments, have been engaged during the market
assessment. However, this has been on a rather general level with the purpose of informing project
design, rather than developing a project pipeline. This will be the responsibility of the future Fund
Manager who will be in charge of making all commercial decisions. The other main target of outreach
activities are the partners with which the Fund might cooperate during project identification and
preparation. Among those potential partners are associations of industrial and small and medium
enterprises, manufacturers and suppliers of energy efficiency appliances, sectoral research institutes,
energy service companies, and others. This broad-based participation and public involvement was
intensified during the latter stages of project preparation. In November 2001, a workshop and investors'
conference was held which assembled all project stakeholders and further familiarized them with FREE.
Other key stakeholders:
See a. above
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
See 6.2
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
N/A
6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?
N/A
7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Do any of the following safeguard policies apply to the project?
y: .; -~~~~~Wo^- Poicy    ~ ,-- ;~:-  Y,  _- :-   -   '.7.- -   = -       -   -  :_   .:~
~~  %~j~#9.~~s~ PC cy.....~~~. -.         .T~:zA$   p ica.bifityL-   --
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)          * Yes ') No
Natural Habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                  K Yes * No
Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                   K) Yes w No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                     K) Yes * No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                 () Yes P No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                  K) Yes * No
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                         9 Yes * No
Safety of Dams (OP 437, BP 4.37)                             '9 Yes * No
Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)  '9 Yes* No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)*         Yes * No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
See section 5.e.
- 32 -



F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
The project promotes the market-based, commercial funding of energy efficiency projects. The
development of a sound portfolio of projects which are financially and economically viable and
presented by creditworthy borrowers will be ensured by entrusting lending decisions to a professional
management which will adhere to a set of preset conditions and whose income will be determined to a
large extent by the performance of the Fund, i.e., its profitability.
While the Fund would be able to significantly increase funding for energy efficiency investments in
Romania over the baseline on the basis of the GEF capitalization alone, (see Annex 4, financial model),
the ultimate success of the Fund depends on being able to attract commercial co-financing which will
only be the case with a string of early successful deals and with the perception of a commercially focused
operation. The Fund will thus foster, through both demonstration effects and explicit partnerships,
expanded investments by other market players, such as commercial banks or energy service companies.
The sustainability of energy efficiency financing will be enhanced further by the Fund engaging a range
of partners and allies in commercially focused project development and other project implementation
components. These partners will have received training in combining technical and financial skills and
will have had opportunities to use them during project implementation. It is expected that they would
continue to offer those commercial skills after project implementation.
The exit strategy (see below) foresees that GEF funds (minus any contingent grant and the TA
component) will be pulled out of the Fund at a time when the success of commercial energy efficiency
financing has been demonstrated. The fund's loan portfolio could be sold by soliciting bids and thus
dissolving FREE in a transparent, competition-based manner. Alternatively, interested parties could take
over the commercial aspects of the fund, again under a competitive mechanism. The GEF funds will then
be used for other GHG mitigation projects in Romania that are in line with the GEF global objectives, as
described in the implementation agreement.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found in the fourth column of Annex 1):
K' in.i~kiK;~i7"~             Risk RatiinK                           A - RiskM iti ti -Mesue
From Outputs to Objective
Projected energy savings and improved     S        -Collaboration with qualified engineering and
cash flows do not materialize                      financial consultants during project
development
-Comparison of saving predictions against
benchmarks during project due diligence
Energy price signals do not encourage     M        -Adapt project design and targeted borrowers
end user interest in implementing energy           to economic situation
efficiency measures
Fund clients do not repay loans           S        -Professional Fund Manager thoroughly
screens clients and monitors them during
repaymnent period
-Design and use of inmovative collateralization
Market-based skills are not adapted and   M        -Choose partners and specialists who have an
used by technically trained specialists            incentive to develop & use market-based skills
From Components to Outputs
Effective Fund Manager cannot be          M        -Procurement process has started in December
-33 -



secured and retained                               2001, and the Fund Manager is expected to be
in place by grant effectiveness
FREE overhead costs surpass critical      M        -Cost of FREE overhead is capped during first
limit                                              three years of project implementation
-Cost estimates have been validated extensively
during project preparation
-Adequate incentives for cost control in
management performance contract
-Collaboration with experienced partners
Energy con'sumers are unwilling to        S        -Development of an indicative project pipeline
borrow for EE investments                          before grant effectiveness
-Partners in project identification and
development are trained and receive finder's
fee for projects accepted for financing
-Project identification and development and
marketing of the facility is pursued vigorously
by Fund Manager and partners
Adequate cofinancing cannot be secured    M        -Fund Manager is clearly commercially
oriented and FREE Board supports investment
recommendations
-Fund investment successes are disseminated
actively among potential cofmanciers
-Fund Manager and FREE staff pursue
commercial and donor financing actively
Failure of early projects does not        M        -Project development activities targeted at most
demonstrate viability                              viable segment of the market
-Careful selection among creditworthy
borrowers and projects with high success rates
-Tie remuneration of Fund Manager to
successful performance of early projects
Overall Risk Rating                       S
Risk Rating -. H (High Risk), S (Substantial Rlsk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
- 34 -



Risk Analysis and Mitigation
Commercial financing of energy efficiency projects in Romania is fraught with risks. The proposed
project recognizes the existence of those risks and is developing mechanisms to defray them to the extent
possible. This is reflected in the overall rating of "S" for the project, even though many risks are modest
as noted in the table above.
The most important general risk mitigation tool is the flexibility of the financing mechanism. The Fund
Manager needs to be able to change and adapt financial products, targeted clients, partners and allies to
changing circumstances for the Fund to become profitable. The implementation agreement between
World Bank and FREE specifies the key features of the Fund's operation, as also the contract between
FREE and the Fund Manager. The monitoring and evaluation includes lead indicators which will allow
for quick management decisions.
Key risks include:
* Macroeconomic conditions discourage energy efficiency investments: The macroeconomic
situation is still relatively unsettled in Romania. Recent indicators point to improvements with
industrial activity picking up, particularly in the export sector. It is expected that the situation will
continue to improve, particularly with a new Government in place. If, however, the economy falls
back into a slump, demand for financing of energy efficiency projects would be repressed. In that
case, the Fund Manager would need to identify other targets for investment financing which are less
vulnerable to general economic performance such as municipal services and buildings. If this strategy
also fails, the Fund Manager and the FREE management would need to reduce overhead costs and
gear towards a smaller operation.
* Energy consumers are reluctant to borrow for energy efficiency investments. The project is
designed to mitigate this risk by collaborating with partners in project identification and development
who already have established connections with potential Fund clients. Those partners will be trained,
particularly in the packaging of bankable projects, under the GEF TA component, and they will
receive an incentive in form of a finder's fee for projects accepted for financing. In addition, the
Fund Manager will engage in intensive marketing of Fund products, particularly with senior
management of targeted clients. One particular reason why b'orrowers might be reluctant might be
that energy price signals do not encourage end user interest in implementing energy efficiency
measures. Energy prices in Romania are increasingly market-based. Should they fall in real terms,
prospects for quick-payback projects would be diminished. In that case, the Fund Manager would
need to concentrate project development in those technologies and sectors which are less affected by
energy price reductions. In fact, the highly favorable financial returns of many current energy
efficiency investments suggests that some downside price risk can still be absorbed.
* Projected energy savings and improved cash flows do not materialize: Only proven energy saving
technologies, which have delivered sound energy savings in a variety of circumstances
internationally, will be eligible for financing. Due to the lack of experience with the implementation
of energy saving technologies in Romania, feasibility studies may overstate energy savings, actual
costs may differ, or contractors may be inexperienced. Any of those factors could impact negatively
on actual savings and financial results. The project will employ a range of measures to ensure that
ensuing risks are minimized: collaboration with qualified engineering and financial consultants
during project development; comparison of saving predictions against benchmarks during project due
diligence; and intensive monitoring of the first implemented projects to ensure that funds are spent
on the measures identified, measures are implemented properly and devices operated as designed.
- 35 -



* FREE clients do not repay loans: Communism has created a non-payment culture which is still
hampering the transition to a market economy. The full collection of interest payments and principal
repayments is, however, of paramount importance for the success of the Fund. The Fund Manager
will thoroughly screen the credit standing of potential clients, and collaborate with partners in the
monitoring of clients and the collection of payments. The Fund Manager is encouraged to explore
innovative collateralization methods and to seek innovative financing schemes that are more oriented
towards the cash flow of the projects rather than the balance sheet of the potential borrower. The
repayments may also be affected by adverse exchange rate movement. In this case, the Fund Manager
will seek to minimize such risks on the overall portfolio through diversification and also selecting
those borrowers who can hedge such risks, for example hard currency earning enterprises.
* Technically trained specialists have difficulty adapting to a truly commercial environment:
During the past ten years, many professionals have been trained in technical energy efficiency skills.
Their financial skills, particularly in the packaging of bankable projects, have, however, been
neglected. For the sustainability of energy efficiency financing, professionals need to combine those
skills. The Fund Manager may want to choose those organizations as partners in project development
that have already demonstrated that they can successfully and sustainably provide services to clients
in the industrial and other sectors, for example some of the business advisory centers, or some of the
sectoral research institutes.
* An effective Fund Manager cannot be secured and retained: The success of the proposed project
hinges on the identification and performance of a professional Fund management team. During
project preparation, extensive consultations with financial experts have taken place to understand the
requirements of the Fund Management position and the ability of the market to provide good
candidates for the position. The recruitment of the Fund Manager according to World Bank
procurement rules started in December 2001, four bids are under evaluation by FREE and contract is
expected to be finalized by the time the project becomes effective. A competitive remuneration
package with incentives for successful performance and credible assurances that government
interference in financing decisions will be minimized are two important factors in being able to
attract and retain professional staff.
* FREE overhead costs surpass critical limits: During project preparation, all cost estimates were
validated extensively. The Fund has been designed to attract professionals, both for administration
and fund management. The collaboration with experienced partners, e.g., from the banking sector,
will contribute to keeping FREE overhead costs under control. Also, the costs of FREE's
administration will be capped, as per the project implementation agreement between the Bank and
FREE.
* Failure of early projects does not demonstrate viability of energy efficiency financing: The Fund
needs to be able to establish a track record of successfully implemented projects from the very
beginning. Only then will the Fund Manager be able to attract further clients and commercial
co-financing. In order to achieve these early successes, creditworthy borrowers and projects with
high success rates need to be carefully selected, implemented and monitored. Tying the remuneration
of the Fund Manager to the successful performance of early projects will further reduce the risk of
early failures.
* Commercial co-financing is not forthcoming: The Fund is designed to start up with GEF seed
capital. With strict cost control and some initial covering of FREE operating costs by GEF TA, the
Fund could become self-financing even without additional co-financing. It will however be difficult
to have a significant impact on creating sustainable financing for energy efficiency investments
unless substantial co-financing is forthcoming. To be able to attract this co-financing, the Fund
Manager will need to signal the Fund's commercial orientation, and to showcase a number of initial
successful projects. The GEF TA component will support putting those first projects together and to
carry out their careful monitoring and evaluation and the dissemination of experiences. The
-36 -



successful solicitation of co-financing will provide additional income to the Fund Manager. There is
however a possible spillover of macro-economic risks: To the extent that returns from energy
efficiency projects are lower than returns from other investments, co-financiers might choose not to
participate in FREE, reflecting the conditions of the financial markets.
In the worst case scenario - protracted economic problems and scant interest of clients to apply for
financing from the Fund - GEF and the Bank would need to exit from the project early (see below).
Under such a scenario, operating costs would not be covered by the return from investments.
Exit Strategy
As a self-sustaining barrier removal project, the monitoring indicators have been set to show early signs
of success or failure. The main indicator is the Fund's self-financing ratio.
If the Fund becomes fully self-financing in year 4 as targeted (this would be known by year 3 latest), the
project would continue to be implemented until GEF funds have been fully disbursed. If FREE's
activities are successful, it is likely to continue its energy efficiency activities for another 3 years. FREE
has agreed to continue with appropriate monitoring and evaluation of energy efficiency activities even
after project closure. During years 6-8, FREE would be encouraged to engage in discussions with the
financial sector in Romania to examine whether it is ready to take over and also continue lending to
energy efficiency investments. In this case, the funds realized by transferring FREE's assets to interested
financial sector participants through a transparent process would be returned to GoR for supporting other
GHG mitigation and related activities in consultation with the Bank and GEF. Accordingly, if the need
for FREE is not established, it would be closed in accordance with the laws and regulations. It is possible
that such exit may happen after year 8.
In the event the Fund does not reach self-financing in year 4, then the Bank will advise FREE and
government to consider the following: (a) Close the project earlier than scheduled, especially if funds are
not available for meeting FREE's operating costs and Fund Manager fees. In this case, FREE would have
to stop further lending activities, terminate the Fund Manager contract and focus on recovering all
outstanding loans. (b) If there are prospects of reaching self-financing in the subsequent years, then
explore other sources of funding for meeting operating costs and Fund Manager fees and minimize such
costs to match the available resources. Under either case, any undisbursed funds will be returned to GEF
at the close of project and the funds recovered by FREE will be allowed to be utilized for other GHG
mitigation activities by GoR in consultation with the Bank and GEF.
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
None
- 37 -



G. Main Grant Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
1. FREE's operating budget for the first year approved by the Bank is adopted by FREE's Board of
Administration
2. The subsidiary grant agreement between GoR and FREE, satisfactory to the Bank, has been duly
executed.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
During project implementation:
1. FREE shall, at all points of time, employ a qualified Fund Manager as its implementation
consultant.
2. FREE shall achieve self-financing ratio (share of operating expenditures covered by operating
income) of at least 20%, 50% and 100% during its fiscal years 2004-06 respectively.
3. FREE shall submit, by October 31 of each year, its draft annual operational budget to the Bank
for its review and approval; and adopt the agreed budget before December 31.
4. FREE shall submit to the Bank quarterly progress reports, including the quarterly portfolio report
of the Fund Manager.
5. FREE shall submit to the Bank for its review the Fund Manager's annual business plan and
incorporate the agreed comments before it is approved by FREE's Board of Administration.
6. FREE shall review with the Bank all proposals for co-financing, including the financing
agreements, and shall not enter into any financing agreement without review and approval of the
Bank.
7. FREE shall hire an independent auditor no later than three months after effectiveness of the
project.
8. FREE shall submit annual audit reports of its financial accounts, project account, special account
and SOEs within six months of the end of the fiscal year.
9. Mid-term review of the Project is to be undertaken in the fourth year of operation.
10. GoR and FREE shall review with the Bank no later than June 30, 2008, a plan for future
operation of the project, including the action plan for the reuse of funds derived from investing in
the subprojects after the close of the project.
11. FREE shall not amend its Operational Manual and bylaw without prior approval of the Bank.
- 38 -



H. Readiness for Implementation
C! 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the
start of project implementation.
C 1. b) Not applicable.
C 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
D 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
L] 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
L  1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
LII 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies
with all other applicable Bank policies.
C~~o 
Varadarajan Atur                  Henk Busz                          Andrew N. Vorkink
Team Leader                       Sector Manager/D rtor              Country Manager/Director
- 39 -



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
ROMANIA: Energy Efficiency
-= ,   _e~'KeyPe -form Dancet- _  at6llecti  St,at
eHi~rarcti     e-f.Qbjectives_ --  -I"d;ators.   ! ,_,  _.' -l              i -  ti         -.a  s 
Sector-related CAS Goal:  Sector Indicators:     Sector/ country reports:  (from Goal to Bank Mission)
Promoting structural    -Increasing share of private -GoR and NBR statistics  Bank Mission:
reform and private sector  industrial sector in GDP,  -National and Local  Private provision of energy
development             investment and lending   Environmental Reports   services without significant
-Recording of real      -Emission Reduction     negative environmental
reductions in air pollution  Monitoring Reports  impact
emissions
-Recording of real
reductions in greenhouse
gas (C02) emissions
Protecting and enhancing
the environment
GEF Operation Program: -Decrease of energy      National Communication to GEF Mission:
intensity of key industries  the UNFCCC         Reduction of greenhouse
Removal of barriers to  and other energy                                 gas emissions, mainly C02
energy efficiency       consumers
-Reduction in the carbon
intensity of the economy
GEF Operational Program:  Outcome / Impact
Indicators:
Sector-related CAS Goal: -Increasing share of    -GoR and NBR statistics  Bank Mission:
* Promoting structural  private industrial sector in  -National and Local  Private provision of energy
reform and private sector  GDP, investment and   Environmental Reports   services without significant
development             lending                  -Emission Reduction     negative environmental
Protecting and enhancing  -Recording of real     Monitoring Reports      impact
the environment         reductions in air pollution
emissions
-Recording of real
reductions in greenhouse
gas (C02) emissions
GEF Operation Program: -Decrease in energy       -National Communication  GEF Mission:
intensity of key industries  to the VNFCCC       Reduction of greenhouse
Removal of barriers to  and other energy                                 gas emissions, mainly C02
energy efficiency       consumers
-Reduction in the carbon
intensity of the economy
-40 -



qw-.. r - 1w                              ,oeeeomaceO- -aa-Ic onar,eyl. _7 ;-;
a H i5ra ch  y    o!v .esL  - l _Ind ica tors   - _._M_-_t____-_, __________ Y_ __________ t_____
Global Objective:       Outcome I Impact        Project reports:        (from Objective to Goal)
Indicators:
Participating industries and - Increase in commercially  - Implementation progress, - Macroeconomic
other energy consumers  financed investment in  evaluation and completion  conditions and
adopt and utilize energy  energy efficiency     reports                 environmental policies do
efficient technologies  - Reduction in energy   - Quarterly updates on  not discourage energy
financed under commercial consumption and energy  status and use of funds  efficiency investments
criteria by FREE and    bills from commercially  -Annual Implementation
cofmanciers             financed investments    and Performance M&E
- Number of financial   Updates
sector institutions engaged  - Surveys of financial
in energy efficiency    energy efficiency activities
financing and their lending
activity
- Strong level of energy
efficiency investments by
end users financed from
external sources
Global Environment      - Number of win-win     - Implementation progress, - Macroeconomic
Objective:              energy efficiency projects  evaluation and completion  conditions and
Improved knowledge and  and associated investment  reports              environmental policies do
availability of mechanisms volume with commercial  -Quarterly updates on  not discourage energy
necessary for financiers  banks participating in  status and use of the GEF  efficiency
and energy consumers to  financing with FREE    facility
finance energy efficiency  - Gradual reduction of  - Annual Implementation
projects, resulting in GHG  GHG emissions from  and Performance M&E
emission reductions     participating industries and Reports
other clients
-41 -



- -  ~    ~       K~I~V       n~Z-- EtI.          InStaYg: 
Output from each        Output Indicators:      Project reports:         (from Outputs to Objective)
Component:
Solid record of         - Gradual increase in the  Implementation Reports  -Projected savings and
performance by FREE in  number of projects                              improved cash flows are
the delivery of         financed and their                               achieved
commercially viable energy associated lending volume                     -Energy price signals
efficiency projects     - Gradual increase in the                        encourage end user interest
investment volume in                            and motivate a full range of
energy efficiency measures                      energy saving measures
financed by FREE                                -Financing facility
- Gradual increase in                           borrowers repay loans
energy savings resulting
from investments financed
by FREE
- Improvements in FREE's
self-financing ratio (target:
100% in year 4)
- Gradual increase in the
number of FREE
cofinanciers and associated
financing volume
Increased capacity by   -Number of projects     Implementation Reports   -Market-based skills are
FREE's partners to identify identified and presented for                 adapted and used by
and prepare bankable    funding                                          technically trained
energy efficiency projects  - Ratings of understanding                   specialists
by end users and energy
efficiency experts trained
by FREE of successful,
financially attractive
energy efficiency measures
-42 -



Project Components /    Inputs: (budget for each  Project reports:     (from Components to
Sub-components:         component)                                     Outputs)
Investment financing:   US$ 32 million         -Implementation progress  -Effective fund manager
* FREE                  * US$ 8 million GEF   reports                 can be secured and retained
* Subproject financing    seed capital        -Supervision reports    -EEFF overhead costs are
through cofmanciers   0 US$ 13 million      -Project management     contained
* Subproject financing    (estimated) from    reports                 -Energy consumers are
from clients' own funds  cofinanciers                               willing to borrow for EE
* US$ 11 million                              investments
(estimated) from                            -Adequate cofmancing can
clients                                     be secured
Capacity building       US$ 2 million technical  -Implementation progress  -Success of early projects
activities:             assistance grant       reports                 to demonstrate viability
* Initial project                             -Supervision reports
development                                 -Project management
* workshops and                               reports
seminars for partners
and clients
* Training for fund
manager and partners
* Monitoring and
evaluation
-43 -



Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
ROMANIA: Energy Efficiency
The Global Environment Facility ("GEF") has approved financing of US$10 million under its
Operational Program 5 to support through a World Bank project the establishment and operation of an
Energy Efficiency Project Development and Financing Facility. This facility will be operated under the
Romanian Energy Efficiency Fund (FREE), and GEF funds will be used to capitalize the Fund and
partially defray initial transaction costs.
Figure: FREE Organizational Structure
~- Investment          Board      Subsidiary   Ministry of  EFunds.  Other
_v, : , -             .&                    -- -              . _ :27 - Door
(Subset f Board    Pn'a=e Sector    _ 1;, .e_e  Public Finance
,, ~~~~~~~~~~~- -Fnhn ...                   Ipeebg-.-Agreernent  World Bank -FuInd5Gs,
ie omm;endabons _, _Acl.=.. --
r~~ ~~ MAngery
;t - -. :. : . _. ~~~Manag ement-Contract-.-~
--Tr  . ---   Financing rPort;o     ii. Manageren Zo-Financing
W         ~~~~Contracts'>               ~         Co-Financing   0 
FREE is an independent, autonomous legal entity with headquarters in Bucharest, Romania. It was
established by the Government of Romania ("GoR") through Emergency Ordinance Nr. 124, approved 8
October 2001, published in Official Gazette Nr. 644, 15 October, 2001. The organizational structure of
FREE is represented in the above Figure. Although the funding will initially come mostly from GEF
(public funds), FREE is independent and separate from any government agency. The Fund is overseen by
a Board of Administration (BoA) consisting of seven representatives from the Romanian private and
public sectors with a private sector majority. The chairmanship of the BoA which changes annually is
initially held by a representative of the Ministry of Industry and Resources, Mr. R. Moucha, State
Secretary. The three-person Investment Committee is a subcommittee of the BoA, and two of its
members are financial experts. The Fund Manager can sit in on meetings of the Investment Committee
and relevant portions of Board meetings. The Investment Committee will review all proposals submitted
by the Fund Manager and make its investment recommendations to the Board for final decision through
majority voting. FREE is administered by a small professional management team, headed by an
Executive Director (ED) whose main responsibilities are to provide overall management of the project
and serve as the main liaison with the World Bank and the GoR during project implementation. FREE
will enter into a performance contract with a professional Fund Manager who will manage the investment
aspects in a commercial manner, in charge of selecting which projects to finance to assure a sound
portfolio in terms of sectors, risks and terms. The Fund Manager will report directly to the ED.
-44 -



By Component:
Project Component I - US$8.00 million
Investment Financing
Initially, the Fund is designed as a revolving debt fund. The target projects and investment guidelines of
the Fund can be summarized as follows. In the first phase, the Fund will focus primarily on financing
projects within restructured/ privatized industries which can establish basic creditworthiness and have no
major environmental problems. Eligible projects will be limited to those meeting the following criteria:
*   The project must have a relatively short payback time (generally under three to four years);
*   The investment be in the range of US$ 100,000 to $ 1,000,000 (to minimize transaction costs on
the low side, and to limit exposure from a limited number of projects on the high side);
*   At least 50% of each project's benefits have to come from energy savings (e.g., process or
capacity improvements that have ancillary energy savings benefits are not eligible); and,
*   The technology must be well proven in the proposed application to avoid technological risk.
The main energy efficiency technologies that meet these criteria are burners and boilers, variable speed
drives, condensers for power factor improvement, compressors, controls, steam traps.
The Fund is expected to provide the following financial products for energy efficiency projects in
Romania:
*   Cash-flow based term loans made directly to end users (either based upon cash flow of the
project plus the creditworthiness of the end user or on projected cash flow alone);
*   Cash flow-based loans made to energy service companies ("ESCOs") on a project-by-project
basis; and
*   "Performance" loans where FREE partners with a supplier consortium and offers a total project
package including engineering, equipment and financing.
In addition to debt financing, project financial support may include equipment leasing, payment for
services, and/or various combinations of these. Loans will be made in US dollars or in dollar
denominated local currency; repayments will also be made in dollar denominated local currency.
The Fund is designed to be flexible both in terns of product mix and terms such that the Fund Manager
can-offer the financial products which the evolving market for commercial project financing demands.
Eventually, FREE may invest equity in carefully selected projects and/or energy service companies.
Furthermore, the Fund Manager will actively develop appropriate new financial products for energy
efficiency projects.
FREE's financial transactions will start up slowly in the initial years and will most likely not be sufficient
to generate an interest income covering the set up costs of FREE initially. As experience is gained, the
number of projects can be increased sufficiently, achieving self-financing of FREE after about three
years. Larger and more complex and innovative investment projects, both in terms of financial products
and participation in the upside of energy efficiency investments will be approached in the later stage of
Fund operations (after at least 2-3 years of operation). In that stage it is expected that the Fund Manager
will be able to attract co-financiers, if necessary by using GEF financing to take subordinated positions,
pay a small commitment fee, offer guarantees, etc.. It is expected that the range of clients will also be
expanded, as the municipal services and the buildings sector will become more creditworthy and the fund
manager will be able to structure financing products and packages in innovative ways to target new
-45-



clients. Active partnerships with commercial financing institutions, leasing companies and energy service
companies (ESCOs) will be strongly encouraged.
Commercial Co-financing: The initial capital for the fund will be provided by GEF. The project is,
however, designed to attract a substantial amount of commercial co-financing. Based on discussions with
potential co-financiers (foreign banks with Romanian branches, Romanian Banks, multilateral agencies
and private foreign capital sources) the Project design is very flexible and allows for both parallel and
direct co-financing arrangements.
*   In a parallel arrangement, each co-financier retains control over his own funds and coordinates
with the fund manager in the following ways: sharing the deal flow; sharing due diligence,
consultants and structuring concepts; and harmonizing the terms of financing among different
financing sources, so that the client signs only one financing contract and interfaces with a single
point of contact, namely the Fund Manager.
*   In a direct fund management arrangement, the co-financier would instead establish a dedicated
account over which the Fund Manager would have control (but not ownership). In this case, the
Fund Manager is empowered to make disbursements from the account for any transaction
approved by the Fund Manager (within the context of the Fund Management Agreement between
the co-financier and the Fund Manager) without the express consent of the co-financier.
Under either arrangement, the Fund could take subordinated positions, pay a small commitment fee, offer
guarantees, etc., especially in the beginning stages of the implementation, to provide incentives for
co-financiers. Since GEF funds and co-financiers' funds will not be commingled, procurement and
disbursements under the project will not be influenced by co-financing arrangements. Further, all
co-financing agreements will be subject to review and approval by the Bank. The contractual aspects
under the project is shown below.
Contractual Relations
Grant Agreement      -     -
* E:               W ~~~~~~~rq .o -   -------
Grant Subsidiary |
Project Implementation  greementi
Agreement.-_
Co-financing agreements  Co-financiers
Performance
contract
Financial                            Co-operation
contracts                              agreement
Finandal contracts
-46 -



There are a number of risks inherent in investment activities such as those described above. Key risks
are enumerated below together with a brief discussion concerning a risk mitigation strategy.
Payment (i.e. Credit) Risk
As has been discussed above, the most significant risk in providing capital to Romanian companies is the
risk of non-payment. The ongoing transition within the country and the associated macroeconomic
measures being taken by the government to control inflation, stabilize the currency, and so on, place a
heavy strain on Romanian companies doing business in a global economy. While borrowing conditions
for most clients, particularly by Western standards, are harsh (i.e. very high dollar-denominated interest
rates combined with very short tenors), the observed default rate on loans is quite low. For example,
according to Banca Romaneasca, out of the 137 loans made through their small loan program with RAEF
over the past 3 years, there are only 4 troubled loans: one borrower who has completely defaulted (now
in litigation) and three others that require extensive efforts on the part of the bank to collect.
Common practices for mitigating payment default risk include:
*   Careful screening, from a credit standpoint, of prospective borrowers
*   Ensuring loans are "properly collateralized" (i.e. over-collateralized)
*   Routine monitoring (i.e. site visits) with larger accounts to discuss business conditions and to
anticipate cash flow problems before they occur
*   Collections policies ranging from wire transfers for larger, creditworthy borrowers to personal
site visits to collect cash for smaller, less creditworthy borrowers
Currency Risk: There are two main operative currency markets in Romania - one based upon the
Romanian lei (ROL) and the other based upon the US dollar (USD). Generally, ROL interest rates are
equal to the US dollar interest rate plus the difference between the Romanian inflation rate and US
inflation. Hence, ROL interest rates are in the 50 - 60% range when Romanian inflation is running at
40% per annum. To avoid direct exposure to Romanian inflation risk, it is anticipated that loans and
repayments will be made in USD denominated ROL.
Energy Price and Energy Savings Risk: In Western-style performance lending, the lender frequently
assumes the risk that the borrower has achieved both the forecasted energy savings and that the unit value
of that energy saved is at least some minimum value. In the case of the term and ESCO loans described
above, the Fund is taking neither risk. Rather, loan repayments will be structured based upon forecasted
economic benefits to end users. Should those benefits not materialize, the end user will still be obliged to
make scheduled loan repayments. At the same time, should savings be greater, the end user still makes
the same loan repayment. The Fund Manager will be able to adapt technologies, project design and
subsectors targeted if those risk are more than just transitory.
Performance Risk (of contractors): In the case of a term loan, the borrower (end user) arranges to have
the project implemented; the Fund Manager's role is limited in this regard. Therefore, the risk of
non-performance of contractors is entirely borne by the borrower.
In the case of the ESCO loan, there is a possibility a dispute could arise between the ESCO and the end
user. The guarantee from the ESCO in favor of the Fund is intended to mitigate this risk. However, this
is of limited comfort because (a) the credit of the ESCO is likely to be limited, and (b) there is likely to
be a difference of opinion among the ESCO and end user as to where fault lies. Hence, performance risk
is a key issue in the ESCO loan and, to an even greater extent, in the performance loan. Ways to mitigate
this risk include the following:
-47 -



*   Work only with reputable,ESCOs with a proven track record and demonstrated abilities and
resources.
*   Finance projects that are very straightforward and do not involve new technology or complicated
modifications to process equipment that is difficult to install, operate and/or monitor.
*   Conduct extensive technical due diligence of the project and evaluate the ability to perform of
both the ESCO as well as subcontractors and vendors.
*   Closely monitor the installation of the project.
*   Build in the ability to closely monitor the performance of the project, especially during the initial
six months of operation.
*   Establish a mechanism for the end user to alert both the ESCO and the Fund Manager of any
suspected problems or other issues long before a performance dispute arises. This might take the
form of a required notice that must-be given by the end user with adequate time for the ESCO to
remedy the problem before the end user is excused from his payment obligation. In this manner,
if the ESCO cannot remedy the problem within some portion of the allotted time, the Fund
Manager will have the opportunity to take altemative arrangements to fix the deficiency.
Interest Rate Risk: As a general rule, loans will be made on the same basis (fixed or floating interest
rate) as funds are made available to FREE. In the case of the GEF grant funds, the Fund Manager could
offer fixed interest rate products without incurring interest rate risk. However, since a key objective is to
attract funds from other sources (e.g. Romanian banks), it is contemplated that only floating rate products
will be initially offered.
Project Component 2 - US$2.00 million
Technical Assistance
In addition to financial services, the Fund will offer its clients expertise in energy efficiency to support
them in project development and financial packaging. Technical assistance from the GEF contribution
and donor funds will provide support for the latter. The types of technical assistance deemed to be
necessary for the success of energy efficiency investment in Romania are:
4   Project development: During the first three years, energy audits and feasibility studies will have
to be carried out to develop bankable proposals that have good chance to be financed by the
Fund. For the first projects, the Fund may cover the total cost of the proposal; very soon however
the clients will have to contribute to the development, with their share of the cost rolled into the
loan amount.
*   Workshops/Seminars: In order to support project development, partners of the Fund (consultants,
ESCOs and other aggregators) and trained how to develop proposals targeted at the requirements
of the Fund and potential clients have to be educated through outreach activities about the
benefits of energy efficiency investments and the procedures of the fund. The material for these
two kinds of activities has to be developed on the basis of success stories and development of
training and promotional materials. It is expected that at about midpoint of the project an
international seminar on the FREE experience and replication potential will be organized.
*   Technical capacity building and development of alternative deal structures for energy efficiency
investment for both the Fund Manager and selected partners such as ESCOs and Business
Advisory Centers. It is expected that the delivery of these new deal structures will also need
increased support.
*   Monitoring and Evaluation activities are paramount for the success of the project. Since it is
expected that a large number of projects will be implemented over the lifetime of the project,
-48 -



M&E efforts will have vary over time in their intensity. In the beginning of the project
monitoring of project implementation and verification of energy savings and C02 emissions,
including reporting to GEF, will be intense. For the first projects, and those that will test
investments in new sectors, different technologies, or other innovations, a verification of the
actual savings will take place. For projects that are replicating previous projects, a short M&E
form will be developed. During the first few months of project implementation, an M&E
methodology and an implementation plan will be developed. The M&E information will provide
the basis for the development of success stories to be used, e.g., in the outreach activities.
These activities will be carried out under the general responsibility of the Executive Director. The
technical assistance for project development will be arranged by FREE in consultation with the Fund
Manager (and approved by the World Bank) to directly support the priority activities of the Fund
Manager. Accordingly, the annual business plan prepared by the Fund Manager will identify and specify
the need for such TA activities. In addition to the above mentioned items (1-4), technical assistance funds
will finance the following: (a) Management fees (retainer) of the Fund Manager for the first three years
when the Fund is not yet self-financing; and (b) FREE's incremental operating costs during the same
period.
-49 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
ROMANIA: Energy Efficiency
Investment Financing                                                     21.00            11.00            32.00
Technical Assistance                                                      0.00             2.00             2.00
Total Baseline Cost                                                      21.00            13.00            34.00
Physical Contingencies                                                   0.00             0.00             0.00
Price Contingencies                                                      0.00             0.00             0.00
Total Project Costsl                      21.00            13.00            34.00
Total Financing Required                        21.00            13.00            34.00
Identifiable taxes and duties are 0 (USSm) and the total project cost, net of taxes, is 34 (USSm). Therefore, the project cost sharing ratio is 29.41% of
total project cost net of taxes.
-50-



Annex 4: Incremental Cost Analysis and Summary of Financial Analysis
ROMANIA: Energy Efficiency
Incremental Cost: Concept of Contingent Finance
Significant global' environmental benefits can be achieved by reducing the energy consumption of all end
use sectors throughout Romania. Despite the large potential for financially viable energy efficiency
investments in Romania, very few such investments are being undertaken. Essentially, the market for
energy efficiency financing is not functioning in Romania. The overarching barrier to energy efficiency
investrnent is an unwillingness of banks to extend commercial credit for these projects: lending
institutions consider both the costs and the risks of lending for energy efficiency at this time to be too
high. The following barriers are the major causes of the financing gap (for details see section B.4. 1):
* Transaction costs of identifying, developing and financing relatively small energy efficiency
investment projects are high.
* Perceived risk of financing energy efficiency project is high.
* Combinations of financial and technical skills, necessary to successfully develop energy efficiency
projects, are currently not available in effective packages in Romania.
This project is designed to address and substantially reduce the barriers to expanding commercial energy
efficiency investment by: (a) using the least amount of GEF resources possible, and leveraging GEF
funds to the greatest extent possible with commercial funds, and (b) avoiding provision of any grants to
end-users for commercially viable investments. Hence, it is proposed to adopt a "contingent financing"
approach by creating and operating a market-based energy efficiency Fund (FREE). It will be supported
by a GEF non-grant modality (Contingent Grant), providing an estimated US$ 8 million in seed capital
for a revolving fund which will finance energy efficiency activities on commercial terms, and a GEF
Technical Assistance grant (TA component) of US$ 2 million for support and evaluation activities.
Together these two components will foster a large increase in commercial financing of energy efficiency
projects in Romania.
GEF lead participation is critical for the project. Without GEF involvement in capitalizing the Fund and
supporting initial project development, a baseline scenario will include a certain degree of progress, e.g.,
on capacity building and in some investment activity, mostly financed from internal funds. However,
meaningful market-based energy efficiency investment will remain suppressed, as the basic problems
which have impeded investment in the past remain unsolved. Perceived high risks and transaction costs
involved in supporting energy efficiency investments within the currently undeveloped market continue
to cause existing financiers to pursue other opportunities and agendas.
Barrier removal strategy. The project will substantially overcome the previously identified barriers by
establishing a proven track record of commercially viable energy efficiency projects, achieved without
interest rate subsidies to end-users. This experience will aid in convincing other commercial financing
institutions that many of the risks in energy efficiency project lending are only perceived risks and/or can
be managed, and that initial costs of getting into this specialized business are worth incurring or can be
reduced based on prior experience such that it can be a profitable business line.
The project will aid in institutional development in Romania by providing both finance and specialized
technical expertise in the appraisal and packaging of bankable energy efficiency projects within one
institution for the first time. The project will establish a specialized "one-stop shop" for enterprises
seeking financing and technical assistance for such investments. Finally, the project will contribute to the
- 51 -



increased flow of information, training and technical assistance to assist enterprises and other energy end
users in identifying and preparing commercially attractive energy efficiency investments.
Contingent Finance Modality. A small part of GEF funds will provide technical assistance for
non-commercial but necessary support and evaluation activities. The majority of the GEF contribution to
the project, the GEF contingent grant, will be used as seed capital to finance energy efficiency
investments. It will help overcome the existing "financing gap" by providing access to project-based
financing for Romanian energy end-users. Under the contingent finance modality, it is important to
distinguish between the contingent grant and thefinal (or net) grant.
The initial GEF grant, or Contingent Grant, supporting the investment component, is a gross grant.
Here it takes the form of seed capital for the Fund. The distinction between a conventional grant and
a Contingent Grant is that the latter is returned partially or fully to the initial beneficiary, in this case
the Government of Romania, depending on the project achieving expected or better than expected
benefits.
The Contingent Grant differs from the Final Grant, also known as the "net grant". At the end of the
project, as much of the contingent grant as possible will be returned to the Government of Romania,
for deployment for other priority GHG mitigation projects in Romania, to be agreed with the Bank
and GEF. If the return is lower than expected because of factors directly linked to the performance
of the Fund, the contingent grant is partially or fully converted into a grant. The amount that cannot
be returned is the Final Grant. While estimates can be prepared based on likely projection of the
Fund's operations, the size of the Final Grant will not be known until the project closes.
The Incremental Cost of the investinent component is equal to the Final Grant, plus the time-value
of the money returned at the end of the project to the Government of Romania. Because the amount
of the Final Grant will not be known until project closure, the incremental cost, demonstrated in
actual practice, also will not be known until project closure.
The advantage of the contingent finance approach is its inherent ability to match the net GEF grant (equal
to the Final Grant amount) with the actual incremental costs. The incremental cost payments of the Final
Grant will be limited to the amount required to actually overcome the barriers to sustainable commercial
financing of energy efficiency investments, as borne out during actual market conditions and project
implementation. Overpayment of grant resources for activities which are initially considered risky, but
end up yielding commercial returns is avoided. The contingent finance concept also offers exceptional
direct GHG reduction value for GEF investment (see below).
Financial Modeling Results
The Romanian Energy Efficiency Fund, initially capitalized with $8 million in GEF contingent financing,
is expected to generate income from fees and interest payments such that it achieves operational
sustainability, meaning that operating costs are covered by revenues, including tax payments, after an
initial period of operating losses due to high set-up costs. Since the timing and amount of cofmancing is
still uncertain, the base case looks at the sustainability and the incremental costs of the project assuming
that only GEF funds will be available for financing. In a second step, under the reference scenario it is
assumed that a moderate amount of cofinancing will be forthcoming, starting in year 2 and amounting to
US$ 13.5 over eight years. This is the scenario which should be considered the most likely, given the
positive responses of several Romanian banks and the BSTDB (see Section C. 1).
- 52 -



In the base case (no co-financing) the results of the financial model show that the project will still
produce favorable returns and results for the GEF as a stand-alone operation. Self-sustainability of the
Fund would be reached in year 3. Over 8 years, the Fund would generate profits such that the net value of
the fund (cash balance, outstanding loans and expected value of future income less defaults) reaches $13
million by project completion.
Financial transactions of the Fund in the base case start up slowly, then build to a level where income
from loan interest and fees cover Fund operating costs. Fund profits are reinvested in new projects, and
the revolving nature of the Fund yields investments of $ 47.2 million in energy efficiency retrofits in
Romanian businesses over the 8-year lifetime of FREE, including 20% own contribution of the Fund's
clients, financed from other sources such as internal cash generation, working capital loans, etc.
The base case makes the extremely conservative assumption that loan activity in Year I will be limited to
4 projects totaling $1.9 million in loans. In its second year of operation, the reference case assumes that
the Fund will finance 7 projects, representing an additional $3.9 million in efficiency investments. The
Fund can support a yearly portfolio of $5.6 million in annual loans, which is the assumed case for years
3-8.
Due to the grace period extended to loan recipients, the slow initial pace of disbursements, VAT
payments, and higher than average initial expenditures, the Fund will not generate sufficient revenues to
cover operating costs and overhead costs of FREE during the first two years of operations. Thus, GEF
TA is needed to defray overhead costs until the Fund achieves financial sustainability. The following
chart shows the revenues and costs of Project operation, with costs exceeding revenues for Years I and 2.
FREE Revenues and Costs (in US$ 1,000)
$1,400
$1,200    ' "-k
$1,000
$800   ;4jn?.t
$600                        ~                        r . | _ Revenues
-Costs
$400
$200                 Y
0   1    2   3   4    5   6    7   8
Year
The jumps in costs in years 5 and 8 represent the success fee paid to the Fund Manager as a percentage of
the increase in net asset value of the Fund, assumed to be 30% in this analysis. The following chart
presents the net asset value over time. It shows relatively flat growth for periods 5 & 8, as net asset value
is reduced by the bonus payment taken from cash balance.
- 53 -



FREE Net Asset Value (in US$ 1,000)
14000
12000
10000                 -i
8000       - ;
6000
4000                                           _
2000  -   _
0
1    2     3    4     5    6     7    8     9
year
There is, however, a powerful incentive, both for the GEF and for the Fund to attract co-financiers to
participate in the financing of energy efficiency projects. This will allow the Fund to mitigate risk from a
catastrophic (100% of loan) default and will increase net returns because potential co-financiers will
contribute to the transaction costs of making loans by paying fees to the Fund, estimated here at 3.5% of
the total co-financed loan, on a project-by-project basis. In the reference case, the amount of cofinancing
that might be forthcoming from interested cofinanciers such as Black Sea Trade and Development Bank,
or several commercial Romanian banks is estimated at a total of US$13.5 million over 8 years. Assuming
that these funds are not available for revolving, they would increase the overall amount of energy
efficiency investments by US$16 million.
Critical Assumptions. Project loans are divided into three categories: short term, medium term and long
term. The short-term project loans are for US$200,000 and have a l-year payback period with a
3-month grace period for repayment. Medium term projects are US$500,000, have a 2-year payback
period and a 6-month grace period. Long-term projects average $1million in loan principal, have a
3-year payback and a 9-month grace period. Interest charges accumulate during the grace period, and are
repaid as principal in this analysis. Assumptions about interest rates charged by the Fund (expressed as
credit spread above LIBOR) according to the riskiness of the project and default rates for each loan type
in the reference case are presented in Table A.
- 54 -



Table A: Credit Spreads, Interest Rates and Default Rates
Projects         Short Term   Short Term    Medium       Medium     Long Term   Long Term
Term         Term
Credit Spread Default Rate Credit Spread  Default Rate   Credit     Default
Spread        Rate
A (Low Risk)                   3.5%          I%         5.5%           3%         8.5%         5%
B (Medium Risk)                5.5%/         5%          8.5%          5%
C (High Risk)                  8.50/         7%
All-in Interest rate:        Annual     Quarterly      Annual     Quarterly     Annual    Quarterly
A(LowRisk)                     8.50%        2.1%        10.5%         2.6%       13.5%       3.1%
B (Medium Risk)               10.5%         2.6%        13.5%         3.1%1
C (High Risk)                 13.5%         3.1%  _                       1           1
Sensitivity Analysis. In addition to the base case and the reference case, several other scenarios were run
to determnine the robustness of Fund performance, and to identify key variables which impact Fund
performance. The key variables which have the most impact on the total return of the Fund are the credit
spreads, default rates and number of loans made (see Table B). High initial disbursement greatly
improves Fund performance and quickens sustainability, thus devoting sufficient TA to development of
the initial pipeline is of great importance. The costs of the Fund Manager can greatly impact fund
performance, but, as determined after the pre-appraisal mission, these costs will be limited to a maximum
of US$300,000 per year for the first three years. Sensitivity analysis was preformed to test the impact of
higher (US$500,000/year) and lower (US$200,000) Fund Manager costs for years 4-8.
Table B: Sensitivity Analysis
Final Value Fund    NPV Fund Assets     Sustainability in
($million)            Year 8            Year...
Base Case (no cofinancing)          13.0                8.8                 3
Reference Case (with                13.4                9.1                 3
co-financing*)
High FM Costs                       12.4                8.4                 4
Low FM Costs                        13.3                9.0                 3
High Initial Disbursement           13.5                9.2                 3
($9.8 mil. years 1&2)
Low Initial Disbursement            12.8                8.6                 3
($3.1 mnil. years 1&2)
FM Bonus reduced by 50%,            13.6                9.2                 3
High Return Scenario**              15.3                10.4                3
Low Return Scenario***              9.0                 6.1                ---
Notes:
* This scenario assumes co-financing of $13.5 million over the lifetime of the project and that fees are paid to FM (from end-users and the
co-financier) at 3.5% of co-financed loan amount.
** Assuming co-financing of $1 3.5 million, low FM overhead costs years 4-8, increased credit spreads (short @ 5%, 7%, 9%, medium @
7%, 9%, long @ 9%), default rates reduced 50%, accelerated project disbursement ($9.8 million in year 1&2), and higher yearly
disbursements for years 4-8 ($6.6 mil) due to higher available cash balance.
** Assuming high FM costs years 4-8, no co-financing, decreased credit spreads (short @ 2.8%, 3.8%, 5.3%, medium @ 3.8%, 5.3%,
long @ 5.3%), default rates increased by 1000/0, reduced project disbursement ($3.1 million years I & 2), reduced yearly disbursement for
years 4-8 ($4.9 million) due to lower available cash balance.
Finder's Fee. The project includes a finder's fee of 1% of the total value of the loan payable upon deal
closure. Payment of this fee has been included in the model as a variable expense based upon project
- 55 -



deal flow. This option will improve likelihood of project success by providing incentives for deal
origination by end-users (to defray cost of identification and appraisal of potential investments) or for
third parties who may play a very important role in populating the project pipeline. This fee should not
be paid for those projects which have received GEE TA for project preparation.
Level of Contingent Grant. The final value of the GEF contingent grant (and thus the incremental cost)
will not be known until project completion. Under the base case scenario, the contingent grant amount
(i.e., initial GEF capitalization less the value of funds returned to FREE for future GEF operations in
Romania) is negative $807,000, meaning that the total cost to GEF (including the full $2 million as TA
grant) is $1.19 million. Sensitivity analysis shows that the range of final grant amounts varies from
negative $2.4 million (i.e., the project yields a net profit after repaying initial GEF capitalization funds of
8 million and the $2 million TA grant) to $3.9 million, although lower bound scenarios have been
identified which show that the amount of the contingent grant can equal the entire amount of the GEF
fund capitalization and TA expenditure of $10 million (such as several catastrophic defaults on large
loans). However, it is foreseen that the project will be cancelled prior to full loss of the GEF contingent
funds if intermediate indicators demonstrating poor outlook for success are apparent.
Energy Savings and Carbon Reductions. The $ 47.2 million of energy efficiency investments under
FREE in the base case will reduce energy consumption of Romanian end-users by 114 million GJ
(electricity, coal and natural gas). This translates into 1.8 million metric tons of avoided carbon for the
efficiency projects financed during the eight years of project implementation.
Incremental Cost. Without GEF involvement, the baseline scenario includes a certain level bf Romanian
investment in energy efficiency financed from enterprise internal funds and donor assistance, but large
scale market-based energy efficiency investment will remain suppressed, as the basic problems which
have historically impeded investment remain unsolved. Certain industries with access to foreign credit
(i.e., well-performing Romanian subsidiaries of foreign-owned firms) can secure funds at very favorable
terms and conditions to undertake energy efficiency investments in the absence of the Fund, and
industries can finance lower cost rapid payback energy efficiency measures from internal sources.
Survey analysis has shown that this has occurred only for a few select market segments (metals and other
industries where energy is a high percentage of value of final goods). Furthermore, most investment was
focused on lower cost measures (under $75,000) with rapid payback.
Table C: Summary of Baseline and GEF Cases
Baseline   GEF Base  GEF Base Case  GEF Reference
(Without GEF)  Case     Increment *  Case Increment *
EE Investment, $ million         44.50      47.20       45.20         61.20
Saved Energy, million GJ        107.00     113.78       108.96       147.53
Carbon avoided, million tons      1.71       1.81        1.74          2.35
Incremental Cost, $ million                              1.19          0.90
Incremental Cost, $/ton C                                0.69          0.38
Note: * Investment of S 2 million is not additional to Baseline
In the absence of the GEF project, Romanian businesses included in the project universe can be expected
to make investments in energy efficiency of $5.5 million per year, totaling $44.5 million for the 8-year
horizon of FREE's activities. This represents energy savings under the baseline scenario of 107 million
GJ of saved energy, and avoided carbon emissions of 1.7 million metric tons. The GEF base case shows
- 56 -



a net increase in investment in EE of $45.2 million over the baseline scenario. As Table C shows, the
total cost of the project in the base case is $1.19 million, and the incremental GEF cost per metric ton
carbon avoided is $ 0.69. For the reference case scenario, energy efficiency investments of $61.2 million
would result in energy savings of 148 million GJ and 2.3 million metric tons of avoided carbon
emissions. The contingent grant would be a negative 1.1 million, reducing the incremental cost per metric
ton carbon avoided to $ 0.38. The incremental cost results are summarized in Table D.
Table D: GEF Incremental Cost in the Base Case (no cofinancing)
Baseline                GEF (Base) Case               Increment
Domestic       Some improvement in    Accelerated levels of improvements in 109 million GJ of
Benefit        energy intensity from  energy intensity (216 million GJ in  avoided energy
energy efficiency      savings total), elevated amnounts of  consumption
investments financed   commercial investment in energy
through internal sources or efficiency
through foreign credit (107
million GJ in energy
savings)
Global          Baseline will produce  GEF case will lead to total investments 1.7 million metric
Environmental   reductions of 1.7 million  in energy efficiency of US$ 89.7  ons Carbon
Benefit        metric tons Carbon from  million of which $45.2 million are in
improved efficiency    addition to the Baseline, i.e., would
not have occurred otherwise. Total
carbon reductions from EE in
Romania are 3.4 million metric tons of
carbon.
Costs
(USS million)
TA Costs        0                     2                               2
Contingent      0                     -0.807                          -0.807
Grant
Total        0                     1.19                            1.19
Note on Baseline Calculation. The estimate of energy savings under the baseline scenario was derived
from the level of identified energy efficiency investments for the target market segment in the past three
years, projected over the eight-year lifetime of the project. Complete data on past and projected
investments in energy efficiency was unavailable. Therefore, the baseline has been derived from both the
Market Analysis and the results of a detailed survey of 30 Romaniari companies that have already
undergone detailed energy audits in the past few years (see annex 11). These companies represent the
portion of the market that is most aware of the benefits of energy efficiency investments and therefore
more likely to finance efficiency investments in the absence of the GEF program by mobilizing internal
resources, commercial loans, or securing financing from other sources. Based upon ratio and total
amount of implemented versus identified energy efficiency projects for the survey responses extrapolated
to a larger population of 128 companies (Top 500 companies in Romania excluding loss making
enterprises and trading companies), excluding the data from one outlier, the baseline assumes that
Romanian enterprises would invest $5.5 million annually in energy efficiency. The implementation rate
for the larger population was assumed to be one half the implementation rate of the sample size due to
the lack of energy efficiency awareness and interest in the larger sample. Of the $ 5.5 million, $2
million total investment over the next 8 years is expected to be provided by FREE, as most baseline
- 57 -



investments are for projects whose costs are too small (under $75,000) or too large (over $3 million) for
consideration by FREE. Thus the incremental benefits of the project are produced from the $47.2 million
in total investment less the $2 million from the baseline. This analysis shows that FREE will indeed fill a
gap, providing financing for energy efficiency improvements to clients who have currently no access to
commercial financing.
Energy efficiency investments in other sectors which have not been included in the potential market for
the Fund during the initial period of implementation (district heating, public buildings, commercial
buildings, schools and hospitals) have been excluded from the baseline analysis. Thus the energy
efficiency investments projected for the next 8 years from other initiatives (e.g., EBRD) are not
accounted for in the base line or in the GEF case.
Conclusions. FREE requires a large deal flow in order to generate sufficient revenues to recover
overhead and operating costs in the first years of the project. Co-financing will allow the Fund to defray
the losses from the initial years of operation, to mitigate exposure and spread risk over a wider portfolio
of loans, to minimize the level of the GEF contingent grant amount and, most importantly, to generate
sufficient momentum to ensure sustainability in the market for energy efficiency financing in Romania.
- 58 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
ROMANIA: Energy Efficiency
NOT APPLICABLE
-59 -



Annex 6(A): Procurement Arrangements
ROMANIA: Energy Efficiency
Procurement
The procurement of goods and services of the Bank financed components will be procured in accordance
to the Bank procurement guidelines. The project components not financed by the Bank will be procured
in accordance with the national regulations or the co-financing institutions procurement regulations. The
project elements, their estimated cost and procurement methods are summarized in Tables A and Al of
Annex 6. A procurement plan detailing the packaging and estimated schedule of the major procurement
actions is presented in Table D of Annex 6. All other procurement information, including capability of
the implementing agency, date for publication of GPN and the Bank's review process is presented in
Table C of Annex 6.
Procurement of goods/works/consultants' services under the sub-loans will be conducted by the final
recipients using commercial practices on the basis of at least three quotations. First two contracts, and all
subsequent contracts above US$1 million will be subject for the Bank's prior review. Other contracts will
be subject for ex-post review.
The main procurement activity in this project is selection of the Fund Manager, which will be conducted
by FREE on the basis of the Bank's Guidelines for Selection of Consultants. The procurement process is
underway and six firms out of 28 who had expressed interest were shortlisted and invited to bid. Bids are
under evaluation by FREE, and it is anticipated that hiring of the Fund Manager will be completed by
October 2002.
Besides selection of the Fund Manager, procurement activities under this project will be minor. FREE
will select and hire consultants to assist with training, outreach, business development, monitoring and
other activities. Selection of the consultants (firms and individuals) will be carried out in accordance with
the latest edition of the World Bank Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD loans and IDA Credits, and
using the Bank's Standard Bidding documents as applicable. Operating expenses of FREE will be
financed under incremental operating costs category with procurement based on the annually approved
budget and using competitive selection wherever possible.
During the pre-appraisal mission, the Bank's procurement specialist conducted a training session for the
selected Executive Director of FREE who will be directly involved in the procurement work. To enhance
the capacity of FREE to select the Fund Manager, a short-term procurement consultant (advisor) was
engaged by FREE, assisting in the preparation of the RFP, conducting of the pre-bid conference,
evaluation of proposals, negotiations and signing of the contract. The procurement advisor's contract,
estimated at about $6,400 will be financed retroactively from the final GEF grant. Considering the low
amount of procurement work, these arrangements ensure adequate procurement capacity of FREE. Also
FREE board members' fees and initial setup costs will be financed retroactively with the total amount of
retroactive financing not to exceed US$60,000.
The Bank will review, regardless of value, terms of reference, RFPs, evaluation reports and draft
contracts of all consultants financed by the Bank. Expenditures under the incremental operating costs
category will be reviewed annually.
- 60 -



TABLE A
Romania: Energy Efficiency
Summary of Proposed Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
Category                                 Procurement Methods                    Total
ICB        NCB       Otherl    N.B.F.      cost
1  Works                                  0           0          0         0         0
1.1            Buildings               0          0          0          0         0
1.2            Infrastructure          0          0          0          0         0
1.3            Rehabilitation and      0          0          0          0         0
Maintenance
2  Goods and                               0          0          0         0         0
S&I
2.1            Equipment and           0           0          0         0         0
Machinery
2.2            Construction            0           0          0         0         0
materials
2.3            Commodities             0           0          0         0         0
3  Technical                               0          0          0         0         0
Service
Contracts
4  Consultancies                           0          0          0         0         0
4.1            Studies, Engineering    0           0          0         0         0
and Supervision
4.2            Technical               0           0        1.56        0        1.56
Assistance                                   (1.4)                (1.4)
4.3            Training                0           0          0         0         0
5  5.1            Incremental              0          0         0.61       0        0.61
Operating Costs                              (0.6)               (0.6)
6  6.1            Sub-Loans                                     8.0                  8.0
(8.0)               (8.0)
Total                                  0           0        10.17       0       10.17
Bank/IDA                               0           0        10.0        0        10.0
I Procurement of consultants' services and incremental operating costs of FREE for the initial three years of operation
and commercial practices by final recipients of sub-loans.
- 61 -



Table Al
Consultant Selection Arrangements
(in US$ million)
Selection Method
Category                                                            Total
QCBS    QBS   SFB   LCS     CQ    Other  NBF   Cost
1. Firms
1.1 Procurementof    1.07    0     0      0      0      0      0     1.07
Fund Manager         (0.9)                                           (0.9)
1.2 Audit             0      0     0     0.03           0      0     0.03
________  ______  (0.03)  ________  ______ (0.03)
1.3 Workshops/                                 0.31                  0.31
Capacity                                   (0.31)               (0.31)
building
2. Individuals                                         0.2            0.2
______ ______ (0 .2 )(0     2
Total    1.07    0     0    0.03   0.31    0.2     0     1.61
(0.9)              (0.03) (0.31)  (0.2)         ( (1.44)
QCBS = Quality and Cost Based Selection.
QBS = Quality Based Selection.
SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget.
LCS = Least Cost Selection.
CQ = Selection based on consultant's qualifications.
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of the Bank's Selection and
Employment of Consultants Guidelines), Cormmercial Practices, etc.
NBF = Not Bank-Financed, including EBRD financing and grants.
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank.
All figures include physical and price contingencies.
- 62 -



TABLE B
0 . . , ; '!,t' " l-'  ;' ," . '.,  *  '  -*'  ;t' en.l   ;iew,                             .
Goods and Civil      ICB        NCB         IS         NS        Minor      Other methods  Percentage of loan
Works                                                        Works                     amount subject to
prior review
Procurement          NA         NA        NA          NA         NA          NA
thresholds: individual
and aggregate
Prior Review         NA         NA        NA          NA        NA           NA
Consultants          QBCS       QBS       Fixed       LCS       Qualificatio  Single         Individuals
Budget                ns           Source
Procurement                     NA        NA          0.1       0.1          NA              0.1
method thresholds
Prior Review         $0.05      NA        NA          $0.05      All         NA
Sub-Loans                                                                    Commercial
0_1                           Practices
Procurement method                                                           NA
thresholds
Prior Review                                                                 Above US$1
million and first
two contracts
Ex-post Review       Explain briefly the ex-post review mechanism: Expenditures under incremental operating costs category
will be reviewed on annual basis. Ex-post review of contracts under sub-loans (1 out of five contracts) will
be conducted every six months.
Sectilon 2. CapkCity .f:ih&eihp'emerneting,&gency .ifiProcurernerit-and Tecltical.Assistance requiremnents,
Main procurement activity, hiring of the Fund Manager, will be conducted by FREE management with the help of the procurement
consultant hired by FREE. Other procurement (minor consulting assignments and minor purchases under incremental operating
costs category) will be conducted by FREE executive director. The Bank's procurement specialist conducted a training session for
the ED during pre-appraisal mission, besides, she received a procurement training from UNDP. Procurement capacity (enhanced by
hiring of the procurement consultant) is adequate for the scope of procurement under the Project.
Country Procurement Assessment Report or Country       Are the bidding documents for the procurement actions of the
Procurement Strategy Paper status: August 1999         first year ready by negotiations
Yes   No X (prepared subsequently)



TABLE C
r     -     l.rlg,.       IrO  lo anaeveiopment -onE'ro curement'
Estimated date of  Estimated date of  Indicate if there is  Domestic Preference for  Domestic Preference for
Project Launch   publication of General  procurement subject to  Goods           Works, if applicable
Workshop         Procurement Notice   mandatory SPN in                            Yes 0    No X
11/15/2001       12/16/2001           Development Business  Yes O    No X
(already                              Yes X
conducted)                            No    C__
Retroactive financing                        _                   Advapceprocurement.
Yes X     No   O     Explain: Hiring of procurement consultant -  .-Y6.X  NO,a.pExplain
US$6,400, and FREE board fees - US$13,440, at the initial stage of FREE *                      termi
operations (before signing of the Grant Agreement), and initial setup costs 'lindividu&Ico6sulta'nt in,accordance; with ,thei
estimated of approximately US$40,000. Total amount of retroactive  BNik-'sguid'elinesi (subict forinor IrevieI
financing not to exceed US$60,000.                              i      .                         .
Explain briefly the Procurement Monitoring System:
Monitoring of procurement under the sub-loans will be conducted using Fund Manager's information system. Procurement
and contract management conducted by FREE will be monitored by the accounting/information system to be developed
during the initial period of operations.
Co-financing: Explain briefly the procurement arrangements under co-financing: NA
'erniedt' Stffing  .   A H X ,
Indicate name of Procurement Staff or Bank's staff part of Task Team responsible for the procurement in the Project:
Name: Leonid Vanian Ext: 84796
Explain briefly the expected role of the Field Office in procurement: Field office will provide assistance by advising, as
needed, FREE management on the Bank's policies.



TABLE D
Procurement Plan
1          2          3            4           5                            6. Estimated dates
Description   Type    Number of     Estimated  Procurement   Pre-qual/SL  (BD/RFP)        Bid      Contract   Contract
slices/items/ sub-  cost, US$  Method    I.Invitation  I.Preparation  1. Invitation  signing  Completion
GPN/SPN/Local             GPN/SPN/Local
packages     thoulsansd               2. Opening                2. Opening
3.Eval &Recom             3. Eval&Recomr
Fund Manager    CS          1          900        QCBS       12/16/01       02/28/02     03/01/02   11/01/02   11/01/07
.01/16/02                    04/27/02
02/19/02                    09/15/02
Project      CS   Approximately     100       Individual   As needed    As needed                           06/01/05
Development               10                     Selection
Workshops      CS   Approximately     60      LCS, CQ,      As needed     As needed                           06/01/05
5                   Individual
Selection
Technical     CS    Approximately     90         CQ,        As needed    As needed                           06/01/05
Capacity                 5                    Individual
Building                                       Selection
Monitoring     CS   Approximately     250         CQ,       As needed     As needed                           06/01/09
&Evaluation               5                     Individual
I_______________   _____   __________ ____   ___S electio n
Incrementa Opeating Costs
Procurement    CS          1            7       Individual                                         02/15/02   11/30/02
Advisor                                       Selection
Audit       CS          1           33         LCS        06/01/02 -    06/01/02     09/15/02   01/10/03   03/01/05
shortlisting               10/31/02
11/25/02
Other       TA                      560        Other                                            10/01/02   06/01/05
Incremental
Operating Costs



Annex 6(B) Financial Management and Disbursement Arrangements
ROMANIA: Energy Efficiency
Financial Management
1. Summary of the Financial Management Assessment
Executive summary and Conclusion
The Project is to be implemented by the newly established FREE. The FREE Board of Administration
(BoA) will oversee implementation of the Project, provide overall guidance, suggest changes to the
design of the project during implementation if monitoring and evaluation assessments indicate the need
for correction, and ensure harmonization of local and national priorities.
Prior to Board presentation, a World Bank accredited Financial Management Specialist has performed a
detailed assessment of the system in accordance with the Bank's OP/BP 10.02 and the Bank FM
requirements. The result of the assessment is that the financial management arrangements for the Project
satisfy the Bank's minimum financial management requirements.
FREE is able to offer market level remuneration and has thus attracted qualified persons for its staff. The
newly selected Financial Controller is experienced in financial management, planning, control and
treasury aspects. As a new and small organization, FREE has in fact adopted the Bank's financial
management requirements fully and without difficulties and will thus be able to have better control over
financial matters. A financial management action plan was developed and agreed with the Grant
Recipient during negotiations to further strengthen the financial management arrangements of the
Project.
A summary of the status of financial management assessment and conclusions are as follows:
Financial Management           Rating         Comments
Assessment
1. Implementing Entity          Satisfactory  New entity - FREE, its staff must become
fully familiar with Bank rules
2. Funds' Flow                  Satisfactory  Simple funds' flow envisaged
3. Staffing                      Satisfactory  Financial Controller appointed
4. Accounting Policies and        Satisfactory  An opeiaXtional manual was developed to
Procedures                                    document internal control policies
5. Internal Audit                    N/A      No reliance placed on internal audit
6. External Audit                 Satisfactory  The project will be audited annually.
Appointment of acceptable auditors is a
dated covenant in the Grant Agreement.
7. Reporting and Monitoring       Satisfactory  Quarterly FMRs prepared
8. Information Systems           Satisfactory  Customi'zed software system
Overall Financial Management    Satisfactory
Rating
Country Financial Management Issues
The first Country Financial Accountability Assessment for Romania will be carried out in late 2002 -
early 2003. A summary of key country financial management issues in Romania is given below:
-66-



>      There have been certain reforms in the public sector financial management, however, overall the
risks relating to this area are still perceived as significant.
>      The yearly budgets are not very realistic and not well managed (both in terms of revenue
forecasts and expenditure management), and there were significant variances between actual and
budgeted revenues and expenditure for the year ended 31 December 2001.
>      There have been several measures to align the Romanian Accounting Standards to International
Accounting Standards (LAS) and the gradual introductioni of EU accounting directives has begun,
however, significant differences still exist.
>      In February 2001, the MoF issued the 'OMF 94' for the approval of the "Accounting regulations
harmonised with the Fourth Directive of the EU and IAS". This ordinance requires application of IAS or,
where exceptions to IAS are permitted, requires an appropriate qualification in the auditor's report. OMF
94 will be applied to most companies by 2005. The exact date of implementation is determined by
company reaching thresholds set in two out of three areas - turnover, asset value and number of
employees. In the first year the OMF 94 is applied, companies have to prepare two sets of financial
statements: one in accordance with OMF 94 and one in accordance with the existing accounting
regulations. From the second year of application onwards, a company should only prepare statements in
accordance with OMF 94. Until required to produce financial statements under OMF 94, companies must
adhere to the existing Romanian accounting regulations.
>      Existing Romanian Accounting regulations are geared towards tax compliance, not for provision
of information to interested parties.
>      Annual instructions for closing the year's accounts are sometimes issued by the MoF. These
contain details of additional accounting entries to be recorded, which might significantly affect the
results. Instructions are sometimes issued after the year's end.
>      There is a parliamentary finance committee to provide independent review of the budget
proposals and also budget execution reports.
>      The central control of budget execution is essentially one of control of the cash flows and there is
a lack of commitment control.
>      The ex-ante control flmctions were recently transferred fr6m the responsibility of the Court of
Accounts to a newly created department within MoF.
>      The Supreme Audit Institution (SAI - Court of Accounts) is playing its role only to a limited
extent, with long delays between the period covered by its reports and the date these are finalized, thus
being outdated by the time of issue (e.g. the report for the year 2000 was presented in the beginning of
2002). There is, therefore, very limited transparency and financial accountability over the use of public
finances.
Financial Management System Assessment
Project Management and Coordination
FREE is an independent, autonomous legal entity with headquarters in Bucharest, Romania. Although the
funding will initially come mostly from GEF (public funds), FREE is independent and separate from any
government agency. The Fund is overseen by a Board of Administration (BoA) consisting of seven
representatives from the Romanian private and public sectors with a private sector majority. The
chairmanship of the BoA which changes annually is initially held by a representative of the Ministry of
Industry and Resources, Mr. R. Moucha, State Secretary. The three-person Investment Committee is a
subcommittee of the BoA, and two of its members are financial experts. The Fund Manager can sit in on
meetings of the Investment Committee and relevant portions of Board meetings. The Investment
Committee will review all proposals submitted by the Fund Manager and make its investment
recommendations to the Board for final decision through majority voting. FREE is administered by a
-67-



small professional management team, headed by an Executive Director whose main responsibilities are to
provide overall management of the project and serve as the main liaison with the World Bank and the
GoR during project implementation. FREE will enter into a performance contract with a professional
Fund Manager who will manage the investment aspects in a commercial manner, in charge of
identifying, developing together with clients and financially structuring sub-projects to finance and
assisting in selecting which projects to finance to assure a sound portfolio in terms of sectors, risks and
terms. The Fund Manager will report directly to the FREE Executive Director.
The Fund seeks to make a profit, with investment financing to clients on commercial terms. GEF
resources will revolve, and the Fund is designed to be self-sustaining after an initial period of three years.
GEF funds will not be returned and Romania will be allowed to use funds remaining at the end of the
project for other GHG emission reductions and related activities.
Staffing of the Accounting / Finance Function
The FREE has been staffed with an executive director and a financial controller. The financial controller
("FC") appointed will handle all financial accounting records, ensure that accounting records are kept up
to date within the accounting software and will be in charge of the petty cash arrangements. The FC will
be responsible for the planning, budgeting, auditing and reporting aspects, reporting to the FREE
director. The FC will also establish permanent contacts with the relevant ministries, auditors and the
MOF. If needed, throughout project implementation, an accountant may be hired by the FREE to work
under the supervision of the FC. Training for the FC has already been provided on the Bank's financial
management and disbursement procedures.
Accounting and Internal Controls
The FREE will maintain the project accounts in accordance with the International Accounting Standards
and will report to the World Bank and to the Government. The FREE will maintain all documentation
related to project expenditures and keep financial records in accordance with sound accounting practices.
The FREE is responsible for keeping the full accounting records of the Project, in charge of all payments,
operating the accounting software, handling the Special Account (SA) and the Project Accounts (other
development partners contributions as applicable), reporting both to the Bank and the Government,
planning, budgeting, disbursement and auditing. All the original project documents, contracts, payment
orders, bank statements and all other relevant accounting documents will be kept by the FREE, filed on a
timely basis and organized in a manner to ensure the full audit trail with the accounting software records.
The FREE's key staff (executive director and financial controller) will be responsible for developing
detailed financial statements, reporting formats and methods, internal control procedures, disbursement
and flow of funds arrangements, assigned staff responsibilities in order to ensure a complete segregation
of duties.
The FREE will receive monthly reports from the Fund Manager detailing the progress on each
sub-project. Such reports will present the amounts disbursed on each sub-project, the servicing of each
financing (principal, interest, commissions, etc) and the implementation progress. The reports will also
document whether the energy efficiency objectives are achieved for each sub-project.
Computerized Accounting System
Following a competitive selection process, the FREE has signed a contract with a local software
developer to fully develop, customize and implement the computerized accounting and reporting system
-68 -



for the Project. The draft project accounting and reporting software system was developed, by the
financial management consultant selected (Rot-systems Ltd.), in order to respond to the Terms of
Reference agreed between the Bank and the FREE. The system is designed to fully respond to the
specifics of the Project. The system features a customized chart of accounts, detailed financial
statements, reporting formats and methods, etc. The system will be used to report to both the Bank and
the Government. The system produces a trial balance, balance sheet, a statement of sources and uses of
funds, income and expenditure statement, special and project accounts statements. Usual journals and
ledgers are also produced by the system, such as separate journals for each sub-project, consulting,
training and operating costs. The system features the bank accounts ledger, the accounts receivable and
accounts payable ledgers, the general ledger and a fixed assets register.
Audit
The project annual financial statements will be audited each fiscal year in accordance with Bank
guidelines, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank. Copies of the audit reports will be submitted
to the Bank within six months of the close of the fiscal year (calendar year). The audit report will cover
the Project financial Statements, Special and Project Accounts' Statements, as well as all the Statement of
Expenses (SOEs). In addition, the audit shall include on the portfolio and net asset value of FREE's
revolving fund account.
Planning and Budgeting
The FREE will prepare reports showing detailed budgeted and actual expenditures, uses of funds by
source, summary of withdrawals and forecasts, statements of progress achieved and the objectives for the
forthcoming quarter and semester.
Detailed accounts will be kept for each project component and its sub-components. The accounts also
reflect: the status of payment against each contract; utilization of the Special Account (SA) and
replenishments made by the Bank; utilization of the other sources of financing and uses of the funds. The
FREE will submit the quarterly FMRs to the Bank starting with the period in which disbursements will
commence, most likely the quarter ending on December 31, 2002 and quarterly thereafter, no later than
45 days after the relevant quarter's end. The budgeting and financial forecasting are an integral part in the
process of preparing the FMRs.
Financial and Accounting Procedures Manual
The FREE will adhere to sound internal control procedures and practices, to ensure that the Project funds
are used with economy and efficiency and only for the purposes intended. The FREE will report to the
BoA and relevant Ministers and will inform in a timely manner about project implementation and
progress.
The FREE staff must become familiar with the Bank regulations (legal, disbursement, financial
management, etc) applicable to their relevant area. A Financial and Accounting Procedures Manual was
developed by the FREE director and financial controller, documenting all the various types of financial
transactions, approval and authorization steps, the flow of documents within the FREE and between the
FREE, the fund manager and the beneficiaries, the relevant ministries, to the MOF, the FREE staff
responsibilities and measures to ensure a complete segregation of duties, as well as other internal control
procedures. The manual also documents the day-to-day internal procedures for each type of activity (such
as correspondence handling, contracting and payment procedures, operation of bank accounts, petty cash,
authorization mechanism, reporting, budgeting, planning, filling, etc.).
- 69 -



Financial Risk Analysis
From a financial management perspective, the proposed Project is considered a substantial-risk project,
but measures to mitigate these risks are feasible and practical given the design and nature of this project.
A summary of the consolidated risk assessment for the project is presented below:
Risk                  Rating                  Comments
Inherent Risk
1. Country Financial Management Risk  Substantial  There is generally limited financial
management capacity and accountability in
public sector.
2. Project Financial Management   Moderate    Other sources of funding could be an issue.
Issues
3. Banking sector                 Substantial  Substantial liquidity & credit risks in the
banking sector
4. Perceived corruption           Substantial  Pervasive corruption at all levels of the
economy.
Overall Inherent Risk  Substantial
Control Risk
1. Implementing Entity            Substantial  Newly established FREE, staff needs training
2. Funds Flow                     Moderate    Simple arrangements in place
3. Staffing                       Moderate    FREE director and financial controller in
place
4. Accounting Policies and Procedures  Moderate  Manual documenting policies and procedures
5. Internal Audit                 N/A         No reliance placed on internal audit
6. External Audit                 Moderate    Appointment of auditors is a dated covenant
7. Reporting and Monitoring        Moderate   FMR capacity developed for the Project
8. Information Systems            Moderate    Customized software system for Project
Overafl Control Risk  Moderate
Costs andfinancialperformance
The project's financing plan, which includes the GEF Grant, and the project's planned expenditures,
have been realistically estimated. In order to facilitate the implementation, the project's cost tables
include an appropriate cost matrix, which adequately shows the relationship between the Grant
agreement categories and project components.
Flow of Funds
The Grant Agreement will be signed between the World Bank (GEF) and the Romanian Government,
through the MoF. The MoF will then sign a subsidiary grant agreement with the FREE, giving full rights
to FREE to use the grant proceeds in accordance with grant and implementation agreements with the
Bank. The FREE will handle the Grant amounts through the Special Account (SA). The SA will be
opened at a commercial bank, acceptable to, and in accordance with Bank requirements. Other sources of
financing will be received in separate project accounts, that will just be used specifically for the
development partners' contributions to the project. The FREE will have the full rights to operate both the
special and the project accounts. All documentation pertaining to the project (relating to Grant funds and
to the other sources of financing received from other donors as applicable) will be kept at the FREE.
- 70 -



Financial Monitoring Reports
The FREE will maintain accounts of the Project and will ensure appropriate accounting of the project
funds. The format of appropriate financial monitoring reports (FMRs) was finalized and agreed upon
between the Grant recipient and the Bank. The FREE will prepare the FMRs on a quarterly basis. The
FMRs include: (a) Project Sources and Uses of Funds; (b) Uses of Funds by Project Activity; (c) Special
Account Statement; (d) Physical Progress Reports; and (e) Procurement Monitoring Reports.
Impact ofprocurement arrangements
The FREE operational manual details the procurement procedures in a separate section of the manual and
establishes the links between procurement and financial management / disbursements procedures.
Financial Management Action Plan
The following financial management action plan was agreed upon during negotiations in order to further
strengthen the financial management arrangements for the Project:
Action                                               Responsibility  Due date
Establishment of the accounting software system
*  Initial development of the customized accounting   FREE / FM     Completed
software system and provision of initial training     consultant
*  Accounting manual documenting the project's        FREE / FM     Completed
accounting and internal controls procedures            consultant
*  Development of the customized accounting software  FM consultant  10/01/2002
system and test run performed
*  Final accounting manual documenting the project's    FREE        10/01/2002
accounting and internal controls procedures
*  Initial training to FREE staff                    FM consultant  Completed
Audit arrangements
.  Send audit Request for Proposals (RFP) and shortlist of  FREE     9/09/2002
auditors for no-objection to the Bank
*  Confirm no-objection to audit RFP and shortlist       Bank        9/19/2002
.  Send RFP to shortlisted auditors                     FREE         9/25/2002
*  Submission of bids and opening of the technical offers  FREE     10/25/2002
*  Evaluation of the technical offers sent to the Bank  FREE        11/05/2002
*  Confirm no objection to the technical offers evaluation  Bank    11/15/2002
and allow the opening of the financial offers
*  Final evaluation and recommendation for selection sent  FREE     11/25/2002
to the Bank for no objection
*  Confirm no objection to the evaluation and selection  Bank       12/05/2002
*  Final draft contract agreed with the auditors sent to the  FREE  12/12/2002
Bank for no objection
*  Confirm no objection to the contract                  Bank       12/22/2002
*  Conclude contract with selected auditors             FREE         1/10/2003
-71 -



Conclusion
It is considered that the financial management arrangements for this Project satisfy the minimum Bank
financial management requirements, because:
>      FREE has implemented an acceptable computerized accounting system for the Project;
>     FREE has developed a detailed financial, accounting and internal control manual describing the
accounting policies and procedures, internal controls, delegation of responsibilities and authorities,
transaction flows, reporting, planning and budgeting;
>      FREE has appointed a financial controller acceptable to the Bank;
>      FREE is in the process of selecting a professional Fund Manager (RFPs were sent to the
shortlisted bidders, the offers were submitted by the bidders to the FREE and the technical offers and the
evaluation report were sent to the Bank on 18th July and the selection is an effectiveness condition);
>      FREE will contract independent external auditors, acceptable to the Bank (dated covenant)
Supervision Plan
The development for further strengthening the financial management system will be monitored before
effectiveness, during the first supervision missions and throughout the project implementation. The
reports of the progress of the project implementation will be monitored in detail during supervision
missions. The FMRs will be reviewed on a regular basis by the field-based FMS and the results or issues
followed up during the supervision missions. Financial audit reports and management letters of the
project will be reviewed and issues identified and followed up. The field based FMS will monitor the
agreed action plan to ensure appropriate actions have been implemented by the FREE.
2. Audit Arrangements
For Bank reporting purposes, the annual financial statements of the project will be prepared in
accordance with International Accounting Standards (IAS) and audited by independent auditors,
acceptable to the Bank, in accordance with the International Standards on Auditing (ISA) and the Bank
guidelines on auditing and financial reporting such as the World Bank Financial Accounting Reporting
and Auditing Handbook and the World Bank Project Financial Management Manual.
The FREE will start shortly the procurement activities related to the selection of independent auditors in
accordance with the World Bank guidelines. A Request for Proposals will be prepared by the FREE and
will be sent to the World Bank for no objection in accordance with the Financial management action
plan. The appointment of independent auditors, acceptable to the Bank, is a dated covenant (within 3
months after effectiveness). The fund manager is required to have its financial statements (covering all its
activities, not just the ones related to the Project) audited yearly, by independent auditors. This
requirement will be included in the contract to be signed between the FREE and the fund manager.
3. Disbursement Arrangements
Most of the disbursements are expected to be made from the Special Account due to the small size of
payments and the nature of operation (FI). The use of Statement of Expenditures (SOEs) will be allowed
as noted herein. The Financial Controller of FREE will be trained in Bank procedures and requirements
before start of the Project, including in the preparation of quarterly Financial Monitoring Reports. The
disbursements under the various categories are described below.
Disbursements toward sub-loans (Fund investments under category 1) will be made against sub-loan
- 72 -



agreements approved by FREE's BoA. It is expected that borrowers will contribute at least 20% of the
costs of their projects. Disbursements toward Fund Manager retainer fee (category 2) will not be made on
the basis of SOEs. Disbursements toward technical assistance and consultancy contracts (category 3) will
be made on the basis of SOEs, subject to a threshold of US$50,000 for firms and US$20,000 for
individuals. Disbursements toward incremental operating costs of FREE (category 4) will be made
against SOEs and the maximum limit each year will be 100% in first year; 90% in second year; 75% in
third year; 50% in fourth year and zero thereafter. Disbursements are expected to be direct payments
from the Bank only in the case where FREE's clients and consultants express preference for this
procedure because of nationality of supplier or the size of the contract.
Allocation of grant proceeds (Table C)
Table C: Allocation of Grant Proceeds
;Ex,y.r _ noiintlri JS   iIle9n  '- .- Financing'P rcenitaie
Subloans                                   8.00                         100
Fund Manager                               0.90                         100
Consultancy Services                       0.54                         100
Incremental Operating Costs                0.56           100 up to 12/03; 90 up to 12/04; 75 up
to 12/05; 50 up to 12/06
Total Project Costs                        10.00
Total                                      10.00
Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
SOEs will be allowed as noted in the disbursements section above.
Special account:
FREE will open a Special Account in a commercial bank acceptable to the World Bank. The authorized
allocation and the initial deposit into the Special Account will be US$1.0 million.
- 73 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
ROMANIA: Energy Efficiency
Time taken to prepare the project (months)
First Bank mission (Identification)            02/01/2000                           . .
Appraisal mission departure                    03/04/2002
Negotiations                                   03/04/2002
Planned Date of Effectiveness                  11/01/2002
Prepared by:
Romania Energy Efficiency Project Working Group
Preparation assistance:
Consultants funded under GEF PDFB grant
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
... -            .                Na.rne . ....... -- ~ ~ bSpqciaIity:
Varadarajan Atur                  Program Team Leader
Robert Taylor                     Lead Energy Specialist/Thematic Group Leader
Anke Meyer                        Energy Efficiency Specialist (Consultant)
Doina Visa                        Private Sector Development Specialist
Bernard Baratz                    Principal Environmental Specialist
Irina Kichigina                   Legal Adviser
Nightingale Rukuba-Ngaiza         Legal Adviser
Bogdan Constantinescu             Financial Management Specialist
Leonid Vanian                     Procurement Accredited Specialist
Nicholay Chistyakov               Senior Disbursement Officer
Jeremy Levin                      Alternative Energy Specialist
Rozena Serrano                    Program Assistant
-74 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
ROMANIA: Energy Efficiency
A. Project Implementation Plan
B. Bank Staff Assessments
C. Other
GoR Ordinance establishing FREE
FREE Launch Workshop Materials
QER Reviewer Reports and Minutes of the QER Meeting, September 19, 2001
Consultants' Reports
Market Assessment:
- Market Surveys Summary Report
- Market Survey Draft Final
- Energy Efficiency Technologies and Market Size
- Markets for Energy Efficiency Technologies: steam traps, air compressors, inverters and vsds,
high efficiency motors, boilers (separate reports)
- Case Studies: Mobihar, Pasmatex, Sinterom, SC RAAL, Subex
- Market Surveys
Financial aspects
- FREE Financial Model
- Research on the banking products and services of the commercial banks from Romania as of
31.12.1999, plus update of 13.1.2002
- Fund Structure from a financial perspective
- Marketing to the Financial Sector (blue report)
- Cofinancing Report
Fund Manager
- TOR
- Fund Manager Agreement
Energy Efficiency and related Funds in CEECs and elsewhere
Performance Indicators for the Romanian Energy Efficiency Fund
Operational Manual of FREE
*Including electronic files
- 75 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
ROMANIA: Energy Efficiency
09-Aug-2002
Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amount in US$ Millions                             disbursements
Project ID    FY    Purpose                                     IBRD         IDA                 GEF     Cancel.    Undisb.      Orig  Frm Rev'd
P068808       2002 SDF 2 (APL #2)                                   20.00       000                 0.00       0.00     19.50      -0.50      0.00
P066065       2002 AG POLLUTION CONTROL (GEF)                        0.00       0.00                 5.15      0.00      4.96      -0.09      0.00
P057960       2002 RURAL OEV (APL #1)                               40.00       0.00                0.00       0.00     40.00       0.00      0.00
P058891       2001 RURAL FIN (APL #1)                               80.00       0.00                0.00       0.00     80.00       5.33      0.00
P008783       2001 SOC SECT DEV (SSD)                               50.00       0.00                0 00       0 00     49 70      14.96      0.00
P008797       2000 HEALTH SECTOR REFORM                             40.00       000                 0.00       0.00     11.72      -0.88      0.00
P043882       2000 AGR SUPPORT SERVS                                11.00       0 00                0.00       0.00      9.81       3.64      0.00
P056337       2000 MINE CLOSURE                                     44.50       0 00                0.00       0.00     39.89      32 19      0.00
P065041       2000 TRADE & TRANS FACIL IN SE EUR                    1710        0.00                0.00       0.00      13.98     -3.12      0.00
P058284        1999 CULTURAL HERITAGE                                5.00       0.00                0.00       0.00      4.02       4.02      0.53
P039251        1999 PIBL                                            25.00      0.00                 0.00       1.10      13.17     1427       0.00
P044176        1999 BIODIV CONSV MGMT (GEF)                          0.00       0.00                 5.50      0.00      3.26       2.59      0.00
P034213        1998 GEN'L CADASTRE                                  25.50      0.00                 0.00       0.00     21.81      16.98      0.65
P008788        1998 TELECOMMUNICATION                               30.00      0.00                 0.00       7.00      12.78     19.78     11.01
P055495        1998 CHILD WELFARE REFORM                             5.00       0.00                 0.00      0.00      1.20       1.20      0.00
P044614        1998 SCHOOLS REHABIUTATION                           70.00       0.00                 0.00      0.00     25.55      21.85      -4.45
P008793        1997 HIGHER EDUCATION                                50.00       0.00                 0.00      0.00      2.85       2.85      -0 07
P039250        1997 SECOND ROADS                                   150.00       0.00                 0.00      0.00      19 05     -0.95      0.00
P008794        1996 POWER SECTOR REHAB                              110.00      0.00                 0.00     33.50      58.98     92.48     92.43
P036013        1996 RAILWAY                                        120.00       0.00                 0 00      0.00      19.71     19.71      0.00
P008776        1995 EMPLYMT & SOC PROTECTION (ESSP)                 55.40       0.00                 0.00      0.00      2576      25 76      0.00
P008777        1994 PETROL SECT REH                                 175.60      0.00                 0.00      0.00      54.97     54.97     .69.48
Total:    1124.10        000               10.65       41 60     532.68    327.06      30.62
- 76 -



ROMANIA
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
Jun 30 - 2002
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                        Disbursed
IFC                             IFC
FY Approval         Company                       Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic   Loan   Equity    Quasi   Partic
1999                Ambro                         4.76     0.00    0.00    0.00    4.76     0.00     0.00    0.00
1998/02             Banc Post                     0.00     0.00   10.00-   0.00    0.00     0.00    10.00    0.00
2001                Banca Romaneasca               5.92    0.00    0.00     0.00    5.92    0.00     0.00    0.00
1998                Bilstein Compa                 1.27    0.00    0.00     1.27    1.27    0.00     0.00    1.27
1996                Danube Fund                   0.00     1.80    0.00    0.00     0.00    1.80     0.00    0.00
1998                DemirRomania                  2.14     0.00    0.00    0.00     2.14    0.00     0.00    0.00
1997                Efes Brewery                  5.56     0.00    0.00    3.00     5.56    0.00     0.00    3.00
1998                Garanta                       0.00     0.60    0.00    0.00     0.00    0.30     0.00    0.00
2001                ICME                          14.89    0.00    0.00     0.00    5.96    0.00     0.00    0.00
1998                Krupp Compa                   4.10     0.00    0.00     1.76    4.10    0.00     0.00    1.76
2002                MFI MFB Romania                0.00    2.03    0.00     0.00    0.00    2.03     0.00    0.00
1997/00             Mobil Rom                      1.77    0.00    0.00    2.36     1.77    0.00     0.00    2.36
1997                Rambox                         1.05    0.00    2.00    0.00     1.05    0.00     2.00    0.00
1994/98/01          Romlease                      4.00     0.00    0.00    0.00     2.00    0.00     0.00    0.00
Total Portfolio:        45.46    4.43    12.00     8.39   34.53    4.13    12.00    8.39
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval        Company                           Loan    Equity     Quasi     Partic
2001               Kronospan Rom                    30.20      0.00      0.00     45.73
Total Pending Commitment:        30.20      0.00      0.00    45.73
- 77 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
ROMANIA: Energy Efficiency
Europe &    Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                          Central  middle-
Romanla       Asia   Income      Development diamond'
2000
Population, mid-year (millions)                     22.4       475     2,046                 Life expectancy
GNI per capita (Atlas method. USS)                  1.670    2,010     1,140
GNI (Atlas method, US$ billions)                    37.4       956     2,327
Average annual growth, 1994-00
Population (%)                                       -0.2       0.1      1.0
Labor force(%)                                        12        06       13      GNI                             Gross
per                           primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1994-00)                            capita                      enrollment
Poverty (% of population below national poverty line)  41
Urban population (% ot total population)              56        67        42
Life expectancy at birth (yearsJ                      70        69        69
Infant mortality (par 1,000 1va births)               19        21        32
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)                               11          Access to improved water source
Access to an improved water source (% of population)  58        90        80
Illiteracy (X of population age 15+)                   2         3        15
Gross primary enrollment (% of school-age population)  96      100       114              Roman/a
Male                                                96       101       116             Lower-middle-Income group
Female                                              95        99       114
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1980     1990      1999      2000
Economic ratios'
GDP (US$ billions)                            ..    38.3       35.2     36.7
Gross domesUc investment/GDP                39.8     30.2      17.2     19.4                    Trd
Exports of goods and services/GDP           35.3     16.7      29.0     34.1                     rae
Gross domestic savings/GDP                  35.0     20.8      12.8     13.6
Gross national savingslGDP                           21.5      13.5     15.1
Current account balance/GDP                   ,,     4.7       -3.7      37      Domestic                    Investment
Interest payments/GDP               ,        ,       0.0        1.4      1.4     savIngs
Total debU/GDP                                        3.0      26.6     29.3     savings
Total debtservice/exports                   12.6      0.4      31.3     15.7
Present value of debt/GDP                                      22.7     27.4
Present value of debt/exports                                  79.5     80.7
Indebtedness
11980-90  199040    1999      2000    2000-04
(average annual growth)
GDP                                 0.5     -0.7     -2.3       1.6      4.0               Romania
GDP per capita                      0.1     -0.4     -2.1       1.8      4.3               Lower-middle-Income group
Exports of goods and services                8.5     10.8      23.9
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1980     1990      1999      2000     GrowthofInvestmentandGDP(%)
(% oi GDP)                                                                       20
Agriculture                                          20.3      15.0      12.8
Industry                                            50.0       35.9     36.3     so
Manufacturing                                                26.7      27.0
Services                                            29.8       49.1     50.9      o 
Private consumption                         59.9    65.9       74.4     73.9    -10
Generalgovernmentconsumption                 5.0     13.3      12.7     12.5                     GDI      0-GDP
Imports of goods and services              40.1     26.2       33.4     39.9
1980-90  1990-00      1999     2000      Growth of exports and Imports (%)
(average annual growth)                                                          4
Agriculture                                          -0.6       3.4    -15.9 9      -
Industry                                            -0.8       -1.6      6.2     30o 
Manufacturing                                      -2.8      -7.1       6.2    20
Services                                            -0.5       -4.6      6.7     10
Private consumption                          ..       1.2      -3.6      1.4      a
General government consumption               ,,      1.1       -9.4      4.2     xo     95   go    97   98    99    00
Gross domestic investment                            -5.2     -5.3      10.9                  Exports   Ilmports
Imports of goods and services                        6.4      -1.1      29.1
Note: 2000 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.
- 78 -



Romania
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1980     1990      1999     2000     Infation I%)
Domestic prices|Inlto(%
(% change)
Consumer prices                                      5.1      45.8     45.7
Implicit GDP deflator                        0.6    13.7      48.7     45.3     1
Govenment 1inance
(% of GDP, includes current grants)
Current revenue                               ..    39.5      32.1      31.4            95    9s   97    99    s9    oo
Current budget balance                        ..     8.5       0.0     40.6             -    GDP deflator  C   CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                       ..     1.0      -3.7     -4.0 
TRADE
(USS mi/lions)                             1980     1990      1999     2000      Export and Import levels (USS mill.)
Total exports (fob)                           ..   5,770     8,487    10,367    15.DoO
Textiles                                     ..    944      1,310    1,658
Metals                                      ..    1136       502      822      1  0
Manufactures                                 ..   3,428     5.697    6,984
Total Imports (cHI)                                9,202    10.557    13,055                   J     la
Food                                        ..    1,211      795      932   s   ,o0_
Fuel and energy                             ..    3,896     1,251    1,830
Capital goods                                ..   1.958     2,903    3,767              .    .l   l
Export price Index (1995t100)                 ..      97        98      105           94   ss   sr   97   98   99  oo
Importpricelndex(1995=100)                    ..     105       101      107                  *Exports     MImports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                     ..      93        97       98
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(UJSS milions)                             1980     1990      1999     2000      Current account balance to GOP (%)
Exports of goods and services             12,087   4,295     9,870    12,133     o
Imports of goods and services             13,730   6,065    11,381    14,071
Resource balance                          -1,643  -1,770     -1,511   -1,938    -2
Net income                                 -777     -140      -411     -285     -4
Net current transfers                         0      107       626      860              'I       I     I     "
Current account balance                   -2,420  -1,803     -1,296   -1,363
Financing Items (net)                      2,174     157     1,469     2,291    -a
Changes In net reserves                     247    1,646      -173     -928     .10 -
Memo:
Reserves Including gold (US$ millions)        ..     877     2,493     3,397
Conversion rate (DEC, IocaD1US$)              ..    22.4   15,332.8  21,708.7
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1980     1990      1999     2000
(US$ millions)                                                                   Composrdon of 2000 debt (USS mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed       9,762   1,140     9,367    10.740
IBRD                                      806        0     1,662     1,898
IDA                                         0        0         0        0                G:            A: 1.898
Total debt service                         1,529      18     3,138     1,953                ,
IBRD                                       81        0       170      195                                    c:453
IDA                                         0        0         0        0
Composition of net resource flows
Oflicialgrants                              0        3         .D ,.                                     _    ;1,094
Official creditors                        613       19        14      467
Private creditors                       1,360       4       -327     1,068                            -    E 72
Foreign direct investment                  ..       ..     1,025     1.009         2: 5,44
Portfolioequlty                             0        0      -715      110
World Bank program
Commitments                               240       0        380       68      A - IBRD                  E - Bilateral
Disbursements                             239       0        315      384      8- IDA   D- Other multilateral  F - Private
Principal repayments                       22       0         83       91      C - IMF                   G - Short-term
Net flows                                 217        0       233      293
Interest payments                          59       0         88      104
Nettransfers                              158        0       145      189
Development Economics                                                                                            9/10/01
- 79-



Additional Annex 11: Energy Efficiency Market Analysis Summary
ROMANIA: Energy Efficiency
Introduction
In order to verify the market for the Romania Energy Efficiency Fund (FREE), a detailed market
assessment was carried out, investigating the overall potential for energy efficiency investments in
Romania, and more critically, the immediate market for investments by the Fund. Given the difficulty
that Romania's economic transition is having on certain sectors of the economy, the market assessment
has focused on what is understood to be the primary target beneficiary of the Fund's investments: those
industries that can demonstrate creditworthiness and an ability to repay loans (or other financial
products) that would be offered for efficiency improvements. Client companies should not have major
environmental problems. Additionally, particularly for the early years of FREE operation, it is assumed
that eligible projects would be limited to those meeting certain criteria to minimize risk and maximize the
potential for success. These criteria include:
*      The project must have a relatively short payback time (generally under three to four years);
*      The investment should be in the range of US$ 100,000 to $1,000,000 (to minimize transaction
costs on the low side, and to limit exposure from a limited number of projects on the high side);
*      At least 50% of each project's benefits have to come from energy savings (e.g., process or
capacity improvements that have ancillary energy savings benefits are not eligible); and,
*      The technology must be well proven in the proposed application to avoid all technological risk.
Within these constraints, a review has been completed of the large quantity of feasibility studies prepared
in Romania over the past several years, interviews with and surveys of potential clients were carried out,
and estimates of the overall market size have been prepared and are summarized in this annex.'
Rationale for Industry Sectors and Technologies Selected
While there is phenomenal potential for technically and economically justified energy efficiency
improvements in virtually all sectors of the Romanian economy, several sectors and subsectors of the
manufacturing industry are initially targeted for FREE investments. These sectors were chosen due to
their strong economic perfornance, level of export capacity (and the resulting hard currency income,
removing currency risks), and growth potential. The candidate industries were further narrowed down by
the combination of their energy savings potential, the potential for replication of projects, and having a
substantial enough energy bill to warrant the minimum project size mentioned above.
It is important to note that the investment potential shown is actually in a very conservative subset of the
industry sectors identified. For example, within the pulp and paper sector, we have not considered
investments in pulping plants, which are struggling economically, but only considered the potential
investments in some of the profitable, and growing, paper making facilities. We then only assumed
replication potential in less than half of these plants to remain conservative in the estimate. Similarly,
within the cement industry, we have only considered potential investment at the two most profitable
plants, while there are many others that can use the technical improvements but may not have the
required ability to repay. The technologies identified are standard energy efficiency improvements that
have been demonstrated to provide lasting, reliable savings in similar facilities around the world. All of
the projects identified have proven savings potential, and have been found through detailed audits and
feasibility studies to be applicable to sites in Romania.
- 80 -



Overview of the Market
The primary target market for the first five years of FREE operation is shown in Table l. The mix of
industries and technologies shown represents low-risk investments for the early years of the Fund, both
with companies that should have adequate ability to repay loans, and with technologies that are well
proven. Figures I and 2 show the breakdown of the estimated market by industry sector and technology.
Table 1: Estimated potential for commercially viable energy efficiency investment in the industrial
sector (in US $)
0                                     V.. *-  1N,. 0       ..C ..3b,.. 11.......  - , ..
|____________  60.100 Co.l  |_________   ___________  | noos  C o.b  |__________  |_________  0o.o , Coso  __________  _ _  r  .01 0  0 6 7yi
Ino   ... ,,  204007  01.0..  PayaOl  h..,, P,7.C 01060  Nyoc  00000.0  08b= ".11._  0703  6.070  aS ,b 0g* l l  "s F , y00  Co..,,0  08.64S .  7660
C.o,          ______  _ _____               ,, ,001x  7 .33,0  7 o  ,=           ..70  0 7.000 ,  ,,,.000  . 75
o7004     3 ,.6.000  3o ,69000  20  23000 .A... '0. 000 22  ___OO.__  .000,00 _ t O  770,000  I09
0U.&FfiC.76000.  . -      . 6 .O 4S,00  6 O 6000 ,,323. , S.000  , S 23  .2      S   . 6,0  67.200  240
146l0  0.  7.954O 000   4320200  300  6 000000  6_20,0  7.07 'Al  S_  2.250.00   0  470,00  To6  S  000.000  M 4.00  725
,h."" 0630.00 , ,   ,,, 0O... . , _______  _____ _  ._ _  .   404 ,000  6  0 OOO 1 J7 7   * . e xO * .0 000  .   7. . BO 002 ,   I ->  . ,
00.7*56   6     S           S 60.000000 S  3 0,000300   3  307,000  ,  2.000  .423  S  *  . 700000  * 5 34000  004
aOOd P00.Ino..   3 170I.000  S  40  00  30 3  60 .   NO.000  0 ,   _. ___ ,  .000.000 ,  ,700  0 .  7 * .  20  .0 .0200  7 30.200 '. 362
bp 2 P..,  9 *5.0007,O 6  2400000 ,26       S MW_ .,  .000001  , ,3.30.007 0, 0   *  7 0  0 , 112A,00  . 60
0._                                           ,6.00I0  9 7,0.000  3 17                            _
Oo7.1  _____  67.0000  3 64000 00 66 00  *0*72nn ,34000  3,I3oo 6,,..... ........ 0000 .  7040.00 0  4. II  0  0.03,00  .0X 3,6700  200on ,  0270000  5.. 70,200
To_.         ONI S   22  1  2 ..  "__A.__   _ _   .  3 __  !_  W.. ..  I I?MA.-  _ !I  S. , 9A3 ,, A __ __A_2 S.  ___2_   IS
.______  00-73y  Co.'  .______  0 00000. . 00 .0  0470 7  Co.  ,0 00,. Co.7  _____ _  ,,_ _ ..9.. 0.6 '.
sb c r.^k. -- * ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1AO00? X2aO7O  O ooww 6  *A" .rs . S7  ,19OO tsoo 5z A T.2 s.0 9  1.2u0 |o
_______ .,0  O  O0   j7 ____  6119ooo  s  703.0.  00 56 O  6,*00000                *7e7.0 1  22
C-1  6-.   0.00001          6  623000 .  7.0000M0  0 40 .0 ., , 000000 2614, 000 S   _3_A__0 A 0 S 1.2004 10 3.074.000  7242
Qo4  0 0.  325000  -0 00,00  057                                    .7.0  00S 3  2600  26  -. ,O00  30 .   .  .74. 000   .  r   .__.
Il__yyPY___h            _____                 --,00,>   ___.roooo  * 5.00  13000  00  0  01.|000   0  3.707.000  374,
08.4 1.6                    *  73000  0 162S00 07 0000,007 20.3  67O  22. 0  1      6 17.1.000  1 7.00000  4 20
w01 - -.0   6  732000                           0   S3.002 1 r0,000 7 2 00 0 *oosoo  _   6  272000  5  0.06.00   242
00X.,    I  317000  S  341000  00  4030 6 00,0  29  ____   __ _                    A0 . 6 .00 .0  0 2430.000  345
T74..,    S  . ,0 .5000  100  S 3.5057..00 4.84 0 0:  01 .23,0 701 2a3.7,000  .1A010  4*07  640i.070,   .007.000  2
Figure 1: Potential Investments by Industry Type
Other    Food & Bewrage
3% iCement   5%
Pulp & Paper  i 3%     C_Gas  ine
13%                     4%
Machine Building
g+_'--;.5-_  _  \     8%
Wood Processing   L
20%        -
_   -   Oil Processing
21%
Chemicals
23%
-81 -



Figure 2: Potential Investrnents by Technology
Small
Cogeneration/Turbine  Boiler & Heat
!\ S          Distribution Retrfit
16%               9%
A            Boiler Replacement
i./_.         \     18%
Process               Variable Speed
Modernizatio              DriWs
32%                     14%
Energy Managemerit;m T ew Air
& Controls  1%Pb      r5
2%          Correc8ei
3%
Initial Years Indicative Project Pipeline
Additional work has been carried out to confirm the savings and investment potential, and screen the
creditworthiness of these projects to build the pipeline. However, there has been a delicate balance in
developing a project pipeline due in part to previous experience in Romania with failed attempts to
provide funding for energy efficiency investments. The customers that could be the best candidates have
been approached about this before, and are leery about providing new information when they have been
through this before, only to be disappointed when the funds were not made available. Additionally, the
fact that the Fund will make final investment decisions, and the uncertainty of when funds from the
FREE would be aVailable to be committed, made it unadvisable to build a full pipeline of projects for
early investment. Instead, the project preparation team has developed an indicative pipeline, where
prospective customers have been pre-qualified as reasonably creditworthy, and have proposed projects
meeting the Fund's tentative investment criteria.
Table 2 below lists 14 prospective FREE customers who have been screened, and their proposed energy
efficiency investments, totaling over US$ 9 million. Figure 3 shows the investment by technology. This
indicative pipeline differs from the very short payback (less than two years, when considered as a
package to a given customer) projects initially identified as key targets for the first two years of FREE
operation. These kinds of projects would enable the Fund in the beginning to roll over funds quickly, and
to fund more projects on a revolving basis. Having many initial "winning" projects to demonstrate
success, and attract additional co-financing and more clients was considered key. The above-mentioned
additional work, however, showed that many of the more sophisticated companies have already carried
out those projects, with very few exceptions from their own funds. The Fund Manager will therefore
have to concentrate from the beginning on slightly longer-term projects (2-3 years) and might consider
adding short-term projects with higher risk clients.
-82 -



In addition to the above indicative pipeline, arrangements have been made with Romanian energy
efficiency experts to support a number of interested potential clients in the development of detailed
bankable investment proposals during the first half of 2002. These proposals would serve as the initial
pipeline for consideration of the Fund Manager.
Table 2: Initial Years Indicative Pipeline
Investments costs (M USD)
Steam                      Boiler
Industrial profile -  Export  Prom     Variable systems  Energy   New air  houses
manufacturing         (%)             speed   improvem manage- compress Improve Heat       Coolers/
dnves   ent       ment     ors     ment    recovery  chillers
Porcelain and china          59.80      3.34             0 000            0.002      _                         0.003
Eledrc motors'       .        88.87   _ 15.08                             0.200 ;                               0.200
Gamnents        -            81.20     1513    -         0100    0.180    0.002                                0.282
Druns                         16.36     539 -_                            0.350                                0.350
Bread and pastry              000       423              0 060 '0045      0.025. 0.250     0.060               0 440
Aliilane manufacturer          0.07    40.65             0.160   01095    0.196   0 197                        0.453
Repairoftrain cars    -       0.00     15.43   0.050 -O1 0.050            0.064   0415                         0.579
A_uminim asng      .         49.67      2    '86  100    0 100 - '0.300   0.050   0.040    0.050               0.640
Dalrfy'          -                     11:14   0010      0036    0033     -       0.116    0.004    -0.745     0.944
Wood fumiture       _        57 28     15:46   0 100     0 100   0.300    0.050   0.400    0.050                1.000
Beer manufacturer             0 W00    17.90            -           -             1:000                         1 00
St6el pipesrand tubes     "  31.03      J.103  0.840             -0.070 '0.080    0.080                         1.070
Diesel motors and turbines   31.04      7.13   0.150             0.550    0.050            0.550                1.300
Airplane repairs            .62.22      3.75             0.050   0.088    0.1 0t   1.10                        1.338
36 83 9E9 50I             0.6or06i         -1(     M.      --T      --- 0. 7    4 9 .04
Figure 3: Indicative Pipeline Investment by Technology
Cooliem.Chilers
8%
-       13%        Vardabe Speed Drives
Heat Recovery 7%                         .
6%
Steam System Improvements
17%Energy Management
Boler House ImprvemOa                        -/
3; -12%        New AirCompressors
Note: Total prospectve Investment of US$ 9 mllion by 14 industial companies
Case Studies
In addition to the indicative pipeline, more thorough reviews, including engineering due diligence, were
performed for several projects. They are available from the Project Files.
- 83 -



Further Potential in Later Years of Operation
While creditworthy industrial facilities have been targeted for FREE's early years of operation due to the
current economic situation in Romania, it is expected that other sectors will emerge as good candidates
over the coming decade, and the market for energy efficiency investment will grow significantly. In
particular, we anticipate that the growing commercial buildings sector (hotels and private offices) should
be a strong market in the relatively near future.
Municipal and other public buildings and services should also be a very strong market during the second
half of the coming decade. There are tremendous energy savings opportunities in municipal water and
sewer systems, and public lighting systems as well. Additionally, schools and hospitals have very good
potential. While all of these sectors are not currently considered good credit risks, their role in providing
necessary public services means that they will remain in operation, and as the economic restructuring
moves forward, will evolve into creditworthy entities.
Because of creditworthiness and repayment concerns regarding customers other than the industrial
segments above, a detailed market assessment has not been carried out for the other sectors during
project preparation. Other technical assistance work has attempted to quantify the size of other markets,
which are quite large and could be a significant part of FREE's activity following the first few years. For
example, extrapolating from recent PHARE work, conservatively there are US$ 250 to 400 million boiler
and building envelope projects in schools alone with short payback (under 3 years). Substantial potential
also exists in privately owned commercial buildings (hotels and offices), and other public facilities such
as hospitals. It is anticipated that those other sectors will be investigated in more detail under TA
activities funded by other donors with whom FREE is collaborating, such as UNDP/GEF, EcoLinks,
USAID/SECI, GTZ.
Product channels
Six energy efficiency technologies, were investigated in more detail to estimate the current market based
on historic sales figures, and to assess the manufacturing and distribution channels. The latter might later
facilitate the identification of customers and the packaging of smaller projects with the help of vendors.
Given that the main objective of the present Market Survey was to find the most attractive technologies
for investment through the Fund, we defined as the primary target market projects with paybacks under
three years and with capital investments ranging between US $ 50,000 and US$ 500,000. Additionally,
the projects must have the majority of the savings from their installation come from energy savings
(instead of production or capacity improvement), and the savings from their installation should be
relatively easy to estimate and measure. The technologies that fit under the umbrella criteria mentioned
above include: Variable Speed Drives (VSDs), condensers for power factor improvement, steam traps, air
compressors, new or retrofit boilers, industrial coolers, and automation and controls. For these
technologies, the channels through which these technologies reach the end users were identified, or in
other words which are the local manufacturers and their distributors and which are the distributors for
imported products, their network, terms, etc.
The investigations highlighted a fairly large network of suppliers for imported technologies, as well as
for domestic manufacturers. The absence of qualified and reliable suppliers is one problem that the Fund
will not face. The most recent annual sales (1999 or 2000) of these technologies and the estimation of the
market size were obtained by interviewing manufacturers and distributors, see Table 3.
- 84 -



Market potential was estimated for the next six years (2001 - 2006) based on different previous studies
plus the estimates offered by equipment suppliers. Those estimates however are only indicative for the
market growth over the next five years. They represent probably no more than 25 to 30 % of the real
market potential, under more "friendly" economic circumstances: medium term financing available, a
sustainable economic growth of minimum 3 % per year, a better tax treatment, inflation rate under
control and predictable, reduced financial gridlock, etc.
Table 3: Annual Sales, 1999/2000 and Future Market Potential
Annual Sales (1999 or  Estimated annual sales (next
2000), in Mio US$     3-5 years), in Mio US$
Steam Traps                   0.84                     2
Air compressors               4.85                    10
VSDs                          1.50                     2
Automation/controls           8-10                    10
Industrial coolers            2-3                      9
Power factor                  4.30                     3
condensers
Boilers                      39.30                    50
Electric motors              15.90                    24
Total                       77 - 80                   111
The suppliers investigated showed a vivid interest in the Fund as an alternative source of financing and
seemed keen to work with the Fund to bring good clients and projects. Many of large suppliers (e.g.
ABB, Honeywell Armstrong, etc.) are already screening their clients for financial soundness before
closing any sales. Therefore, these may become good project providers to the Fund. Some expressed
interest to have loan guarantees offered by the Fund to customers, for their own supplier credit schemes.
- 85-



dditional Annex 12: Fund Manager Terms of Reference
ROMANIA: Energy Efficiency
1.     Background
The Romanian Energy Efficiency Fund ("FREE") is seeking a consortium/firm (the "Fund Manager") to
assist in managing a US$ 8 million Fund ("the Fund" ) to support energy efficiency investments in
Romania. The Fund Manager will provide a management team with proven structured finance experience
and energy efficiency expertise for the position of FREE's Fund Manager, to be based in Bucharest.
2.     Objectives
As Fund Manager for FREE, the consultant will provide professional structured finance experience and
energy efficiency expertise to develop and finance commercially viable energy efficiency investments
which can provide sustainable and increasing reductions in green house gas (GHG) emissions in
Romania. The Fund Manager will be responsible for the investment aspects of the Fund and is expected
to establish a portfolio of projects that allows the Fund to become self-financing within a period of three
or a maximum of four years.
3.     Scope of Services
The services of the fund manager include management and operation of the investment aspects of FREE.
Key responsibilities of the Fund Manager include:
1. Prepare annual business and marketing plans, for targeting beneficiaries for the Fund, including
plans to work together with local institutions/partners in order to strengthen initial deal flow and
ensure coverage of the best investment opportunities.
2. Report to the Board of Administration as needed conceming the status of the investment
portfolio, prospects for future investment, and any other material developments.
3. Identify target investment projects and prepare recommendations for investment:
* Conduct promotional activities and originate new clients/projects
*  Screen and evaluate projects
*  Perform due diligence to analyze technical, environmental, financial and credit risks
*  Determine the structure of specific investments including the size of the investment, the
use of funds, the nature of the interest to be taken by the Fund
* Prepare financing terms and transaction packages
*  Make recommendations on potential investments to the Investment Committee
* Work with the Investment Committee to refine specific transactions, as appropriate.
4. Negotiate and finalize financing contracts and arrange for disbursements to client [FREE is
responsible for effecting all disbursements, inicluding to clients of the Fund].
5. Manage the portfolio:
* Ensure and arrange for payment collection
* Monitor the performance of the portfolio and compliance of portfolio companies with
financing contracts and take remedial action if necessary to deal with problems that arise
* Report quarterly on portfolio performance to the Board, including on status of
- 86 -



investments made, prospects for future investrnents, and any other developments material to
the Fund;
6. Coordinate and manage consultants and service providers providing the following types of
assistance to the Fund Manager in carrying out his/her tasks:
*  Engineering and technical analysis
*  Legal
*  Environmental screening, assessment and monitoring
*  Loan servicing, including collections
*  Accounting
*  Marketing
*  Financial structuring and analysis
7. Support FREE in attracting investors, particularly from the private sector, to co-invest with
FREE's energy efficiency opportunities once an investment track record has been established, at least
doubling the funding available for energy efficiency investments:
*  Identify potential private sector sources of co-finance for FREE transactions
*  Develop co-financing arrangements
*  Negotiate co-financing fees and other terms
*  Carry out responsibilities to co-financiers under a co-financing agreement, if any.
8. After an initial period of project implementation of about three years review portfolio
performance and develop a strategy for the remaining years of the project, including development of
new products, new clients in economic sectors not yet covered and other diversification potential.
4.     Advisory Support to and Training for the Fund Manager
As indicated above, it is intended that grant financing will be available to finance advisory support to
FREE. While the technical assistance funds will be administered by the Executive Director, the Fund
Manager will be able to define a part of the allocation for project development during the first three years
of the fund, based on the annual business plan. The support is expected to be provided from independent
experts and will supplement the work of the Fund Manager, particularly in the area of project
development and training of partners of the fund. Some of the funds are expected to be used for training
the Fund Manager in structuring energy efficiency deals, possibly through an independent adviser to
FREE. Finally, staff of the Fund Manager will need to attend training for environmental assessment and
monitoring.
A well-connected local presence is important to the success of the Fund. It is therefore a requirement that
the Fund Manager be prepared to work together with local and regional institutions in order to strengthen
the initial deal flow and ensure that the Fund Manager is aware of the best investment opportunities in
Romania. It is expected that the Fund Manager will conclude some form of assistance agreement with
these local entities soon after contract signature. The nature of this assistance is at the discretion of the
Fund Manager to design, subject to the approval of the Board of Administration. Prospective Fund
Managers are therefore encouraged to reflect in their proposals on the best means of working with these
institutions.
- 87 -



5.     Staffing
It is expected that the Fund Manager will consist of a core team of individuals, comprised of senior and
junior professionals. There are no other mandatory requirements for the size or structure of the Fund
Management Team. Firms tendering for the Fund Management contract should make clear how they
propose to structure their team, taking maximum advantage of the experience of Romanian experts. The
following guidelines may be useful in preparing proposals:
(1) Senior Fund Manager:
*  to be resident in Romania at least while the Fund is in the active investment phase;
*  should have direct investment or venture capital fund management experience covering
the full investment cycle from initial identification to exit;
*  will be the "public face" of the Fund and will therefore be expected to effectively
interact with the local business and administrative community; and
* should be able to communicate in Romanian and English. It will be important that any
deficiencies in language proficiency be addressed through adequate interpretation/translation
arrangements.
(2) Investment Professionals:
* will be based in Romania;
*  it is suggested that the team should include at least two investment professionals. These
should have direct investment or venture capital experience, although industrial management,
investment Banking, management, legal, consulting or accounting experience may also be
acceptable;
* and should be able to speak Romanian and English.
(3) Energy Efficiency Professional:
It is expected that the team will include at least one professional with previous experience in
developing bankable energy efficiency investments.
(4) Support Staff:
Support staff may include interpreters, secretaries, drivers and others.
The fund management proposal should indicate which individuals will fill the positions of Senior Fund
Manager, Investment Professionals and Energy Efficiency Professional. The proposal should also
indicate the organization structure, the key staff committed, the status of discussions with potential staff
and the process the firm expects to undertake to finalize its team. It is not necessary to identify specific
support staff.
Finally, the proposal should include a clear indication of the proportion of time which individuals will be
able to work for the Fund Management Team and, in the case of the Senior Fund Manager, the proportion
of time to be spent in Romania. The Consultant Contract will specify the proportion of time that each of
the individuals in the core team is required to spend on the project. If the Fund Manager needs to replace
any of these individuals, replacement candidates acceptable to the Bank will have to be provided within a
reasonable period of time.
6.     Training (when appropriate)
See previous section
- 88 -



7.     Reports and Time Schedule
The Fund Manager will submit the following plans and reports to the Executive Director for submission
to the Board and the World Bank.
Type of Report                     Time Schedule             Remarks
Business Plan (including marketing plan,  Within 2 months of  Including how the business
TA plan)                           effectiveness of the contract  plan will help the Fund
achieve self-financing and
by when
Portfolio Performance Report       Quarterly                 Including the health of the
portfolio
Environmental Supervision and      Annually
Performance Report
Midterm report and strategy for the  During the third year of Fund
remaining years of the project, including  operation
development of new products, new clients
in economic sectors not yet covered and
other diversification potential
8.     Data, Local Services, Personnel, and Facilities to be provided by the Client
To be determined (only sharing of data and documentation)
9.     Terms of Engagement
The Fund Manager will enter a five year contract with FREE which will be subject to review and
negotiations after three years, and may be extended beyond five years if required, and subject to
successful performance. The key factor for extension beyond the third year is the ability of the Fund to
earn sufficient income to cover expenses, including fees to the Fund Manager. The contract will be based
on the World Bank's standard Consultants' Services contract (Lump Sum Remuneration).
The Fund Manager will be paid an annual retainer. The fixed fee part will cover the basic operating costs
of the Fund Manager. It will be paid in monthly installments and will be guaranteed during the first three
years of the contract. The performance-based part will depend on the value of new loans made each
quarter and on the repayment performance. In addition, the Fund Manager will receive the deal
origination fees directly paid by the Fund's clients. The success fee in the form of a percentage share of
the Fund's increase in net asset value will be based on the winning bidder's offer.
All cofinancing agreements with other financiers are subject to review and approval by FREE and the
World Bank. Fees realized through co-financing arrangements or for managing non-FREE funds will also
constitute income of the Fund Manager. All such income will be disclosed completely to the Board of
Administration before entering into such agreements. In case of a conflict of interest, the Fund Manager
shall seek prior written approval of FREE before proceeding with evaluating an investment proposal.
-89-



Additional Annex 13: STAP Technical Review Comments and Response
ROMANIA: Energy Efficiency
William Chandler
Senior Staff Scientist
Battelle, Pacific Northwest National Laboratory
Final Comments, 6 September 2000
General Comments
The objective of this proposed project-to "reduce greenhouse gas emissions in Romania through the
development of a self-sustaining, market-based mechanism that will support the development and
implementation of commercially viable energy efficiency investments"-is consistent with the principles
of the Global Environment Facility and with the energy and environmental needs of Romania. The
proposed approach is logical and straightforward.
Specific concerns expressed below are relatively minor and relate to ambiguity in the text, ambiguities
with respect to project implementation and accountability. These comments should be taken as
constructive, and not intended to encourage rejection or even delay in the project's approval. Specific
actions I would urge include consideration of using the funds as equity rather than debt, and giving
clearer definition to the role and sustainability of the proposed foundation.
In general, I find this effort laudable and would endorse it.
Specific Comments
Section A. I.: The document states: "The project will support the development and implementation of
commercially viable energy efficiency investments, which can provide sustainable and increasing
reductions in GHG emissions without public subsidy." The reviewer agrees that this
approach-stimulating commercial investments-is feasible and sustainable. It may be unrealistic,
however, to expect a "large increase" in such investment on the basis of this small program, which
involves only $10 million of World Bank/GEF funds. An increase in the size of the program may be
desirable.
Section A.2.: Drop "by project year" from the first criterion. Investments are "lumpy" and would better
be evaluated over, say, a three-year period. That is, it is the overall result that is important, not the
annual rate of investment.
Section A.3.: The first criterion-an increase in commercial efficiency lending-may require additional
elaboration. It is difficult to measure efficiency lending because efficiency can embrace a wide variety of
investments, and it is unlikely that a current baseline of investment exists against which to evaluate the
effectiveness of the EEFF. Making this evaluation would require something like an economic baseline
modeling effort, which would be expensive, difficult, and not all that productive.
Section A.4.: I would be careful about claims such as the following: "Romania's energy intensity, which
is mirrored by its GHG intensity, is about five times that of UK, France or Germany." This comparison
almost certainly was made on the basis of GDPs estimated using current exchange rates. Most energy
and environmental analysts consider energy intensity measured on the basis of purchasing power parity
- 90 -



(PPP) to be more valid (although still uncertain). Romania's energy intensity would remain relatively
high, but not a factor of five higher than European Union nations. I recommend using International
Energy Agency estimates using PPP.
Section B.4. 1.: One might further justify (with numbers) the following sentence: "Although there have
been many donor-funded technical assistance and technical demonstration projects to improve energy
efficiency, these have not achieved results in terms of increasing investments on the ground." This
reviewer doubts very that the first part of the sentence-"many...projects"-is objectively true. That is, the
efficiency effort made by the international community is probably small in absolute terms. More likely,
there have been some poorly designed "tied-aid" projects intended to promote sales of European and
American products, though probably not much even of that.
The following sentences are mostly on-target: "The overarching barrier to energy efficiency investment is
a lack of commercial credit for these projects: lending institutions consider both the costs and the risks
of lending for energy efficiency at this time to be too high. The recent failure of an EBRD project
provides instructive experience. It established a credit line for energy efficiency projects with a
Romanian bank that failed to disburse due to lack of incentives and interest and inadequate sub-project
development." This discussion is missing two important elements, however. First, equity is not
mentioned, but can be a powerful tool for efficiency investment, particularly when coupled with
investments to improve product quality and to increase output. Second, the failure of EBRD (and IFC)
lines of credit almost certainly are related more to constraints internal to the EBRD (and IFC) and its
lines of credit-the rules, regulations, management style-than to any problem with the market (though
problems certainly exist in the market).
The following sentence is almost certainly true, but can be taken out of context: "The transaction costs
of identifying, developing and financing energy efficiency projects are high. The development of a sound
energy efficiency loan portfolio requires a level of specialization that entails high initial costs." If the
words "energy efficiency" were deleted, the sentence would still be true for Romania.
The following statement is no longer true (at least outside Romania): "...there is a common perception
outside of the energy efficiency community that the benefits of these projects are only "social and
environmental benefits", and some people are skeptical about financial profitability." Enron, hardly an
environmental advocacy group, currently invests about $1 million per day in efficiency projects in its
customers' facilities.
This statement is probably untrue: "Loan repayment periods of 2-4 years will be required for most
projects..." At least if true it is not a problem unique to efficiency investing.
How is the following problem different from an investment in, say, increasing output of diamonds? "In
enterprises that are typically short of cash (even if profitable), there may be dangers that savings on
energy bills will be diverted to make other payments, rather than loan repayments."
The following point is perhaps the most relevant to project justification: "While there is a wealth of
studies on technical and economic potential for energy efficiency, these are of little use for bank loan
officers. A similar lack of ability to combine technical and financial skills can be observed on part of the
consumer/enterprise side." These two sentences are exactly right. However, the discussion should also
call attention to a key, missing skill in both the banks and the enterprises, which is in the field of
accounting. Making sense of balance sheets in the region, and especially when it comes to expenses such
as energy, is a substantial barrier to efficiency investment.
-91 -



Section C. 1.: The question arises as to whether the "Foundation" is merely a pass-through organization
from the GEF to the private sector. The question of how the Foundation survives beyond the GEF
project is not adequately addressed (although allusion is made to this question in a table footnote and an
aside about a 1 percent "finders fee'). Specifically, the proposal should embrace the concepts of "core
funding" (to attract competent staff) and self-sufficiency. The latter should be a fixed date by which staff
with have to find funds to sustain their work. Is also critical that the core principles of the foundation be
articulated and that the lines of accountability for management and success of the foundation be drawn.
This effort may require drafting of a charter or the selection of a model charter.
Section E.4.: The proposal defers spelling out role and responsibilities of Foundation and the financial
institution.
Section E.4. and E.6: The terrn key stakeholders is used, but stakeholders are not identified. If working
groups have been formed and meetings held as reported, then stakeholders can probably be defined more
specifically.
-92 -



Team Responses to
STAP Review
General Comments
Specific actions I would urge include consideration of using the funds as equity rather than debt, and
giving clearer definition to the role and sustainability of the proposed foundation.
Response: The project team considers that equity investments shouldfollow at a later stage, when
sufficient debt investments have taken place to assure revolution offunds. Considering that equity is
the highest risk capital, it should be undertaken only if market conditions require it and when exit is
feasible. The project team recognizes that clearer definition to the role and sustainability of the
proposedfoundation is an important task during further project preparation which is explained in
more detail below.
Specific Comments
Section A. .: The document states: "The project will support the development and implementation of
commercially viable energy efficiency investments, which can provide sustainable and increasing
reductions in GHG emissions without public subsidy." The reviewer agrees that this
approach-stimulating commercial investments-is feasible and sustainable. It may be unrealistic,
however, to expect a "large increase" in such investment on the basis of this small program, which
involves only $10 million of World Bank/GEF funds. An increase in the size of the program may be
desirable.
Response: While GEF would only contribute US$ 10 million, the revolving nature of the EEFF and
the cofinancing attracted would result in estimated total investment to be leveraged by the EEFF in
the order of US$113 million. This would constitute a large increase.
Section A.2.: Drop "by project year" from the first criterion. Investments are "lumpy" and would better
be evaluated over, say, a three-year period. That is, it is the overall result that is important, not the
annual rate of investment.
Response: True, investments are lumpy, but with the help of the performance indicators, it will be
monitored that EEFF infact is making a certain number of loans fofa certain size) every year which
would be critical in order to be able to cover operating costs. The project team will continue to
devise operational performance indicators and benchmarking criteria.
Section A.3.: The first criterion-an increase in commercial efficiency lending-may require additional
elaboration. It is difficult to measure efficiency lending because efficiency can embrace a wide variety of
investments, and it is unlikely that a current baseline of investment exists against which to evaluate the
effectiveness of the EEFF. Making this evaluation would require something like an economic baseline
modeling effort, which would be expensive, difficult, and not all that productive.
Response: The reviewer's argument is valid in general. The project team is however currently
establishing a baseline of industrial energy efficiency investment which shows that there is very little
if any commercial lendingfor energy efficiency. Against this baseline future lending activities to be
surveyed could be evaluated.
Section A.4.: I would be careful about claims such as the following: "Romania's energy intensity, which
is mirrored by its GHG intensity, is about five times that of UK, France or Germany." This comparison
- 93 -



almost certainly was made on the basis of GDPs estimated using current exchange rates. Most energy
and environmental analysts consider energy intensity measured on the basis of purchasing power parity
(PPP) to be more valid (although still uncertain). Romania's energy intensity would remain relatively
high, but not a factor of five higher than European Union nations. I recommend using International
Energy Agency estimates using PPP.
Response: The reviewer is absolutely correct with his observation; the energy intensity comparison
is on the basis of current exchange rates. When using PPP GDP, both Romania 's energy intensity
and C02 intensity are 2-3 times higher than in the USA, or in Germany, France, UK. Romania 's
energy intensity and C02 intensity are the highest for all countries in Central Europe.
Section B.4. 1.: One might further justify (with numbers) the following sentence: "Although there have
been many donor-funded technical assistance and technical demonstration projects to improve energy
efficiency, these have not achieved results in terms of increasing investments on the ground." This
reviewer doubts very that the first part of the sentence-"many...projects"-is objectively true. That is, the
efficiency effort made by the international community is probably small in absolute terms. More likely,
there have been some poorly designed "tied-aid" projects intended to promote sales of European and
American products, though probably not much even of that.
Response: EE-related TA after 1990 is listed in the EU Synergy Survey of Energy Co-operation in
Romania. Bilaterally and multilaterallyfunded projects are almost innumerable. True, most of those
projects did not result in any investment.
The following sentences are mostly on-target: "The overarching barrier to energy efficiency investment is
a lack of commercial credit for these projects: lending institutions consider both the costs and the risks
of lending for energy efficiency at this time to be too high. The recent failure of an EBRD project
provides instructive experience. It established a credit line for energy efficiency projects with a
Romanian bank that failed to disburse due to lack of incentives and interest and inadequate sub-project
development." This discussion is missing two important elements, however. First, equity is not
mentioned, but can be a powerful tool for efficiency investment, particularly when coupled with
investments to improve product quality and to increase output. Second, the failure of EBRD (and IFC)
lines of credit almost certainly are related more to constraints intemal to the EBRD (and IFC) and its
lines of credit-the rules, regulations, management style-than to any problem with the market (though
problems certainly exist in the market).
Response: The needfor equity is another important part of the overall menu of instruments to further
energy efficiency. The project team has discussed the needfor providing equity also, but it is fairly
convinced that at this point debt is the more pressing need. Credit lines in general in Romania have
fared very badly, and this was due to a mix ofproblems with the market and with difficulty to access
those credit lines and internal regulations, e.g., the over-collateralization.
The following sentence is almost certainly true, but can be taken out of context: "The transaction costs
of identifying, developing and financing energy efficiency projects are high. The development of a sound
energy efficiency loan portfolio requires a level of specialization that entails high initial costs." If the
words "energy efficiency" were deleted, the sentence would still be true for Romania.
Response: The comment is correct, however, the project team noticed that the kind ofproject
financing which is ideally suited to energy efficiency investments is not common at all in Romania.
This does in fact require high initial set-up cost due to the very specialized nature of skills and of the
market.
- 94 -



The following statement is no longer true (at least outside Romania): "...there is a common perception
outside of the energy efficiency community that the benefits of these projects are only "social and
environmental benefits", and some people are skeptical about financial profitability." Enron, hardly an
environmental advocacy group, currently invests about $1 million per day in efficiency projects in its
customers' facilities.
Response: In the overwhelming majority of discussions with Romanians in the financial and in the
industrial sector, they articulated exactly the statement reported above. The lack of successful energy
-fficiency projects in Romania is probably responsible for this perception.
This statement is probably untrue: "Loan repayment periods of 2-4 years will be required for most
projects..." At least if true it is not a problem unique to efficiency investing.
Response: Yes, the requirement of longer-term loans are probably common for most lending
operations other than for working capital. We should probably leave this out.
How is the following problem different from an investment in, say, increasing output of diamonds? "In
enterprises that are typically short of cash (even if profitable), there may be dangers that savings on
energy bills will be diverted to make other payments, rather than loan repayments."
Response: In combination with the difficulty of collateralization, the challenges of securing
repayments seem to be larger for energy efficiency loans in the particular environment of a former
command economy.
The following point is perhaps the most relevant to project justification: "While there is a wealth of
studies on technical and economic potential for energy efficiency, these are of little use for bank loan
officers. A similar lack of ability to combine technical and financial skills can be observed on part of the
consumer/enterprise side." These two sentences are exactly right. However, the discussion should also
call attention to a key, missing skill in both the banks and the enterprises, which is in the field of
accounting. Making sense of balance sheets in the region, and especially when it comes to expenses such
as energy, is a substantial barrier to efficiency investment.
Response: This point is well taken. Balance sheet and cashflow analysis is challenging in the former
command economies and particularly in a still unstable macroeconomic situation.
Section C. 1.: The question arises as to whether the "Foundation" is merely a pass-through organization
from the GEF to the private sector. The question of how the Foundation survives beyond the GEF
project is not adequately addressed (although allusion is made to this question in a table footnote and an
aside about a I percent "finders fee'). Specifically, the proposal should embrace the concepts of "core
funding" (to attract competent staff) and self-sufficiency. The latter should be a fixed date by which staff
with have to find funds to sustain their work. Is also critical that the core principles of the foundation be
articulated and that the lines of accountability for management and success of the foundation be drawn.
This effort may require drafting of a charter or the selection of a model charter.
and
Section E.4.: The proposal defers spelling out role and responsibilities of Foundation and the financial
institution.
-95 -



Response: The Foundation is not merely a pass through. Originally, it was in fact conceived as a
pass-through. The project team quickly realized that the Foundation needs to take on real
responsibilities within the project. It will, under World Bank rules, carry out the tendering process
for the management of the EEFF. It will be in charge of contacts with bilateral and multilateral
donors who support the project with TA. It will carry out all non-commercial activities of the project,
for example, monitoring, evaluation and dissemination ofproject results, and reporting to the GEF.
It will supervise the management of the EEFF, and will have some role in making investment
decisions. The current thinking is that it would approve the annual business plan but would not in
fact have to sanction every single investment decision below a certain threshold to be determined.
Finally, the Foundation will receive at project closure the GEFfunds which have not been spent as
TA or as final grant. To fulfill all those duties, the Foundation needs to be an organization with a
small professional staff which has the potential to develop into one of the Romanian leaders of
global environmental objectives. Adequate mrid stable funding mechanisms also need to be
developed.
Duringfurther project preparation, in fact during the next three-four months, the role and
responsibilities of the Foundation will be defined in detail, its charter will be drawn up, its members
will be identified, and it will be registered. In parallel, the relationship with the
manager/management company will be defined in detail, and their respective responsibilities, e.g.
with respect to making investment decisions, will be delineated. The content of the performance
contract between foundation and management of the EEFF will also be developed.
Section E.4. and E.6: The term key stakeholders is used, but stakeholders are not identified. If working
groups have been forned and meetings held as reported, then stakeholders can probably be defined more
specifically.
Response: The key stakeholders in this project are the following:
*      Companies in the industrial sector who would be the potential clients for the Fund, and their
associations;
*      Manufacturers, contractors and other service providers, for example, ESCOs, research institutes
and engineering and consulting companies, but also associations, catering to the industrial and other
sectors, who would be targeted as partners and allies of the EEFF;
*      Companies in thefinancial sector, particularly banks, but also leasing companies, who would be
targeted as cofinanciers and potential partners of the EEFF; and
*      Actors in the environmental sector who would be allies for the foundation, particularly those
interested in global environmental issues.
- 96 -



Additional Annex 14: Focal Point Endorsement Letter
ROMANIA: Energy Efficiency
.C7.PISF FLE COPY
| Nr. .L412AIQ
Data.. @    --9
ROhlANIA
MINISTRY OF WATERS, FORESTS AND ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION
Cnwrral Diroc,orcutdfor EAaroean ,nrc3rwtdu. Pr,grarmnirea. Prtvj.fce:r ad Imnternationul Retaulgts
12. LiberTadi Blvd. 70005 Bucharest. Ronania. Tcl. 140-1.312' 2 99. Fax -40-1-312 55 07
To: THE WORLD BA.NK GROUP
Attn: M r.Andrew Vorkink
Director for Romania
Subject: AppUcation to the Global Environment Facilitv for PDF B Grant for tbe
Proposed Energy Efficiency Project
Dear sir.
In response to your Letter of N4arch tS,1999. I wouldl like to reiterate our support for the
proposed Energy Efficiency Project. which help to prornote energv conservation and
Romania's competitiveness. This is a national priority and we would like to realise the Project
as early as possible.
On behalf of the Government of Romaniu, I am uskling the World Bank to submit a PDF B
grant request to the Global Environment'Facility to complete preparation of this project.
especially the necessary preparatory activities associated with the definition of a suitable
institutional and financial framework tbr establishing an cncrgy efTiciency fi.nd under the
project. I would also like to requcsr that the World Bank ae: as executing agency for this
further prcparation work.
Your faithfully,
Mihai Cozariuc
General Director
,         .--
C.C. Comelit Rotaru. General Director -Ministry or' I nduscry and Tradc - Romanian Agency
for Encrgy Conservation, Valentina Siclovan, Dcput! Ocnerai! Director - Mlinistry oF Finance-
Petrisor Peiu. Adviser -Prime Nlinistcr Office. Ziud Alahad. *Y'B Rcsident Representative.
Varadartjan Atur, PTL -Energy Sector
- 97 -






IBRD 2871 OR
227 i<| \         ~~~~~~~~~24;              26                      28'
U K R A I N Eiotw            v                    R O M   A N I A
ELEVATIONS ABOVE 500 METERS
H U N G A RY                                            \                                          < srft W ,_->> _ _ - n >t SELECTED CITIES
H                                  U  N  G A R Y M A R A .Ns Ll R E S . AC EA VA<~~~~~~~%B TOSANI  V  g COUNTY (JUDET) CENTERS
Solo  <  MKR~~A AlIRE S          AV                                NATIONAL CAPITAL
/  A U  ~~~~~~~-Boio M...  -         Sr   SEAV       Eo0o,
A/           EXPRESSWAY
MAJOR ROADS
ly                                                   '~~~~~__To Kislonn -   OTHER PORTS
-~~~~~~>~~~~~                 / ~~~~~~~~~~~A  S  I  -. RIVERS
Z.                                                                        CO- NTY C nJUDET BOUNDARIES
-INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
KILOMETERS
-            5 ~ ~~~ ~~~  ~~ 25  50 75  100
o  lb  2b  30  40  TO 6
rondomyotherA o r m o l  *on L...-                         .d             MILES
-46~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4
_  I   t              I                         I                          I      /            APRIL 2LX~~~~~~~~~~~~~UK AIN  
BRASOV ~ ~ ~  ~   ~   ~   R/L         T    E
T. 8.19'.  VERI                                                            RAILAo IU GI *.  Clooi  McResBL C
Fn D oyohRnfmoiEP   eh,o     EDINTI.~                    LIOI
Mh Wp l D ook J Git p Thn, Io,dgaa B-, kWoO              On oEneA
o- tielgl,   slts  f ony onnitoy, onI"~o,,,To Vorn
nn,212o2ndaniaU 24G                                                       26'                        2.8'
-1                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~APRIL 2002









IMAGING
Report No.:       24637  RO
type:     PAD



