Report No. PID9636
Project Name                     Romania-Energy Efficiency
Region                           Europe and Central Asia Region
Sector                           Other Power & Energy Conversion
Project ID                       ROPE68062
Borrower(s)                      PUBLIC & PRIVATE SPONSORS OF EE PROJECTS
Implementing Agency
Address ROMANIA FOUNDATION FOR ENERGY
EFFICIENCY
Ministry of Water, Forests, and
Environmental Protection
Contact Person: Mihai Cozariuc,
General Director
Environment Category             F
Date PID Prepared                August 24, 2000
Projected Appraisal Date         March 2001
Projected Board Date             July 2001
1. Country and Sector Background
Romania is still in the process of stabilizing the macroeconomy and
advancing substantial structural reforms and promoting private sector
development, while at the same time facing the challenge to fight poverty
and develop human capital. Together with the financial sector, the energy
sector is on the forefront of undergoing major restructuring and reform.
Private sector participation and competition will lead to increased
efficiencies on the supply side. On the energy demand side huge
inefficiencies exist but they have received much less attention. Industry
is still the most important energy consumer in Romania, accounting for
about 60t of energy use.   Recent studies have estimated that the potential
for economically viable savings in industry (ranging from no-cost to
low-cost and to high-cost measures) is very high--perhaps about 50w--
providing win-win opportunities for the global environment and energy
users.  Opportunities for cost-effective savings of 20-30w of thermal
energy use in the residential, commercial and public sector exist as
well.Energy prices in Romania have undergone a major upward shift,
especially since 1997. The high energy prices paid by industry and
commercial enterprises, coupled with the large energy savings potential,
underpin the very substantial potential for financially viable energy
efficiency investment. However, actual investments in energy efficiency
are very scarce despite the large amount of donor funding for energy
efficiency during the past few years. This is in large part due to the
lack of appropriate funding mechanisms, coupled with the necessary
technical expertise in identifying and developing commercially viable
projects.The GoR recognizes that the high energy intensity of the economy
is a major impediment to improving the competitiveness of Romanian
industry, reducing the negative trade balance, relieving the burden which
high heating bills place on the population and local governments, and
improving the environment and implementing internationally agreed
environmental targets.



2. Objectives
The objective of the proposed GEF project is to reduce greenhouse gas
emissions in Romania through the development of a self-sustaining,
market-based mechanism that will support the development and
implementation of commercially viable energy efficiency investments.
Specifically, the project will create a self-sustaining, market-based
energy efficiency project development and financing facility ("EEFF") that
will reduce the perceived high risk and high transaction costs of initial
investments.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
The involvement of the Bank and GEF in the project is regarded as
essential in overcoming the gridlock in energy efficiency financing in the
country. The lack of an integrated, coherent government policy and
leadership has resulted in marginalization of energy efficiency proponents
as opposed to productive team effort. Donor financing has generated many
studies, but funding for investment has not been forthcoming. The Bank's
stature in Romania and its expertise in financing innovative energy
efficiency projects worldwide are considered as essential to make a
difference and get things going in Romania. The current situation in
Romania provides an excellent case for a GEF contingent financing
investment operation--there is both a strong need for a GEF catalytic role,
and the operation of the financing facility provides exceptionally high
leverage for GEF funds. GEF lead participation is critical for the
project--without GEF's involvement in capitalizing the EEFF and supporting
initial project development, there is no question that neither the EEFF
nor the project can proceed in a reasonable time frame. Perceived high
risks and transaction costs involved in supporting energy efficiency
investments within the currently undeveloped market continue to cause
lenders to pursue other opportunities and agendas. With GEF support to
establish the EEFF, both the demonstration value of profitable projects
and the institutional means to attain them are expected to expand domestic
financial institutional involvement in this market, through increasing
participation in the EEFF itself and/or parallel efforts.
4. Description
A GEF contingent grant of US$ 9 million will supply the seed capital for
the EEFF which will be supplemented by commercial cofinancing; a GEF
technical assistance grant of US$ 1 million will provide support for
capacity building and project development
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
GOVERNMENT               0
IBRD                     0
IDA                      0
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT
FACILITY                 10
OTHER                    40
Total Project Cost       50
6. Implementation
The project beneficiary will be a newly founded entity, the Romania
Foundation for Energy Efficiency. The Foundation will be a non-profit
organization that will have a broad global climate change mission. It will
- 2-



be the official recipient of the GEF grant through the Ministry of
Finance on the basis of an implementation agreement with the Bank. The
Foundation will carry out non-commercial aspects of the project, such as
organizing monitoring and evaluation of project results and dissemination.
The GEF TA grant components will be used for these tasks and will be
administered by the Foundation. The larger part of GEF resources (US$ 9
million) will be used as a contingent grant for seed capital of the
financing facility for lending and other financial operations to
borrowers. The Foundation will not be in charge of the commercial aspects
of the project. These will be left to a professional management company
that will select projects and disburse funds according to the criteria set
out in the management performance contract with the Foundation. It is
crucial that the entity in charge of the project portfolio make all
decisions in a strictly commercial manner to demonstrate that energy
efficiency is a bankable business and to maximize profits. The management
company will also need to generate tangible interest in the financial
community to participate in the facility with cofinancing. It is unlikely
that commercial entities would entrust their funds to an entity that is
not clearly independent from the Foundation and operates within clearly
defined commercial rules.
7. Sustainability
The project promotes the market-based, commercial funding of energy
efficiency projects. The development of a sound portfolio of projects
which are financially and economically viable and presented by
creditworthy borrowers will be ensured by entrusting lending decisions to
a professional management which will adhere to a set of preset conditions
and whose income will be determined to a large extent by the performance
of the facility, i.e., its profitability. The success of the facility
depends on being able to attract commercial cofinancing which will only be
the case with a string of early successful deals and with the perception
of a commercially focused operation. The facility will thus foster,
through both demonstration effects and explicit partnerships, expanded
investments by other market players, such as commercial banks or energy
service companies. The successful exit of the GEF funds from the facility
would be the indication of having created a sustainable market for energy
efficiency financing. Exit could be either by liquidation of the facility,
if lending for energy efficiency investments has become a main stream
financial business, or by selling the GEF stake to other market players
for continued operation of the EEFF.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
Among the most important lessons learned from the - mostly negative -
experience with energy efficiency activities in Romania and from Energy
Efficiency Fund experience worldwide -- which is confirmed to a large
extent by lessons of experience with Environmental Funds -- are the
following:fn The entity in charge of financing energy efficiency projects
needs to be experienced in the technical and financing aspects of energy
efficiency. In particular, it needs to have access to project development
funds or to a group of advisors with whom it can establish alliances in
order to identify and develop good projects. The agency also needs to have
a financial stake in the successful performance of the financing
facility. n Maximize the transparency of procedures; minimize government
interference in financing decisions. Establish and operate the Fund as a
business, not a technology deployment system; profit-making should be an
- 3-



objective of the Fund.n The financing institution needs to be very
proactive in the development of a project pipeline. Marketing,
particularly to senior management, is a critical step in the success of a
Fund. n Focus on short term loans for projects with high rates of return.
Avoid placing funds in a few large loans; spread the risk through many
projects. Fund financing should cover only a portion of the project costs;
the borrower should have equity in the project. Lend only to credit-worthy
clients; establish high credit-worthiness criteria, which are rigorously
enforced. Full collection of interest and principal repayment is an
overriding concern. n Small projects have high transaction costs. They
need to be packaged by partners such as ESCOs, or very simple mechanisms
have to be designed which avoid costly audits and feasibility studies,
such as a list of standard energy efficiency measures.n Monitor thoroughly
to ensure the funds where spent on the project, the project was
implemented properly and operated as designed; monitoring provides an
early warning for any problems.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     N
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues        None.   The project will have major net
environmental benefits.
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Varadarajan Atur
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone:   (202) 473-2305
Fax:   (202) 477-7977
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending October
27, 2000.
-4-



