World Bank/GEF
Romanian Energy Efficiency Fund (FREE)
D)RAFT Operational Manual: I)RAFT Environment Section
Table of Contents
1. FREE Objectives and Principles
2. FREE Organizational Structure
3. The Fund Manager
4. FREE Markets, Clients and Products
5. Environmiental Screening. Assessment and Nlonitoring
5.1.  Getieral
I)rocedUres [or lEnvironniental Screening. Rcview, I)ecisiod an I NIonitri na
5.3.  Environimieiital Supervision anid P1elrftnanice Report
A.4.  Ln\ironmental [raining
Anniexes
6. Monitoring and Evaluation
7. Fiduciary Requirements
rILE COPY



Romaniani Energy Efficiency Fund (FREE) DKi)\l I Operational Manual: i)RXI l Environment Section
D)RA FT1
5. Environmental Screening, Assessment and Mlonitoring
5.1. General
All projects financed by FREE will be carried out in an environmentally and socially responsible
manner, and in accordance with the legal and regulatory framework in force in Romania, the
established policies and procedures of the World Bank, and the provisions of this Manual.
Projects to be financed by FREE are expected to be environmentally beneficial, reducing energy
consumption and thereby emissions, not only of greenhouse gases (GHG), but more importantly
of air pollutants, over the status quo. None of the projects to be financed exclusively by FREE is
expected to have any large scale, significant and/or irreversible impacts.
The review of all individual investments of FREE is the responsibility of the Fund Manager.
Within this review, he/she is required to assess potential environmental and social risks, impacts
and opportunities associated with their operations, to ensure that environmental reviews, audits or
assessments, are conducted where appropriate, and to require that the environmental and social
standards of the World Bank are satisfied. During the duration of the loan contract until the loan
is completely repaid, the Fund Manager will carry out periodic monitorin and evaluation of the
environmental performance of the client, particularly prior to the disbufsement of tranches or
when considering any extension of disbursement or repayment schedule. The Fund Manager will
report to FREE any non-compliance with environmental regulations and stipulated clauses in the
loan contract. At all times, the Fund Manager will avoid any interference with the responsibilities
of Romanian govemmental controlling bodies. The environmental screening and assessment
procedures will apply to all subprojects financed by FREE over the 8 year period of the project,
and not just the ones financed through the initial capital for the Fund provided by GEF.
The Fund Manager will integrate the following environmental procedures into the
credit/investment decision-making and monitoring procedures and adhere to the following basic
requirements. As part of the appraisal of individual sub-projects or investments, the Fund
Manager will apply the exclusion list set forth in Annex B (Prohibited Activities), consider
environmental and social risks associated with the deal, according to the environmental and social
screening and review criteria set forth in Annex C, and classify it into one of the following three
categories based on their potential environmental and social impact and resulting necessary level
of analysis:
Category A: Projects that may result in diverse and significant adverse environmental impacts
(see definition in Annex B). For such a project, the applicant must prepare an
Environmental Assessment (EA), including an Environmental Impact Assessment
(EIA) and an Environmental Management Plan (EMP).
Category B: Projects that may have moderate, specific environmental impacts for which
mitigating measures can be designed. Normally, the preparation of an EMP is the
only requirement.
Category C: Projects that have no or only negligible anticipated direct or indirect
environmental impact. No EA action is required by the applicant.
5.2. Procedures for environmental screening, review, decision and monitoring
2



Romanian Energy Efficicncy Funed (FREE) NI,.\1 I Operational Manual: DRAI Environnment Section
(a)    Each investment project proposal must be submitted to the Fund Manager with a full
application package, including a completed environmental questionnaire (see Annex C)
and details of any documentation requirements needed for environmental approval by the
Romanian authorities.
(b)    The environmental authorizations for a project must be cleared by the National Agency for
Environment Protection (NEPA), through one of its county branches (LEPAs). The
clearance ensures the compliance of the design and operations with the Romanian
environmental laws, standard requirements, and specific norms. The documentation is
comprised of a feasibility study cleared by the LEPA or by NEPA as per law requests, and
of the required permits, licenses or agreements from the Local Environmental Protection
Agency (LEPA) from the county where the premises are located or the new investment
will be made.
(c)    The applicant will further provide evidence that the company has valid operating or
construction permits and no environmental liabilities in terms of pollution fees and fines.
(d)    In case the applicant does not have a valid authorization from the national or local EPA, he
has to provide evidence that the company has applied for the required authorizations, and
which steps have been made so far in the authorization process. In accordance with the
legal provisions an economic player has the permission to further operate his/her activity
until the finalization of the authorization process, if a Corrective Action Plan (Conformity
Plan) has been agreed with LEPA/NEPA.
(e)    The applicant will provide a "statement on owned assumec responsibility" of the
authorized person from the company/client (the owner, the managing director, or another
person in charge). This person certifies through his/her signature that all information
provided is complete and accurate.
(f)    The Fund Manager reviews the application, requests additional information from the
client, if necessary, and assigns the environmental category. The Fund Manager can
outsource the review to specialists. In category C projects no additional EA actions are
required. For most category B projects, the client needs to submit an EMP or Conformity
Plan (see Annex D), approved by LEPA. For category A projects, an EIA needs to be
completed which has to be reviewed and approved by the World Bankbefore the financing
package can be submitted to the Investment Committee. In addition, for projects in
category A and B, the applicant must consult groups affected by the project, and if
appropriate, take their views into account in both environmental documentation and design
of the project. A written description of the consultation must be presented as part of the
environmental documentation.
(g)    In his project due diligence, the Fund Manager will assess whether and how potential
environmental risks of the project will affect the deal and decide whether the financing
approval should be conditioned upon certain additional clauses in the loan contract,
increase of the collateral, etc.
(h)    The Fund Manager shall make reasonable efforts to assist any client who has received
financing from FREE in complying or continuing to comply with all applicable
Romanian legal requirements, and with IBRD environmental requirements as set forth in
these guidelines. As promptly as possible after becoming aware of any activity which
does not comply with the applicable Romanian requirements, or with the IBRD
environmental requirements, the Fund Manager shall: a) undertake reasonable efforts to
cause such project to implement a Corrective Action Plan, which shall entail the
development and implementation of a remediation plan to enable the investment to carry
out its business in accordance wvith IBRD environmental requirements and wvith
Romanian requirements; b) use reasonable efforts to replace the investment in the project
on commercially reasonable terms, taking into account liquidity, market constraints and
fiduciary responsibilities, if any project does not implement a Corrective Action Plan as



Romanian Energy Efficiency Funid (FREE) I )l. I Operational Manual: I lR xl I Environment Section
provided in (a) above, within a reasonable time; and c) report any continuing non-
compliance to FREE's Executive Director for reporting to the World Bank.
(i)    During the whole duration of the loan contract until the loan is completely repaid the
Fund Manager will carry out periodic monitoring and evaluation of the environmental
performances of the client-company, particularly prior to the disbursement of tranches or
when considering any extension of disbursement or repayment schedule. When a
Conformity Plan has been negotiated and agreed with LEPA, the Fund Manager monitors
the completion of the Conformity Plan. Indications that compliance is not being met will
lead to consultation with LEPA that will pursue the necessary action. The Fund Manager
will report to FREE any non-compliance with environmental regulations and stipulated
clauses in the loan contract, to be reported to the Bank.
5.3. Environmental Supervision and Performance Report
The Fund Manager will submit to FREE's Board of Administration and to the IBRD periodic
reports on the implementation of its environmental procedures and on the environmental
performance of its portfolio, as promptly as practical, but in no event more than ninety (90) days
after the close of each fiscal year. The Environmental Supervision and Performance Report shall
include the following:
(a) The results of the Fund Manager's screening and review procedures, and
(b) A description of any investment not currently in compliance xxth environmental and
social requirements as per its corrective action plan and of the actions the Fund Manager
has taken or intends to take to correct the situation.
5.4. Environmental training
Within 12 months of Grant Effectiveness, the Fund Manager shall have had at least one of its
employees attend an approved environmental training event, though this requirement may be
waived if. in the judgment of the IBRD, the Fund Manager's portfolio or its demonstrated
environmental management capacity justify such a waiver. If for any reason, trained
environmental staff leave the Fund Manager, then new Fund Manager employees must attend the
next approved environmental training. All costs associated with attendance of the environmental
training are the Fund Manager's responsibility, though FREE can make provisions to assist the
Fund Manager with some of the costs borne by participating in these events if it is deemed
justified.
4



Rornanian Energy Efficiency Fund (FREE) l i. 1 1 Operational Ianual: I)RAl I Ensironment Section
Annex A: Environmental Authorizations and Operating Licenses
Applicable Law:     Law no. 137 of 1995 on environmental protection, and order no 125 of
1996 issued by the Waters and Environmental Protection Ministry
Issuing Authority:  Local Agencies of Environmental Protection of the county the premises
are located.
Term it has to be   The permit may be applied for after all other permits/authorizations
applied for:        required under the law were obtained but in any event before commencing
construction of the Premises.
Documents to be        (i)    Description of the project and of the activities.
filled:                (ii)   Stage of compliance with other conditions imposed by the
relevant authority.
(iii)  Prove the request was made public either by posting in the
area of the new   Premises, publication in newspapers,
presentation on the TV and radio channels, written
communications sent to associations and individuals to whom
it may concem.
(iv)   Other documents regarding the Premises (this is usually
possible for an already existing objective).
Procedure:          The relevant authority analyzes the activity to b} carried out and has
following possibilities:
i)     The authority issues the authorization (Acord de mediu) based on
the verification of documents presented;
ii)    The relevant authority decides an environmental assessment is
necessary. In such a case it shall give the Client a list of question
to be answered by such verification together with the list of all the
other required permits/authorizations. After the verification, a
report is presented to the relevant authority, which shall decide
whether the authorization shall be conditioned upon certain
performances.                            I
iii)  In case the Client accepts such conditions it shall file with the
relevant authority: (a) the final report on the environmental
verification; (b) the environmental permit and the rest of the
required permits/authorizations; (c) presentation and instructions
on how to operate the installations for minimizing pollution, and
(d) the final list with conditions to be fulfilled for the issuing
In case the relevant authority decides to issue the permit the Client shall
file (a) a technical memorandum describing the Premises; (b) other
permnits/authorizations as requested; and (d) a report analyzing the
Premise's impact on the environment.
Term of issuance:   Within thirty (30) days from the date the Agency of Environmental
Protection reached a decision.
Validity:           Maximum five (5) years.
5



Romaniain Encrg'y Efficicncy Fund (FREE) D)A.\1 I Operational Manual:   I Environment Section
Annex B: Definitions (Prohibited Activities, Category A Projects)
"Prohibited Activities" means:
-  Large-scale mining, oil and gas exploration or development and supporting services, if
such services are directly related to exploration or development.
-  Speculative real estate investing or trading.
-  Production or activities involving harmful or exploitative forms of forced labor or
harmful child labor.
-  Production or trade in a product or activity that is illegal under the laws of Local
government or international conventions and agreements.
-  Production or trade in weapons and munitions.
-  Production or trade in alcoholic beverages (excluding beer and wine).
-  Production or trade in tobacco.
-  Gambling, casinos and equivalent enterprises.
-  Trade in wildlife or wildlife products regulated under the Convention on Intemational
Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora.
-  Production or trade in radioactive materials.
-  Production or trade in unbonded asbestos fibers.
-  Commercial logging operations or the purchase of logging equipment for use in primary
tropical moist forest.
-  Production or trade in products containing PCBs.
- Production or trade in pharmaceuticals subject to international phase-outs or bans.
-  Production or trade in pesticides/herbicides subject to intemational phase-out or bans.
- Production or trade in ozone depleting substances subject to international phase-out.
-  Drift net fishing in the marine environment using nets in excess of 2.5 kilometers in
length.
"Category A Project" means a project which is likely to have significant adverse environmental
impacts that are sensitive, diverse or unprecedented. examples of which are thefollowing:
-  Projects that include the manufacture, use or disposal of environmentally significant
quantities of pest control products;
-  Manufacture. transportation and use of hazardous and/or toxic materials,
-  Domestic and hazardous waste disposal operations;
Projects which pose serious occupational or health risks;
-  Projects with large resettlement components and all projects with potentially major
impacts on human populations;
-  Projects affecting indigenous or tribal populations.
6



Romanian Energy Efficiency Fund (FREE) JAR.\I I Operational Manual: I )AI\i i Environment Section
Annex C: Questionnaire for Environmental Screening
1.     Description of the Company
Short history of the company
Legal form of the company
Ownership structure
Nature of its business (range of products and services)
Industry sector
Name of person who represents the company in legal relationships with third parties
Number of staff
Does the company have the environmental authorization already issued, when, date of validity
2.     Project Description
Describe briefly the nature of the proposed project and production operations. The description
should include, but not be limited to:
*   Nature of the project: new greenfield facility, rehabilitation of an existing site, expansion of
production capacity etc.
*   Process flow from the receipt/extraction/transport/storage of raw materials,
processing/storage and delivery of final products (including any byproducts)
Include:l
(a) produiction capacitv for produtcts anid anv byproducts
(b) brief description of the major processing steps and mayor pieces of process
equiipmnent to he utsed
(c) energy requirements and soiurces of energy (fiel use for heat and powver)
(d1) water requirements and souirces
(e) any infrastrluctuire wl hich mnaY be inclluded (pipelines for water/sewage/gas etc.,
access roads, transmissioni lines, worker houising etc.)
(1) niatuire and amtoutnt of anl hazeardouts mlaterials (poisonolls, flammlable, exrplosive,
radioatctive) to be uised as rawctt materials, itn the prodzuction schetmie, or prodluced as
products/byprodiucts. Detail the manner in which they wt'ill be stored, packaged
anid/or tranlsported.
2.     Baseline Conditions
Describe the human, biological and physical environmental conditions at the project site(s). The
description should include, but not be limited to:
*   Existing society economic conditions: nearby cities, towns, villages, who lives there, how
many people, what is the current nature of their economic activity (agriculture, industries,
commerce, etc.), what are the current land use patterns
*   Any areas or sites of unique ecological value (national parks, protected preserves, wetlands,
rare or endangered plants or animals) or are formally protected by law
•   Local water resources. in particular if any surface waters (rivers, lakes, seas etc.) borders on
or traverses through an intemational boundary. Describe water use patterns for surface and
underground waters for agriculture, human consumption, industry and commerce.
*   Current levels of air and wvater pollution compared to standard values as defined by
Romanian regulations
*   If appropriate, some general information regarding weather patterns, wind circulation,
topography (hills, flatlands etc.), seismic stability, geology etc.
*   If appropriate (rehabilitation or expansion of operations at an existing site), are there any
outstanding environmental liabilities (e.g. unpaid fees or fines) associated with the existing
7



Romanian Energy Efficiency Fund (FREE) 1 )R \1 I Operational Manual: D)RAI I Environment Section
operation'? Did any interdictions occur in the companies past activities (when, duration, what
specific measures were taken, corrective measures taken, who conducted the processes)
3.     Environmental Issues
Describe or identify the chief environmental issues associated with both construction and
operation aspects of the proposed project. Include both the views of the project sponsor, and
official government environmental authorities. Potential areas for discussion include:
*  Nature of air pollution discharge(s)-estimates of amounts and types of pollution (including
noise), and a comparison to permitted discharge levels under regulations. Describe any
spccial equipment or procedures that would be used to insure air emissions do not exceed
standards-Are these discharges likely to migrate and impact any areas where people live, or
areas of cultulral, biological, or economlic valute
*  Nature of water pollution discharge(s)-estimates of amounts and types of pollution, and a
comparison to permitted discharge levels under regulations. Describe any special equipment
or procedures that would be used to insure water effluent(s) do not exceed standards-Are
these discharges likely to affect drinking wvater, waterborne animal life or natural habitats,
etc.
*  Nature and amount of any solid wastes (including hazardous wastes) and the proposed
manner of disposal. Describe any special procedures or site preparations that will be used for
environment protection. Any special site construction and operation rejuirements under
regulations should be described
*  Indicate if any people or families have to be relocated or compensated for losses in their
ability to eam a living
*   Will there be use or production of any materials prohibited or severely restricted by
international agreement (hazardous materials, chlorofluorocarbons etc.)
*  Describe any particular hazards or dangerous conditions for workers, the measures which will
be taken to protect their health and safety, and any requirements under current regulations
4.     Consultation and Disclosure
* Describe any contacts or discussions about the Covered Matter xxhich hAve occurred
with people living in the area, local elected officials, environmental groups, academics
etc. Were any particular environmental concerns expressed? How wvill these be
incorporated in the project design?



Romanian Energy Efficiency Fund (FREE)  )RAI I Operational Mantial: )R \%I I Emnironment Section
Annex D: Environmental Management Plan
Typical Impacts of and Mitigation Measures for Energy Efficiency Projects
Environmental and Social  Impacts                        Nlitigation Measures
Components
Physical Environment
Soils                      . Contamination from waste    Protection of soil surfaces
materials, particularly     during construction; control
asbestos from old insulation  and daily cleaning of
construction sites; provision of
adequate waste disposal
services
Water Resources            * Clogging of drainage works  Special attention to drainage;
* Decline in water quality due  proper disposal of oil and other
to contamination            hazardous materials; adequate
* Introduction of hazardous   sanitation and disposal system
wastes                      for waste
Air Quality                * Dust during construction    Dust control by water or other
. Emissions of sulfur oxides  means; filters and other
(SOx), nitrogen oxides      mttigatidn measures; new
(NOx), particulate matter, and  insulating materials must not
other air pollutants emissions  contain ozone depleting
above national standards    materials in compliance with
* Ozone depleting materials   Romania's commitments under
the Montreal Protocol
Acoustic Environment       * Noise disturbance during    Restrict construction to certain
construction or operation   hours
Biological Environment
Natural Habitats           * Disturbance of natural      Consideratio'n of alternative
habitats                    alignments or sites
Fauna and Flora            * Loss or degradation of      Minimize loss of natural
vegetation                  vegetation during construction;
* Disruption or destruction of  consideration of alternative
wildlife                    sites; various special measures
for sensitive species
Social Eni ironmnent
Aesthetics and Landscape   * Debris                      Cleaning-up of construction
sites; provision of adequate
solid waste disposal systems
Historical/tCultural Sites  * Degradation of sites       Consideration of alternative
* Disturbance to structures   sites; special measures to
protect buildings and other
cultural resources/areas
Human Health               * Construction accidents      Preventative measures under
national labor legislation
Impacts during site        * noise, vibration. turbid water,  Proper mitigation measures
preparation/                dust, exhaust gases, other   according to national
removal/construction                                    legislation



Romanian Energy Efficiency Fund (FREE) D1RAI 1 Operational Manual: DRAI I Environment Section
An EMP consists of the following elements:
(a) Mitigation Action Plan
(b) Environmental Monitoring Plan
(c) Implementation Schedule
(d) Description of Institutional Arrangements for Environmental Management
(e) Record of Public Consultations
10



