Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
GEF TRUST FUND GRANT NUMBER TF 050705 RO 
 
Project Agreement 
 
(Energy Efficiency Project) 
 
between 
 
ROMANIAN ENERGY EFFICIENCY FUND 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
acting as an Implementing Agency of the Global Environment Facility 
 
Dated October 18, 2002 
 
Page  2
GEF TRUST FUND GRANT NUMBER TF 050705 RO 
 
PROJECT AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT, dated, October 18, 2002, between the INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) acting as an implementing agency of 
the Global Environment Facility (GEF) in respect of grant funds provided to the GEF Trust Fund 
by certain members of the Bank as participants of the GEF and the Romanian Energy Efficiency 
Fund (FREE). 
 
WHEREAS (A) by the GEF Grant Agreement of even date herewith between Romania 
(the Recipient) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available to the Recipient an amount 
in various currencies equivalent to  eight million Special Drawing Rights (SDR 8,000,000), on 
the terms and conditions set forth in the GEF Trust Fund Grant Agreement, provided that FREE 
agrees to undertake such obligations as are set forth in this Agreement; 
 
(B) 
by a Subsidiary Grant Agreement to be entered into  between the Recipient and 
FREE, the proceeds of the grant provided for under the GEF Trust Fund Grant Agreement will be 
made available to FREE on the terms and conditions set forth in said Subsidiary Grant 
Agreement; and 
 
(C) 
WHEREAS FREE, in consideration of the Bank’s entering into the GEF Trust 
Fund Grant Agreement with the Recipient, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this 
Agreement; 
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
 
Definitions 
 
Section 1.01. 
Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the 
GEF Trust Fund Grant Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and the General Conditions 
(as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.  
 
ARTICLE II 
 
Execution of the Project 
 
Page  3
-
2
-
Section 2.01.  
FREE declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project as set 
forth in Schedule 2 to the  GEF Trust Fund Grant Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the 
Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate technical and 
environmental standards, with due regard to the reduction of greenhouse gases, promoting energy 
efficiency pursuant to the provision of the UNFCC and the Kyoto Protocol, and shall provide, 
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project. 
 
Section 2.02. 
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of goods and 
consultants’ services required for the Project to be financed out of the proceeds of the GEF Trust 
Fund Grant shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 of the Grant Agreement.  
 
Section 2.03. 
FREE shall carry out or cause to be carried out, the obligations set forth 
in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, 
use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land 
acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project. 
 
Section 2.04. 
FREE shall duly perform all its obligations under the Subsidiary Grant 
Agreement.  Except as the Bank and the Recipient shall otherwise agree, FREE shall not take or 
concur in any action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving 
the Subsidiary Grant Agreement or any provision thereof. 
 
Section 2.05. 
(a) FREE shall, at the request of the Bank, exchange views with the Bank 
and the Recipient with regard to progress of the Project, the performance of its obligations under 
this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Grant Agreement, and other matters relating to the 
purposes of the grant. 
 
(b)  
FREE shall promptly inform the Bank and the Recipient of any condition which 
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the 
purposes of the GEF Trust Fund Grant, or the performance by FREE of its obligations under this 
Agreement and/or under the Subsidiary Grant Agreement. 
 
Section 2.06. 
FREE shall carry out the Project in accordance with the provisions of the 
Operational Manual, agreed by FREE and satisfactory to the Bank containing, 
inter alia,
 the 
detailed rules and procedures for the approval and financing of Sub-projects including the use of 
funds derived from investing in the Sub-projects.  
 
Section 2.07. 
For the purposes of carrying out Part A of the Project, not later than      
April 30, 2003, FREE shall enter into a contract with a Fund Manager, on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank, whereby the Fund Manager shall be responsible for:  
 
(a) 
identification and appraisal of Sub-projects eligible for financing under the GEF 
Trust Fund Grant and overall management of investments, including monitoring of performance 
by Beneficiaries; 
 
(b) 
 reviewing proposed Sub-projects to ensure that they meet the terms and 
conditions set forth in the Operational Manual; and 
 
(c) 
submitting eligible Sub-Projects to FREE for final approval. 
Page  4
-
3
-
Section 2.08. 
For the purposes of carrying out Part A of the Project, FREE shall:  
 
(a) 
after approval by the Board of Administration of eligible Sub-projects, enter into 
an agreement (the Sub-loan Agreement) with a Beneficiary, in accordance with the terms and 
conditions set forth in the Operational Manual; 
 
(b) 
exercise its rights and comply with its obligations under any Sub-loan 
Agreement, in such manner as to protect the interests of the Recipient and the Bank and to 
accomplish the purposes of the Sub-loan, and except as the Bank and the Recipient shall 
otherwise agree, not assign, amend, abrogate, waive or fail to enforce any Sub-loan Agreement or 
provision thereof; and 
 
(c) 
 act on the best effort basis to enter into commercial co-financing arrangements 
acceptable to the Bank, with foreign and local banks, multilateral agencies and private foreign 
capital. 
 
Section 2.09. 
FREE shall: 
 
(a) 
by no later than October 31 of each year, commencing on October 31, 2003, until 
completion of the Project, furnish to the Bank for its approval, a draft annual budget of FREE and 
adopt the agreed budget prior to December 31 of that respective year; 
 
(b) 
submit to the Bank quarterly portfolio progress reports including the status of 
investments, adequate to enable the Bank to monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis the 
carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, all in a manner 
satisfactory to the Bank; 
 
(c) 
not later than December 31 of each year during Project execution, commencing 
on December 31, 2002, furnish to the Bank and the Recipi
ent the Fund Manager’s annual 
business plan and incorporate the Bank’s recommendations prior to submitting it to its Board of 
Administration for approval; and  
 
(d) 
 review with the Bank all proposals considered by FREE for co-financing and 
financing agreements and receive the approval of the Bank prior to its entering into any co-
financing arrangement.  
 
Section 2.10. 
No later than three (3) months after the Effective Date, FREE shall hire 
independent auditors referred to in Section 4.01 (b) (i) of this Agreement, under terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
ARTICLE III 
 
Management and Operations of FREE 
 
Page  5
-
4
-
Section 3.01. 
FREE shall carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in accordance 
with sound administrative, financial and environmental practices with qualified and experienced 
management assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers. 
 
Section 3.02. 
FREE shall at all times operate and maintain its equipment and other 
property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs and renewals 
thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering, financial and environmental practices. 
 
ARTICLE IV 
 
Financial Covenants 
 
Section 4.01. 
(a) FREE shall maintain a financial management system, including 
records and accounts, and prepare financial statements, all in accordance with accounting 
standards acceptable to the Bank, consistently applied, adequate to reflect its operations and 
financial condition and to register separately the operations, resources and expenditures related to 
the Project. 
 
(b) FREE 
shall: 
 
(i) 
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance sheets, 
statements of income and expenses by Project component and 
 
disbursement category and related statements) for each fiscal year 
audited, in accordance with auditing standards acceptable to the Bank, 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; 
 
(ii)    
furnish to the Bank and the Recipient as soon as available, but in any 
case  not  later  than  six  months  after  the  end  of  each  such  year:              
(A) certified copies of the financial statements referred to in paragraph 
(a) of this Section for such year as so audited; and (B) an opinion on such 
statements and  report of such audit, by said auditors, of such scope and 
in such  detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and 
 
(iii) 
furnish to the Bank and the Recipient such other information concerning 
such records, accounts and financial statements, and the audit thereof, 
and concerning said auditors, as the Bank may from time to time 
reasonably request. 
 
Section 4.02. 
(a) Without limitation upon FREE’s progress reporting obligations in this 
Agreement, FREE shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a Financial Monitoring Report in form 
and substance satisfactory to the Bank, which: 
 
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both cumulatively 
and for the period covered by said report, showing separately funds 
Page  6
-
5
-
provided under the Grant, and explains variances between the actual and 
planned uses of such funds; 
 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both cumulatively 
and for the period covered by said report, and explains variances between 
the actual and planned Project implementation; and 
 
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the end of the 
period covered by said report. 
 
(b) 
The first Financial Monitoring Report shall be furnished to the Bank not later 
than forty-five (45) days after the end of the first calendar quarter after the Effective Date, and 
shall cover the period from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the 
end of such first calendar quarter; thereafter, each Financial Monitoring Report shall be furnished 
to the Bank not later than forty-five (45) days after each subsequent calendar quarter, and shall 
cover such calendar quarter. 
 
Section 4.03. 
(a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, FREE shall maintain a ratio 
of total operating revenues to total operating expenses of: (i) at least 20% during its fiscal year 
commencing on January 1, 2004; (ii) at least 50% during its fiscal year commencing on     
January 1, 2005; and (iii) at least 100% percent during its fiscal year commencing on January 1, 
2006, and thereafter. 
 
(b) 
Before October 31 in each of its fiscal years, FREE shall, on the basis of 
forecasts prepared by FREE and satisfactory to the Bank, review whether it would meet the 
requirements set forth in paragraph (a) in respect of each year of Project implementation and the 
next following year, and shall furnish to the Bank the results of such review upon its completion. 
 
(c) 
If any such review shows that FREE would not meet the requirements set forth in 
paragraph (a) for their respective year of Project implementation covered by such review, FREE 
shall promptly take all agreed measures in order to meet such requirements. 
 
(d) 
For the purposes of this Section: 
 
(i) 
the term "total operating expenses" means all expenses related to 
operations, including administration, adequate maintenance, taxes and 
payments in lieu of taxes, and
 the Fund Manager’s fees; and   
 
(ii) 
the term "total operating revenues" means revenues from all sources 
related to operations. 
 
ARTICLE V 
 
Effective Date; Termination 
 
Page  7
-
6
-
Section 5.01. 
This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon which 
the GEF Trust Fund Grant Agreement becomes effective. 
 
Section 5.02. 
(a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and of FREE 
thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates; 
 
(i) 
the date on which the GEF Trust Fund Grant Agreement shall terminate 
in accordance with its terms, or 
 
(ii) 
 the date five years after the date of this agreement. 
 
(b)  
If the Grant Agreement terminates in accordance with its terms before that date 
specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the Bank shall promptly notify FREE of this event.  
 
Section 5.03. 
All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force and 
effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE VI 
 
Miscellaneous Provisions 
 
Section 6.01. 
Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made under 
this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be 
in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or made when it shall 
be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is 
required or permitted to be given or made at such party’s address hereinafter specified or at such 
other address as such party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or 
making such request.  The addresses so specified are: 
 
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for 
 
Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818
H
Street, NW 
 
Washington, DC 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
 
INTBAFRAD 
 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
   
 64145 (MCI) 
 
For  FREE: 
 
Fondul Roman pentru Eficienta Energiei 
Page  8
-
7
-
Gemenii Sitraco 
B-dul Natiunile Unite 4, Bl. 107A, Et.7, Sector 5 
Bucuresti, Romania 
 
 
 
Section 6.02. 
Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document required 
or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of FREE may be taken or executed 
by the Executive Director of  FREE or such other person or persons as the Chairman of the Board 
shall designate in writing, and FREE shall furnish to the Bank sufficient evidence of the authority 
and the authenticated specimen signature of each such person. 
 
Section 6.03. 
This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of which 
shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument. 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in Bucharest, 
Romania, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
as an Implementing Agency of the Global Environment Facility 
 
By  /s/  M. Ziad Alahdad 
Authorized Representative 
 
ROMANIAN ENERGY EFFICIENCY FUND 
 
By  /s/  Romulus Moucha 
Authorized Representative 
Page  9
-
8
-
M:\BACKUP\ROMANIA\GRANTS\W-1994FinalPA.doc
 
