Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
GEF TRUST FUND GRANT NUMBER TF 050705 RO 
 
Global Environment Facility 
Trust Fund Grant Agreement 
 
(Energy Efficiency Project) 
 
between 
 
ROMANIA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
acting as an Implementing Agency of the Global Environment Facility 
 
Dated October 18, 2002 
 
Page  2
GEF TRUST FUND GRANT NUMBER TF 050705 RO 
 
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY TRUST FUND GRANT AGREEMENT
 
AGREEMENT, dated, October 18, 2002, between ROMANIA (the Recipient) 
and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
(the Bank) acting as an implementing agency of the Global Environment Facility (GEF) 
in respect of grant funds provided to the GEF Trust Fund by certain members of the Bank 
as participants of the GEF. 
 
WHEREAS (A) the Bank, pursuant to Resolution No. 91-5 of March 14, 1991 of 
the Executive Directors of the Bank, established the GEF to assist in the protection of the 
global environment and promote thereby environmentally sound and sustainable 
economic development; 
 
(B) 
following the restructuring of the GEF, such arrangements continued in 
place on the basis set forth in Resolution No. 94-2 of May 24, 1994, of the Executive 
Directors of the Bank which, 
inter alia
,
established the GEF Trust Fund and appointed 
the Bank as trustee of the GEF Trust Fund (Resolution No. 94-2); 
 
(C) 
the second replenishment of the GEF Trust Fund was approved on the 
basis set forth in Resolution No. 98-2 of July 14, 1998, of the Executive Directors of the 
Bank (Resolution No. 98-2); 
 
(D) 
the Recipient, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority of 
the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has requested 
assistance from the resources of the GEF Trust Fund for funding the Project, and said 
request having been approved in accordance with the provisions of the Instrument for the 
Establishment of the Restructured Global Environment Facility approved under 
Resolution No. 94-2, and to be funded from contributions to the GEF Trust Fund under 
Resolution No. 98-2, which may include funds carried over from the first replenishment 
of the GEF Trust Fund under Resolution No. 94-2;   
 
(E) 
the Bank has relied on the representations and warranties by the 
Recipient that the Project has been designed and will be implemented in accordance with 
the provisions of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change 
(UNFCC)  dated May 9, 1992 and ratified by the Recipient on June 8, 1994, and the 
Kyoto Protocol; 
 
(F) 
the Project will be carried out by the Romanian Energy Efficiency Fund 
(herein referred to as FREE) with the Recipient’s assistance and, as part of such 
assistance, the Recipient will make available to FREE the proceeds of the GEF Trust 
Fund Grant as provided in this Agreement; and  
 
Page  3
-
2
-
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of
the foregoing, to 
extend the GEF Trust Fund Grant to the Recipient upon the terms and conditions set forth 
in this Agreement and in the agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and 
FREE (“the Project Agreement”); 
 
NOW THEREFORE, the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
 
General Conditions; Definitions 
 
Section 
1.01. 
(a) The following provisions of the “General Conditions 
Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, 
dated May 30, 1995 (as amended through October 6, 1999) with the modifications set 
forth in paragraph (b) of this Section (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part 
of this Agreement: 
 
(i) Article 
I; 
 
(ii) 
Sections 2.01 (1), (2), (3), (4), (6), (8), (9), (10), (14), (15), (18) 
and (21), 2.02 and 2.03; 
 
(iii) Section 
3.01; 
 
(iv) 
Section 4.01 and  Section 4.06; 
 
(v) Article 
V; 
 
(vi) 
Sections 6.01, 6.02 (a), (c), (d), (e), (f), (i), (k), (l), (m), (n), (o) 
and (p),  6.03, 6.04 and 6.06; 
 
(vii) 
Section 8.01 (b); 
 
(viii) 
Sections 9.01 (a) and (c), 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09; 
 
(ix) 
Sections 10.01, 10.03 and 10.04;    
 
(x) 
Article XI ; and 
 
(xi) 
Sections 12.01 (c), 12.03 and 12.04. 
 
Page  4
-
3
-
(b) 
The General Conditions shall be modified as follows: 
 
(i) 
a new paragraph (22) shall be added to the end of Section 2.01 to 
read as follows: “the term “Special Drawing Rights” and the 
symbol “SDR” mean special drawing rights as valued by the 
International Monetary Fund in accordance with its Articles of 
Agreement”; 
 
(ii) 
the term “Bank”, wherever used in the General Conditions, other 
than in Sections 2.01 (6) and 6.02 (f) thereof and the last use of 
such term in Section 5.01 thereof, means the Bank acting as an 
implementing agency of the GEF, except that in Section 6.02, 
the term “Bank” shall also include the Bank acting in its own 
capacity; 
 
(iii) 
the term “Borrower”, wherever used in the General Conditions, 
means the Recipient; 
 
(iv) 
the term “Loan Agreement”, wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means this Agreement; 
 
(v) 
the term “Loan” and “loan”, wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means the GEF Trust Fund Grant; 
 
(vi) 
the term “Loan Account”, wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account; and 
 
(vii) 
a new paragraph (q) is added  to Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions, as follows: “an extraordinary situation shall have 
arisen in which any further disbursement under the GEF Trust 
Fund Grant would exceed the resources available for 
disbursement from the GEF.” 
 
Section 1.02.  
Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:  
 
(a) 
 “Beneficiary” means any community, organization, agency or individual 
eligible for assistance under the Project; 
 
(b) 
“FREE” means the Romanian Energy Efficiency Fund set up by 
Emergency Ordinance No. 124 of October 8, 2001 to specialize in energy efficiency 
investments; 
 
Page  5
-
4
-
(c) 
“MPF” means the Recipient’s Ministry of Public Finance; 
 
(d) 
“Operational Manual” means the manual dated August 16, 2002, and 
defined in FREE’s by laws setting forth the internal regulations for FREE’s operations, 
including the criteria and procedures related to the appraisal and approval of the Sub-
projects; 
 
(e) 
“Subsidiary Grant Agreement” means  an agreement to be entered into  
between MPF, on behalf  of the Recipient, and FREE;       
 
(f)  
“Sub-loan” means any financing made or proposed to be made by FREE 
to a Beneficiary out of the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant; 
 
(g)    “Sub-loan Agreement” means an agreement between FREE and the 
Beneficiary  to implement a Sub-project; 
 
(h) 
“Sub-project” means any activities under Part A of the Project, appraised 
and approved in accordance with the Operational Manual;  
 
(i) 
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; and 
 
(j) 
“Fund Manager” means a manager to be employed by FREE pursuant to 
Section 2.07 of the Project Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II 
 
The GEF Trust Fund Grant
 
Section 2.01. 
The Bank agrees to make available to the Recipient, on the terms 
and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, the GEF Trust Fund Grant in an 
amount in various currencies equivalent to eight million Special Drawing Rights      (SDR 
8,000,000). 
 
Section 2.02. 
(a) The amount of the GEF Trust Fund Grant may be withdrawn 
from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement for: (i) amounts paid (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be paid) by the 
Recipient on account of Sub-loans made under Part A of the Project to meet the 
reasonable cost of goods and  services required for the Sub-project in respect of which 
the withdrawal from the GEF Trust Fund account is requested; and                     (ii) 
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable 
cost of goods,  consultants’ services and Fund Manager’s Services for carrying out the 
Project, other than for Sub-loans made under Part A of the Project, and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant. 
Page  6
-
5
-
(b)  
The Recipient may, for the purposes of  the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars a special deposit account
 
in a commercial bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set off, seizure or 
attachment.
 
Deposits into, and payment out of,  the Special Account shall be made in 
accordance with the provision of Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
 
Section 2.03. 
The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2007 or such later date 
as the Bank shall establish.  The Bank shall promptly notify the Recipient of such later 
date. 
 
ARTICLE III 
 
Execution of the Project
 
Section 3.01. 
(a) The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of 
the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and, to this end, without any 
limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations under this Agreement, shall: 
 
(i) 
cause  FREE to perform in accordance with the provisions of the 
Project Agreement all the obligations of FREE therein set forth, 
and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would 
prevent or interfere with such performance; and 
 
(ii) 
take and cause to be taken all actions, including, if deemed 
necessary, the provision of funds, facilities, services and other 
resources required for carrying out the Project.  
 
(b)   
The Recipient shall make the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant 
available to FREE as a grant under a Subsidiary Grant Agreement to be entered into 
between MPF, on behalf of the Recipient, and FREE, under terms and conditions 
acceptable to the Bank. 
 
(c)  
The Recipient, through MPF, shall exercise its rights under the 
Subsidiary Grant Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Recipient 
and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the GEF Trust Fund Grant, and except as 
the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Recipient shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive 
the Subsidiary Grant Agreement or any provisions thereof. 
 
Page  7
-
6
-
Section 3.02. 
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 
to this Agreement.  
 
Section 3.03. 
For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Recipient shall: 
 
(a) 
prepare a plan for the future operation of the Project, on the basis of 
guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to the Bank not later than six (6) months 
after the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the 
Recipient and the Bank; and 
 
(b) 
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Recipient on the plan mentioned in paragraph (a) above. 
 
Section 3.04. 
The Recipient shall and shall cause FREE to: 
 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators acceptable to the Bank, the 
carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof; 
(b)  
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank on or about May 31, 2005, a report integrating the results of the monitoring and 
evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress 
achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the date of said 
report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of 
the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following 
such date; and 
(c)  
review with the Bank and  FREE, by June 30, 2005, or such later date as 
the Bank shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, 
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and 
the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations 
of the said report and the Bank’s views on the matter. 
 
Page  8
-
7
-
ARTICLE IV 
 
Financial Conditions 
 
Section 4.01. 
(a)  For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from 
the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, 
the Recipient shall: 
 
(i) 
maintain or cause to be maintained in accordance with sound 
accounting practices, records and separate accounts reflecting 
such expenditures; 
 
(ii) 
ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts 
and other documents) evidencing such expenditures are retained 
until at least one year after the Bank has received the audit report 
for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the GEF 
Trust Fund Grant Account was made; and 
 
(iii) 
enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records. 
 
(b) 
The Recipient shall cause FREE to: 
 
(i) 
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) (i) of 
this Section and those for the Special Account for each fiscal 
year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Bank; 
 
(ii) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six (6) months after the end of each such year the report of 
such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as 
the Bank shall have reasonably requested, including a separate 
opinion by said auditors as to whether  statements of expenditure 
submitted during such fiscal year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in their preparation, can be relied 
upon to support the related withdrawals; and 
 
(iii) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said 
records and accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from 
time to time reasonably request. 
 
Page  9
-
8
-
Section 4.02. 
(a) Without limitation upon the Recipient’s progress reporting 
obligations set forth in this Agreement, the Recipient shall cause FREE to prepare and 
furnish to the Bank a Financial Monitoring Report (FMR) in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Bank, which: 
 
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, showing 
separately funds provided under the GEF Trust Fund Grant, and 
explains variances between the actual and planned uses of such 
funds; 
 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
explains variances between the actual and planned Project 
implementation; and 
 
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the 
end of the period covered by said report. 
 
(b) 
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than forty-five 
(45) days after the end of the first calendar quarter after the Effective Date, and shall 
cover the period from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the 
end of such first calendar quarter; thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not 
later than forty-five (45) days after each subsequent calendar quarter, and shall cover 
such calendar quarter. 
 
ARTICLE V 
 
Remedies of the Bank 
 
Section 5.01. 
Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are  specified: 
 
(a) 
The Recipient has repealed, suspended, amended or waived without prior 
approval of the Bank  the Emergency Ordinance No. 124 of October 8, 2001 setting up 
FREE or taken any action for the dissolution, disestablishment or suspension of 
operations of FREE.  
 
(b) 
The Operational Manual and/or FREE’s by-laws shall have been 
amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and 
adversely the ability of FREE to carry out the Project.  
 
(c) 
FREE shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the 
Project Agreement. 
Page  10
-
9
-
ARTICLE VI 
 
Effectiveness; Termination
 
Section 
6.01.  The following events are specified as conditions to the 
effectiveness of the GEF Trust Fund Grant within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions:  
 
(a) 
FREE’s operating budget satisfactory to the Bank and MPF has been   
adopted by FREE’s Board of Administration; and 
 
(b)  
the Subsidiary Grant Agreement between MPF, on behalf of the 
Recipient, and FREE, satisfactory to the Bank, has been duly executed.
 
Section 6.02. 
The date of 120 days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
 
Section 6.03. 
This Agreement shall continue in effect until the GEF Trust 
Fund Grant has been fully disbursed and the parties to this Agreement have fulfilled their 
obligations hereunder.  
 
ARTICLE VII
 
Representative of the Recipient; Addresses 
 
Section 7.01. 
The Minister of Public Finance of the Recipient  is designated as 
representative of the Recipient for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions. 
 
Section 7.02. 
The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
Page  11
-
10
-
For Romania: 
 
The Ministry of Public Finance                                                                                     
17, Apolodor Street                                                                                                     
Bucharest                                                                                                            
Romania 
 
Facsimile:  
 
Telex: 
 
401 312 6792 
 
 
11239 
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for 
 
Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
  Telex: 
   
 
INTBAFRAD  
 
248423 
(MCI) 
 
Washington, D.C. 
  
64145 (MCI) 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in Bucharest, Romania, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
ROMANIA 
 
By  /s/  Mihai Nicolae Tanasescu 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
as an Implementing Agency of the Global Environment Facility 
 
By  /s/  M. Ziad Alahdad 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  12
-
11
-
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant 
 
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant, the allocation of the amounts of the GEF Trust 
Fund Grant to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be 
financed in each Category: 
 
Amount of the GEF 
% of 
 
Trust Fund Grant Allocated 
Expenditures  
 Category
(Expressed in SDR)
to be Financed
(1) 
Sub-loans               
    6,400,000 
 
 
100 % 
 
(2) 
Fund Management Services 
 720,000 
 
 
100 % 
 
(3)  
Consultancy Services 
 430,000 
 
 
100 %  
 
(4) 
Incremental Operating Costs   
450,000 
100% of expenditures incurred  
 
prior to  December 31,003; 
 
90%
of expenditures incurred  
 
prior  to December 31, 2004; 
 
75%
of expenditures incurred  
 
prior  to December 31, 2005; and  
 
50%
of expenditures incurred  
 
_______
prior  to December 31, 2006. 
 
TOTAL 8,000,000 
 
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
 
(a) 
the term “Fund Management Services” means the fees to be paid to the 
Fund Manager pursuant to the contract to be entered into between FREE and the Fund 
Manager for the implementation of the Project. 
 
(b) 
the term “Incremental Operating Costs” means the incremental costs of 
FREE incurred on account of Project implementation, including salaries of FREE’s staff, 
Board Administration’s and Investment Committee’s costs, communication, translation, 
travel, rent, utilities, printing, publication, office supplies, minor equipment, maintenance 
and such other expenditures as may be agreed upon by the Bank. 
 
Page  13
-
12
-
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of        
SDR 60,000 under Categories (3) and (4) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule  may be made on account of payments made for expenditures incurred before 
that date but after November 1, 2001. 
 
4. 
The Bank may require withdrawals from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account 
to be made on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures: (a) under         
Sub-loans; (b) for services of consulting firms under contracts costing less than $50,000 
equivalent, and for services of individual consultants under contracts costing less than 
$20,000 equivalent; and (c) for Incremental Operating Costs, all under such terms and 
conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Recipient.  
5. 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment made from the 
GEF Trust Fund Grant Account was used for any expenditure not consistent with the 
provisions of this Agreement, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, 
refund to the Bank for deposit into the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account, an amount equal 
to the amount so used or the portion thereof as specified by the Bank. 
Page  14
-
13
-
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Description of the Project 
 
The main objective of the Project is to address global warming by reducing 
greenhouse  gases  on  a  sustainable  basis  through  investments  in  energy  efficient          
Sub-projects in Romania.  
 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Recipient and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives. 
 
Part A
:
Investment Financing
Provision of financing on a commercial basis to creditworthy Beneficiaries for 
the implementation of Sub-projects that meet the objectives of this Project. 
 
Part B
:
Technical Assistance
(i) 
Capacity building activities for initial Sub-projects development, 
including training, workshops and seminars.  
 
(ii) 
Provision of support to FREE for the administration of the    
Sub-loans and overall management of the Project, including 
audit services. 
 
*** 
 
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2007. 
Page  15
-
14
-
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Procurement and Consultants Services 
 
Section I
.
Procurement under Sub-projects
Part A
:
General
Procurement of goods and services under Sub-projects shall be carried out in 
accordance with established commercial practices acceptable to the Bank,  pursuant to 
paragraph 3.12 of the “Guidelines for Procurement Under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” 
published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, 
September 1997 and January 1999 (the Guidelines) and  pursuant to paragraph 3.12 of 
the Consultants Guidelines (as defined hereinafter),  and the following provisions of 
Section I of this Schedule. 
 
Part B
:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1. Prior 
Review
With respect to the first two contracts for goods and services under Sub-projects, 
regardless of the costs thereof, and all subsequent contracts above $1,000,000  equivalent, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply.  
 
2. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 1 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
 
Section II
.
Employment of Consultants
Part A
:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and 
revised in September 1997 and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the 
following provisions of Section II of this Schedule. 
 
Part B
:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services shall 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of     Section II of 
the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and 
Page  16
-
15
-
the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 applicable to quality- and cost-based 
selection of consultants. 
 
2. 
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph.  
The short list of consultants for services estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent 
per contract, may comprise entirely of national consultants in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
Part C
:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1. Least-cost 
Selection
Services for  audit under the Project estimated to cost less than $100,000 
equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines.  
 
2. 
Selection Based on Qualifications
Services under Part B of the Project estimated to cost less than $100,000 
equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
3. Individual 
Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.01 of the 
Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines. 
 
Part D
:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1. Selection 
Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for 
its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 
to the Consultant Guidelines. Selection of all consultants’ services shall be undertaken in 
accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with 
the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
 
Page  17
-
16
-
2. Prior 
Review
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms estimated 
to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more per contract, or each contract for the 
employment of individuals estimated to cost the equivalent of $20,000 or more per 
contract, or any assignments of a critical nature as determined by the Bank regardless of 
their value, under Part B of the Project, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2  (other 
than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines shall apply. 
 
Page  18
-
17
-
SCHEDULE 4 
 
Special Account
 
1. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
 
(a) the 
term
 “eligible Categories means Categories (1), (2), (3) and (4) set 
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;  
 
(b) 
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant allocated from time to time to the eligible 
Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
 
(c) 
 the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to  
$1,000,000  to be withdrawn from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account and deposited into 
the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule. 
 
2. 
Payments out of the
 
Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule. 
 
3. 
After the Bank has received satisfactory evidence that the Special Account has 
been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals 
to replenish the  Special Account shall be made as follows: 
 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Recipient shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw 
from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account and deposit into the Special Account such 
amount or amounts as the Recipient shall have requested. 
 
(b) 
(i) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Bank shall specify. 
 
(ii) 
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Recipient, withdraw from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account 
and deposit into the Special Account such amount as the 
Recipient shall have requested and as shall have been shown by 
Page  19
-
18
-
said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the 
Special Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall 
be withdrawn by the Bank from the GEF Trust Fund Grant 
Account under the respective eligible Categories and in the 
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by 
said documents and other evidence. 
 
4. 
For each payment made by the Recipient out of the Special Account, the 
Recipient shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank 
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures. 
 
5. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
 
(a) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Recipient directly from the GEF Trust Fund Grant 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and 
paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
if the Recipient shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the period 
of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the 
records and accounts for the Special Account; and 
 
(c) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Recipient of its intention 
to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Recipient to make withdrawals from the 
GEF Trust Fund Grant Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions. 
 
6. 
(a) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to 
paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the 
Bank, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, 
if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such 
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made 
until the Recipient has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the 
case may be. 
 
Page  20
-
19
-
(b) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to 
the Bank such outstanding amount. 
 
(c) 
The Recipient may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or 
any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. Refunds to the Bank made 
pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the GEF 
Trust Fund Grant Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance 
with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General Conditions. 
Page  21
-
20
-
M:\BACKUP\ROMANIA\GRANTS\W-1994Final.doc 
 
