                                     Document of
                                  The World Bank




                                                      Report No: ICR0000961




           IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                                     (TF-50705)

                                        ON A

           GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY TRUST FUND GRANT

                      IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 10 MILLION

                                         TO

                                     ROMANIA

                                       FOR AN

                         ENERGY EFFICIENCY PROJECT



                                    April 24, 2009




Sustainable Development Department
Central Europe and the Baltics Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region

                         CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                   (Exchange Rate Effective November 10, 2008)
                    Currency Unit = Romanian New Lei (RON)
                            RON 1.00 = US$ 0.34059
                              US$ 1.00 = RON 2.93

                               FISCAL YEAR (FY)
                            January 1 ­ December 31


                     ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

       BCR          -     Commercial Bank of Romania
       BOA          -     Board of Administration
       CAS          -     Country Assistance Strategy
       DO                 Development Objective
       EBRD         -     European Bank for Reconstruction and Development
       EE                 Energy Efficiency
       EEFF         -     Energy Efficiency Finance Facility
       EU           -     European Union
       ESCO         -     Energy Service Company
       FM           -     Fund Manager
       FREE         -     Romanian Energy Efficiency Fund
       GEO          -     Global Environment Objective
       GDP          -     Gross Domestic Product
       GEF          -     Global Environment Facility
       GHG          -     Green House Gas
       GOR          -     Government of Romania
       IAS          -     International Accounting Standards
       IC                 Investment Committee
       IRR          -     Internal Rate of Return
       ISR          -     Implementation Status Report
       IT           -     Information Technology
       LIBOR        -     London Interbank Offered Rate
       M&E          -     Monitoring and Evaluation
       MTR          -     Mid Term Review
       PAD                Project Appraisal Document
       PDO          -     Project Development Objective
       QPR          -     Quarterly Progress Report
       TA           -     Technical Assistance
       UK           -     United Kingdom
       UNDP         -     United Nations Development Program


Vice President:          Shigeo Katsu
Country Director:        Orsalia Kalantzopoulos
Sector Director:         Peter Thomson
Project Team Leader:     Varadarajan Atur
ICR Team Leader          Varadarajan Atur




                                           ii

                                              ROMANIA
                          Romania Energy Efficiency Project



                                           CONTENTS

Data Sheet
   A. Basic Information
   B. Key Dates
   C. Ratings Summary
   D. Sector and Theme Codes
   E. Bank Staff
   F. Results Framework Analysis
   G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
   H. Restructuring
   I. Disbursement Graph

 1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design............................................... 1
 2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 5
 3. Assessment of Outcomes.......................................................................................... 10
 4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 13
 5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 13
 6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 16
 7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 17
 Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing.......................................................................... 18
 Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 19
 Annex 3. Economic, Financial and Incremental Cost Analysis ................................... 21
 Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 23
 Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results........................................................................... 25
 Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 26
 Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR..................... 27
 Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders....................... 30
 Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 31
 Annex 10. Additional Information for GEF Purposes.................................................. 32

MAP




                                                      iii

A. Basic Information

                                                                     Energy Efficiency GEF
Country:               Romania                 Project Name:
                                                                     Project
Project ID:            P068062                 L/C/TF Number(s):     TF-50705
ICR Date:              04/24/2009              ICR Type:             Core ICR
                                                                     GOVERNMENT OF
Lending Instrument:    SIL                     Borrower:
                                                                     ROMANIA
Original Total
                       USD 10.0M               Disbursed Amount:     USD 9.7M
Commitment:
Environmental Category: F                      Global Focal Area: C
Implementing Agencies:
Romania Energy Efficiency Fund
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:


B. Key Dates

     Process              Date             Process         Original Date  Revised / Actual
                                                                              Date(s)
Concept Review:        09/05/2000     Effectiveness:        11/01/2002      02/13/2003
Appraisal:             02/21/2002    Restructuring(s):
Approval:              09/19/2002     Mid-term Review:      09/30/2005      02/21/2006
                                      Closing:              12/31/2007      06/30/2008


C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                      Satisfactory
Risk to Global Environment Outcome             Moderate
Bank Performance:                              Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                          Satisfactory


C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
         Bank                  Ratings                Borrower              Ratings
Quality at Entry:            Satisfactory      Government:                Satisfactory

Quality of Supervision:      Satisfactory      Implementing
                                               Agency/Agencies:           Satisfactory

Overall Bank                                   Overall Borrower
Performance:                 Satisfactory      Performance:               Satisfactory


C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                              QAG Assessments
      Performance             Indicators              (if any)              Rating

Potential Problem Project No                   Quality at Entry     None


                                               i

at any time (Yes/No):                          (QEA):
Problem Project at any                         Quality of
                          No                                       None
time (Yes/No):                                 Supervision (QSA):
GEO rating before
                          Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status


D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                             Original         Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
General finance sector                                        10                10
General industry and trade sector                             90                90


Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Climate change                                               Primary          Primary
Other financial and private sector development               Primary          Primary
Pollution management and environmental health                Primary          Primary
Technology diffusion                                        Secondary        Secondary


E. Bank Staff
         Positions                      At ICR                       At Approval
Vice President:           Shigeo Katsu                     Johannes F. Linn
Country Director:         Orsalia Kalantzopoulos           Andrew N. Vorkink
Sector Manager:           Ranjit J. Lamech                 Hinderikus Busz
Project Team Leader:      Varadarajan Atur                 Varadarajan Atur
ICR Team Leader:          Varadarajan Atur
ICR Primary Author:       Jeremy Levin
                          Sati Achath




                                              ii

F. Results Framework Analysis
Global Environment Objectives (GEO) and Key Indicators(as approved)
The development objective of the GEF project is to enable companies in the industrial
sector and other energy consumers to adopt and utilize energy-efficient technologies,
financed under commercial criteria by the Romanian Energy Efficiency Fund (FREE)
and cofinanciers. This would put the economy onto a sustainable path of lower energy
intensity and green house gas (GHG) emissions.

  The global environment objective of the project is to improve the knowledge and the
availability of mechanisms necessary for financiers and energy consumers to fund viable
energy efficiency projects by removing barriers and lowering transaction costs.

Revised Global Environment Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
and Key Indicators and reasons/justifications
The objectives were not revised.

(a) GEO Indicator(s)

                                           Original Target     Formally        Actual Value

   Indicator          Baseline Value        Values (from        Revised         Achieved at
                                               approval         Target         Completion or
                                             documents)         Values         Target Years

Indicator 1 :    Tons of Green House Gas (CO2) reduction from EE investments facilitated by
                 FREE
                                                                            0.123 million
                                                                            achieved from 12

Value                                     1.7 million tons                  completed projects

(quantitative or 0                        over lifetime of                  by end-2007 and

Qualitative)                              investments                       1.1 million tons
                                                                            estimated over
                                                                            lifetime of these
                                                                            investments
Date achieved 02/13/2003                  12/31/2029                        06/30/2008
Comments         By end-2008, 16 projects were completed, from which 2.18 million tons
(incl. %         cumulative CO2 reduction estimated over lifetime of the investments. Target
achievement)     fully achieved.



(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                           Original Target     Formally        Actual Value

   Indicator          Baseline Value        Values (from                        Achieved at
                                               approval         Revised        Completion or
                                             documents)      Target Values     Target Years
Indicator 1 :    Direct FREE financing of Energy Efficiency projects
Value                                     US$39.4 million                   11.4 million after 5
(quantitative or $0                       (after 8 years of                 years of operation



                                               iii

Qualitative)                               operation of
                                           FREE)
Date achieved 02/13/2003                   02/14/2011                         06/30/2008
Comments
(incl. %         Would need new capital to reach the target value by 2011, which is unlikely at

achievement)    this time. Target partly achieved.

Indicator 2 :    Clients' and other cofinancing for EE projects supported by FREE.
Value                                      US$21.3 million
(quantitative or $0                        after 8 years of                   US$22.65 million

Qualitative)                               FREE operation                     by close of project

Date achieved 02/13/2003                   02/14/2011                         06/30/2008
Comments
(incl. %         Fully achieved
achievement)
Indicator 3 :    Self financing of FREE (%)
                                           100 % of operating
Value            0% for first 3 years      and fund
(quantitative or (2003-2005) (costs fully management costs                    115% by close of

Qualitative)     financed by GEF TA)       from own                           project

                                           revenues
Date achieved 02/13/2003                   06/30/2008                         06/30/2008
Comments
(incl. %         Fully achieved
achievement)



G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                   Actual
 No.     Date ISR
         Archived                GEO                         IP               Disbursements
                                                                              (USD millions)
  1     11/26/2002             Satisfactory              Satisfactory                      0.00
  2     06/03/2003             Satisfactory              Satisfactory                      1.00
  3     07/18/2003             Satisfactory              Satisfactory                      1.00
  4     12/12/2003             Satisfactory              Satisfactory                      1.18
  5     03/16/2004             Satisfactory              Satisfactory                      1.35
  6     11/23/2004             Satisfactory              Satisfactory                      1.72
  7     05/23/2005             Satisfactory         Moderately Satisfactory                2.38
  8     04/28/2006             Satisfactory         Moderately Satisfactory                4.78
  9     05/20/2007             Satisfactory         Moderately Satisfactory                6.58
  10    06/28/2007             Satisfactory              Satisfactory                      6.78
  11    03/31/2008             Satisfactory              Satisfactory                      9.48
  12    06/24/2008             Satisfactory              Satisfactory                      9.73



H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable


                                                 iv

I. Disbursement Profile




                           v

1. PROJECT CONTEXT, DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVES AND DESIGN

(this section is descriptive, taken from other documents, e.g., PAD/ISR, not evaluative)

1.1 Context at Appraisal

(brief summary of country and sector background, rationale for Bank assistance)

Country and Sector Background: At appraisal in 2002, Romania's energy intensity (total primary
energy supply per 1000 US$ of Gross Domestic Product (GDP) and Green House Gas (GHG)
intensity (CO2 emissions per 1000 US$ of GDP) were among the highest in the region and were
about five to ten times higher than in United Kingdom (UK), France, Germany, or United States1.
Inefficient energy utilization existed in all sectors of the economy, notably in the industrial sector,
which accounted for over 60 percent of energy consumption but only 33 percent of GDP. In large
part, such high intensity in Romania was due to aging equipment and antiquated technologies,
and was an impediment to improving the competitiveness of Romanian industry.

Financing for energy efficiency (EE) was lacking mostly due to various barriers, including: (i)
high transaction costs of identifying, developing and financing energy efficiency projects; (ii)
high perceived risk of financing energy efficiency projects; and (iii) lack of financial and
technical skills necessary to successfully develop energy efficiency projects. In addition, the
prevailing Romanian market for corporate lending was not competitive, and there was no
competition for clients, as demand for corporate loans was much greater than supply. Most
lending was concentrated towards a few blue-chip clients and 85 percent of the lending of most of
the Romanian-based foreign banks was directed to foreign-owned companies. As a consequence,
financing was not available or too expensive for most credit-worthy smaller firms in the
Romanian market. Available lending mainly consisted of working capital loans with a one year or
less maturity and required full or even over-collateralized security. These loans were only
available to established firms, potential exporters and/or Romanian subsidiaries of foreign
companies.

Project finance was still nascent in Romania, but was expected to grow as the economy moved
towards a more market-based structure. Project finance was available from foreign banks
operating in Romania for projects that offered risk cover at high premiums. The few companies
that had carried out some profitable and short-term energy efficiency investments primarily used
their own internal funds. There was minimal interest by the local banks in extending new lines of
credit to businesses for any project-based lending, especially for a specialized product such as
energy efficiency which was unfamiliar to the banks as it produced improvements in an
enterprise's bottom line (i.e., profitability) as opposed to top line revenue enhancements.

Despite the large potential for financially viable energy efficiency investments in Romania, only a
few of those investments were actually being undertaken. Essentially, the market was not
functioning in this area. Although there were numerous donor-funded technical assistance and
technical demonstration projects to improve energy efficiency, these had achieved few results in
terms of increasing investments on the ground.




1 Based on 1999 data from the International Energy Agency, http://www.iea.org/statist/keyworld/keystats.html




                                                        1

Rationale for Bank assistance: The project supported the Country Assistance Strategy2 (CAS)
objectives of: (i) promoting economic growth through enterprise sector reform, particularly better
utilization of energy resources, and (ii) protecting and sustainably developing environmental
resources. The project aimed to contribute to Objective (i) by providing seed capital to a market-
oriented financial facility that would offer financing for commercially attractive energy efficiency
projects which would reduce production costs and improve competitiveness. The host enterprises
targeted would be primarily in the private sector which experienced difficulties to access
Romanian financial markets and faced very stiff collateral requirements. This new facility would
fill a financing gap by originating transactions not pursued by the Romanian financial sector by
combining expertise in energy efficiency analysis, structured finance and credit analysis, and by
attracting commercial co-financing. The project addressed Objective (ii) by financing investments
that would reduce energy consumption, and thereby contribute to reduction in air pollution and
green house gas emissions. The environmental goals addressed by the project were closely linked
to the European Union (EU) accession standards, which were also set as an important
development benchmark in the CAS.

The involvement of the Bank and Global Environment Facility (GEF) in the project was regarded
as essential in providing much needed capital for energy efficiency financing through a new
mechanism while demonstrating the financial viability of lending for this type of investment.
Energy efficiency efforts were at an impasse, and frustration was high among Romanian
stakeholders. The lack of an integrated, coherent government policy and leadership had resulted
in marginalization of energy efficiency proponents as opposed to a productive team effort. In
December 2000, the Parliament had enacted an energy efficiency law that confirmed that efficient
use of energy was an integral part of national energy policy, conforming to the Energy Charter
Treaty and the principles of sustainable development. However, the energy efficiency law, by
itself, was not expected to change energy efficiency investment activities in Romania
dramatically, since any funding sources proposed in the law were at best uncertain.

The Bank's stature in Romania and its expertise in financing innovative energy efficiency projects
worldwide were considered as essential to make a tangible difference and moving the Romania
EE market. The prevailing situation in Romania provided an excellent case for a GEF contingent
financing investment operation: there was both a strong need for a GEF catalytic role, and the
operation of the Fund provided exceptionally high leverage for GEF funds. GEF-led participation
was critical for the project; without GEF's involvement in capitalizing the Fund and supporting
initial project and institution development, there was no question that neither the Fund nor the
project could succeed in a reasonable time frame. Perceived high risks and transaction costs
involved in supporting energy efficiency investments within the prevailing undeveloped market
continued to cause lenders to pursue other opportunities and agendas. With GEF support to
establish the Romanian Energy Efficiency Fund (FREE), both the demonstration value of
profitable projects and the institutional means to attain them were expected to expand domestic
financial institutional involvement in this market, both through increasing cooperation with FREE
in formal co-financing arrangements, and indirectly by demonstrating the financial viability of EE
lending as a financial product.




2 Document number: 221 80-RO Date of latest CAS discussion: June 19, 2001




                                                   2

1.2 Original Global Environment Objectives (GEO) and Key Indicators (as
approved)

The Development objective of the GEF project was to enable companies in the industrial sector
and other energy consumers to adopt and utilize energy efficient technologies, financed under
commercial criteria by the Romanian Energy Efficiency Fund and cofinanciers. This would help
put the economy onto a sustainable path of lower energy intensity and green house gas emissions.

The Global Environment Objective (GEO) of the project was to improve the knowledge and the
availability of mechanisms necessary for financiers and energy consumers to fund viable energy
efficiency projects by removing barriers and lowering transaction costs.

Key performance indicators:
    · Number of energy efficiency projects and associated investment volume with commercial
        banks participating in financing with FREE
    · Gradual reduction of GHG emissions from participating industries and other clients
    · Number of projects identified and presented for funding
    · Ratings of understanding by end users and energy efficiency experts trained by FREE of
        successful, financially attractive energy efficiency measures

1.3 Revised GEO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators,
and reasons/justification

The objective was not revised.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries

(original and revised, briefly describe the "primary target group" identified in the PAD
and as captured in the GEO, as well as any other individuals and organizations expected
to benefit from the project)

The project beneficiaries were the clients of the Fund who would implement measures to reduce
energy consumption, Energy Service Companies (ESCO) who served them and suppliers of EE
equipment who would benefit from increased sales. In the first phase of the project, FREE clients
would be companies in the industrial and commercial sectors, which would also benefit from
greater productivity and improved competitiveness.

In the second phase of the project it was expected that the building and public sectors would be
ready to apply for commercial credit and finance projects that would benefit also the general
population by reducing the cost of basic infrastructure services and improving comfort. The Fund
Manager (FM) as well as co-financiers would participate in the successful Fund operation
through higher earnings.

1.5 Original Components (as approved)

The project consisted of two components as follows:

Component 1: Investment Financing (US$8 million)

Loans for Investments: Loans would be made on a commercial basis to creditworthy customers
from the FREE that would revolve with interest and principal payments flowing back into it for


                                                  3

additional loans. Borrowers with good growth prospects would be targeted and their positive cash
flows generated by investments in energy savings would be used to repay the loans.

In the first phase, the Fund would focus primarily on financing projects within restructured and/or
privatized industries that could establish basic creditworthiness. Eligible projects would be
limited to those meeting criteria to minimize risk and maximize the potential for success.
Guidelines for eligible projects are summarized as follows:

    · The projects and/or the Fund's financial support were expected to be in the range of
         US$100,000 to US$1,000,000.
    · A well diversified portfolio of projects to assure a balanced risk-return to the Fund.
    · Projects to have a relatively short payback time (generally under three to four years).
    · At least 50 percent of each project's benefits to come from energy savings (e.g., process
         or capacity improvements that have ancillary energy savings benefits are not eligible)
    · The technology must be well proven in the proposed application to avoid technological
         risk.

The main energy efficiency technologies that met these criteria were burners and boilers, variable
speed drives, condensers for power factor improvement, compressors, controls, and steam traps.

Component 2: Technical Assistance (US$2 million)

This component covered three broad areas:

    · Capacity building, including activities in initial project development, workshops and
         seminars for partners and clients, training for fund manager and partners in energy
         efficiency financing techniques, and monitoring and evaluation (estimated cost
         US$$500,000).
    · Fund management, including retainer fees of the Fund Manager for the first three years
         (estimated cost US$900,000).
    · FREE administration, including its set-up and running costs during the first four years
         (estimated cost US$600,000).

1.6 Revised Components

The components were not revised.

1.7 Other significant changes

(in design, scope and scale, implementation arrangements and schedule, and funding
allocations)

There were no changes to project design, scope, scale, implementing arrangements, and funding
allocations during implementation. More local expertise was sought in the Fund Manager team
after difficulties in the early stages of implementation. The project closing date was extended by
six months from December 31, 2007 to June 30, 2008 to disburse sub-loans previously committed.




                                                  4

2. KEY FACTORS AFFECTING IMPLEMENTATION AND OUTCOMES

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

(including whether lessons of earlier operations were taken into account, risks and their
mitigations identified, and adequacy of participatory processes, as applicable)

During preparation, project design took into account lessons learned from Energy Efficiency
Fund experience worldwide. The design considered risk factors and adopted appropriate measures
to mitigate all major risks identified at appraisal. The project provided a participatory framework
involving stakeholders and direct beneficiaries in the decision-making processes. Considering the
substantial risk of the project for implementation and possible shortcomings in progress and/or
results, the design included an exit strategy to allow for earlier closing of the project.

Lessons of earlier operations taken into account.

    · Maximize the transparency of procedures; minimize government interference in
         financing decisions. Establish and operate the Fund as a business, not a technology
         deployment system; profit-making should be an objective of the Fund.

    · Use existing market players (i.e., banks) for functions (e.g., collections) where possible.
         Ensure high-quality financial, technical-and economic appraisals. Due diligence must be
         performed by professional staff with incentives for good performance. Ensure adequate
         pre-finance technical assistance to potential clients.

    · The financing institution must be proactive in the development of a project pipeline.
         Marketing, particularly to senior management, is a critical step in the success of a Fund.
         Use third parties such as ESCOs or industrial associations to market and develop projects
         for the Fund, thus avoiding high transaction costs.

    · Focus on short term loans for projects with high rates of return. Avoid placing funds in a
         few large loans; spread the risk through many projects. Fund financing should cover only
         a portion of the project costs; the borrower should have equity in the project. Lend only
         to credit-worthy clients; establish high credit-worthiness criteria, which are rigorously
         enforced. Full collection of interest and principal repayment is an overriding concern.

    · Small projects have high transaction costs. They need to be packaged by partners such as
         ESCOs, or very simple mechanisms have to be designed to avoid costly audits and
         feasibility studies, such as a list of standard energy efficiency measures.

    · Monitor thoroughly to ensure the funds are spent on the project, the project is
         implemented properly and operated as designed; monitoring provides an early warning
         for any problems.

These lessons were reflected in the institutional design of FREE (e.g. the structure of the Board
with majority private sector members), its operations (e.g. attracting qualified staff at competitive
salaries), Fund Manager contract (e.g. retainer plus performance based fee structure, including
penalties for defaults). The then ongoing UNDP GEF TA project aimed at identifying potential
EE projects and clients, assisting with feasibility studies, etc., complemented the GEF project
design in pre-finance TA aspects. The final project design: (i) involved a bold new approach for
demonstrating viability of commercial financing for EE project through a public-private-
partnership structure; and (ii) adopted commercial funds practice of using a FM under a



                                                     5

performance based contract. On both these accounts, the project was setting a new track for EE
project financing.

Risks and Risk Mitigation Measures. Overall, the project risk was considered substantial and
rated accordingly. The table below shows the risks identified in the Project Appraisal Document
(PAD) and provides an assessment for future projects based on implementation experience.

           Risk            Risk Rating                          Assessment of Risk
 Projected energy          Substantial   In most cases, energy savings and cash flows were higher than
 savings and improved                    estimated at appraisal. This risk is "Modest".
 cash flows do not
 materialize
 Fund clients do not       Substantial   There were no defaults in repayment of loans to FREE. This risk
 repay loans                             is "Modest".

 Energy consumers are      Substantial   Industries and commercial enterprises are quite willing to
 unwilling to borrow for                 borrow at commercial rates; technical assistance and support is
 EE investments                          essential to induce them. This risk is "Modest".

 Energy price signals do     Modest      Energy prices are an important factor in end user interest. This
 not encourage end user                  risk is "Modest".
 interest in
 implementing energy
 efficiency measures
 Effective Fund              Modest      This risk is "modest" and bidding and evaluation must be
 Manager cannot be                       carefully designed to ensure balanced between fixed fee and
 secured and retained                    performance based payments in contracts.

 FREE overhead costs         Modest      Capping and careful monitoring is essential. The risk is
 surpass critical limit                  "Modest".

 Adequate cofinancing        Modest      This is "Substantial" risk in unproven markets and requires
 cannot be secured                       sustained efforts.

 Failure of early projects   Modest      Early successes are essential to demonstration projects. This risk
 does not demonstrate                    is "Modest"
 viability

     Overall Rating        Substantial   The overall risk can be lowered to "Modest" for future projects

Adequacy of participatory processes.

Project identification and preparation included wide consultation and high-level participation
among stakeholders, whose support and commitment were central to the successful project
outcome.

    · Industrial companies and their associations that were potential Fund clients.
    · Manufacturers, contractors, service providers such as ESCOs, research institutes and
         engineering and consulting companies, and associations as Fund partners and allies.
    · Financial sector, particularly banks, but also leasing companies as potential Fund partners
         and cofinanciers.
    · Environmental stakeholders, interested in global issues, including UNDP-GEF team and
         the Romanian Energy Conservation Agency.


                                                  6

High-level management and energy managers of industrial sector companies identified as primary
targets for financing energy efficiency investments, were consulted during the market assessment.
However, this had been on a rather general level with the purpose of informing project design,
rather than developing a project pipeline. Outreach activities also targeted potential Fund partners
for project identification and preparation, including associations of industrial, small and medium-
sized enterprises, manufacturers and suppliers of energy efficiency appliances, sectoral research
institutes, and energy service companies, among others. This broad-based participation and public
involvement was intensified during the later stages of project preparation. In November 2001, a
workshop and investor conference was held which assembled all project stakeholders to further
familiarize them with FREE.

2.2 Implementation

(including any project changes/restructuring, mid-term review, Project at Risk status, and actions
taken, as applicable)

The project experienced considerable difficulties during the early stages from 2002-2004. The
Fund Manager team was strong and had international experience, but the learning curve was
steeper than expected for FREE executives, the Board of Administration and investment
committee, and turnover of key officials exacerbated these difficulties. This slow start caused
significant conerns of performance among decision makers, which was also accentuated by
similar experience with failures of earlier EE projects. In mid-2004 the FM contract was revised
to enlist more local expertise to improve interactions with potential clients and generate a more
robust business plan. These changes brought some rapid successes ­ nine loan contracts
committing US$3.35 million within 18 months.

In January-February 2006 the Bank conducted a Midterm Review (MTR), which highlighted (i)
an urgent need to realign expenses and revenues to improve self-financing prospects and (ii)
further strengthen FM function with substantially more local specialists to ensure outreach to
Romanian enterprises and improve project benefits. These recommendations were quickly
implemented by the FREE executive and the Board and produced substantial increases in new
projects and financial support from FREE. A new FM was contracted. In addition, the Board
relaxed its approach to collateralization of loans, and streamlined operating procedures based on
MTR recommendations. By mid-2007, the US$8.0 million GEF investment financing grant was
fully committed for 18 projects. The self-financing ratio continued to improve and first surpassed
100 percent in 2007, and there were no defaults or even late payments on loans.

Factors outside government control or implementation agency

When project implementation began, the Romanian economy was just starting to reap the benefits
of prior economic reforms, creating a dramatically different investment climate than existed
during project design. Declining inflation and interest rates, reduced internal government
indebtedness, and successful restructuring of the banking sector and growing competition among
banks led to substantial growth in lending to the private sector including medium and long-term
loans that increased overall access to credit, and created high levels of competition for FREE. As
a new market participant, the Fund was initially poorly positioned to compete in this changed
environment.




                                                  7

Factors subject to government control or implementation agency

Although the FM had a strong team of financial experts and foreign energy efficiency specialists,
development of business and marketing plans and finalization of FREE procedures took longer
than expected. In a rapidly changing economic environment, the original FM struggled to identify
potential projects, resulting in a very slow start for the Fund. Of the 58 companies with projects in
the indicative pipeline identified during project preparation, only two actually signed financing
agreements with FREE. The first project was not signed until September 2004, about 18 months
after the FM had started work. Consequently, internal lending targets per the agreed upon
business plan were not achieved. FREE controlled its operating costs tightly and revised business
plans through continual monitoring.

The FM contract was revised in mid-2004, and local specialists were recruited. The full time
presence in the field and increased local knowledge produced more business, although still below
original targets. Nine loan contracts for US$3.35 million were signed between September 2004
and January 2006. The new fund manager contract changed the compensation to a lower fixed
fee and a higher performance-based remuneration. FREE and Government also acted quickly to
implement MTR recommendations, which helped the project's eventual turnaround and
substantial success.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

M&E Design. The project design included indicators to assess progress in meeting the project
implementation targets and objective, and FREE had adequate methods for collecting these data.
Project monitoring and evaluation activities were to be carried out under the responsibility of
FREE, which would submit Quarterly Progress Reports (QPRs) to the Bank within 45 days of the
end of each quarter. Project monitoring would focus on a set of key financial, technical, and
institutional data to ensure that the project would meet its objectives. The financial information
required reflected key issues that needed to be addressed to ensure that FREE achieved its self-
financing status within a set period. The technical indicators focused on the implementation of
energy efficiency projects and the extent to which they could be used for dissemination of best
practices.

M&E Implementation. FREE regularly collected data according to the indicators developed
during project preparation, including energy savings and CO2 emissions for each of the
subproject. These data were closely monitored and the actual figures were compared with the
target values. FREE prepared QPRs on every project and these reports were submitted to the
Bank every three months, and Environmental Reports were submitted annually. Financial
Monitoring Reports (FMRs) were prepared by FREE regularly.

M&E Utilization. M&E information from QPRs provided feedback to FREE and the Bank on
issues on project implementation and project outcomes, which helped FREE, the government and
the Bank focus on resolving outstanding issues and contributed to successful achievement of the
Global Environment Objective (GEO). The M&E information helped FREE redesign product
offerings, for example by adjusting interest rates and expanding upper limits for loan size, and
was also used to develop success stories for FREE outreach activities, which according to FREE,
were the most useful outreach tools to attract new clients.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

(focusing on issues and their resolution, as applicable)




                                                    8

There were no deviations or waivers from the Bank safeguards and fiduciary policies and
procedures during project implementation. Romanian regulations required projects to have
licenses, permits and environmental clearances, and the Fund Manager verified and monitored
these through the financing contract. FREE prepared annual reports on environmental
supervision.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

(including transition arrangement to post-completion operation of investments financed by
present operation, Operation & Maintenance arrangements, sustaining reforms and institutional
capacity, and next phase/follow-up operation, if applicable)

As a demonstration project for barrier removal, one of the key outcomes expected was increased
financial sector interest in lending for EE projects. By 2007, the FREE's healthy portfolio of EE
projects developed through a commercial approach was highlighted as an important factor by
several commercial banks who had began lending for EE projects. The EBRD returned to the sector
with another credit line (the Energy Efficiency Financing Facility, Euro 95 million, co-financed
with the EU) which is being implemented with the participation of several leading local commercial
banks (CEC Bank, Transylvania Bank, Commercial Bank of Romania, Romanian Bank for
Development and Societe Generale) and the IFC is also planning to enter this market. Substantial
funds from the EU Structural Funds are also anticipated by the market for financial support for EE
projects. Some of these banks have asked FREE to provide guarantee for their lending to EE
projects. FREE is examining this proposal which would require amendment to its legal framework
and operating policies. The Commercial Bank of Romania (BCR) proposed in 2007, and again
renewed its interest recently, to discuss new business initiatives with FREE, including proposals for
acquiring its portfolio and institutional expertise for entering the EE financing market.

Despite this growing interest for lending, commercial banks and project sponsors have continued to
express the strong need for pre-financing TA support, which was provided by FREE and the Fund
Manager as part of pipeline / business development. Commercial banks' insistence on high and
often liquid collateral has discouraged FREE clients to use the funds offered; at the same time,
commercial banks seem reluctant to lend to certain EE markets ­ specifically residential, public
buildings and municipal sectors - where the potential for energy savings and financial needs are
large. The commercial banks' ability to sustain or expand lending to EE projects may also be
affected by the extent and duration of the prevailing financial crisis. Given this large untapped
market for energy efficiency and the GOR policy commitments to reduce energy intensity of the
economy, there is a clear value added for utilizing the existing structure, expertise, and track record
of FREE to facilitate future larger scale investments in energy efficiency in Romania.

Accordingly and encouraged by the project's successful impacts, the Government authorized
FREE to continue its activities through reuse of repaid funds for new projects. The government
has also indicated that FREE would be a window to facilitate access to EU assistance for energy
efficiency. Since FREE already has a functioning institutional and operational setup with
adequate M&E system, it is well positioned to continue its mandate for some more time.
However, FREE can only continue to finance expenditures within the amount of its income from
the project portfolio and the current level of support for new business development activities is
low. FREE's income from its activities is quite modest and the repayments will allow only small
amounts in new lending every year (about US$2.5 to US$3.0 million). Without new funds and
renewed business development activity, FREE's sustainability is uncertain at this time. Also, in
order for FREE to expand its activities and meet the Government's expectations for facilitating
access to EU Structural funds, additional funds should be mobilized to focus more on TA as may



                                                   9

be demanded and also for scaling up financing for projects. Some grant funding from the EU is
deemed likely and could be used for technical assistance to scale up energy efficiency.
Government's timely decision concerning recapitalization of FREE should determine its
sustainability and its scope of activities.

It will be important to make an evaluation three or four years after project closing, on how well
the continuing EE agenda has been served by the FREE, and whether and how FREE accessed
EU structural funds and supported commercial banks for EE financing in a demand driven
manner.

3. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOMES

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

(to current country and global priorities, and Bank assistance strategy)

The project's GEO remain relevant and important to Romania's current development priorities. It
is timely and appropriate to the current needs of the country's energy sector, as Romania, a new
EU member, aims to comply with the EU obligations to fully integrate global environmental
issues into its national policies. As energy efficiency has become a central part of climate change,
the Bank has also recognized energy efficiency as an important area that needs to be scaled up in
Romania.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

(including brief discussion of causal linkages between outputs and outcomes, with details on
outputs in Annex 2)

Satisfactory. The project was successful in achieving its GEO. The project was a catalyst to
undertake important pioneering work, overcome barriers and respond to Romania's enormous
energy efficiency needs. The project enabled FREE to support EE projects on a commercial basis
in several sectors and to provide an important model for the expansion of Romania's EE
financing market.

The project has clearly demonstrated the viability of commercial financing for EE investments,
and one important outcome is that several commercial banks are now interested in lending for EE
projects. Major outcomes and achievements are as follows:

     · FREE signed 20 loan contracts of which 18 proceeded to implementation with a
         commitment of US$11.4 million from the fund, for a total investment of US$34.19
         million. Three commercial banks offered a total of US$18.2 million for four large
         projects ­ about US$14.2 million by BCR for three projects, about US$3.0 million by
         CEC Bank for one project jointly with BCR and about US$1.0 million by Transylvania
         Bank for the fourth project. But during implementation, only one client used about
         US$8.6 million from BCR and the balance funding of US$9.6 million were unused by the
         clients citing reasons of high collateral requirements. Thus FREE's clients contributed
         own resources of about US$14.2 million.

     · By June 2008, 12 projects were completed with an average payback period of 3.5 years,
         and saved about 123,458 cumulative tons of CO2 for the period 2003-2007. Actual
         savings as reported by FREE have exceeded estimated savings presented in sub-project



                                                   10

        appraisal by over 60% through 2007. The GHG reductions resulting from these
        completed investments cumulated over their lifetimes at current levels of energy savings
        is estimated to be 1.1 million tons of CO2e.

   · By end-2008, 4 more projects had been completed, resulting in cumulative CO2 savings
        of 183,237 tons. The GHG reductions resulting from these 16 completed projects
        cumulated over their lifetime is estimated to be 2.18 million tons of CO2e.

   · FREE disbursed over US$9.73 million from the GEF grant, including 100 percent of the
        US$8 million GEF allocation for investment financing. FREE also used a part of the
        repayments in the revolving fund for additional loan commitments. All loans are being
        repaid punctually, without any late payments or defaults.

Project Portfolio

   · More than 60 percent of the total investment size is covered by commercial bank co-
        financing.

   · Twelve projects were private sector, or 83 percent of loan value and 93 percent of overall
        investment facilitated by FREE; the balance was public sector.

   · Technologies include replacing old energy generation equipment (boilers, CHP, hydro,
        geothermal) and modernizing process industry equipment and public lighting (4 projects).

   · The industrial sector accounted for more than 86 percent of total investment.

   · After five years of operation, FREE has leveraged US$34.19 million, and operating at
        the same rate, FREE could reach US$55 million after eight years of operation.

   · Estimated energy savings by end-2007 were 36,533 toe (tons of oil equivalent) from the
       completed projects.

   · After five years of operation FREE has officially recorded 100 requests for financing;
       financing requests of about US$51 million for investments amounting to US$144.75
       million.

Commercial Co-financing

   FREE collaborated with several banks on project co-financing and the experience so far is
   encouraging. Banks were reassured about the commercial viability of lending for EE given
   the example of FREE's successful Romanian EE loan portfolio.

   · Several local banks (notably BCR, Alpha Bank, CEC Bank) have expressed interest in
       establishing and/or strengthening future relationships with FREE as a strategic entry
       point into the EE lending market. While some TA support would be useful in this private
       sector integration, it is also necessary for banks to examine and adopt BCR's approach.
       Also, Alpha Bank has expressed interest in collaborating with the FREE to target
       marketing efforts to SMEs for EE loans. Most banks however worked directly with
       project sponsors who are their clients, but high collateral requirement continues to be a
       barrier for their success.

   · While other commercial banks in Romania are also interested in the EE lending market,
       they are not yet ready to fully enter on their own given the work required to design new
       EE products, implement new procedures and market the new loans to their targeted



                                                 11

         customer classes. The average size of EE loans (which is typically less than $1 million)
         makes this a less attractive option to some banks compared with alternative options.


3.3 Efficiency

(Net Present Value/Economic Rate of Return, cost effectiveness, e.g., unit rate norms, least cost,
and comparisons; and Financial Rate of Return)

The project achieved its goals efficiently based on outcome per GEF dollar invested. Loan
repayments from implemented EE FREE loans are being returned to the fund, and are available
for a new round of clean energy investments. The project had no defaults, so the final cost of the
project, referred to as the final contingent grant amount, is only the time value of money for the
invested GEF funds less the net returns from fees and spreads on recovered loans. The final net
asset value of FREE is US$8.71 million, slightly higher than its initial capitalization from the
GEF grant on a nominal basis, meaning that the final GEF contingent grant amount is negative
US$0.71 million, and the net project cost to GEF including the TA component (US$1.71 million
disbursed) is US$1.0 million. This investment of GEF funds is estimated to produce CO2
reductions of an estimated 1.1 million tons over the lifetime of the 12 completed projects at close
of project in June 2008. The final mitigation cost of GEF $ per total ton of CO2 avoided is
$0.91/ton (i.e. $1.0 million/1.1 million tons), which compares quite favorably to similar GEF EE
projects. Taking the 16 completed projects by end-2008, the final mitigation cost of GEF $ per
ton of CO2 avoided would be $0.45/ton (i.e. $1.0 million/2.18 million tons). Therefore, for
additional projects completed, the final mitigation cost effectiveness improves further, due to the
multiplier effect of the reuse of funds from the revolving fund.

Sub-project internal rates of return (IRRs) were quite attractive to the borrowing enterprises,
ranging from 11-69 percent, with several projects demonstrating financial rates of return in excess
of 100 percent. Almost all projects experienced higher financial returns than estimated at
appraisal due to better than expected energy savings performance combined with higher than
projected energy costs.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

(combining relevance, achievement of GEOs, and efficiency)

Based on the above discussion, the overall outcome is rated as Satisfactory.


3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(if any, where not previously covered or to amplify discussion above)

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

N/A

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
(particularly with reference to impacts on longer-term capacity and institutional development)

The key impacts were the following:



                                                  12

     · The project was instrumental in demonstrating a public-private-partnership (PPP)
         mechanism for commercial financing of energy efficiency in Romania. FREE
         successfully fostered cooperation and coordination among EE stakeholders, and as a
         market oriented entity, attracted highly skilled professionals and other specialists.

     · The project also demonstrated the feasibility of managing public funds on a commercial
         basis through a Board comprising public and private sector representatives. The project
         fostered public and private sector collaboration, including with commercial banks.

     · The project raised awareness and interest of local banks for EE financing.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

None

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

(optional for Core ICR, required for ILI, details in annexes)

N/A

4. ASSESSMENT OF RISK TO DEVELOPMENT OUTCOME

Ratings: Moderate

Of the 18 sub-projects financed by the Fund before close of project, 16 have already been
completed and the remaining 2 are expected to be commissioned by mid-2009. All commissioned
projects are delivering energy savings and cost reductions to host enterprises, in most cases
higher than expected. Sub-project financial rates of return are generally high, based on actual cost
and savings data. The enterprises have an adequate incentive to ensure appropriate operations and
maintenance of these sub-projects. The project's experience and lessons would help to deal with
the large and untapped potential for EE and Romania's policy commitments (e.g. EU's 20-20
targets). As noted before (sec 2.5), mobilizing new capital would be an important challenge for
FREE and hence for Government.


5. ASSESSMENT OF BANK AND BORROWER PERFORMANCE

(relating to design, implementation and outcome issues)

5.1 Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
(i.e., performance through lending phase)
Rating: Satisfactory.

Bank performance in the identification, preparation, and appraisal of the project was satisfactory.
During preparation and appraisal, the Bank took into account the adequacy of project design and
all technical, financial, economic and institutional aspects, including procurement and financial
management. Major risk factors and lessons learned from Energy Efficiency Fund experience
worldwide were considered and incorporated in project design. In particular, experience from
projects and efforts in Romania were carefully examined for lessons and guidance; these included
the EBRD credit line that had closed without success, the Romanian-American Enterprise Fund



                                                 13

which attempted unsuccessfully to launch a EE guarantee mechanism, the Romanian Energy
Conservation Agency which had inadequate resources and was unable to attract EE technical and
financial specialists, the UNDP GEF TA project which was unable to identify financing for its
clients.

Project preparation was carried out with an adequate number of specialists who provided the
technical skill mix necessary to prepare a good project design. This was especially important
given the innovative nature of the project, risks of the operation and the institutional building
challenges. In consultation with experts in the Bank, the IFC, the GEF and private sector, the
project team ensured quality input to the design of the project. While the project experienced
some difficulties in the initial stages, the project design was assessed to be quite sound and
appropriate at MTR and at close of project, as borne out by the project results.

The Bank and GEF provided adequate resources in terms of staff weeks and dollar amount to
ensure quality preparation and appraisal work. The project was consistent with the CAS and
government priorities in the sector at the time. The Bank had a consistently good working
relationship with the Borrower during preparation and appraisal.

(b) Quality of Supervision
(including of fiduciary and safeguards policies)
Rating: Satisfactory.

The Bank's performance during the implementation of the project was satisfactory. Sufficient
budget and staff resources were allocated, and the project was adequately and intensively
supervised, and closely monitored, especially with the help of locally based staff. The team
provided adequate attention and support to officials in FREE and the Board of Directors in the
initial years as they were adjusting to their new tasks and challenges. The team carried out five
field supervision missions over 18 months during 2003-04 when continual monitoring and
adjustments to business plan and fund manager role were tackled. The Bank's timely MTR in
January-February 2006 assessed progress on project components, the implementation issues
being faced and the actions to be taken to ensure the successful completion of the project. The
Bank was instrumental in encouraging the FREE and the Board to adopt streamlined procedures
and strengthen the project with local skills.

The task team prepared Aides-Memoire regularly and discussed with the government, the FREE
executive and its Board the implementation issues and recommended prompt corrective actions.
The Implementation Status Reports (ISRs) realistically rated the performance of the project both
in terms of achievement of development objectives and project implementation, as also judged by
the responsiveness and actions of the client officials to steer the project toward improving
performance. The task team also monitored safeguard and fiduciary compliances.

One important aspect of the Bank's performance and contribution was the continuity of the Task
Team, including the TTL and other key sector specialists, from project inception through completion.
This continuity engendered consistency, depth and follow-up in the dialogue with the government and
provided expertise to help the government analyze issues and implement actions as they emerged
during supervision.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Satisfactory.




                                                   14

The Bank was instrumental in promoting this new concept to the Romanian authorities and
consistently assured them of the need to address barriers to energy efficiency, even if previous
attempts had failed or yielded poor results. The Bank was well aware of the risks of an
experimental project and positioned itself well with support from GEF to undertake this
demonstration project. The Bank ensured timely actions to address the project's needs, especially
during implementation difficulties, supported FREE and the government to achieve successful
results. Based on the Bank's consistent performance during the lending and supervision phases as
discussed above, overall Bank performance is rated as Satisfactory.

5.2 Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance
Rating: Satisfactory.

The Government of Romania initially demonstrated commitment to the project by acknowledging
that it must improve energy efficiency to reduce the energy intensity of the economy, protect the
environment and contribute to sustainable development. In October 1999, the Cabinet of
Ministers and the Prime Minister asked the Bank to support preparation of a GEF-funded EE
project. The GEF Focal Point in the Ministry of Environment requested a PDF-B grant and
execution of the grant by the Bank. This high level endorsement led to the creation of a Working
Group with participants from the key public agencies involved and from the private sector. Until
the establishment of FREE, the Working Group met regularly to support national consensus
building, review project preparation progress, provide comments and guidance on specific terms
of reference for consultants, review their recommendations, and ensure finalization of outputs
acceptable to the Working Group and the Bank.

The government maintained consistent commitment throughout project implementation. For
example, the government that came to office in January 2001 collaborated with the project
preparation team to structure FREE and facilitated its establishment through an Emergency
Ordinance, approved by the cabinet in October 2001. Likewise, at the MTR, the government
renewed its commitment and opted to continue the project during implementation, rather than
prematurely canceling because of weak initial performance.

The government was keen to operate the project as a private/commercial operation, and decided
to use the fund as a pilot to test out the commercial operation. Government officials worked
closely with the Bank's project team on a continual basis throughout implementation.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Satisfactory.

FREE was very committed throughout the project to expand commercial energy efficiency
financing despite a slow start and several set-backs. As a public-private organization and a
lending institution, FREE constantly engaged potential beneficiaries and other stakeholders,
notably the banking sector, energy efficiency specialists and private and public associations. The
members of the BOA met regularly and contributed to the progress of the project. The majority
private sector Board included two representatives from the public sector - the Ministry of
Economy, represented by ARCE and the Ministry of Environment as focal point for GEF ­ and
five members representing the Romanian Association of Bankers, Romanian Business
Association, Association of Producers of Electrical Appliances, and well known financial and
environmental experts. The proceedings of the BOA and rotation of chair were smooth.




                                                 15

The project financial management arrangements continued to be satisfactory and control
procedures were in place. The accounting software used by the FREE had adequate security
levels and was used to prepare the quarterly FMRs of the project. The FMRs presented the
information required in sufficient detail. The FREE also prepared monthly reports required by its
BOA and some periodic reports requested by the Ministry of Economy and Finance (MEF). The
FREE had adequate internal controls for the project, including regular reconciliation of bank
accounts, adequate segregation of duties and monthly reconciliation of the Bank's disbursement
summaries with project accounting records.

The FREE used a comprehensive set of accounting policies and internal control procedures in
accordance with the Romanian legislation and the project financial management manual.
There were several layers of control related to the approval of each contract and then of each
invoice and payments. The contracts were reviewed internally by the various FREE experts, from
the technical, economic and procurement angles. Once the contracts were signed for an approved
activity, the FREE financial manager started monitoring the payment schedule, while the other
experts monitored the technical implementation. The project continued to have adequate fund
flow and disbursement arrangements. The FREE Executive Director prepared a revised project
plan yearly, in consultation with the financial manager and based also on the information
provided by the FM through the Business Plan. The plan was updated on a regular basis
following the developments in project implementation and in consultation with the Bank.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Satisfactory.

The main reasons for the project's success are credited to the continual support of the
Government and the persevering commitment of the FREE. The difficulties from changes to
members of the Board and some turnover in the staff of FREE were overcome with dedication
and efforts, as was seen in many Board meetings. The successful efforts are also borne out by the
interest of commercial banks to collaborate and expand their business relationship with FREE.
Accordingly, the overall performance of the Borrower and implementing agency is rated as
satisfactory.

6. LESSONS LEARNED

(both project-specific and of wide general application)

    · Based on the experience gained from this project as well as from the UNDP GEF project
         and the EBRD project, the project level transaction costs are still high and clients require
         considerable pre-investment TA support (feasibility studies, structuring finance and
         finding attractive financing, etc.) before large scale EE implementation is possible. Local
         knowledge and skills contribute to success more cost effectively.
    · A strong and reliable pipeline of initial projects is essential to ensure early success of this
         type of project.
    · The original Fund Manager contract structure should have been weighted more towards
         performance instead of retainer part; adding flexibility in the contract structure to adjust
         the fixed and performance fee would be desirable and avoids costly repeat procurement.
         Knowledge of local industry and market is very important to ensure success.
    · For small demonstration projects such as this one, the institutional design of FREE was
         overly complex, but at the same time, the fiduciary controls and checks and balances are
         attractive features for scaling up with both public and private capital.



                                                  16

7. COMMENTS ON ISSUES RAISED BY BORROWER/IMPLEMENTING AGENCIES/PARTNERS

(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

The government's and FREE's comments are included in Annex 7.

(b) Cofinanciers

Specific cofinanciers were not identified at appraisal, but project sponsors were expected to
mobilize financing to cover the part of their investment not financed by FREE. In the case of
small size projects, FREE's clients used their own resources and in relatively larger size projects,
the clients elected to work with their banks. The banks also chose to work directly with project
sponsors ­ their clients ­ instead of with FREE, reportedly because of differences in business
practices and collateral requirements. Overall, clients and commercial banks financed 66.6% of
the US$34.2 million total investments for 18 projects - a two-to-one leveraging of FREE's funds.

BCR turned out to be a significant financier working directly with FREE's clients. BCR has also
shown interest to expand its EE lending and has proposed to develop business arrangements with
FREE. BCR's comments are included in Annex 8.

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)
NA




                                                 17

                         ANNEX 1. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING


(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)


                                  Appraisal Estimate  Actual/Latest
          Components                                                      Percentage of
                                   (USD millions)    Estimate (USD
                                                         millions)         Appraisal

INVESTMENT FINANCING                     32.00              34.20             107
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE:
CAPACITY BUILDING
FUND MANAGEMENT                            2.00               1.714            86

FREE ADMINISTRATION
 Fund Manager                              0.9                0.855            95
 FREE                                      0.6                0.562            94
 Capacity Building                         0.5                0.343            69


            Total Baseline Cost        34.00                 35.914           106
Physical Contingencies                     0.00
Price Contingencies                        0.00
             Total Project Costs
Project Preparation Facility (PPF)         0.32               0.32            100
Front-end fee IBRD                         0.00
      Total Financing Required           34.32               36.234           106



(b) Financing

                                                    Appraisal Actual/Latest

          Source of Funds              Type of      Estimate      Estimate  Percentage of
                                     Cofinancing     (USD          (USD       Appraisal
                                                    millions)     millions)
Borrower / FREE a/                                    0.0          3.431
Global Environment Facility (GEF)                    10.32        10.034         97
Borrowing Country's Fin.
Intermediary/ies                                     13.00         8.570         66

Sub-borrower(s)                                      11.00        14.199         129
a/: Reuse of GEF funds by FREE




                                             18

                              ANNEX 2. OUTPUTS BY COMPONENT

Component 1: Investment Financing

FREE signed 18 loan contracts for US$11.4 million (US$8 million from original GEF grant and
$3.4 million from repaid funds) for a total investment (including co-financing) of US$34.2
million in energy efficiency projects by close of Project. The co-financing figures include end-
user equity contribution of US$14.2 million and co-financing of one large project by BCR for
US$8.6 million.

The 18 projects have an average payback period of 3.6 years. The 12 completed projects have
avoided over 123,458 cumulative tons of CO2 for the period 2003-2007 and about 36,533 toe in
energy savings. Actual (measured) savings as reported by FREE have exceeded estimated savings
presented in sub-project appraisal by over 60% through June 2008. The cumulative GHG
reduction resulting from implementation of these investments over their lifetimes at current levels
of energy savings is estimated to be about 1.1 million tons of CO2. By end-2008, four more
projects were completed and the resulting cumulative GHG reduction is estimated to be 2.18
million tons.

As of June 30, 2008, FREE disbursed US$9.71 million, including 100 percent of the US$8.0
million GEF allocation for investment financing. All loans are being repaid in a timely fashion,
without any late payments or defaults.

While the average loan value is US$ 608,000, two thirds of the projects are below this value.
Twelve of the 18 projects were implemented in the private sector, encompassing 83 percent of
loan value and 93 percent of overall investment facilitated by FREE; the remainder was in the
public sector. Technologies include a wide range: replacement of old energy generation
equipment (boilers, CHP, hydro, geothermal), modernization of technological equipment in
process industries, public lighting (4 projects).

                    Figure: FREE Pipeline and Loan Contracts, 2003-2008

  50

  45

  40

  35

  30                                                                           Committed Contract
                                                                               Application Form 2
  25
                                                                               Application Form 1
  20                                                                           Agreement for lending

  15

  10

   5

   0
         2003        2004        2005        2006       2007     2008 (end
                                                                    June)




                                                 19

Component 2: Technical Assistance

Capacity Building: The first category of TA was originally designed for tasks directed mostly
towards potential clients and partners of FREE to enable the development of successful
investment projects and strengthen the necessary partners of the fund in providing essential
services and generate and disseminate information to potential financiers and borrowers about the
benefits to be achieved with energy efficiency investments.

Project development: Three projects were financed with project development support from the
UNDP GEF project.

Workshops/Seminars: Training and education for FREE partners and clients, outreach activities
and materials, development of materials for success stories:

(i) Awareness raising activities (workshops, seminars and others). Over the period 2003 - 2008,
the Fund Manager and FREE staff participated in 108 national and international events. For the
events organized on the premises of FREE in the period of 2005 - 2006 in Bucharest and in
other parts of Romania, about 244 companies attended. The events focused on the private
sector and industry, but a small number of public utility companies also attended.

(ii) Promotion materials & advertisements. Between 2005 - 2008, the Fund Manager and FREE
staff participated in 75 press events which concentrated heavily on press articles in the national
and local press in the 2005/06 period.

FREE has developed a website in Romanian and English languages (www.free.org.ro). It was
initially launched in May 2003 and reengineered in June 2005. A considerable amount of
information has been posted on the website but the most valuable information was provided by
the 18 energy efficiency case studies published for every financing contract concluded. Since
May 2006, a website reconfiguration of lending information provides quicker assistance to
potential clients.

(iii) Other means of information produced by FREE include brochures and flyers with FREE's
lending conditions that were transmitted or handed over to potential clients and event attendants.

Technical capacity building and development of alternative deal structures for energy efficiency
investment for both the Fund Manager and selected partners such as ESCOs and Business
Advisory Centers: The only funds spent in this category were used for accounting training of
FREE staff which enabled them to switch to IAS.




                                                20

          ANNEX 3. ECONOMIC, FINANCIAL AND INCREMENTAL COST ANALYSIS

Financial Analysis: At appraisal, the financial IRRs for the 18 sub-projects which received
loans from FREE were estimated to be in the range of 15% to 87%. At project completion,
analysis was undertaken for 123 of the completed projects for which updated data was available.
More than half of the analyzed projects had financial IRRs which were higher than those
estimated at appraisal, some very substantially. Major reasons for this improvement in
performance included better than expected results in energy savings and higher than projected
energy input costs (especially oil and gas). The project IRRs did experience some negative
impacts from currency fluctuations, as most loans were made in dollars but energy input costs of
the end users are obviously paid in ROL. The comparison of IIRs for the projects in FREE's
portfolio are as follows:

                                                                  IRR at          IRR at
        Project                    Client                       Appraisal      Completion
           1       UNIO I                                           38               69
           2       TRANSGEX                                         40               36
           3       CET IASI                                         16               15
           4       ULEROM VASLUI                                    23              103
           5       SOMES DEJ                                        60              109
           6       CL ROVINARI                                      17               31
           7       CL DOROHOI                                       29               20
           8       CL BRAN                                          32               33
           9       UNIO II                                          87              187
           10      ARC DOROHOI                                      60               53
           11      CL PECICA                                        30               11
           12      RAFINARIA STEAUA ROMANA                          49              324
                   RAFINARIA STEAUA ROMANA                          53              NA
           13      COUNTY HOSPITAL ORADEA                           17               17
           14      OMINPEX HARTIA BUSTENI                           22               22
           15      ENEAS BUCURESTI                                  44               44
           16      CHIMCOMPLEX BORZESTI                             33               33
           17      A6 IMPEX SA DEJ                                  19               19
                   3FAN CONSTRUCT SRL
           18      SANTIMBRU                                        15               15
        Note: Projects 14 and 18 ongoing; all others completed

Key Assumptions
Discount rate of 12%                                  Energy cost escalation of 5% per year
Current level of achieved energy savings will         Potential increased O&M costs/additional
continue for project economic lifetime                investment not included in IRR calculations
Future exchange rate ROL/$ is constant                Initial project costs and savings of appraisal
                                                      documents utilized where actual updates are
                                                      not available




3Financial IRRs are based upon appraisal values for projects 13-18 as actual energy savings data is
currently unavailable.


                                                   21

For the entire project portfolio of FREE, the financial IRR is estimated at 22%. This includes, as
in the table above 12 projects with actual energy savings data and the remaining six projects with
IRRs as estimated in the feasibility studies. For the 12 projects already implemented the portfolio
IRR reaches 45%.

Incremental cost analysis

The project achieved its goals efficiently based on outcome per GEF dollar invested. Loan
repayments from implemented EE FREE loans are being returned to the fund, and are available
for a new round of clean energy investments. The project had no defaults, so the final cost of the
project, referred to as the final contingent grant amount, is only the time value of money for the
invested GEF funds less the net returns from fees and spreads on recovered loans. The final net
asset value of FREE is US$8.71 million, slightly higher than its initial capitalization from the
GEF grant on a nominal basis, meaning that the final GEF contingent grant amount is negative
US$0.71 million, and the net project cost to GEF including the TA component (US$1.71 million
disbursed) is US$1.0 million. This investment of GEF funds is estimated to produce CO2
reductions of an estimated 1.1 million tons over the lifetime of the 12 completed projects at close
of project in June 2008. The final mitigation cost of GEF $ per total ton of CO2 avoided is
$0.91/ton (i.e. $1.0 million/1.1 million tons), which compares quite favorably to similar GEF EE
projects. Taking the 16 completed projects by end-2008, the final mitigation cost of GEF $ per
ton of CO2 avoided would be $0.45/ton (i.e. $1.0 million/2.18 million tons). Therefore, for
additional projects completed, the final mitigation cost effectiveness improves further, due to the
multiplier effect of the reuse of funds from the revolving fund.

Sub-project internal rates of return (IRRs) were quite attractive to the borrowing enterprises,
ranging from 11-69 percent, with several projects demonstrating financial rates of return in excess
of 100 percent. Almost all projects experienced higher financial returns than estimated at
appraisal due to better than expected energy savings performance combined with higher than
projected energy costs.




                                                  22

 ANNEX 4. BANK LENDING AND IMPLEMENTATION SUPPORT/SUPERVISION PROCESSES



(a) Task Team members


           Names                        Title                Unit  Responsibility/
                                                                     Specialty
Lending
Varadarajan Atur                 Task Team Leader            AFTEG
Robert Taylor                  Lead Energy Specialist       EASEG  Thematic Leader
Anke Meyer                           Consultant             ECSSD Energy Efficiency
Doina Visa                      Sr. Operations Officer      ECSSD    Operations
Bernard Baratz            Principal Environmental Specialist ECSSD  Environment
Irina Kichigina                     Legal Counsel           LEGEC
Nightingale Rubuka-Ngaiza           Legal Counsel
Bogdan Constantinescu     Financial Management Specialist    ECSPS
Leonod Vanian             Procurement Accredited Specialist ECSPS Fund Management
Nicholay Chistyakov           Sr. Disbursement Officer       LOA
Jeremy Levin                Alternative Energy Specialist    ASTE     Finance
Rozena Serrano                   Program Assistant           ECSIE


Supervision/ICR
Varadarajan Atur                 Task Team Leader           AFTEG
Carmen Elena Arhip               Operations Officer          ECSIE   Operations
Ahmet Gokce                 Senior Procurement Specialist    ECSPS
Peter Johansen                     Sr Energy Spec.          ECSSD   MTR Guide
Violeta Kogalniceanu                 Consultant              ECSIE  Institutional
Jeremy Levin                     Sr Technical Spec.          SASDI    Finance
Peggy Janice Masterson           Operations Officer         ECSSD    Operations
Anke S. Meyer                        Consultant             ECSSD Energy Efficiency
Ireneusz M. Smolewski       Senior Procurement Specialist    ECSPS
Leonid Vanian                   Sr Procurement Spec.         ECSPS
Doina Visa                    Senior Operations Officer     ECSSD    Operations
Sati Achath                          Consultant             ECSSD
Rozena Serrano                   Program Assistant          ECSSD




                                         23

(b) Staff Time and Cost

                                     Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
      Stage of Project Cycle
                                    No. of staff weeks   USD Thousands (including
                                                         travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY00                                                               81.30
  FY01                                                               87.44
  FY02                                                               82.13
  FY03                                                               18.04
  FY04                                                                0.00
  FY05                                                                0.00
  FY06                                                                0.00
  FY07                                                                0.00
  FY08                                                                0.00
                            Total:                                  268.91
Supervision/ICR
  FY00                                                                0.02
  FY01                                                                0.00
  FY02                                                                0.00
  FY03                                                               47.49
  FY04                                                               59.06
  FY05                                                               46.29
  FY06                                                               76.02
  FY07                                                               59.17
  FY08                                                               87.93
  FY09                                                               51.76
                            Total:                                  427.74




                                        24

            ANNEX 5. BENEFICIARY SURVEY RESULTS

(if any)

NA




                             25

          ANNEX 6. STAKEHOLDER WORKSHOP REPORT AND RESULTS

(if any)

NA




                                26

    ANNEX 7. SUMMARY OF BORROWER'S ICR AND/OR COMMENTS ON DRAFT ICR

                  Provided by Ministry of Finance (via EM) for the Government


Relevance of the Project

The GEF EE project's have supported the development objectives of promoting economic growth
through enterprise sector reform, particularly better utilisation of energy resources, and protecting
and sustainability developing environmental resources. The projects have addressed the objective
by financing investments that have reduced energy consumption, and thereby contribute to
reduction in air pollution and green house gas emission. The environmental goals addressed by
the project are closely linked to the EU accession standards, which are also set as an important
development benchmark in the IBRD CAS.

As expressed by the energy efficiency law, the national energy efficiency policy is based on the
following principles: reduce barriers to promote energy efficiency, promote financing
mechanisms, educate energy consumers in more efficient use of energy, promote cooperation
between producers, distributors and users of energy, and promote private sector energy service
companies.

By endorsing energy efficiency, Government of Romania seeks to decrease the energy intensity
of the Romanian economy, introduce new technologies and new energy sources and reduce the
environmental impact of energy production, transport, distribution and consumption.

The GEF EE project's remains relevant and important to Romania's current development
priorities. Romania has to comply with the EU policies in the energy sector as a member of EU.
FREE is included in the EE strategy of Romania aiming to play an important role in helping
Romanian institutions to reduce the energy consumption.

The project has demonstrated the viability of commercial financing for EE investments,
encouraging the banks to get involved in this type of business. BCR Erste has been the first bank
which co-finances projects with FREE, but several commercial banks are now interested in
lending for EE projects and use the EBRD credit line (BCR Erste, CEC Bank, Transilavania Bank,
and BRD Societe Generale).

Performance of FREE

FREE has concluded 18 contracts for US$11.4 million. Despite of the slow start at the project
closing in June 2008, FREE had disbursed 100 percent of the US$ 8 million GEF allocation for
investment financing and started to revolve GEF funds. There are not late payments or defaults
for any projects. The FREE clients are both industrial companies and municipalities.

FREE is currently self sustaining, but the funds to be lend should be increased in order to become
a viable partner for the big banks.

FREE has demonstrated that the PPP projects could be successfully implemented in Romania,
and both the public and private interests achieved (win-win project).




                                                27

Performance of Romanian Government

Ministry of Economy and Ministry of Environment have had permanent representatives in the
FREE Board of Administration. Ministry of Economy through ARCE has constantly supported
FREE establishment and its operation.

Ministry of Finance has been timely informed on the project issues, and actively contributed
together with the World Bank team to take the necessary steps to efficiency use the GEF funds.


Performance of the World Bank

The collaboration with the World Bank team was good. Permanent consultations took place in the
early stages for project design and the project start-up till the moment when FREE showed that
they found the right approach for development. The World Bank team timely supervised the
project, and clear and professional Aide-Memoires were prepared.

Conclusions

Overall the project has been successful and its experience and lessons learned would help
Romanian Government to meet its obligation to the EU 2020 targets.

It would have been useful if more funds would have been allocated for a strong public campaign
to increase the awareness of public on the efficient use of the energy and on the benefits brought
by the projects financed by FREE.


                      Provided by Romania Energy Efficiency Fund (via EM)

In relation with what was initially considered for the Fund design, the following comments about
the Fund past and further operation are to be presented.

The Bank Project Team has rigorously assisted the Fund Board of Administration and Executive
during the implementation of GEF/IBRD Project. Compared with the initially expected Project
outcomes, the present results are motivating everyone to accept that the Board of Administration,
the Bank Project Team and the Fund Executive have had a successful common achievement.

The expected Project outcomes indicators were the volume increase of commercially financed
investment in energy efficiency, the reduction in energy consumption and energy bills from
commercially financed investments, the increase of financial sector institutions engaged in energy
efficiency financing and their lending activity and a strong level of energy efficiency investments
by end users, financed from external sources.

Conceived to support the development and implementation of commercially viable energy
efficiency investments, the Fund still remains the unique specialized source of finance in the field.
The Fund has succeeded to demonstrate that energy efficiency projects can be financed on a
strictly commercial basis.

The Romanian Energy Efficiency Fund is currently a non - profit revolving financial institution,
and active in the field of commercial financing from more than 5 years. The Fund' portfolio
presently includes over 100 clients like private companies, local municipalities and public
institutions. The success rate in committing contracts is currently 20%.




                                                 28

The Fund has reached its goal in reducing greenhouse gas emissions without public subsidy,
through the development of a self-sustaining, market-based mechanism. The Fund made profit by
providing investment financing to clients on commercial terms and the Fund self financing ratio
presently stands at 152% and the Fund is revolving.

The private sector and industrial companies were initially considered targets for the Fund
financing. The Fund project portfolio is presently dominated by large projects in the private
sector. More than 91% from the total investment size of the Fund project portfolio is in private
sector. More than 86% from the total investment size is in the industry.

The Fund was expected to use the competitive banking sector as a partner rather than a rival.
More than half from the total investment size is presently covered by commercial co-financing
from banks.

Presently, the Fund seems to be a reference and an attractive potential partner for the Romanian
industrial sector but for municipal sector, too. In this context the Romanian Government
continues to examine opportunities to find support for further business development of the Fund.

The major objective of further Fund operation consists in the volume increase of commercial
financing provided as financial intermediary and to probably cover a share of about 3% from the
relevant market.

The Fund's strategic goal is to "switch" from providing energy efficiency financing to
providing and facilitating energy efficiency financing. The Fund should consolidate its key role
of a market-oriented financial mechanism and continue to operate using the concept of loan
repayments from the energy savings based financial benefits. As long as this concept will
continue to be client attractive, the need for a significant increase in the amount of investment
directed towards energy efficiency measures is unquestionable.




                                                  29

   ANNEX 8. COMMENTS OF COFINANCIERS AND OTHER PARTNERS/STAKEHOLDERS

Specific cofinanciers were not identified at appraisal, but project sponsors were expected to
mobilize financing to cover the part of their investment not financed by FREE. In the case of
small size projects, FREE's clients used their own sources and in relatively larger size projects,
the clients elected to work with their banks. The banks also chose to work directly with project
sponsors ­ their clients ­ instead of with FREE, reportedly because of differences in business
practices and collateral requirements. Overall, clients and commercial banks financed 66.6% of
the US$34.2 million total investments for 18 projects - a two-to-one leveraging of FREE's funds.

Commercial banks' interest was seen by end-2006, when FREE had successfully lent to nearly 12
projects of relatively small size, which were performing well. Four large projects attracted
funding interest from three commercial banks totaling about US$18.2 million. BCR offered
US$14.2 million to three projects (Omimpex, Chimcomplex and A6Impex); CEC Bank offered
US$3.0 million to Chimcomplex and Transylvania Bank offered US$1 million to 3Fan Construct.
However, during implementation of the projects, only A6Impex utilized US$8.6 million offered
by BCR, while the clients of other three projects elected to use own funds. The main reason cited
by the clients for not utilizing commercial bank funds was the high and liquid collateral
demanded by banks to use their funds, whereas FREE accepted equipment purchased by clients
under the project as sufficient collateral. Thus BCR turned out to be a significant financier
working directly with FREE's clients. BCR has also shown interest to expand its EE lending and
has proposed to develop business arrangements with FREE.

BCR's comments are as below (Florin Pogonaru for BCR):

         - The global end result of FREE's activity is a favorable one - considering the number of
         successful deals, the excellent default rate of financed transactions, the sustainability ratio,
         its co-financing capability and overall achieved reduction in energy consumption and
         GHG emissions;
         -The configuration of FREE was conceived initially in a less satisfactory fashion mainly
         as regards the lenient description of the Fund Manager's role which allowed its less
         performing work(i.e. remuneration not related decisively on deal number, or other
         benchmarks linked to performance) ; only after correction of this situation led to a further
         favorable trajectory of FREE's performance.
         - Keeping FREE strictly as a public financing facility is detrimental in respect to its
         future capability to properly fund EE projects in Romania primarily due to its limited
         financing capacity.

FREE also reported that other banks such as Alpha Bank, CEC Bank, Reifaissen Bank, etc., have
generally expressed desire to collaborate with FREE, but have preferred to work directly with
FREE's clients as noted above. Alpha Bank had once proposed to promote co-branding of their
EE lending working with FREE, but subsequently indicated that FREE's capital base as too small
for that strategy. FREE also reports that there is general interest among banks to have FREE
guarantee banks' lending to EE projects for a fee, which will be a new product for FREE and
requires modifications to its legal framework. FREE also conveyed that commercial banks'
ability to expand EE lending may be significantly affected by the current global financial crisis,
and also by the expectation of many project sponsors that grant funding would be available for
EE projects from EU Structural Funds.




                                                  30

              ANNEX 9. LIST OF SUPPORTING DOCUMENTS


1) Project Appraisal Document, Romania Energy Efficiency Project, August 27, 2002.

2) ISRs

3) Quarterly Progress Reports, FREE.

4) The Romanian Energy Efficiency Fund - Mid-term Evaluation. Consultant
   Report to FREE by Ian Smith and Sorin Patrascoiu. October 2005.

5) Government of Romania. National Strategy for Energy Efficiency 2003.

6) Government of Romania. First National Action Plan for Energy Efficiency
   2007 ­ 2010




                                    31

                   ANNEX 10. ADDITIONAL INFORMATION FOR GEF PURPOSES

    Financial Planning: GEF Grant and Co-financing*

   Co financing        GEF Grant          Beneficiaries         Co-financiers           Total

  (Type/Source)         (mill US$)         (mill US$)             (mill US$)          (mill US$)
                   Planned     Actual Planned      Actual   Planned      Actual  Planned     Actual
- Grants               2        1.714                                                2        1.714
- Loans                                                         13          8.6     13          8.6
- Credits
- Equity                                 11          14.2                           11         14.2
  investments
- In-kind support
- Other =              8          8                                                  8          8
  contingent grant
Totals                10        9.714    11          14.2       13          8.6     34       32.514

    * Bank and Government contributions were zero, planned as well as actual




                                                32

