Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 15089-CH
STAPF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
URBAN ENVIRONMENTAL SANITATION PROJECT
MARCH 4, 1996
Infrastructure and Urban Development Division
West Central Africa Department
Africa Regional Office



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of December 14, 1995)
Currency Unit          -               Cedi
US$1.00                -               Cedis 1,425.00
Cedis I million        -               US$ 701.75
SDR 1.0                -               US$1.485
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AfDB           African Development Bank
CAS            Country Assistance Strategy
CIDA           Canadian International Development Agency
DACF           District Assemblies Common Fund
DUR            Department of Urban Roads
EPA            Environmental Protection Agency
ERR            Economic Rate of Return
GAMA           Greater Accra Metropolitan Area
GDP            Gross Domestic Product
GLSS           Ghana Living Standards Survey
GOG            Government of Ghana
GTZ            Gesellschaft fUr Technische Zusammenarbeit (Germany)
GWSC           Ghana Water and Sewerage Corporation
IDA            International Development Association
KfW            Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau (Germany)
LGDP           Local Government Development Project (GOG/IDA)
MA             Metropolitan or Municipal Assembly
MF             Ministry of Finance
MLGRD          Ministry of Local Government and Rural Development
MWH            Ministry of Works and Housing
MRH            Ministry of Roads and Highways
NEAP           National Environmental Action Plan
NGO            Non-governmental organization
ODA            Overseas Development Administration (U.K.)
O&M            Operation and maintenance
PTA            Parent-Teacher Association
SSP            Strategic Sanitation Plan
TOR            Terms of Reference
TSC            Technical Services Centre (MWH)
UESP           Urban Environmental Sanitation Project
UNCHS          United Nations Centre for Human Settlements
UNDP           United Nations Development Programme
UST            University of Science and Technology (Kumasi)
WMD            Waste Management Department
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



REPUBLIC OF GHANA
URBAN ENVIRONMENTAL SANITATION PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Paize No.
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY ..............................                                                          ..............................i
1. SECTORAL CONTEXT ...........................................................1I
A. Urban Development ...........................................................1I
B. Sector Strategies ............................................................9
2. THE PROJECT ............................................................11
A. Objectives ...........................................................                                                                11
B. Description ...........................................................                                                               11
C.  Project Cost and  Financing  Plan ...........................................................                                       21
3.   PROJECT   IMPLEM ENTATION  ...........................................................                                                          25
A. Institutional Arrangements ...........................................................                                               25
B. Operational Plans and Manuals ...........................................................                                            27
C.  Reporting, Monitoring, and  Review  ...........................................................                                       27
D. Procurement ...........................................................                                                              28
E. Disbursement ...........................................................                                                             31
F. Accounting and Auditing ...........................................................                                                  32
4. JUSTIFICATION, IMPACTS AND RISKS ........................................................... 33
A. Benefits ...........................................................                                                                 33
B. Poverty Impact ...........................................................                                                           36
C. Environmental Impact ...........................................................                                                     36
D. Risks ...........................................................                                                                    37
5. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION                                                                                          ..  39
A.  Agreements Reached  at Negotiations ...........................................................   39
B. Condition of Board Presentation ...........................................................                                            40
C. Conditions of Effectiveness ...........................................................                                              40
D. Condition of Disbursement ...........................................................                                                40
E.  Recommendation                                                       ........................................................... 40
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission in July 1995 and a post-appraisal mission in
October 1995. The appraisal teatn comprised Alan Carroll (Sr. Urban Development Specialist and Task
Manager), Robert Roche (Sanitary Engineer), Chris Banes (Consultant, Municipal Engineer), Godfrey
Ewool (Civil Engineer), Alan Coulthart (Sr. Municipal Engineer), Jack Bahal (Sr. Finance Specialist),
Sandra Cointreau-Levine (Consultant, Solid Waste Specialist), and Ato Brown (Sanitary Engineer). Farida
Khan (Operations Assistant) prepared the financial tables and implementation schedule. Perla San Juan
and Elizabeth Novatny (Staff Assistants) prepared the project documentation. James Wright is the Division
Chief and Olivier Lafourcade is the Department Director for the operation.



Annexes
1.    Letter of Sector Policy
2.    Detailed Cost and Financing Tables
3.    Monitoring and Performance Indicators
4.   Implementation Schedule
5.    Disbursement Schedule
6.    Economic Analysis
7.    Drainage Component
8.    Sanitation Component
9.    Solid Waste Component
10.   Community Infrastructure Upgrading Component
11.  Institutional Strengthening
12.   Land Titling
13.   Procurement Schedule 1996-97 - Key Contracts
Map  IBRD No. 27584



REPUBLIC OF GHANA
URBAN ENVIRONMENTAL SANITATION PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:         Republic of Ghana
Implementing
Agencies:         Ministry of Local Government and Rural Development (Lead
Ministry); Technical Services Centre of Ministry of Works and
Housing; Metropolitan and Municipal Assemblies of Accra,
Kumasi, Shama-Ahanta East (Sekondi-Takoradi), Tema, and
Tamale.
Beneficiaries:    All residents of the five cities (total about 3.5 million); sanitation
and upgrading would target some 500,000 low-income people.
Poverty:          Included in Program of Targeted Interventions.
Credit Amount:    SDR 47.8 million (US$71.0 million equivalent)
Terms:            Standard IDA terms with 40 years maturity.
Project
Description:      The project would cover Ghana's five major cities (Accra, Kumasi,
Sekondi-Takoradi, Tema, and Tamale). It would have five main
components: (i) storm drainage, (ii) sanitation, (iii) solid waste,
(iv) upgrading of low-income urban areas, and (v) capacity-
building. Physical components represent about 83 percent of total
project costs; capacity-building, design and supervision services
the other 17 percent. The drainage component would improve
primary and secondary drains to alleviate chronic flooding
problems in Accra, Kumasi and Sekondi-Takoradi. The sanitation
component would cover all five cities and include high-priority
household, school, and public sanitation facilities as well as
septage treatment and disposal facilities. Emphasis would be
placed on strengthening the capacity of city governments to plan
and manage sanitation services while contracting with private
providers for most construction, operation, and maintenance
functions. Assistance in solid waste would cover the development
of new landfill sites in Kumasi, Sekondi-Takoradi, and Tamale.
The project would also provide financial and technical assistance
for the privatization of refuse collection and equipment
maintenance in all the cities. The community upgrading



ii
component would cover seven lower-income areas in Accra,
Kumasi, and Sekondi-Takoradi. Upgrading sub-projects comprise
drainage, water supply, sanitation, solid waste, roads, paths, and
street lighting. The upgrading component is being undertaken with
active community participation in preparation and implementation.
The capacity-building component would provide technical
assistance, training and equipment to improve the ability of the five
participating MAs to manage basic services. Special emphasis
would be given to cost accounting of waste management, contract
management and local financial administration. The project would
also seek to improve the capacity of the Ministry of Local
Government and Rural Development (MLGRD) and other central
government agencies involved in the environmental sanitation
subsector.
Financing Plan:    IDA                     US$71.00 m.
Gov't                    US$ 8.94 m.
Local Gov'ts & Benef.    US$ 5.32 m.
Co-Financing*            US$ 4.01 m.
*Nordic Development Fund ($3.40 m.); Netherlands ($0.60 m.)
Benefits:         (i) The project's improvements in drainage, sanitation, and waste
management would contribute to better hblih and thereby raise the
productivity of residents, especially the poor, in the five cities.
Some components, such as solid waste landfills, would have city-
wide benefits. The sanitation and community upgrading
components would benefit around 600,000 lower-income people.
Although it is well-established that major urban health problems,
including diarrhea, intestinal parasites, and vector-borne diseases,
require adequate sanitation and waste management, the health
benefits of these interventions are not quantifiable due to
methodological limitations. (ii) Economic rates of return (ERRs)
have been calculated for the storm drainage works (35 percent of
project cost) based on quantification of benefits from flood
allviation including damage to buildings, land, or other physical
property that would no longer occur and incremental losses of
income or productivity that would be prevented. The ERRs,
ranging from 32 percent to 48 percent, show that the drainage
investments would be amply justified. (iii) The project's capacity
building for improved local revenue mobilization, cost recovery,
and privatization of services would prolong the useful life of
facilities, improve efficiency, and mobilize additional funds.



iii
Risks:            (i) Project implementation may be delayed by the weak capacity of
the Metro and Municipal Assemblies. Under Ghana's emerging
sanitation and waste management policies, the MAs would
increasingly manage the work of private contractors who are to be
responsible for the direct provision of most infrastructure and
services. The project would attempt to minimize the risks
associated with the MAs' weak capacity by limiting the numbers
and sizes of components that each MA would manage; requiring
each MA to have a basic core staff assigned to the project;
providing support for the hiring of contractors to help with
technical and financial tasks; ensuring that the central
implementing agency supervises and monitors the MAs
adequately; and providing substantial training to the MAs'
officials and staff. (ii) Counterpart funds may not be available as
required. It would be addressed by keeping the required
counterpart fund contribution modest (10 percent for the GOG and
3.9 percent for the MAs as a group). The GOG and MAs'
combined contribution in the peak years of implementation would
represent only around 1.5 percent of the national 1996
development budget. (iii) Cost recovery and general local revenue
mobilization may not be implemented effectively, resulting in
inadequate maintenance. Household, school, and public sanitation
facilities pose a low risk, as these would be provided on a demand
basis and would depend largely on direct user maintenance.
Drainage also has a low risk of maintenance failure. Sensitivity
analysis indicates that primary and secondary drainage would
provide high economic benefits even if maintenance is well below
the optimum. This probably applies as well to the sanitary landfill
facilities. The septage treatment facilities would be simple,
modest-sized stabilization ponds with O&M costs that are easily
absorbed by the cities' budgets. The risk of inadequate O&M
funding is being addressed through (i) a credit covenant requiring
the MAs to allocate O&M funds to separate program budget lines
for waste management and drainage, (ii) an intensive effort to build
ownership of the project on the part of the Metropolitan and
Municipal Assemblies during preparation and up to effectiveness,
and (iii) the provision of a considerable amount of capacity-
building relating to O&M during implementation.
Map Number:       IBRD No. 27584
Project ID No.:   973



REPUBLIC OF GHANA
URBAN ENVIRONMENTAL SANITATION PROJECT
1. SECTORAL CONTEXT
A.   URBAN DEVELOPMENT
Urban Economy
1.1   About half of Ghana's total GDP is non-agricultural, in industry and services.
These largely urban-based sectors of the national economy have been the most dynamic.
Between 1980 and 1994 the industry and services sectors grew on average by about four
percent and seven percent per year respectively, while the agriculture sector grew at about
one percent. Improved economic growth in Ghana over the medium term future will
depend in large part on achieving higher agricultural production and exports. At the same
time, growth of the agriculture sector is likely to foster the development of urban-based
activities linked to it. These include the processing of wood and other products, the
transfer and storage of farm outputs, and the provision of commercial and financial
services. Ghana's current drive to promote new investment, both foreign and domestic,
would also contribute to the development of new manufacturing enterprises (catering to
both the export and domestic markets) in urban areas.
1.2   Comparative country data show that economic development and urban growth are
closely linked, that per capita incomes are consistently higher in urban areas, and that
urbanization increases with economic growth more rapidly at lower income levels than at
higher ones. Ghana, with a GNP per capita of about $430 (1994) and about one-third of
its population urbanized, has a substantially smaller portion of its national economy in
non-agricultural sectors than other countries with similar income and urbanization levels.
This suggests that, as Ghana's national economic performance continues to improve, the
share of urban-based economic activities is likely to expand considerably faster than in
the past.
1.3   The Greater Accra Metropolitan Area (GAMA), which includes cities of Accra
and Tema, accounts for 15 to 20 percent of GDP and employs around 10 percent of the
national labor force (one third of the national urban labor force). Accra and Tema house
the majority of Ghana's industries, from micro-enterprises to large plants. Major
financial institutions, government ministries, parastatals, and multinational corporations
have their head offices in Accra. Accra's primary market linkages (as both a purchaser
and seller) are with Kumasi in the Ashanti Region and Sekondi-Takoradi in the Western
Region.



2
1.4   Tema is Ghana's primary port, handling about three quarters of all goods
shipments. The remainder goes through the port of Takoradi. Both Kumasi and Sekondi-
Takoradi have diversified economies comprising small-scale industry, trade, and services.
Tamale, the main city of the north, is a mainly a trading and governmental service center.
Urban Population
1.5   Economic growth in Ghana is bringing about a transition from a predominantly
rural to a quasi-urban society. Over the past three decades, the urban population,
estimated at 5.5 million in 1993, has consistently grown at a higher rate than the national
population. The level of urbanization--the proportion of total population living in urban
areas--rose from 26 percent in 1965 to 35 percent in 1993. The total population is
projected to reach 20 million by the year 2000. At the current urban growth rate of 4.2
percent per year, the urban population would double in 17 years. The country acquires
about 275,000 new urban dwellers each year, which is the equivalent of adding a city the
size of Kumasi every three years or four cities the size of Cape Coast each year.
1.6   There are approximately 185 urban settlements in Ghana, with the capital, Accra,
accounting for about one quarter of the urban population. The two largest cities, Accra
and Kumasi, together contain about 41 percent of the urban population, while the five
largest cities (Accra, Kumasi, Tema, Sekondi-Takoradi and Tamale) account for about 59
percent of the total (see Table 1). Regionally, about 60 percent of the urban population is
concentrated in the Greater Accra, Ashanti and Eastern regions, all three of which are
located in southern Ghana.
Table 1: Population Estimates for Five Largest Cities
(Thousands)
Sekondi-
Accra    Kumasi  Takoradi  Tema  Tamale
Assembly Area (Km2)            241        168        790      163       241
Built-Up Urban Area (%)         95         80         20       60        40
Urban Area (Km2)               230        135        160      100       100
Assembly Total Population:
1995                       1,580       880        400      370      300
2015                       3,145      1,750       800      735       600
Assembly Urban Population:
1995                       1,500       750        300      350      250
2015                       3,100      1,550       620      720      520
Source: Ghana Statistical Service; Departnent of Town and Country Planning
Tlhe GOG defines an urban settlement as having a population of 5,000 or more.



3
Urban Poverty
1.7   The World Bank's Extended Poverty Study (1995), using data from the Ghana
Living Standards Surveys (GLSS) of 1987-88 and 1991-92, defined a monetary "poverty
line" of two thirds of mean per capita household expenditure (in constant May 1992
Accra prices). This is estimated at Cedis 132,230 per year (about US$300 using the
average 1992 exchange rate).
1.8   The data indicate that the national incidence of poverty (the proportion of the
population below the line) fell from 37 percent in 1987-88 to 31 percent in 1991-92. The
depth of poverty also declined: the mean expenditures of the poor were about 12 percent
below the poverty line in 1987-88 and about 8 percent in 1991-92. According to the data,
there were about 1.46 million poor people in urban areas in 1992. This breaks down into
about 350,000 in Accra and about 1.11 million in other urban areas. The gap between
urban and rural poverty appears to be much smaller than suggested by earlier profiles. In
1992 the incidence of poverty was 33 percent in the rural forest area and 38 percent in the
rural savannah area. The percentage of poor people was found to be 23 percent in Accra
and 28 percent in other urban areas. The national decline in poverty between 1988 and
1992 appears to be due mainly to an increase in non-farm self-employment and an
increase in crop production. While it is important for Ghana to focus on the alleviation of
rural poverty, it is critical to simultaneously address urban poverty issues and take
measures to address them before they assume unmanageable proportions.
1.9   The urban poor tend to cluster in identifiable areas of Ghana's major cities.
Various studies have shown that lower-income urban areas have the highest densities, the
lowest social indicators (education and health), and the lowest levels of infrastructure and
services. They also account for the vast majority of all epidemic and preventable
diseases. A 1991 survey of services in 17 lower-income communities in Accra yielded
the following profile:
Secondary roads are few and unpaved or non-existent. Many sections of
the communities are inaccessible by vehicle. In nine of the 17
communities the share of secondary roads rated "bad" was over 50 percent
(in five it was 70 percent or higher).
All the communities have pipe-borne water systems, but in 10 of the 17
communities less than half of the houses have connections. The quality
and reliability of the water supply varies.
Drainage is poor, with numerous localized flooding problems. The few
existing drains tend to be badly built and clogged by rubbish and silt.



4
Sanitation is very bad: there are few household toilets or latrines; public
toilets are in disrepair; pan latrines are still widely used despite having
been banned; night soil is dumped in and around the communities and
flows into drains; large numbers of people defecate in the open.
Solid waste collection is erratic or non-existent; there are few communal
rubbish containers; sometimes these are not emptied regularly; open
rubbish dumps are common.
Most houses have electricity, but quality is substandard (low voltages and
interruptions).
Street lighting is non-existent or inadequate.
1.10 A 1991 household survey found that about one third of the low-income population
of Accra lacks access to piped water and must purchase water from vendors. These
households pay five to ten cedis per bucket, or about one cedi per gallon. Households
with access to metered or unmetered piped water pay about a quarter of this price. The
cost of purchasing water from vendors can come to 10 percent of the monthly income of
a low income household. This, together with the irregularity of water supplies and low
levels of health education, constrains the amount of daily water use by the urban poor for
drinking, cooking, and hygiene.
1.11  A 1993 study found that, of the 16 significant diseases reported in Accra, 13 are
linked to poor housing and ventilation, an unsanitary environment, contaminated
drinking water, poor drainage and lack of facilities for waste disposal. The higher
occurrence of disease in low-income areas means greater loss in work days and a higher
outlay of expenditure for medical attention for the poor than for those living in better
physical environments.
Institutional Framework for Urban Development
1.12 PNDC Law No. 207 (1988) initiated a shift in the structure of governmental
authority whereby the central government devolved to local government Assemblies the
responsibility for policy formulation, planning, and implementation with respect to,
among other things: community development, town planning, public works, roads and
streets, markets, sanitation, and motor parks. This shift of authority is occurring in two
directions: vertically from 22 central government ministerial departments to District
Assemblies; and horizontally, at the local government level, from GOG staff performing
executive functions to members of District Assemblies performing legislative functions.
Two thirds of the members of each District Assembly are elected. The latest local
government elections occurred in March 1994.



5
1.13 The Local Government Act of 1993, which replaced Law 207, gives District
Assemblies the power to "exercise political and administrative authority in the District
[and] provide guidance, give direction to, and supervise all other administrative
authorities in the District" (Article 10). The 1993 Act does not mention specific sectoral
functions of local Assemblies; but it devolves to them responsibility for "the overall
development of the District", "the development of basic infrastructure", the provision of
"municipal works and services", and the "management of human settlements and the
environment", among other activities. The 1993 Act also refines the structure of local
governments by distinguishing among three different types: Metropolitan Assemblies
(requiring at least 250,000 population); Municipal Assemblies (requiring at least 95,000
population); and District Assemblies (which must have at least 75,000 people within their
boundaries).
1.14  The assumption of responsibilities and building of capacity by local governments
will be a long-term process. Meanwhile, the Ministries of Works and Housing (MWH)
and Roads and Highways (MRH) continue to play major roles in urban development.
MWH is the implementing agency for larger drainage projects (mostly donor funded) in
the major cities. The Ghana Water and Sewerage Corporation (GWSC), a dependency of
MWH, remains the single national parastatal for water supply (though a major policy
decision to create several operating companies, commercialize services, and privatize
certain functions is being considered by the Government). The Technical Services Centre
(TSC) under MWH is the implementing agency for two World Bank-supported urban
projects (Urban II and the Local Government Development Project). MRH's Department
of Urban Roads (DUR) handles road construction projects in the five main cities
(including those financed by the World Bank).
1.15  The Ministry of Local Government and Rural Development (MLGRD) has the
mandate to: (a) develop policies and legislation with respect to local government; (b)
supervise and monitor local administration; (c) assist local governments in drafting by-
laws (and vetting them); (d) monitor the financial performance of the local govermments
and promote internal auditing of their accounts; (e) provide guidelines to local
governments with respect to revenue collection; (f) promote capacity-building of local
governments; (g) provide guidelines and technical assistance for the delivery of
environmental sanitation services; and (h) facilitate the provision of offices and
residential accommodation for local government staff. In addition, in the absence of
actual implementation of composite budgeting, the MLGRD serves as an interlocutor
between local governments and international donor agencies with respect to projects that
are appropriately implemented at the local level.
Urban Infrastructure and Services
1.16  Deficient urban services--water supply, sanitation, urban roads, and others--is a
major constraint on urban productivity in Ghana. Mobilizing more public and private
capital for investment in urban infrastructure is a major need, along with using financial
and institutional resources more efficiently. The huge gap between investment



6
requirements and actual funds likely to be available highlights the tremendous importance
of (a) cost recovery through user fees and local taxes and (b) the use of appropriate design
standards. With assistance from the World Bank, cost recovery for urban services is
steadily expanding, though much remains to be done. The use of appropriate, low-cost
standards, as opposed to conventional industrialized-country standards, can multiply the
effectiveness of investment between two and five times.
1.17  Water Supply: GWSC estimates that about 75 percent of the urban population is
covered by piped water systems, down from a high of over 90 percent in the late 1970s.
Total production capacity from piped systems equals around 85 liters per capita per day,
but about 50 percent of this water is lost or unaccounted for. The five main cities of
Ghana (Accra, Tema, Kumasi, Sekondi-Takoradi, and Tamale) all suffer from insufficient
quantities of treated water, although it appears that the water that is produced is generally
of acceptable quality. Three large-scale piped water supply schemes (supported by IDA,
AfDB, and CIDA) are currently on-going at an estimated cost of $222 million, covering
87 systems responsible for over 80 percent of GWSC's production capacity.
1.18  Sanitation: Tema is the only urban center in Ghana with a comprehensive
waterborne sewage system (though presently it has no treatment, with sewage discharged
directly to the sea). The IDA-supported Urban II Project is rehabilitating the system,
which has fallen into disrepair. The central part of Accra has a limited waterbome
sewerage system to which very few properties are connected and which also has fallen
into disrepair. Other urban centers in Ghana rely on on-site excreta disposal systems.
Only about 40 percent of the urban population is estimated to have access to some form
of household sanitation facility. Of these, a small minority have flush toilets (almost all
connected to septic tanks), most have pit latrines, and a significant proportion use the
unsanitary pan or bucket latrines (whose contents must be disposed of manually each
day). Around 45 percent of the urban population relies on public toilets. The remainder
have no sanitation facility at their disposal. The few disposal facilities for liquid waste
(stabilization ponds) that exist in the major cities are inadequate and in poor condition.
Most of the waste goes directly into storm drains, lagoons, or the sea.
1.19  Urban Roads: GOG has given high priority to investment in urban roads over
the past decade, particularly in the five main cities. This was necessary to counter the
severe deterioration that arose from deferred maintenance throughout the 1960s and
1970s and to accommodate the significant increases in traffic. Future medium-term
interventions in the urban roads subsector should focus on carefully selected road
improvements and traffic management measures with high economic rates of return. A
further priority is the improvement and provision of access roads for lower-income urban
communities as part of integrated infrastructure upgrading programns.
1.20  Storm Drainage: None of Ghana's urban centers has a comprehensive storm
drainage system. Haphazard urban growth over the past decades has produced a situation
characterized by gaps between primary, secondary and tertiary drains and construction in
low-lying, flood-prone areas. Flooding, with related building and personal property



7
damage and traffic disruption, is a regular occurrence in urban areas during the rainy
season. The poor are affected most, because they have settled in the least desirable
locations in low lying areas adjacent to drains and water courses, where land is cheap or
has been informally settled. Garbage, sullage, and sewage are commonly deposited in
drains, creating a health hazard along the course of the drains and polluting the waters
into which they discharge. In the southern cities, receiving waters often form part of
sensitive coastal wetlands. While a significant amount have been invested in roadside
drainage in the major cities as part of road upgrading projects in recent years, primary and
secondary drainage has received little financing.
1.21   Solid Waste Collection and Disposal: Solid waste management is entirely a
local government service. Collection ratios (waste collected/waste generated) in the five
main cities are well below desirable levels: Accra 67 percent; Kumasi 45 percent; Tema
59 percent; Sekondi-Takoradi 42 percent; and Tamale 13 percent. The Accra and Kumasi
Waste Management Departments provide a limited degree of house-to-house collection
services in some of the lower-density, higher-income areas. In Tema's "township"
(planned city) area, rubbish is collected adequately by curbside pickup; however, no solid
waste services are provided in Tema's lower-income areas. A significant share of the
solid waste collection in Ghana's major cities is through communal containers and lift
vehicles. Much of the collection, however, is limited to the sporadic clearing of
neighborhood dumps by manual labor and tipper trucks. This is the norm in the
secondary towns. In all urban centers, heaps of uncollected rubbish are found in and
around built-up areas, especially lower-income communities. As mentioned earlier,
rubbish dumping is a major cause of blocked storm drains. In the main cities, waste is
deposited at large open dumps located in fringe areas, sometimes very close to
residences. None of the dumps is operated as a proper sanitary landfill. To date, no
special methods have been applied for the disposal of medical or industrial waste.
1.22  Urban Transport: Traffic congestion is now ubiquitous throughout Accra and is
also a problem in the centers of Kumasi and Sekondi-Takoradi. The national vehicle fleet
has grown at an average rate of 19 percent per annum since 1984. The great majority of
all motorized passenger trips are by public transport (taxis, tro-tros and buses). The
overall quality of public transport is poor. Most vehicles are old, many are converted
trucks, and maintenance standards are low. There appears to be a sufficient number of
vehicles to meet demand, with low-capacity vehicles such as taxis and minibuses
predominating and increasing their share of the market. This is of concern because small
vehicles carry fewer passengers per standard unit of road space than larger buses and
therefore exacerbate traffic congestion. Public transport and freight terminals, commonly
referred to in Ghana as lorry parks, serve all forms of vehicles from private cars and taxis
to multi-axled trucks. Few are paved, and there is no clear demarcation between access
roads, bus parking spaces, and passenger waiting areas. Facilities for passengers are
rudimentary or non-existent. Generally, the terminals have sprung in an ad-hoc manner,
with little account taken in their siting of the impact of the vehicle and pedestrian traffic
they attract.



8
Municipal Finance
1.23  Improving urban infrastructure and services requires the mobilization of more
financial resources for both capital investment and O&M. Details on revenues,
expenditures, and local finance problems of the five UESP cities are available in the
project files. Efforts to increase own source local government revenues in recent years
have centered on the revaluation of property rates and the collection of property taxes.
These measures have produced some gains, but their sustainability is subject to the ability
of local governments to become more responsive and accountable for the provision of
services. Local revenue collection remains far below its potential. It is estimated, for
example, that Metropolitan and Municipal Assemblies are collecting between one tenth
and one third of the potential property taxes. Per capita total local revenue collected by
the five main cities is minuscule, averaging about US$1.25 in 1994. The collection of
many low-yielding taxes (such as the basic rate) is mandated by law. The Assemblies
thus tend to disperse their efforts in collecting numerous relatively unproductive revenues
rather than concentrating on a few productive ones.
1.24  Local government staff are appointed through the central civil service, and central
government transfers cover most of their salaries. As a result, local governments have no
incentive to use staff efficiently. Budget and financial systems remain archaic. Fees and
tariffs often bear little relationship to cost, and billing and collection systems are
inefficient and prone to corruption. To stimulate decentralization and the provision of
local infrastructure and services, the Government established the District Assemblies
Common Fund (DACF) in 1993. The DACF annually distributes to the Districts not less
than five percent of total GOG revenues specifically for development (capital
investment). The key issue with the DACF is avoiding a disincentive effect on local
revenue mobilization. The DACF allocation to the five MAs in 1994 totaled Cedis 3,303
million, about one third of their combined total revenues. Local governments in Ghana
have not yet been able to achieve consistent yearly budget surpluses. Until they do so,
they will not be capable of servicing debt.
1.25  Recent experience shows that the provision of technical assistance, training, and
equipment is necessary but not sufficient to achieve improved mobilization by local
governments of own source taxes and fees. Such inputs can produce short-term gains.
However, obtaining sustainable improvements in local revenue collection and
management is a long-term process related to changes in governance systems. It will
require developing incentives for local government politicians, executives, and staff to
view themselves principally as providers of services to the public. As the public develops
confidence in local government's responsiveness and competence, people's willingness to
pay higher taxes will grow.



9
B.   SECTOR STRATEGIES
Decentralization
1.26 The most important government policy related to urban development is the recent
decentralization initiative. Under the 1992 Constitution and the Local Government Act
(No. 462) of 1993, Ghana's Metropolitan, Municipal and District Assemblies are
autonomous local governments with legislative and executive powers within their areas.
They are empowered to prepare and approve their annual budgets, to raise revenues from
taxes and fees, to borrow funds, to acquire land, and to provide basic services and local
infrastructure. A Letter of Local Government Development Policy prepared by the
Ministry of Local Government and Rural Development (MLGRD) in conjunction with
the latest IDA-financed urban project focuses on two key points. First, Local
Governments should eventually be able to employ their own staff accountable to them.
The 1993 Act calls for the creation of a Local Government Service, and proposals for this
are being studied. Second, the Assemblies are to have discretion in selecting of projects
to be financed with revenues of the District Assemblies Common Fund.
Urban Development
1.27 An Urban Strategy Review carried out in 1993-94 with World Bank support
produced the following main conclusions: (a) continued improvements in basic urban
infrastructure and services are needed to increase the productivity of urban households
and firms, but investments must be carefully selected; (b) infrastructure and services for
the urban poor can be improved through targeted upgrading programs; (c) urban service
delivery should be made more efficient and sustainable by greater competition, more
reliance on commercial principles, private sector participation, and attention to demand;
(d) further efforts are needed to obtain long-lasting improvements in revenue
mobilization by local governments; (e) sanitation and waste management are the highest
priority urban environmental problems; and (f) impediments to land transfer, land titling
and private land development need to be removed to make urban areas more efficient and
productive. These points are consistent with a 1993 Ghanaian Task Force proposal for a
human settlements strategy (prepared with assistance from UNDP and UNCHS) which
reflects a broad national consensus on four basic elements: (a) improving the economic
performance of towns and villages, with particular attention to strengthening the
economic linkages between urban and rural productive sectors; (b) increasing access to
basic services; (c) improving the living conditions of the poor and vulnerable groups; and
(d) building human capacity for urban planning and management.
Urban Environment and Sanitation
1.28  The Government's 10 year (1991-2000) National Environrental Action Plan
(NEAP) includes urbanization as one of four main areas for intervention. The NEAP
highlights sanitation and waste disposal as major issues. It lists the implementation of
urban waste management and sanitation projects as a top priority. It also calls for the
improvement of drainage in coastal cities; the establishment and implementation of



10
environmental and health standards; and the adoption of effective land use control
mechanisms.
1.29  At appraisal, a draft Letter of Sector Policy for Environmental Sanitation was
reviewed. Key themes covered in the letter are private sector participation and the
financial sustainability of services. The final version of the letter was agreed upon at
negotiations and it was singed by the Minister for Local Government and Rural
Development, thus fulfilling the single condition of Board presentation.
External Assistance
1.30  Foreign assistance agencies are supporting capital investments in urban
infrastructure and capacity-building in urban management. The bulk of the urban-related
external capital funding is currently going into urban roads and water supply. IDA is the
major source of financing in the urban roads sector through the Urban II, Urban
Transport, and Local Government Development Projects. IDA, AfDB, and several
bilaterals are assisting in water supply, mainly through the Water Sector Rehabilitation
Project. Urban sanitation, drainage and area upgrading have received very limited
funding. KfW and GTZ have been supporting a project to strengthen the Accra Waste
Management Department. ODA sponsored a similar, more limited project in Kumasi
during 1991-93. UNDP and UNCHS have been active in technical assistance for urban
activities.



11
2. THE PROJECT
A.   OBJECTIVES
2.1   The objectives of the Urban Environmental Sanitation Project are:
(a)   To promote productivity and raise living standards in Ghana's major cities,
especially for lower-income people, by improving drainage, sanitation,
and solid waste services.
(b)   To help establish better institutional and financing mechanisms and more
effective policy frameworks so that improvements are sustained overtime.
(c)   To build up the capacity of the Metropolitan and Municipal Assemblies to
manage environmental sanitation services.
B.   DESCRIPTION
Project Rationale
2.2   The project would cover Ghana's five major cities (Accra, Kumasi, Sekondi-
Takoradi, Tema, and Tamale). It would have five main components: (a) storm drainage,
(b) sanitation, (c) solid waste, (d) upgrading of low-income urban areas, and (e) capacity-
building. Physical components represent about 83 percent of total project costs; capacity-
building and consultancy services for design and supervision the other 17 percent.
2.3   The Urban Environmental Sanitation Project is part of the World Bank's Country
Assistanc Strategy (CAS) for Ghana. The basic goal of the CAS is poverty reduction
through rapid economic growth. The project would support four of the five objectives of
the CAS: (a) poverty reduction, by improving services which have high impact on the
productivity and welfare of the urban poor both city-wide and in lower-income areas; (b)
capacity-building, by strengthening the ability of the Metro and Municipal Assemblies to
plan and manage the delivery of basic services; (c) private sector development, by
promoting the contracting out of various waste collection and sanitation services; and (d)
environmental improvement, by directly addressing the highest priority urban
environmental problems through policies, institutional structures, and physical
investments.
2.4   The project was identified as a result of the Urban Development Strategy Review
conducted jointly by the World Bank and the Government in 1993-94. The Review
involved a series of seminars with representatives of central and local institutions
involved in the sector. As mentioned in Section I, the Review established a clear
rationale for the project: First, sanitation is one of the highest priorities in Ghana's
Environmental Action Plan. Second, sanitation, drainage and solid waste management



12
supply--have been addressed through past and ongoing projects supported by the Bank
and other donors. Third, the project would deal with basic services whose deficiencies
constrain urban economic development and depress living conditions for large numbers
of people, especially the poor.
Storm Drainage Component
2.5   The focus of the storm drainage component (34 percent of the project's base cost)
is to alleviate flooding in built-up urban areas. The highest-priority interventions have
been selected in Accra, Kumasi, and Sekondi-Takoradi. A detailed description of the
drainage component is in Annex 7.
2.6   Accra: Approximately 7 km. of the city's primary drainage channel, the Odaw,
from the Abossey Okai Road to the Motorway Extension, would be dredged and
reconstructed as a trapezoidal channel with top width varying from 45 to 65 m. This
would significantly alleviate flooding in major industrial, commercial, and residential
areas in and around the center of the city. About 20 km. of secondary drains serving 13
neighborhoods would be reconstructed, also for the purpose of alleviating flooding
affecting around 20,000 people. These improvements were identified as the highest
priorities in the 1991 Drainage Master Plan and Feasibility Study. This study included
simulations showing that inadequate capacity of primary and secondary drains is the
principal bottleneck in the drainage system, whereas silting of the Korle Lagoon
contributes very little to the flooding problem.
2.7   Kumasi: The project would finance measures to reduce flooding in the Central
Business District, covering the Central Market, the Asafo Market, and the Kejetia Lorry
Park (transport terminal). These would include (a) the construction of four new
secondary drains, (b) widening the existing primary channel from the Zoo through
Kejetia to the Asafo Market, and (c) reconstruction of a four km. stretch of the Nsuben
primary channel to a trapezoidal section with stone pitched lining.
2.8   Sekondi-Takoradi: A major desilting exercise would be undertaken to rid
covered drains in the Market Circle area of solid waste that has accumulated in them over
the years and restore the capacity of the existing drains. Additional capacity required in
the Market Circle drain, which is the main outlet from the Central Business District,
would be provided.
Sanitation Component
2.9   During project preparation each of the five MAs prepared a Strategic Sanitation
Plan (SSP) that sets out its strategy for providing comprehensive sanitation services by
the year 2005. The SSPs include a prioritized listing of the mix of household, public, and
school facilities needed to serve the city's low and middle income households. They also
present the management and financing arrangements needed to implement each
component. The SSPs differ from conventional master plans in that they (a) tailor
technical options to each type of housing in the city, (b) consider users' preferences and



13
willingness to pay, (c) emphasize actions that can be taken within the medium term, and
(d) present components that can be implemented independently but which together
provide full coverage.
2.10  The MAs used their SSPs to identify the specific sanitation sub-projects that are to
be included in the UESP. The sanitation component represents about 10 percent of the
project's base cost. A summary of the facilities appears in Annex 8. The categories of
sub-projects are as follows:
2.11  Household sanitation facilities: In medium density areas of all five cities, the
project would help finance about 5,560 household latrines (expected to benefit a total of
about 200,000 people). The project would bear 50 percent of the construction costs, and
the beneficiaries would contribute the other 50 percent. The MAs would contract day to
day management of the household latrine programs to one or more private firms. Their
tasks would include training latrine construction contractors, reviewing applications,
awarding individual contracts, reviewing works and making payments (25 percent down
and 25 percent at completion). The programs would be promoted through local media by
the MAs' Waste Management Departments.
2.12  Public sanitation facilities: The project would support the construction of new
and the replacement or rehabilitation of old public sanitation facilities at markets and
other commercial locations in all five cities. A total of about 65 facilities would be built
or improved. Only those facilities offering the prospect of full cost recovery (based on
location and size) would be selected. The facilities would be operated on a franchise
basis. The MAs would contract with local firms to manage construction.
2.13  School sanitation facilities: The project would finance construction of about 305
sanitation facilities at primary and junior secondary schools in the five cities. Parent-
Teacher Associations (PTAs) would be able to obtain financing if they collect sufficient
funds in advance to cover one year's operation and maintenance costs and prepare a
management plan. MAs would contract with a local firm or NGO to implement the
school program. Its tasks would include promotion, assistance to individual PTAs,
contracting, supervision, and training. The Training Network Centre at the University of
Science and Technology at Kumasi would provide training materials. UST is doing
similar work for the National Community Water and Sanitation Programme.
2.14 Septage treatment and disposal; sewerage rehabilitation: All the MAs have
agreed to withdraw from direct septage hauling. This service will be turned over to
private operators. The project would finance the construction of a septage treatment
facility in each of the five cities. In Kumasi, Sekondi-Takoradi, and Tamale these would
be combined with the new sanitary landfill sites (see description of Solid Waste
Component, below). In Accra and Tema, the septage treatment facilities would be
separate. Septage would be treated in a ponding system; settled sludge would be mixed
with sawdust or similar material and either disposed in the landfill or composted for
resale as a soil conditioner. The project would also finance rehabilitation of selected



14
segments of the Tema sewer system in communities 1, 2, 4 and 5; an abattoir in Tamale;
rehabilitation of a sewerage system serving a modest-income housing area in Kumasi;
and an extension of water distribution in East Ashaiman of Tema, a lower-income area.
Solid Waste Component
2.15  Solid Waste Collection (5 percent of base cost): In recent years central and local
government officials have come to realize that they do not have to be the sole providers
of solid waste collection services, and that the private sector can be a cost effective
alternative. They are also recognizing the importance of consulting and involving users
in making decisions on the type of service to be provided and the means of paying for it.
2.16  The project would provide technical and financial support for privatized waste
collection in the Accra metropolitan area, Kumasi, Sekondi-Takoradi, Tamale, and the
Ashaiman area of Tema. Previous experience in Tema, Accra and Sekondi-Takoradi
indicates that households are willing to pay fees for an efficient, reliable service. While
this experience shows that user fees can cover the full costs of house-to-house collection
in upper income areas, it is unrealistic to expect the same in medium and low income
areas, where communal collection must be used. This is because willingness and ability
to pay are limited and it is difficult to organize the collection of fees for communal refuse
removal. The use of general revenues to help cover the cost of solid waste collection is
justified by the city-wide public health and environmental benefits.
2.17  The four MAs are receiving technical assistance for identifying areas to be served
by private waste collection, preparing financial projections, and determining contract
modalities. Experiences from other countries are being taken into account. In each case
the shares of the collection costs to be borne by user fees and general revenues would be
established. The project would finance a portion of the general revenue shares annually
on a declining basis. Preliminary financial analyses of likely contractors' costs (using
their own equipment and including depreciation, interest, labor, vehicle operating costs,
overheads, and profit) have been carried out. Specialist consultants would continue to
work with the MAs on the following: (a) establishing appropriate differential charges for
the different types of collection systems and socio-economic areas, (b) relating theoretical
contractors' costs (as established in the financial analysis) to actual costs incurred by the
contractors working in Tema, Accra, and Takoradi, (c) checking and refining the basic
data, (d) determining the appropriate contracting mechanisms, and (e) analyzing the sizes
of contracts that the MAs and UESP could support. The latter would be dimensioned
according to a reasonable, agreed projection of each MA's budgetary capacity.
2.18  Sanitary Landfills (16 percent of base cost including equipment): The project
would finance the construction of properly engineered sanitary landfills in Kumasi,
Sekondi-Takoradi, and Tamale. Suitable sites have been identified in each city. The
MAs are negotiating acquisition of the sites with the owners. At negotiations it was
agreed that the financing of these facilities under the credit would be dependent on the
MAs having legally acquired the sites and assured adequate compensation.



15
Topographical, soil, and geophysical surveys have been carried out, and the preparation
of preliminary engineering designs by specialist consultants is underway. The
consultants' TOR include assessing the environmental impacts of the facilities and
incorporating the needed mitigation measures in the designs. These would include
diverting storm water flows around the sites, collecting and treating leachate, and venting
gases produced by waste decomposition. The sites would also incorporate septage
treatment facilities. The consultants would assess the feasibility of treating the leachate
and septage together. Equipment for weighing, spreading, and compacting the waste
would be procured under the project. The possibility of having private contractors
operate the landfill facilities will be explored and encouraged, as experience from other
countries indicates that this is more effective than public management.
2.19  A detailed description of the solid waste component is in Annex 9.
Community Infrastructure Upgrading Component
2.20  The community infrastructure upgrading component (16 percent of base cost)
would be implemented in seven lower-income areas of Accra, Kumasi, and Sekondi-
Takoradi. The communities are: Sukura, Old Teshie, and West Maamobi in Accra;
Aboabo and Anloga in Kumasi; and Effia Zongo and Kwesimintsim in Sekondi-
Takoradi. These communities were selected by the MAs from longer lists of
infrastructure-deficient, lower-income areas which had already demonstrated some
community initiative and willingness to improve their living environments. A detailed
description of the community infrastructure upgrading component is in Annex 10.
2.21  In total about 530 hectares in which some 265,000 predominantly low-income
residents reside would be upgraded with a packages of basic infrastructure improvements.
These are: (a) access (vehicular roads and footpaths), (b) stormwater drainage, (c)
sanitation, (d) solid waste management facilities, (e) water supply, and (f) street lighting.
2.22  The final programs have been developed following strict cost targets, functional
standards and design service levels. One of the fundamental principles of the program is
that beneficiaries are to fully cover the operation and maintenance costs of the
infrastructure provided through fees or taxes. Available information on ability and
willingness to pay indicates that this is realistic. For example, residents of these
communities already pay substantial amounts monthly to purchase water from private
venders and to use public toilets. Surveys have shown that people are willing to pay for
the maintenance of infrastructure if service is reliable. These factors have been a key
determinant in decisions regarding design standards, prograrn size and costs. Likely
implementation capacity has also been taken into account in dimensioning the program.
2.23  Besides physical upgrading, the community infrastructure component aims to (a)
promote the use of demand-driven, participatory planning and design procedures and
functional, affordable standards and levels of service for infrastructure; (b) strengthen the
ability of Metropolitan and Municipal Assemblies to collaborate with community
residents in the planning, design, implementation of infrastructure upgrading schemes so



16
as to foster a sense of ownership by the communities; and (c) establish sustainable
arrangements for operation and maintenance. Details of the facilities to be upgraded,
their implementation, capital costs, estimated annual O& M cost requirements, and O&M
modalities are to be set out in a "Facilities and Management Plan" to which each
community (via a community based organization agreed upon with local leaders) and
relevant public agencies would formally agree. Each of the Assemblies has agreed to
contribute 10 percent of the capital costs of the upgrading component from its own funds.
2.24  Local leaders and residents are being actively involved at all stages of planning
and design. Meetings were held with focus groups including Assembly members, local
unit committee members, and representatives of non-governmental organizations
including women's groups. A household survey was carried out to determine the
coverage and quality of existing services and willingness to pay for improved services. A
series of workshops was conducted with community leaders and residents to discuss their
priorities, standards and service levels, the community's role in O&M, and tradeoffs in
allocating the limited resources to be provided through the project.
Institutional Strengthening Component
2.25 Local-Level Organization: The Ministry of Local Government and Rural
Development (MLGRD) and the five MAs have developed a basic organizational
framework for the local management of infrastructure and services. Each MA's technical
organization would be composed of a relatively small staff of professionals, technicians,
and support personnel. The main function of the staff would be to plan, manage,
coordinate, and supervise the work of contractors who would perform the bulk of the
provision of infrastructure and services. The staff would be organized in four
departments or units: (a) the Head Office of the technical organization, (b) the Waste
Management Department, (c) Roads and Drains, and (d) Development Control. The five
MAs already have some technical staff, but their numbers and qualifications are limited.
2.26 Building the MAs' human and organizational capacity to properly manage
infrastructure and services will be a long-term process. Among the MAs' main
constraints on achieving an adequately sized and qualified staff are low remuneration in
the public sector at all levels, the perception that central government service is preferable
to local government, and the difficulty of attracting well-qualified people to work outside
Accra and Kumasi.
2.27  These problems cannot be solved in the context of one Bank-supported project.
Some aspects are being dealt with separately. These include the ongoing Civil Service
Performance Improvement Program at the central level, to which the Bank is contributing
funding and advice, and the plans under discussion to establish a Local Government
Service (in which MLGRD is involved). The UESP would contribute to local capacity
building of the five MAs through the following measures: (a) assisting the MAs to
recruit additional qualified personnel through the hiring of individual contract staff, (b)
actively involving their existing officials and staff in project preparation and



17
implementation, (c) providing the MAs with technical assistance (mainly through local
consultants) in waste management and municipal finance (see below), and (d) providing
equipment and training. A number of capacity deficiencies are common to all the MAs.
Some have more experience in certain aspects, e.g. privatization in Tema, management
information and accounting systems in Accra, and health education and community
awareness in Kumasi. A wealth of well-documented knowledge exists from previous
assistance provided through German and British assistance programs.
2.28 Capacity-Building: A project-wide capacity-building and training (PWCBT)
program would be financed by the project. It would be overseen by MLGRD's Local
Government Support Unit. There would be two sources of financing: the Nordic
Development Fund, which would finance consultants, and the Association of Netherlands
Municipalities, which would finance a training program. The PWCBT would provide
assistance to the five MAs and relevant central government agencies. Its work would be
carried out by national consultants supported by a limited number of international
specialists who would provide knowledge not available locally. This group would
prepare an annual work program in response to the needs of the client institutions and the
activities of the UESP. The work program would be approved by the clients. Each year
the clients and the PWCBT group would review the effectiveness of its activities.
2.29 The PWCBT would cover two main areas, environmental sanitation and
municipal finances. About 270 person-months of consultant services would be financed.
The types of assistance to be provided would include but not be limited to:
* Drafting of local government by-laws for environmental sanitation.
*  Establishing and using performance monitoring systems for waste collection.
*  Developing and implementing cost accounting and management information
systems.
*  Compiling standard designs, specifications, and cost data on appropriate
technologies for sanitation, waste collection, treatment facilities, and disposal
systems.
*  Designing public enlightenment campaigns and preparing health education
materials.
*  Updating and maintaining data bases on municipal revenue collection.
*  Privatizing revenue collection using the commission system.
2.30  It is considered important for each Metropolitan or Municipal Assembly to
implement its own individual capacity-building activities, apart from those undertaken by



18
the project-wide CPT program. The project will therefore finance a package of capacity-
building resources which will be available to each city to use as it wishes, as long as the
activities are relevant to UESP. With these resources, the MAs will be able to hire their
own consultants (with terms of reference cleared by MLGRD) and finance training
activities tailored to their specific needs. Each city will be required to submit an annual
capacity building and training plan for approval by MLGRD.
2.31  Each of the five MAs is establishing a project team which will be responsible for
day-to-day management of the city's sub-projects of the UESP. Regular staff of the MAs
will be assigned to work on the project team, along with three long-term contract staff to
be hired by each MA under the project. These will generally be a civil engineer, a
sanitary engineer, and an accountant.
2.32  The institutional strengthening component would include support for public
information campaigns in the five cities dealing with (a) public cooperation with refuse
collection and disposal, (b) household hygiene related to sanitation, (c) management of
public sanitation facilities. These activities would be carried out by contractors under the
supervision of the MAs.
2.33  A detailed description of the institutional strengthening component (about 13
percent of the project's base cost) is in Annex 11.
Land Titling
2.34 A Land Administration Pilot Project is being carried out under the Urban II
project. Its objective is to establish a system for issuing new land titles in accordance
with the Land Title Registration Law of 1986. It is being undertaken as a coordinated
exercise involving the Survey Department, the Land Title Registry, and the Lands
Commission. An international adviser has been working with these institutions on a
periodic basis since mid-1994. The pilot project is starting to produce results. Major
bottlenecks in the process have been documented, regular interagency coordination
mechanisms have been established, and improvements are being introduced to make the
system more efficient. The participating institutions believe that it is important to keep
up this momentum. As funding for the current pilot project will run out by mid-1996, the
UESP would provide a modest amount of additional resources (US$550,000) to be
focused on strengthening the field operations and records management of the Land Title
Registry and establishing a small unit in the Survey Department which would employ
digital methods on a routine basis in the production of Registry Maps and Registry Plans.
Details are in Annex 12.
Operation and Maintenance
2.35  Waste management has been underfunded at the local government level. In many
cases, capital investments in civil works and equipment have outpaced the ability of the
Assemblies to cover operation and maintenance costs. The project will support initiatives
of the MAs to increase the funding of O&M through both user fees and general revenues.
-- ----- --



19
It has been agreed with the MAs that user fees should finance 100 percent of the O&M
costs of household latrines, public toilets, piped sewerage, and septage removal. The
costs of solid waste collection would be financed by a combination of user fees and
general revenues. Surveys conducted during project preparation as well as prior
experience in Ghana indicate that house-to-house refuse collection can be carried out on a
full cost recovery basis. However, house-to-house collection is appropriate for only 20 to
50 percent of the population (depending on the city) living in low to medium density,
higher-income areas. The remainder of the population living in lower-income, higher
density areas must be served by communal collection systems. Because of low ability or
willingness to pay, user fees may cover only 20 to 30 percent of the costs of communal
collection. The operating costs of solid waste landfills and septage treatment facilities
may in principle be covered largely through tipping fees paid by private waste haulers.
However, this requires a licensing and enforcement capability that will take a long time to
establish in Ghana. In the short to medium term, the recurrent costs of these facilities
will have to be paid from general revenues. Roads and drains are public goods that must
be financed primarily through general revenues.
2.36  Assembly officials recognize that they must begin to set aside increasing amounts
of general revenues for the recurrent costs of waste management and for the upkeep of
facilities and equipment. Prior to credit effectiveness, MLGRD would issue a directive to
the five MAs requiring each of them to create separate budget lines for waste collection
and disposal and maintenance of storm drains. It was agreed at negotiations that the MAs
would allocate, as of the third year of implementation, appropriate amounts to be agreed
with IDA in these budget categories. Technical assistance would help the MAs to make
projections of the shares of O&M costs to be met through user fees and general revenues
(i.e. property taxes, business license fees, etc.). MAs would have to budget annually for
the latter portion. Waste collection, maintenance of equipment, and drain cleaning would
be carried out by the private sector under contracts to the MAs. A study would be carried
out under the project to prioritize drainage maintenance needs so as to target scarce funds
most effectively. O&M of water and street lighting in the community upgrading areas
would be handled by the Ghana Water and Sewerage Corporation (GWSC) and the
Electricity Corporation of Ghana (ECG).
Client Consultation and Participation
2.37  One of the project's main objectives is to build the capacity of the Metropolitan
and Municipal Assemblies to provide environmental sanitation services. Accordingly, a
major concern of the project preparation process has been to foster ownership of the
project by the participating MAs and other involved institutions (e.g. TSC and MLGRD).
The client consultation and participation process consists of several formal activities
linked by continuous informal exchanges. The main activities are:
2.38 Initial Preparation Workshop: A two day project preparation workshop was
held in October 1994. This included the Chief Executives of the five
Metropolitan/Municipal Assemblies, other local officials and staff, and several central



20
agency representatives. The main objectives were to agree on the basic scope of the
project, to exchange information on urban environmental sanitation issues, and to
establish action plans for follow-up by each city. This event was funded by the UNDP-
World Bank Water and Sanitation program (West Africa Regional Office).
2.39 Municipal Finance Workshop and Consultations: Previous efforts to provide
technical assistance and training for improving municipal finances have had mixed
results. Sustainability has been disappointing. Nevertheless, better revenue mobilization
and financial management by Metropolitan and Municipal Assemblies are essential if
urban sanitation services are to improve. The project supported (through the PPF) a study
of municipal finance trends and issues and a workshop with officials of the five MAs in
February 1995 to identify strategies and interventions. These are being used to identify
follow-up interventions and assistance to be provided under the project.
2.40 Consultations with Community Leaders and Residents: The community
infrastructure upgrading component in seven lower-income areas is being prepared with
the participation of community leaders and residents. A university research group
conducted community meetings, focus group discussions, household surveys, and
workshops with local leaders to identify community priorities, determine willingness to
pay for improvements, and reach agreement on community-based O&M where needed.
2.41  Workshop on Project Implementation: Government and the Bank have agreed
to include the five Metropolitan and Municipal Assemblies as implementing agencies of
the project. The challenge is to set up an institutional arrangement that promotes this,
while keeping the risks of implementation problems to a minimum. A participatory
process for formulating the implementation structure was initiated in January, 1995.
First, a brief paper outlining options for implementation arrangements was prepared and
circulated to officials of the five MAs and other concerned agencies. Second, a workshop
to discuss the requirements and proposed arrangements for project implementation was
held in April, 1995. Chief Executives and staff of the five MAs and representatives of
MLGRD, MF, TSC, and the World Bank participated. The workshop dealt with issues
such as the number and sizes of components for which the MAs could be responsible, the
staffing requirements for the MAs to assume implementation responsibilities, and the
financial flow and accounting arrangements. The main recommendation of the
workshop, which has been incorporated into the project, was to form "core teams" in each
MA composed of existing staff and contract staff to handle project implementation.
2.42 Further Activities: During the appraisal mission a workshop on solid waste
collection through the private sector was held with local government officials and staff.
It examined local practices, national policy questions, and the experience in Ghana with
private contracting of waste collection. A model contract was reviewed and discussed.
The workshop laid a foundation for developing detailed legal and financial arrangements
for the solid waste component of the project. During the period leading up to
effectiveness, seminars are lanned dealing with procurement and other implementation
issues.



21
Status of Project Preparation
2.43  As of December 1995, about 80 percent of a US$1.16 million Project Preparation
Facility had been committed for various preparatory studies. Preliminary design and
local consultation for community infrastructure upgrading and drainage in Kumasi has
been completed. Contracts for the preparation of detailed studies and bid documents for
community upgrading and Kumasi drainage are expected to be signed in March 1996. A
team of international and national consultants is carrying out preliminary designs and
environmental studies for storm drainage works in Accra and Sekondi Takoradi. This
phase is expected to conclude by the end of February 1996, after which detailed designs
would be prepared. Another international/national consulting group is nearing
completion of preliminary designs and environmental studies of sanitary landfill/septage
treatment facilities in Kumasi, Sekondi-Takoradi, and Tamale. National consultants
under separate contracts are finalizing Strategic Sanitation Plans and preliminary designs
for sanitation facilities in the five cities. A national consultant will be contracted in
March 1996 to help the MAs perform zoning studies for solid waste collection and start
pilot implementation of the household sanitation programs. The MAs of Kumasi,
Sekondi-Takoradi, and Tamale have completed negotiations for acquisition of sites for
the sanitary landfills. Finalization of the legal acquisition is to await the confirmation of
the suitability of the sites by the design/environmental consultants.
C.   PROJECT COST AND FINANCING PLAN
Project Costs
2.44  The project would be implemented over a six year period beginning around July
1996. The cost summary appears in Table 2. Detailed cost tables are in Annex 2. The
total project cost is estimated at US$89.3 million equivalent. The foreign exchange
component is about US$50.8 million equivalent (57 percent of the total). Physical
contingencies for civil works have been calculated at 10 percent. Price contingency
calculations are based on expressing all costs in US$ at July 1995 prices and applying a
cost escalation of 2.5 percent per year starting in FY97.



22
Table 2: Summary of Project Costs
Base Cost             With Contingencies      Base
Project Components            (US$ Million)              (US$ Million)
Local   Foreign   Total   Local  Foreign   Total   Cost */
Components tQ be Implemented/ Procured by Central Govemment
A. Primary & Secondary         7.68     17.92    25.60    9.38    21.89   31.27      34.06
Drainage Works
B. Landfill & Septage         3.06       7.14    10.20    3.70     8.63   12.33      13.57
Treatment Facilities
C. Disposal Equipment          0.00      1.56    1.56    0.00      1.66    1.66      2.08
D. Institutional Strengthening  2.28     1.72    4.00    2.53      1.91    4.44       5.32
E. Vehicles & Equipment for    0.22      1.10    1.31    0.23      1.16    1.39       1.74
Inst. Strengthening
F. Training                   0.48       0.20    0.68    0.53      0.23    0.76      0.90
G. Design & Supervision        1.07      1.61    2.68    1.18      1.76    2.94       3.57
H. Land Titling               0.00      0.52     0.52    0.00      0.57    0.57      0.69
1. Studies                    0.25      0.25     0.50    0.27      0.27    0.55      0.67
BASE COST                     15.03     32.02    47.05
Physical Contingencies         1.07      2.51    3.58
Price Contingencies            1.71      3.56    5.28
SUB-TOTAL                 17.82     38.09    55.91   17.82     38.09   55.91     62.60
Components to be Implemented by Metropolitan! Municipal Assemblies
A. Community Infrastructure    4.67      7.01    11.68    5.71     8.56   14.27      15.54
Upgrading
B. Household Sanitation        1.84      1.22    3.06    2.24      1.50    3.74      4.07
Facilities
C. Public & School Sanitation  1.53      1.02    2.55    1.87      1.25    3.12       3.39
Facilities
D. Septage Treatment Facility    0.32    0.48    0.80    0.39      0.59    0.98       1.06
E. Sewerage Rehabilitation     0.32      0.38    0.70    0.39      0.46    0.86       0.93
F. Community Water            0.10       0.15    0.25    0.12      0.18    0.31      0.33
G. Design & Supervision        1.47      0.00    1.47    1.63      0.00    1.63       1.96
H. Institutional Strengthening  3.90     0.00    3.90    4.33      0.00    4.33      5.19
1. Solid Waste Collection     3.45       0.00    3.45    3.83      0.00    3.83      4.59
J. Abattoir                    0.10      0.15    0.25    0.12      0.18    0.31      0.33
BASE COST                     17.70     10.41    28.11
Physical Contingencies        0.89       1.04    1.93
Price Contingencies           2.05       1.27    3.33
SUB-TOTAL                 20.64     12.72   33.36   20.64      12.72   33.36     37.40
Total Base Cost              32.73      42.43    75.16                              100.00
Total Physical Contingencies   1.96      3.55    5.51
Total Price Contingencies      3.77      4.83    8.60
TOTAL PROJECT COST            38.46     50.81    89.27   38.46    50.81   89.27



23
Financing Plan
2.45 A summary of the financing plan appears in Table 3. An IDA credit of US$71.0
million equivalent would finance approximately 80 percent of total project costs. This
credit would be extended on standard IDA terms for 40 years with 10 years of grace.
GOG would finance US$8.9 million equivalent, or 10 percent of total project costs. The
MAs and beneficiaries would finance about US$5.3 million, representing their shares of
community upgrading works, sanitation facilities, and solid waste collection. The MAs'
contribution is estimated to be about US$3.5 million, comprising a 10 percent share of
the upgrading programs in Accra, Kumasi, and Sekondi-Takoradi and a 50 percent share
of the new privatized solid waste collection. Beneficiaries' contribution of US$1.9
million represents their 50 percent share of the household sanitation component. The
three Assemblies participating in community upgrading have passed resolutions
committing themselves to providing their 10 percent shares. At negotiations both GOG
and the MAs confirmed that they would provide their respective counterpart funds.
Initial deposit of counterpart funds in the main project account and the MAs' sub-project
accounts would be a condition of credit effectiveness.
Table 3: Financing Plan
(US$ million)
Sources                 Total
IDA                                  71.0
Government of Ghana                   8.9
Municipal/Metro Assemblies            3.5
Beneficiaries                         1.9
Co-Financing                          4.0
TOTAL                    89.3
2.46  Co-financing of about US$3.4 million equivalent has been tentatively secured
from the Nordic Development Fund. This would be applied to the project-wide capacity
building sub-component. In addition, it is expected that the Government of the
Netherlands, through the Netherlands Association of Municipalities, will contribute about
US$0.6 million toward a training program.
Cost Recovery
2.47  Until recently, charging fees for solid waste collection was not a public policy in
Ghana. This has changed. However, the ability of the MAs to collect user fees is limited
by their weak management capacity and the public's lack of confidence in their abilities to
deliver adequate services. Thus, the MAs will have to move into cost recovery gradually.
The project would assist the MAs and their contractors to establish and collect user fees
for public toilets, piped sewerage, septage removal, solid waste collection, and tipping at
waste disposal sites. Fees would be set to cover 100 percent of O&M costs for the first
three of these; fees would cover an agreed share of O&M for the last two. Fees would
also cover some portion of investment costs subject to demonstrated affordability and



24
willingness to pay. Franchise contracts for public toilets in commercial areas would
stipulate fees sufficient to cover their full capital and recurrent costs. Connection fees
would be charged for water supply and piped sewerage to recover the investment costs of
these services. The cost of household latrine construction would be shared 50-50
between the project and beneficiaries. O&M costs of services for which fees cannot be
charged (such as drainage) would be paid through general revenues of the MAs. The
Chief Executives of all five cities are fully supportive of this approach. The use of
general revenues to cover a part of the costs of sanitation services is justified by their
city-wide environmental and public health benefits.
2.48  Under the community upgrading component, user fees would be charged for water
supply, piped sewage, public toilets, refuse collection, and street lighting (the latter
through the electricity tariff). The same cost recovery policies described above would be
applied. The MAs have agreed to cover the O&M costs of roads and storn drains
through increased property tax collections. During negotiations, the Government and the
MAs agreed to implement the above cost recovery policies.



25
3. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A.   INSTITUTIONAL ARRANGEMENTS
3.1   The Ministry of Local Government and Rural Development (MLGRD) would be
the lead sector Ministry for the project. MLGRD would head the Project Coordination
Committee which would include representatives of MWH, the five MAs, and EPA.
MLGRD's existing Local Government Support Unit (LGSU) would oversee the
implementation of the project. The project would finance two professional contract
positions to boost the capacity of the LGSU. These personnel would focus on the
formulation and implementation of environrnental sanitation policies, assist in
coordinating the capacity-building activities of the project, and participate in supervision
of implementation.
3.2   The Technical Services Centre (TSC), a unit of the Ministry of Works and
Housing, would assist MLGRD with monitoring, accounting, procurement, and contract
management. TSC has served as the implementing agency for several Bank-funded
projects, including two currently under implementation (Urban II and Local Government
Development). TSC originally was staffed entirely by civil servants, but recently it has
been developing a mixed staff from government and the private sector. It combines some
of the better features of a well-functioning public sector agency (a small staff that focuses
on managing contracts with private providers of most services) with those of a more
efficient private organization (use of privately contracted staff for better performnance and
flexibility). The professional staff of TSC, totaling 1 1, currently consists of two civil
engineers, two architects, one quantity surveyor, one planner, one procurement specialist,
and four accounting/administrative staff. At appraisal it was determined that TSC would
require three more professional contract staff to handle the additional workload imposed
by UESP. These positions and some logistical support are to be funded under the project.
3.3   MLGRD, assisted by TSC, would manage the implementation of the project's
larger and more complex components (storm drainage, landfills, project-wide capacity
building). To build capacity at the local government level, the Metropolitan and
Municipal Assemblies would implement a number of the small and medium sized
components (e.g., community upgrading and on-site sanitation). The MAs would sign
contracts for the components under their responsibility and would take the lead in
handling procurement, contract supervision, and financial management for their
components. TSC would help train the MAs to perform these functions and would
support them during the initial "learning period" of actual implementation. All the MAs
have Technical Departments which would be strengthened. Accra and Kumasi already
have Waste Management Departments (WMDs), and the other three cities have smaller
waste units which would be upgraded.
3.4   Each MA would be required to put in place a core team of five or six persons
consisting of engineers, technicians, accountants, and support staff. The project would
finance three contract staff positions for each city to bolster the capacity of the core



26
teams. At negotiations, the Government and the MAs agreed to fill the three contract
staff positions with qualified persons. The other members would be drawn from the
MAs' existing staffs. In most cases the MAs will provide an engineer, a technician, and a
bookkeeper. The MAs would be required to have all contract staff in place as a condition
of effectiveness,
3.5   The allocation of implementation responsibilities between central government
(MLGRD assisted by TSC) and the Metropolitan and Municipal Assemblies would be as
follows:
Central Government:
Civil Worka
Storm Drainage
Sanitary Landfills/Septage Treatment Facilities
Large-Scale Piped Sewage
Procurement of Vehicles and Equipment
Heavy Equipment for Waste Disposal
Vehicles and Equipment for Institutional Strengthening
Consultancy Services
Design and Supervision of Works
Project-Wide Technical Assistance and Training
Metropolitan and Municipal Assemblies:
Civil Works
Community Infrastructure Upgrading
(roads, footpaths, drains, sanitation, solid waste collection, street
lighting)
Household Sanitation Facilities
Public and School Sanitation Facilities
Septage Treatment Facilities, Other Small Sanitation Facilities
Consultancy Services
Local-Level Technical Assistance and Training
Local-Level Design and Supervision of Works
Operations
Solid Waste Collection (Private)
3.6   The relationship between MLGRD and TSC was formalized in a Memorandum of
Understanding signed by the respective Ministers.



27
3.7   The obligations of the MAs under the project would be formalized through grant
agreements to be signed by the Ministry of Finance, MLGRD, and each of the MAs. The
agreements would cover the MAs' responsibilities to sign contracts, provide counterpart
funding from their own resources, allocate funds for O&M, establish Waste Management
Departments, provide adequate staff, perform financial accounting and reporting, and
comply with procurement and audit requirements. The content and form of the
agreements were agreed at negotiations. The signing of the grant agreements would be a
condition of credit effectiveness.
3.8   The World Bank's experience in Ghana with local contractors has been generally
good. There is a sufficient number of qualified contractors to handle the contracts under
the project, including civil works and the operation of sanitation services. Ghana has
numerous civil engineering companies which have a good track record of performance
under IDA-financed projects. Private firms also have been active in the sanitation sector.
The city of Tema, for example, has successfully managed contracts with several private
companies to collect solid waste in its planned residential areas for the past five years. In
1994, the city of Accra began a pilot solid waste collection contract with a private firm.
Private septage hauling companies have been in existence for some time, mainly
servicing non-government clients.
B.   OPERATIONAL PLANS AND MANUALS
3.9   A Project Implementation Schedule appears in Annex 4. This SAR contains most
of the other elements of the Project Implementation Plan: organizational arrangements for
implementation (see above), a disbursement schedule (Annex 5), risk factors (Chapter 4),
and monitoring and performance indicators (Annex 3). These elements plus two others--
a procurement schedule and an auditing timetable--would be put together to form the
complete Plan.
3.10  TSC would oversee the preparation of a Project Implementation Manual covering
procurement, contract management, financial record-keeping, and disbursements. IhX
Manual. which would also contain the Project Implementation Plan. satisfactory to IDA,
would be adopted prior to credit effectiveness for use by staff of MLGRD, TSC and the
MA&
C.   REPORTING, MONITORING, AND REVIEW
3.11  In the period leading up to credit effectiveness, the existing computer-based
project progress reporting system used by TSC would be adapted and extended for use by
the five MAs. Staff of the MAs would be specially trained to operate the reporting
system. During negotiations, the MAs agreed to provide data on locally implemented
components within 14 days of the end of each quarter to TSC. TSC agreed to combine
this information with its own data on the centrally implemented components to produce



28
consolidated quarterly progress reports. These would be submitted to the Project
Coordination Committee and IDA. The progress reports would cover the status of each
civil works contract, the status and timing of procurement steps for each contract,
implementation of technical assistance and training activities, funds committed against
funds budgeted by sub-project, funds disbursed by sub-project, the status of all bank
accounts, cost recovery for services, and general municipal finances. The progress
reports would also contain action plans for each component for the coming 12 months,
updated each quarter.
3.12  Special monitoring mechanisms would be put in place to assess the effectiveness
and efficiency of (a) solid waste collection, (b) solid waste disposal, (c) the operation of
the household, neighborhood, and school sanitation programs, and (d) the operation of
treatment facilities. Monitoring and performance indicators for the project are shown in
Annex 3.
3.13 During negotiations, the Government agreed that the mid-term review of the
project would occur by September, 1999. This would be a joint exercise of the
Government, the MAs, and IDA designed both as an assessment of past experience and a
forward-looking analysis of any changes or remedial actions that may be needed to
achieve the project's objectives. The mid-term review would cover the project's
components, implementation arrangements, and financing mechanisms, including
specifically (a) the progress of physical implementation of infrastructure improvements,
(b) the timeliness and efficiency of procurement of works, goods, and consultancy
services, (c) the effectiveness and impact of technical assistance and training at the
central and local levels, (d) the operation and maintenance components, especially the
privatized solid waste collection, (e) the extent to which the MAs have maintained
adequate staffing for the project, and (f) performance of the Government and MAs in
making counterpart funds available. In addition to the mid-term review, annual joint
implementation reviews would be carried out based on the monitoring and performance
indicaos
D.   PROCUREMENT
3.14  A procurement schedule for key contracts, showing the major milestones, appears
in Annex 13. A more detailed procurement schedule would be prepared as part of the
Project Implementation Plan (see para. 3.9) to be completed prior to credit effectiveness.
The capability of the implementing agencies is discussed in Section A above (see
especially para. 3.2). An agreement is in place with the Government of Ghana (dated
June 1993) regarding time limits for procurement processing for civil works and goods.
Table 4 summarizes the project components, their estimated costs, and proposed methods
of procurement. At negotiations, agreement was reached on limits to procurement
processing time for the various categories of procurement.



29
Table 4: Procurement Method
PROJECT ELEMENT             Procurement Method  N.B.F. TOTAL
ICB NCB OTHER
1 Civil Works                    42.99  20.44    3.74   --    67.18
(IDA)                       (37.26) (16.20)  (1.38)      (54.83)
2 Equipment and Vehicles          2.88  --       0.20    0.14   3.22
(IDA)                        (2.88)         (0.20)         (3.08)
3 Consulting Services             --    --      11.17    3.87  15.04
(IDA)                                      (11.17)        (11.17)
4 Operating & Maintenance Costs    --    --      3.83   --     3.83
(IDA)                                       (1.92)         (1.92)
TOTAL               45.87  20.44   18.95    4.01  89.27
(Of which IDA)         (40.14) (16.20) (14.66)  (0.00 (71.00)
Civil Works
3.15  The main civil works components of the project would be (a) primary and
secondary drainage, (b) solid and liquid waste disposal facilities, and (c) community
infrastructure upgrading. The storm drainage works for Accra and Kumasi and the solid
waste disposal facilities for Kumasi, Sekondi-Takoradi, and Tamale are likely to be
attractive to foreign bidders and would be tendered through International Competitive
Bidding (ICB) procedures. These have an estimated total value of about US$43 million
equivalent. The drainage works for Accra (about US$21 m.) would be divided in two
packages: one for the Odaw primary drain and one for secondary drains. The Kumasi
drainage works (about US$10 m.) would be packaged in one contract. There would
probably be three contracts (one per city) for the solid waste facilities (about US$12 m.
total). Eligible domestic contractors bidding for civil works under ICB would receive a
7.5 percent margin of preference in bid evaluation in accordance with the provisions of
the IDA Procurement Guidelines of January 1995.
3.16 The community infrastructure upgrading subprojects for Accra, Kumasi, and
Sekondi-Takoradi, totaling about US$14 million, would be tendered through National
Competitive Bidding (NCB) under procedures acceptable to IDA. Because of the number
of contracts, the type of work, and the location (in dense, lower-income communities), it
is unlikely that these works would be attractive to foreign contractors (though they would
not be precluded from bidding). Septage treatment facilities, sewerage rehabilitation
works, on-site sanitation facilities, and related works, whose value totals about US$6
million, also would be packaged into contracts suitable for NCB competition by local
firms. In the project as a whole, works estimated to cost up to US$2.0 million per
contract, up to an aggregate of US$16.2 million, would be procured through NCB
procedures. Experience from previous projects confirns that that there are a sufficient
number of competent local and locally-based foreign bidders to provide effective
competition for these types of works. International contractors, some of which are based



30
in Ghana, would be eligible to bid for these works both individually and/or in joint
venture with local firns.
3.17  The household sanitation program (US$3.7 m.) would consist of many very small
contracts. These would be managed by a local consultant in each city working under the
MA's Waste Management Department. The consultants would select small community
contractors, through an acceptable procedure, who would submit proposals for small
packages of latrine works. Individual contracts would not exceed US$ 10,000. A detailed
explanation of the mechanism appears in Annex 8 (Sanitation Component). The
household sanitation program meets the criteria for "community participation in
procurement" under the World Bank guidelines, as it involves (a) the use of artisans from
the local communities and (b) the application of labor-intensive techniques and
beneficiary labor. The program is classified under "other" procurement in Table 4.
Goods
3.18 Goods financed under the project would include landfill equipment (bulldozers
and front loaders), light vehicles, computers, and miscellaneous equipment for
implementing agencies. The total value of goods is estimated at about US$3.2 million
equivalent. ICB procedures would be used for the heavy equipment, vehicles, and some
office equipment, for a total of about US$2.9 million. About $0.14 m. of equipment
would be financed through the Nordic Development Fund. National shopping and/or the
use of the Inter-Agency Procurement Services Office (IAPSO) of UNDP may be used for
off-the-shelf individual items such as vehicles or computers for contracts not exceeding
US$50,000 each. The total value of goods procured through shopping would not exceed
US$500,000. All goods imported into Ghana would be subject to pre-shipment
inspection for quality, quantity, and customs duty verification (but not price verification
for goods procured under ICB).
Consulting Services
3.19  Consultants financed by IDA, totaling about US$11 million equivalent, would be
contracted in accordance with IDA's Guidelines for the Use of Consultants. The
consultancy services required under the project would be for preparation of designs,
environmental studies and bid documents, works supervision, project management, and
capacity-building. The procurement of consultants would be done using the World
Bank's Standard Letter of Invitation and Standard Consultant Contracts.
Bank Review
3.20 Prior review by IDA would be required for procurement of works which exceed
US$1 million equivalent; for procurement of goods which exceed US$200,000
equivalent; for procurement of services of consulting firms which exceed US$100,000
equivalent; and for procurement of services of individual consultants which exceed
US$50,000 equivalent. Prior review for consultant contracts would apply without
exception to single-source contracts or assignments of a critical nature. Prior review



31
would cover approximately 70 percent of the total value of contracts financed by IDA.
All bidding documents for ICB will be based on the World Bank's Standard Bidding
Documents for each type of ICB procurement.
E.    DISBURSEMENT
3.21  The project would be disbursed over a period of six years, from about July 1,
1996 to June 1, 2002. This is consistent with the standard disbursement profile for urban
projects in Ghana. Disbursements are expected to occur as planned because the
Technical Services Centre has had extensive involvement as an implementing agency for
Bank-financed projects. One of TSC's main tasks would be to assist the Metro and
Municipal Assemblies to manage their components of the project. A disbursement
schedule appears in Annex 5.
3.22  The IDA credit would be disbursed against the following categones:
Table 5: Allocation and Disbursement of IDA Credit
Amount of Credit    % of Expenditure to be
Category             (USS million)        Financed by IDA
1. Civil Works                    49.85       100% of foreign expenditures
75% of local expenditures
2. Vehicles, Equipment and Spare   3.08       100% of foreign expenditures
Parts                                        90% of local expenditures
3. Consultant and TA Services,     9.25       100% of total expenditures
Studies & Training
4. Operations
(a) Refuse Collection         1.92       75% of total expenditures up
to June 30, 1999; 50% of total
expenditures up to June 30,
2001; and 25% thereafter
(b) Others                    0.42       90% of total expenditures
5. Refunding of PPF                1.50       (see DCA Section 2.02(d))
6. Unallocated                     4.98
TOTAL                       71.00
3.23 During negotiations it was agreed that MLGRD and TSC would operate a project
account in Cedis which would carry the counterpart funding by the Government, and that
each MA would operate a Project Subaccount to be replenished quarterly from the Project
Account. To facilitate project implementation, Government would open a Special
Account in US dollars in a commercial bank acceptable to IDA. The authorized
allocation would amount to US$3.0 million and would cover four months of eligible
expenditures. Once the Special Account is opened, an amount of US$1.5 million,
representing 50 percent of the authorized allocation, would be deposited in it. The



32
remaining balance would be made available when needed. The Special Account would
be for payments below US$300,000 equivalent.
3.24  In order to facilitate payments to be made by the five participating MAs for small
contracts, each MA would open an Advance Account in US dollars at the branch of a
commercial bank, acceptable to IDA, preferably at the branch of the bank which carries
the Special Account. Once the initial deposit has been made into the Special Account, a
transfer would be made from the Special Account to the Advance Accounts of the
participating MAs amounting to US$200,000 for Accra, Kumasi, and Shama-Ahanta East
and US$ 100,000 for Tema and Tamale. MAs would replenish these Advance Accounts
monthly from the Special Account by submitting fully documented requests to TSC. The
latter will, in turn, replenish the Special Account monthly from the Credit Account. TSC
will provide guidance to the MAs on disbursements as needed and ensure that proper
accounting records are maintained by each MA.
3.25 Replenishment applications would be submitted monthly by TSC. The
applications would include details which clearly identify the amounts withdrawn for each
MA from the Special Account. All replenishment requests would be fully documented
except for: (a) contracts of less than: US$500,000 equivalent for civil works, US$200,000
equivalent for goods, US$ 100,000 equivalent for the services of consulting firms, and
US$50,000 equivalent for consulting services by individuals; and (b) operating costs
which may be claimed on the basis of the Statements of Expenditure (SOEs). All
supporting documentation for SOEs would be retained by TSC for review by periodic
Bank supervision missions and external auditors.
F.   ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING
3.26 TSC and the five Metropolitan or Municipal Assemblies would establish and
maintain project-related financial accounts for all components. At negotiations,
Government and the MAs agreed to the following financial record-keeping and auditing
requirements of the project, with accounts maintained in accordance with sound and
internationally recognized accounting principles and practices satisfactory to the Bank.
Each of the five MAs would prepare annual statements of account and annual audit
reports covering the project components for which they are responsible. These reports
would be submitted not later than three months from the end of the financial year. TSC
would consolidate the MAs' financial and audit reports with its own annual financial
statements reflecting the financial performance and position of the project as a whole. An
independent auditor's opinion and report satisfactory to IDA on such statements would be
provided within six months of the close of the fiscal year. Special accounts and SOEs
would be included in the audit and specifically addressed in the audit report. The
auditor's report would also include a statement on the adequacy or otherwise of the
accounting system and internal controls, the reliability of statements of expenditures as a
basis for credit disbursements, and compliance with financial covenants. The foregoing
accounting, financial reporting, and auditing arrangements should provide adequate and
timely information to IDA for supervision of the project.



33
4. JUSTIFICATION, IMPACTS AND RISKS
A.    BENEFITS
Health, Productivity, and Well-Being
4.1   The project's improvements in drainage, sanitation, and waste management would
contribute to better health and thereby raise the productivity of urban residents, especially
the poor, in the five cities. The infant mortality rate in Ghana has dropped by about 25
percent in the past 20 years, but it still remains high at 79 per 1,000 live births. Diarrhea
is a major cause of death and disease, with around two to three episodes per child per
year. Intestinal worms also exact their toll, particularly among children, for whom ascaris
is an important contributor to malnutrition and hookworm an important factor in anemia.
Both diarrhea and worn infections directly affect a child's health status and his/her
susceptibility to other diseases. Malaria, responsible for some 800,000 deaths annually in
Sub-Saharan Africa, appears to be staging a resurgence in Ghana because the parasite is
developing a resistance to chloroquine and other anti-malarial drugs, and because its
normnally rural or coastal habitats are being spread by urbanization.
4.2   Poverty is the main predictor of urban morbidity and mortality. Water, sanitation,
food, shelter, hygiene, medical care, and education all play a part in determining
susceptibility to disease. It has been clearly established that the prevention of diarrhea,
the reduction in children's worm loads, and the elimination of habitat for mosquitoes and
other pests requires improved water supply, sanitation, drainage, solid waste collection,
and personal hygiene. However, the health benefits of infrastructure interventions
typically are not quantifiable due to the methodological problems of attributing outcomes
to various separate factors.
4.3   Sanitation: In Ghana's five major cities, about 40 percent of the population pay
to use public latrines that are unclean, inconvenient and lack privacy; 15 percent use
bucket latrines which have been banned because of the health hazard to conservancy
workers; 40 percent use household water closets that usually overflow to street drains;
and 5 percent use traditional or improved pit latrines. In addition, few schools have
operational sanitation facilities, and few children are taught or allowed to use public
facilities. At present, most of fecal waste generated in Ghana's urban centers is
discharged untreated into city streets and drains.
4.4   The sanitation component would provide about 5,500 household, 300 school and
65 public sanitation facilities in the five participating cities, from which some 400,000
people would benefit. While this represents only 15 to 20 percent of the total number of
potential beneficiaries, the project would also lay the foundation for reversing the trend in
environmental health degradation by establishing the public and private support
structures needed to construct and maintain these facilities on a large scale. In the case of
school facilities, physical works would be complemented with teacher training in the use



34
of the facilities and practical ways to improve personal hygiene and encourage
environmental awareness among children. More generally, each of the cities would
benefit from a new septage treatment facility that would allow wastes from household
and public facilities to be properly disposed of rather than dumped into local street drains
and watercourses.
4.5   Solid Waste: Currently only about half of the solid waste generated within
Ghana's five largest cities is collected and disposed in dumps outside neighborhoods.
The project would support measures to improve the efficiency and coverage of solid
waste collection through private contracting, thereby removing a greater share of the
waste from neighborhoods, storm drains, and local watercourses. At appraisal it was too
early to make quantitative estimates of the impact of these interventions because studies
of collection zones and applicable technology were still ongoing. The project would also
finance new sanitary landfills in three cities, which would replace the existing, nearly
exhausted dump sites, provide environmentally safe disposal, and permit the elimination
of many neighborhood refuse dumps. These measures would eliminate breeding grounds
for pests (rats, flies and cockroaches) and focal points for excreta related diseases (as
many people, especially children, use local dump sites for defecation).
4.6   Drainage: The health dimensions of poor drainage range from nuisances such as
bad odors to serious problems like excreta-related diseases, malaria, schistosomiasis, and
filariasis. The project would finance major investments in primary and secondary
drainage in Accra and Kumasi. These would improve the functioning of tertiary drainage
networks in extensive, densely built up areas.
Flood Abatement
4.7   The project's primary and secondary storm drainage improvements (35 percent of
total project costs) aim to reduce the incidence and severity of flooding in dense, flood-
prone central city areas. Apart from their contributions to improved health, the drainage
works would generate other economic benefits in the form of (a) reduced damage to
properties, (b) increased industrial and commercial turnover, (c) reduced losses of
contents of structures, (d) reduced damage to infrastructure, and (e) fewer traffic
disruptions resulting in reduced time losses and lower vehicle operating costs. In Accra,
the project would have an immediate impact on some 1,300 properties housing at least
17,000 people which are flooded nearly every year. It would also benefit several
thousand other structures which are flooded within 5 to 10 year cycles. Moreover, it
would provide large benefits to 71 industrial properties that are flooded within a 15-year
period and 98 industries that would be affected by a major 50-year event. In Kumasi, the
project would directly benefit 1,290 shops and around 25,000 traders in the Central
Market and nearby areas which experience five year cycle floods.
4.8   Economic rates of return using the above types of benefits show that the drainage
investments would be amply justified. ERRs have been calculated for the Kumasi and



35
Accra drainage works. Results are summarized in Annex 6. The Kumasi estimates were
carried out in late 1995 as part of preliminary design work, with benefits quantified for
the first three categories mentioned above. The ERRs for Kumasi drainage are 48 percent
for the full improvement scheme and 36 percent for the prioritized improvement scheme
(which has somewhat lower capital costs, higher maintenance costs, and slightly lower
benefits). The net present values of these schemes using a 12 percent discount rate are
US$31.8 million and US$26.9 million respectively. The ERRs for Accra come from the
1991 drainage master plan studies, upon which the UESP investments are based (new
preliminary engineering studies are currently underway, and these will include an updated
economic analysis). The ERRs for Accra, using the first three benefits categories
mentioned above, are 43 percent for the Odaw channel enlargement and 32 percent for
the Priority I secondary drains. Net present values using a 10 percent discount rate are
Cedis 6.3 billion and Cedis 5.9 billion respectively (1991 values).
Cost Effectiveness
4.9    Cost effectiveness has been a major consideration in the choice of technologies
for the project. Of the US$8.7 million allocated for sanitation in the project, 79 percent
(US$6.9 m.) is devoted to household sanitation with VIP latrines and on-site sanitation
facilities in schools and commercial areas. VIP latrines, which cost US$20 to US$60 per
capita, are clearly the least-cost solution for medium-density areas. Simplified piped
sewerage in similar areas would cost at least twice as much. The financing of public
toilet facilities (using the VIP or aquaprivy system) in commercial areas is justified by the
eligibility criteria: only those facilities that can operate on a commercial basis (full cost
recovery) would be financed. The school facilities (also multi-unit VIPs) are justified by
the fact that most children tend not to use public facilities and lack access to a household
facility. For solid waste disposal, the selected technology is landfill, which is the lowest-
cost, environmentally acceptable method. Landfill costs roughly US$3-5 per metric ton,
compared with tidal land reclamation ($5-15/m.t.), composting ($5-20/m.t.), and
incineration ($40-60/m.t.). Composting is often thought to be financially viable, but
experience in Ghana and similar countries shows that it is not, due to insufficient
demand.
4.10   The assistance to be provided under the project for privatized solid waste
collection is expected to increase the efficiency of this service. No precise data are
available on the actual costs per ton of solid waste collection in Ghana's main cities.
However, the low efficiency of present services is evident in low utilization rates of
municipal collection equipment, overstaffing, and cumbersome procedures. Data from
other countries suggests that competition encourages the public sector to significantly
improve its efficiency and to lower costs. Monitoring systems will be introduced under
the project to quantify the performance of traditional public sector collection as compared
with private contractors.



36
Institutional Performance
4.11   Strengthening of the MAs' institutional and financial capacity to operate and
maintain facilities would prolong their useful life and save on repair and rehabilitation
costs. The project's support for improved local revenue mobilization, cost recovery
through user fees, and capacity building for financial management would provide more
resources for the provision of basic infrastructure and services and help reduce the MAs'
reliance on the central government budget. Greater local government self-reliance and
better financial management would establish a basis for multi-year planning and
budgeting, which would help to make the use of scarce resources more efficient.
B.    POVERTY IMPACT
4.12  The project's improvements in urban drainage, sanitation, and solid waste services
would benefit all income groups in the participating cities, which have a total population
of about 3.1 million. Because the urban poor in Ghana suffer disproportionately from ill
health, mortality, and low productivity caused by inadequate environmental sanitation,
systematic improvements in the provision of these services would provide substantial
benefits to the poor. About 30 percent of the project's total cost would cover components
that specifically target the poor (community infrastructure upgrading, low-cost sanitation)
or from which the poor are more likely to benefit than the overall population (solid waste
collection). The community upgrading component would directly benefit about 265,000
residents of predominantly low-income urban communities which have severe
deficiencies of basic infrastructure (see Chapter 1). A 1991 survey found that average
household income levels in the selected communities in Accra were about equal to or
only slightly above the 1992 "poverty line" for Ghana as a whole. The sanitation
component would provide better services (new household latrines, new and improved
public toilets) to around 400,000 additional lower-income urban dwellers.
C.   ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT
4.13 Following consultations with the Regional Environmental Division (AFTES), the
project was assigned a "B" environmental category. In general the project would improve
environmental conditions in urban areas by providing for safer removal, treatment, and
disposal of liquid and solid wastes. The main environmental issues involve protection of
ground and surface water from contamination by sewage, septage, and refuse leachate.
Environmental impact assessments are being carried out as part of the design of the
drainage works, sanitary landfills, and liquid waste treatment facilities. Treatment and
disposal facilities as well as any drainage outfalls would incorporate design features for
mitigating risks to ground and surface waters. Local residents have been or are being
consulted regarding site selection. Sites are located away from built-up urban areas.
Topographic and geophysical studies are being done to confirm the environmental
suitability of the sites. The preliminary design studies for primary drainage and



37
community upgrading include assessments of any relocation that may be needed.
Relocation can largely be avoided by seeking drainage and road alignments that do not
displace people. If any relocation is needed, it is expected to be small. World Bank
guidelines on participation and compensation would be followed.
D.   RISKS
4.14  Project implementatiQoncould be delayed by the weak capacity of the
Metropolitan and Municipal Assemblies. Sanitation, refuse and drainage are most
efficiently managed at the local government level. Thus, the incorporation of the MAs as
implementing agencies is an essential objective, in order to build their capacity to assume
responsibility for these services. Under Ghana's emerging sanitation and waste
management policies (see Letter of Sector Policy, Annex 1), the MAs would increasingly
manage the work of private contractors who are to be responsible for the direct provision
of most infrastructure and services. This means that the MAs would be moving toward
smaller, more professional staffs compatible with a focus on planning, coordination, and
supervisory functions. The project would attempt to minimize the risks associated with
the MAs' weak capacity by (a) limiting the numbers and sizes of components that each
MA would manage, (b) requiring each MA to have a basic core staff assigned to the
project, (c) providing support for the hiring of contractors to help with technical and
financial tasks, (d) ensuring that the central implementing agency supervises and
monitors the MAs adequately, and (e) providing substantial training to the MAs' officials
and staff. An implementation delay of one or two years would not jeopardize the benefits
of the investments.
4.15  There is a risk that counterpart fund may not be available as required, either from
the central government or the MAs. While this has not been a serious problem in past
IDA-supported urban projects, it continues to be a general issue for the IDA portfolio. It
would be addressed by keeping the required counterpart fund contribution modest (10
percent for the GOG and 3.9 percent for the MAs as a group). The GOG and MAs'
combined contribution would reach a maximum of US$ 3 to 4 million per year during the
three peak years of project implementation. This represents only about 1.3 to 1.8 percent
of the national 1996 development budget.
4.16  The project's impact could be reduced if cost recovery and general local revenue
mobilization are not implemented effectively, resulting in inadequate funding of
operation and maintenance. Household, school, and public sanitation facilities pose a low
risk, as these will be provided on a demand basis and will depend largely on direct user
maintenance (except public facilities which will be operated on franchise). Drainage also
has a low risk of maintenance failure. Sensitivity analysis (see Annex 6) indicates that
primary and secondary drainage would provide high economic benefits even if
maintenance is well below the optimum. This probably applies also to the sanitary
landfill facilities, whose ideal O&M costs are considerable. The septage treatment
facilities would be simple, modest-sized stabilization ponds with O&M costs are
relatively small and easily absorbed by the cities' budgets. The risk of inadequate O&M



38
funding is being addressed through (a) a credit covenant requiring the MAs to allocate
O&M funds to separate program budget lines for waste management and drainage, (b) an
intensive effort to build ownership of the project on the part of the Metropolitan and
Municipal Assemblies during preparation and up to effectiveness, and (c) the provision of
a considerable amount of capacity-building relating to O&M during implementation.



39
5. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND
RECOMMENDATION
A.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AT NEGOTIATIONS
5.1   Government and IDA agreed on the content and form of grant agreements to be
signed between the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Local Government and Rural
Development, and each of the MAs dealing with the latters' obligations under the project
(para. 3.7).
5.2   Government agreed to require the MAs to allocate, as of the third year of
implementation, appropriate amounts to be agreed with IDA each year in separate budget
lines for waste management and drain maintenance (para 2.36).
5.3   Government agreed to open and maintain a Project Account and cause the MAs to
open and maintain Project Subaccounts to be replenished quarterly from the Project
Account (para 3.23).
5.4   Government agreed to prepare and furnish to IDA quarterly progress reports based
on monitoring and performance indicators. The MAs would provide the necessary
information to TSC within 14 days of the end of each quarter (para 3.1 1).
5.5   Government agreed to hold annual joint project implementation reviews involving
MLGRD, MFEP, TSC, the five MAs and IDA. These reviews would cover physical
implementation, institutional issues, procurement, disbursements, and progress toward
development objectives (para. 3.13).
5.6   Government agreed to submit to IDA, within six months of the end of each
financial year, the financial statements of the special accounts, project accounts, and
SOEs for the preceding calendar year audited by an independent auditor acceptable to
IDA. The MAs would submit to TSC their financial statements and audited accounts for
the preceding calendar year by March 31 st each year (para. 3.26).
5.7   Governnent agreed to hold a mid-term review by September, 1999 to (a) evaluate
progress toward meeting the project's objectives, (b) assess project management and
performance against agreed indicators, and (c) agree on any needed corrective actions
(para. 3.13).
5.8   Government agreed to provide sufficient budgetary allocations to MWHI/TSC,
MLGRD, and the MAs (through the District Assemblies Common Fund and the regular
budget) and disburse these funds quarterly into the project accounts based on
disbursement estimates agreed with IDA annually (para. 2.45).
5.9   Government agreed to ensure that the MAs would fill the Project Coordinator,
Project Sanitary Engineer, and Project Accountant positions with qualified persons



40
acceptable to IDA and to obtain IDA's no objection in case any substitutions in these
positions are needed during project implementation (para. 3.4).
5.10 Government and the MAs agreed to implement cost recovery policies for waste
management as described in paras. 2.47 and 2.48.
5.11 Government and the MAs agreed on limits of procurement processing time for the
various categories of procurement (para. 3.14).
B.   CONDITION OF BOARD PRESENTATION
5.12 Government has submitted to IDA the signed Letter of Sector Policy dated
January 18, 1996 (para 1.29).
C.   CONDITIONS OF EFFECTIVENESS
5.13 Government would adopt the Project Implementation Manual (para. 3.10).
5. 14 MF, MLGRD and each of the MAs would have executed the grant agreements
referred to in para. 5.3 above (para. 3.7).
5.15  Government would issue a directive satisfactory to IDA requiring the MAs to
establish separate budget lines for waste management operations, including solid waste
collection and disposal and liquid waste management, and for the maintenance of storm
drains (para. 2.36).
5.16 Government would make an initial deposit of counterpart funds into the main
project account and into each of the five MAs' sub-project accounts (para. 2.45).
5.17 Govermnent would have caused each of the MAs to have hired persons acceptable
to IDA to fill the Project Coordinator, Project Sanitary Engineer, and Project Accountant
positions (para. 3.4).
D.   CONDITION OF DISBURSEMENT
5.18 No disbursements of funds from the credit would be made for civil works for any
solid waste disposal or septage treatment facility in each city unless Govermnent provides
documentation showing that land for the facility in the city has been acquired in a manner
satisfactory to IDA (para. 2.18).
E.   RECOMMENDATION
5.19  With the above agreements and actions, the proposed project would be suitable
for an IDA credit of SDR 47.8 million (US$ 71.0 million equivalent) to the Republic of
Ghana.



41                                 Annex I
Page 1 of 4
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
URBAN ENVIRONMENTAL SANITATION PROJECT
Ministry of Local Government and Rural Development
Letter of Sector Policy
January 18, 1996
The Director
West Central Africa Department
World Bank
Washington, DC U.S.A.
Environmental sanitation is an essential component of the health, productivity,
and welfare of the Ghanaian population. Inadequate drainage, solid waste management,
and disposal of liquid wastes interact to cause major problems, especially in urban
centers. The Government's ten year (1991-2000) National Environmental Action Plan
(NEAP) highlights sanitation and waste disposal as major issues. The NEAP calls for the
implementation of urban waste management and sanitation projects as a top priority; the
improvement of urban drainage in coastal cities; and the establishment and
implementation of environmental and health standards. However, environmental
sanitation has been treated as a relatively low priority in the allocation of national
development resources.
The Government of Ghana is taking steps to change this. One is the preparation
of an Environmental Sanitation Policy (ESP), drafted earlier this year by the Ministry of
Local Government and Rural Development (MLGRD). The draft ESP is now being
reviewed by other government bodies. Another initiative is the preparation of an Urban
Environmental Sanitation Project (UESP), to be financed in part by the World Bank,
which is expected to commence in 1996.
The ESP provides the framework for accelerated development of the
environmental sanitation subsector. The national goal of the policy is the development
and maintenance of a sound and sanitary environment in all communities in order to
promote the social and economic well-being of the population. The objectives that will
lead toward this goal are:
a) Recognition of the environmental sanitation sub-sector as one of the
categories of the national development program.



42                              Annex I
Page 2 of 4
b) Establishment of adequate institutional structures at all levels to deal with the
various aspects of environmental sanitation.
c) Strengthening and promoting the involvement of the private sector in the
delivery of environmental sanitation services.
d) Promoting the use of cost-effective, appropriate, affordable, and
environmentally friendly technologies for addressing environmental sanitation
problems.
e) Adoption of the cost recovery principle in the planning and management of
sanitation services.
f) Development of human resource capabilities to manage environmental
sanitation.
Environmental sanitation comprises storm drainage, waste collection and disposal
(including solid waste, sewage and septage, industrial wastes, and clinical wastes),
cleaning of public areas, pest control, food hygiene, hygiene education, and related
programs. The provision of environmental sanitation services is a legal responsibility of
the Metropolitan, Municipal, and District Assemblies. The Government will assist the
Assemblies in preparing sanitation plans for their areas. "Strategic sanitation plans"
dealing with sewage and septage already have been prepared for the five cities covered by
the UESP.
Assemblies will be encouraged to use a variety of technologies adapted to
different types of housing, commercial, or industrial facilities, densities, soil conditions,
user preferences and affordability. The intent is to move away from the use of
conventional solutions only, and to employ a range of proven technologies that address
the needs of all segments of the population. For example, options for household
sanitation include VIP latrines, septic tanks, simplified sewers, and conventional sewers.
Options for solid waste collection include communal "skip" containers, arm-roll
containers, compactor trucks, modified tippers, and small tractor-trailers for pre-
collection.
It is essential to mobilize the private sector in order to augment the resources
(financial, material and managerial) applied to environmental sanitation and to improve
the efficiency and sustainability of services. Private contractors have for some time been
hauling septage and have recently begun collecting solid waste in Accra and Tema. The
UESP will assist in improving and expanding these types of arrangements. The
Government's policy will be to facilitate the participation of private enterprises in
activities such as the management of sanitation facilities (through lease or franchise
contracts), the collection of septage (through private pumping truck services), the
maintenance of city-owned waste collection trucks, and the cleaning and maintenance of
drains.



Aex 1
43                           Page 3 of 4
Some services and facilities--including house-to-house waste collection and
public toilets in market areas--can be operated on a commercial basis, whether by the
public or private sectors. The policy will be to promote full cost recovery of such
services through user charges. Other services--such as communal waste collection or
piped sewerage--for which a willingness to pay exists, but not enough for full
commercialization, will be offered with user charges that cover at least the recurrent
costs, and if possible a portion of the capital costs. For those services that are public
goods--e.g. drainage--cost recovery will be through gerieral taxes and fees levied by the
Assemblies. As public funds are limited, the general policy will be to target subsidies as
much as possible to the lower-income segments of the population.
National standards and regulations for environmental sanitation shall be issued by
the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). The Assemblies, in the performance of
their functions, shall be guided by the EPA's norms. The Assemblies shall promulgate
their own by-laws as needed.
The present institutional capacity for setting policies, planning, monitoring, and
providing services in environmental sanitation is inadequate. Capacity-building will be
needed among the following:
a) The Ministry of Local Government and Rural Development, as the lead
Ministry for the sub-sector. MLGRD's Human Settlement and Environmental
Division will coordinate the provision of policy guidance and technical
assistance to local governments.
b) A national coordinating body for environmental sanitation policy, representing
allied government institutions, non-governmental organizations, and private
sector groups. Allied government institutions are the Ministries of
Environment, Science, and Technology (and its agencies); Works and
Housing; Roads and Highways; Education; and Health.
c) Waste Management Departments to be established in the Metropolitan and
Municipal Assemblies and Environmental Sanitation Departments to be
established in the District Assemblies. These will be responsible for local
planning, management, regulation, and provision of services--directly or
indirectly through private contractors.
d) Private enterprises and non-governmental organizations involved in the
provision of environmental sanitation services.



Annex 
44                               Page 4 of 4
In Accra, waste management services have been consolidated
under one Waste Management Department (WMD) to enable full
accountability for service performance and cost.   The UESP wi 11
assist  in  the  establishment  of  similarly  accountable  WMDs  in
Kumasi, Sekondi-Takoradi, Tema and Tamale. The adoption of this
institutional model in the five main cities involves the adoption
of by-laws enabling the WMD to generate revenues through direct
user charges, to retain and manage these revenues for the provision
of services, to directly pay the salaries of its staff and to
privatise selected aspects of its services.
Waste management services are severely underfunded at the
local government  level.   In many cases.  capital  investments  in
civil  works  and  equipment  have  outpaced  the  ability  of  the
Assemblies  to  cover  operation  and  mainrenance  costs.    The
Assemblies shall be encouraged to set aside increasing amounts
to meet the recurrent costs of waste management services and for
the upkeep of  facilities and equipment.   To help promote  such
sustainability,  the  Ministry  of  Local  Government  and  Rural
Development will require each of the five Assemblies participating
in the UESP to create a separate budget line for waste management
operations, including solid waste collection and disposal. liquid
waste management, and cleaning of storm drains.
(KWAMENA AHWOI)
HON. MINISTER FOR LOCAL GOVERNMENT
AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT



45
REPUBLIC OF GHANA                                        Annex 2
Page 1 of5
URBAN ENVIRONMENTAL SANITATION PROJECT
Detailed Cost and Financing Tables
Table 1: Detailed Project Costs
Base Cost      1ncl. Contingencies
Project Components                  (USS Million)                 (USS Million)
COMPONENTS T. BE IMPLEMENTED/                 Local  Foreign   Total    Local     Foreign     Total
|COMPONENTS TO BE IMPLEMENTED/I
PROCURED BY CENTRAL GOVERNMENT
A. Primary and Secondary
Drainage Works
- Accra                                    5.10    11.90   17.00      6.23      14.54      20.77
- Kumasi                                  2.43     5.67    8.10       2.97       6.93       9.90
- Sekondi-Takoradi                        0.15    0.35    0.50        0.18       0.43       0.61
B. Landfill & Septage Treatment Facilities
- Kumasi                                   1.56    3.64    5.20       1.89       4.40       6.28
- Sekondi-Takoradi                         0.98    2.28    3.25       1.18       2.75       3.93
- Tamale                                  0.53     1.23    1.75       0.63       1.48       2.12
C. Disposal Equipment
- Kumasi                                  0.00    0.86    0.86        0.00       0.91       0.91
- Sekondi-Takoradi                        0.00    0.45    0.45        0.00       0.48       0.48
- Tamale                                   0.00    0.25    0.25       0.00       0.27       0.27
D. Institutional Strengthening
- Ministry of Local Government             0.41    0.00    0.41       0.46       0.00       0.46
- Technical Services Center               0.72    0.00    0.72        0.80       0.00       0.80
- Project Wide Capacity Building           1.15    1.72    2.87       1.28       1.91       3.19
E. Vehicles & Equipment for Inst. Strengthening
- Vehicles (incl. Land Titling)            0.00    0.88    0.88       0.00       0.94       0.94
- Computers& Other                        0.22    0.22    0.43        0.23       0.23       0.46
F. Training                                    0.48    0.20    0.68        0.53       0.23       0.76
G. Design & Supervision                         1.07    1.61    2.68       1.18       1.76       2.94
H. Land Titling
- Consultants                             0.00    0.36    0.36        0.00       0.39       0.39
- Equipment                               0.00    0.16    0.16        0.00       0.17       0.17
1. Studies                                     0.25    0.25    0.50       0.27       0.27       0.55
BASE COST                                    15.03   32.02   47.05
Physical Contingencies                        1.07    2.51    3.58
Price Contingencies                           1.71    3.56    5.28
TOTAL CENTRAL GOVT.                     I  17.821  38.09   55.91       17.821     38.091     55.91]
COMPONENTS TO BE IMPLEMENTED BY                     ___
ACCRA METROPOILITAN ASSEMBLY
A. Community nfrastructure Upgrading            1.90    2.85    4.75       2.32       3.48       5.80
B. Household Sanitation Facilities             0.47    0.31    0.78        0.57       0.38       0.95
C. Public & School Sanitation Facilities       0.73    0.49    1.22        0.89       0.60       1.49
D. Septage Treatment Facility                  0.16    0.24    0.40        0.20       0.29       0.49
E. Design & Supervision                        0.55    0.00    0.55        0.60       0.00       0.60
F. Institutional Strengthening                 0.78    0.00    0.78       0.87       0.00       0.87
G. Solid Waste Collection                       1.00    0.00    1.00       1.11       0.00       1.11
BASE COST                                     5.591   3.89    9.48            l          l
Physical Contingencies                        0.33    0.39    0.72            l          l
Price Contingencies                           0.651   0.471    1.121          l 1                   l
TOTAL ACCRA                      6.56|   4.75  11.32        6.56j      4.75      11.32



46                                           Annex
Table 1: Detailed Project Costs (cont.)                    Page 2 of 5
Base Cost               Inl. Contingencies
Project Components                 (USS Million)               (USS Million)
Local  Foreign   Tobl    Local    Foreign     Total
COMPONENTS TO BE IMPLEMENTED BY
KUMASI METROPOLITAN ASSEMBLY
A. Community Infrastructure Upgrading         1.72    2.58    4.30      2.10      3.15       5.25
B. Household Sanitation Facilities           0.55    0.36    0.91       0.67      0.44       I.l1
C. Public & School Sanitation Facilities     0.40    0.26    0.66       0.48      0.32       0.81
D. Sewerage Rehabilitation                   0.12    0.08    0.20       0.15      0.10       0.24
E. Design & Supervision                      0.46    0.00    0.46       0.51      0.00       0.51
F. Institutional Strcngthening               0.78    0.00    0.78      0.87       0.00       0.87
G. Solid Waste Collection                    0.90    0.00    0.9        1.00      0.00       1.00
BASE COST                                   4.92    3.29    8.21
Physical Contingencies                      0.28    0.33    0.61
Price Contingencies                         0.58    0.40    0.98                         _ _
TOTAL KUMASI                j   5.78[      2    9.8(       5.78       4.02      9.801
COMPONENTS TO BE IMPLEMENTED BY
SEKONDI-TAKORADI METROPOLITAN
ASSEMBLY
A. Community Infrastructure Upgrading        1.05    1.58    2.63       1.29      1.93       3.21
B. Household Sanitation Facilities           0.32    0.22    0.54       0.40      0.26       0.66
C. Public & School Sanitation Facilities     0.26    0.18    0.44       0.32      0.22       0.54
D. Design & Supervision                      0.27    0.00    0.27       0.30      0.00       0.30
E. Institutional Strengthening               0.78    0.00    0.78       0.87      0.00       0.87
F. Solid Waste Collection                    0.70    0.00    0.70      0.78       0.00       0.78
BASE COST                                   3.39    1.97    5.36
Physical Contingencies                      0.16    0.20    0.36
Price Contingencies                         0.39    0.24    0.63.
TOTAL SEKOND1-TAKORADI              =-95    T.i [       .3j      3.95]      2.411      6.361
COMPONENTS TO BE IMPLEMENTFD BY
ITEMA MUNICIPAL ASSEMBLYII
A. Household Sanitation Facilities           0.18    0.12    0.3        0.22      0.15       0.37
B. Public & School Sanitation Facilities     0.04    0.02    0.0        0.04      0.03       0.07
C. Sewerage Rehabilitation                   0.20    0.30    0.50       0.24      0.37       0.61
D. Septage Treatment Facility                0.16    0.24    0.40       0.20      0.29       0.49
E. Community Water                           0.10    0.15    0.25       0.12      0.18       0.31
F. Design & Supervision                      0.12    0.00    0.12      0.13       0.00       0.13
G. Institutional Strengthening               0.78    0.00    0.78       0.87      0.00       0.87
H. Solid Waste Collection                    0.50    0.00    0.50       0.56      0.00       0.56
BASE COST                                   2.08    0.83    2. 91
Physical Contingencies                      0.07    0.08    0.15
Price Contingencies                         0.24    0.10    0.34           _         E         I
[i            TOTAL TEMA                      2.38    1       3.40      2.38       1.021      3.40A
l ~~~~~~~-                                  =          -      2.38   --____  l___
COMPONENTS TO BE IMPLEMENTED BY
rAMALE MUNICIPAL ASSEMRLY
A. Household Sanitation Facilities           0.32    0.21    0.53       0.39      0.26       0.65
||B. Public & School Sanitation Facilities   0.10    0.07    0.17       0.12      0.08       0.21
C. Abbatoir                                   0.10    0.15    0.25      0.12       0.18      0.31
D. Design & Supervision                      0.07    0.00    0.07       0.08      0.00       0.08
E. Institutional Strengthening               0.78    0.00    0.78      0.87       0.00       0.87
F. Solid Waste Collection                    0.35    0.00    0.35      0.39       0.00 o0.39
BASE COST                                   '                172     - -"4
Physical Contingencies                      0.05    0.04    0. 1                     l
Price Contingencies                         0.20    0.05    0.25          l          l         l
TOTAL TAMALE                     1.97    0.53    2.49      1.97       0.53|     2.49
TOTAL BASE COST                                    413 4.43   75.16                       -
TOTAL PHYSICAL CONTINGENCIES                1.96    3.55    5.51          ll
TOTAL PRICE CONTINGENCIES                   3.77    4.83    8.60          |          l         l
D_TOTAL PRO.JECT _        COST         _    38.461  50.81   89.27f     38.46f    50.811     89.27



47                                            Annex2
Page 3 of 5
Table 2: Detailed Project Financing
1l  _________   _________  Financing Plan (USS  Million)
Project Components              IDA       Other    Central   Metro/Nun  
l  Credit    Donors     Govt.    Assem.  I  Benef.     Total
FCOMPONENTS TO BE IMPLEMENTED/
PROCURED BY CENTRAL GOVERNMENT
A. Primary and Secondaryl
Drainage Worksl
- Accra                                    18.00      0.00      2.76       0.00      0.00     20.77
- Kumasi                                    8.57      0.00      1.32       0.00      0.00      9.90
- Sekondi-Takoradi                          0.53      0.00      0.09       0.00      0.00      0.61
B. Landfill & Septage Treatment Facilities
- Kumasi                                    5.45      0.00      0.84       0.00      0.00      6.28
- Sekondi-Takoradi                          3.40      0.00      0.53       0.00      0.00      3.93
- Tamale                                    1.83      0.00      0.29       0.00      0.00      2.12
C. Disposal Equipment
- Kumasi                                    0.91      0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00      0.91
- Sekondi-Takoradi                          0.48      0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00      0.48
- Tamale                                    0.27      0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00      0.27
D. Institutional Strengthening
- Ministry of Local Government              0.46      0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00      0.46
- Technical Services Center                 0.80      0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00      0.80
- Project Wide Capacity Building            0.00      3.19      0.00       0.00      0.00      3.19
E. Vehicles & Equipment for Inst. Strengthening
- Vehicles (incl. Land Titling)             0.84      0.09      0.00       0.00      0.00      0.94
- Computers & Other                         0.41      0.05      0.00       0.00      0.00      0.46
F. Training                                     0.08      0.68      0.00       0.00      0.00       0.76
G. Design & Supervision                         2.94       0.00      0.00      0.00       0.00      2.94
H. Land Titling
- Consultants                              0.39      0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00       0.39
- Equipment                                0.17      0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00       0.17
1. Studies                                      0.55      0.00      0.00      0.00       0.00      0.55
TOTAL CENTRAL GOVT.                    I    46.08|      4.01]     5.821      0.00|     0.00]    55.91
COMPONENTS TO BE IMPLEMENTED BY
ACCRA METROPOLITAN ASSEMBLY
A. Community Infrastructure Upgrading           4.46       0.00      0.77      0.58       0.00      5.80
B. Household Sanitation Facilities              0.35       0.00      0.13      0.00       0.48      0.95
C. Public & School Sanitation Facilities        1.29       0.00      0.20      0.00       0.00      1.49
D. Septage Treatment Facility                   0.42       0.00      0.06      0.00       0.00      0.49
E. Design & Supervision                         0.60      0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00       0.60
F. Institutional Strengthening                  0.87      0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00       0.87
G. Solid Waste Collection                       0.56       0.00      0.00      0.56       0.00      1.11
TOTAL ACCRA                        8.55      0.00      1.16       1.14      0.481    11.32



48                                            Annex 2
Page 4 of 5
Table 2: Detailed Project Financing (cont.)
Financing Plan (USS Million)
Project Components              IDA       Other     Central   Metro/Miun
Credit    Donon      Govt     Assem.     Benef.     Total
COMPONENTS TO BE IMPLEMENTED BY                                                                 :
KUMASI METROPOLITAN ASSEMBLYl
A. Community Infrastructure Upgrading            4.03      0.00      0.69       0.53       0.00      5.25
B. Household Sanitation Facilities               0.41      0.00      0.15       0.00      0.56       1.11
C. Public & School Sanitation Facilities         0.70      0.00      0.11       0.00      0.00       0.81
D. Sewerage Rehabilitation                       0.21      0.00      0.03       0.00      0.00       0.24
E. Design & Supervision                          0.51      0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00       0.51
F. Institutional Strengthening                   0.87      0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00       0.87
G. Solid Waste Collection                        0.50      0.00      0.00       0.50      0.00       1.00
TOTAL KUMASI                 l      7.231     0.001     0.981      1.031     0.56       9.801
COMPONENTS TO BE IMPLEMENTED BY
SEKONDI-TAKORADI METROPOLITAN
ASSEMBLY
A. Community Infrastructure Upgrading            2.47      0.00      0.42       0.32       0.00      3.21
B. Household Sanitation Facilities               0.24      0.00      0.09       0.00      0.33       0.66
C. Public & School Sanitation Facilities         0.47      0.00      0.07       0.00      0.00       0.54
D. Design & Supervision                          0.30      0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00       0.30
E. Institutional Strengthening                   0.87      0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00       0.87
F. Solid Waste Collection                       0.39       0.00      0.00       0.39      0.00       0.78
TOTAL SEKONDI-TAKORADI                    4.73       0.00      0.581     0.71       0.331     6.361
COMPONENTS TO BE IMPLEMENTED BY
TEMA MUNICIPAL ASSEMBLYlll
A. Household Sanitation Facilities               0.13      0.00      0.05       0.00      0.18       0.37
B. Public & School Sanitation Facilities         0.06      0.00      0.01       0.00      0.00       0.07
C. Sewerage Rehabilitation                       0.53      0.00      0.08       0.00      0.00       0.61
D. Septage Treatment Facility                    0.38      0.00      0.06       0.05      0.00       0.49
E. Community Water                               0.23      0.00      0.04       0.03      0.00       0.31
F. Design & Supervision                         0.13       0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00       0.13
G. Institutional Strengthening                   0.87      0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00       0.87
H. Solid Waste Collection                        0.28      0.00      0.00       0.28      0.00       0.56
TOTAL TEMA                        2.621      0.00      0.24                 0.18!     3.401
COMPONENTS TO BE IMPLEMENTED BY
TAMALE MUNICIPAL ASSEMBLY                 l                        
A. Household Sanitation Facilities               0.24      0.00      0.09       0.00      0.32       0.65
B. Public & School Sanitation Facilities         0.18      0.00      0.03       0.00      0.00       0.21
C. Abbatoir                               ll    0.23       0.00       0.04      0.03       0.00      0.31
D. Design & Supervision                          0.08      0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00       0.08
E. Institutional Strengthening                  0.87       0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00       0.87
F. Solid Waste Collection                       0.19l      0.00o     0.00      0.19       0.00      0.39
TOTAL TAMALE                   E1.       .0t 015                  0.22       0.321     2.49_
TOTAL PROJECT COST               IF   71.001      4.011     8.941      3.45      1.871    89.271w



49                                            Anne2
Page 5 of 5
Table 3: Summary of Project Financing
i___             Financing Plan (US$ Million)
Project Components               IDA       Other    Central Metro/Mun|           T
Credit   Donors    Govt.    Assem.    Benef. |  Total
COMPONENTS TO BE IMPLEMENTED/
|PROCUJRED BY CE-NTRAL, GOVERNMENT        II
A. Primary and Secondary
Drainage Works                             27.10      0.00      4.17      0.00       0.00     31.27
B. Landfill & Septage Treatment Facilities      10.68      0.00      1.65      0.00       0.00     12.33
C. Disposal Equipment                            1.66      0.00      0.00      0.00       0.00      1.66
D. Institutional Strengthening                   1.26      3.19      0.00      0.00       0.00      4.44
E. Vehicles & Equipment for Inst. Strengthening  1.25      0.14      0.00      0.00      0.00       1.39
F. Training                                     0.08      0.68      0.00       0.00      0.00       0.76
G. Design & Supervision                          2.94      0.00      0.00      0.00       0.00      2.94
H. Land Titling                                 0.57       0.00      0.00      0.00       0.00      0.57
I. Studies                                      0.55      0.00      0.00      0.00       0.00      0.55
|  SUB-TOTAL                              IF   46.081       4.011      .82      0.00      0.00      55.911
|COMPONENTS TO BE IMPLEMENTED BYI
IMETROPOLITAN/MUNICIPAL ASSEMBLIESI
A. Community Infrastructure Upgrading           10.96      0.00      1.89       1.43      0.00     14.27
B. Household Sanitation Facilities               1.38      0.00      0.49      0.00       1.87      3.74
C. Public & School Sanitation Facilities        2.70       0.00      0.41      0.00       0.00      3.12
D. Septage Treatment Facility                   0.80       0.00      0.13      0.05       0.00      0.98
E. Sewerage Rehabilitation                      0.74      0.00       0.11      0.00      0.00       0.86
F. Community Water                              0.23      0.00      0.04       0.03      0.00       0.31
G. Design & Supervision                          1.63      0.00      0.00      0.00       0.00      1.63
H. Institutional Strengthening                  4.33      0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00       4.33
i. Solid Waste Collection                       1.92      0.00      0.00       1.92      0.00      3.83
jr. Abbatoir                                    0.23      0.00      0.04      0.03       0.00      0.31
1  SUB-TOTAL                               1    24.92       0.00o     3.12      3.451      1.871    33.361
HTOTAL PROJECT COST                        L    71.001      4.01      8.941     3.451      1.871    89.27



so                                         Anne
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
URBAN ENVIRONMENTAL SANITATION PROJECT
Monitoring and Performance Indicators
Sanitation Facilities              No. of Facilities           No. of Beneficiaries
1. Household latrines                          5,560                     200,000
2. Public neighborhood facilities                 85                       80,000
3. School facilities                             305                      90,000
Delivery of Sanitation Services                                         Number
1. Management intermediaries per city for household latrines and schools      2-3 per city
2. Active artisans building latrines                                           4-8 per city
3. Private operators for all public facilities                                     85
4. Cleanliness and working condition of public and school facilities  sample to be checked quarterly
5. Cleanliness and working condition of household latrines            sample to be checked quarterly
Solid Waste Collection
1. New private collection contracts tendered competitively                    2-3 per city
2. Full and timely payments to contractors by MAs as required               to be established
3. Percentage of contract costs recovered from user fees as per contracts  quarterly targets to be set
4. Cost per ton of waste collected                                       quarterly targets to be set
- WMDs' direct collection
- Private contractors' collection
5. Percentage of generated waste that is collected                       quarterly targets to be set
Drainage
I . Establishment of drain maintenance programs in each city                  as of year 2
2. Cleanliness of drains                                              sample to be checked quarterly
Waste Treatment & Disposal Facilities
I . Timely completion of construction                                   as per implementation plan
2. Solid waste landfills                                            % of waste reaching landfill; correct
operation of facility
3. Septage treatment                                                       % of BOD removal
Municipal Finances
1. Annual growth of MAs' own source revenues in rMal terms             10% if inflation less than 20%
7% if inflation 20-30%
5% if inflation over 30%
2. Ratios of billing to collection                                     50% in year 3; 80% in year 6
3. Improved accounting and budgeting                                          annual review
4. Implementation of updated rate imposts for property taxes in the 5 cities  as of year 2 of the project
5. Implementation of services or program budgeting systems in the 5 cities  as of year 4 of the project
Funding of Operation and Maintenance
I. Establishment by each city of separate budget lines for O&M             as of calendar 1997
2. Allocation of agreed amounts by each city for O&M in yearly budget  targets to be set & monitored yearly
or quarterly
Institutional
1. Establishment of fully accountable waste management departments in all   by end of year 2
5 cities
2. Training of MA and other personnel                                   as per annual training plan



REPUBLIC OF GHANA
URBAN ENVIRONMENTAL SANITATION PROJECT
Implementation Schedule
Components                         1995              I"6               I                  It" 1             19s               2000              2001          2002
0Q   021 2031      1  Q2  Q31  04 01    Q32 031       Q1       02 Q3    0 1  0203         0         1    Q2 3    01  02  03 01 Q  Qi
Drainage
Accra drainage - Odaw main channel                          ._                       __
Accra drainage - secondary drains
umasi drainage
ekondi-Takoradi drainage                                               m       nm    I m *1*0
Landfills
Kumasi landfill                                                         ...... _ 
ekondi-Takoradi landfill                                               .. .......
Tamale landfill                                                                                     WON m
Equipment and vehicles
Solid waste disposal sites                                                              .... .       MWEENEEM
Institutional strengthening                                       m
Institutional Strengthening
Contract staff for MAs                                     1__ 
Contract staff for MLGRD
Contract staff for TSC                                               __
Project wide capacity building consultants
Land tiding consultants
Design and super. of Central Govt components
Design and super. of MA components
Contnunlty Infrastructure Upgrading (CW)
-cra Sukura                                                            ........
Accra - Old Teshie                                                  nm
Accra - West Maamobi                                                _           _   am
Kumasi - Aboabo                                                     _           _   am
Kumasi - Anloga                                                        . .... ... _ _   
Sekondi-Takoradi - Effia Zongo                                 1   M           m    mm
Sekondi-Takoradi - Kwesimimtsimx
Citywde Sanitation (CW)
Household sanitation
Public sanitation
chool sanitation
Septage treatment facility - Accra                                                .   .    . .
Septage treatment facility - Tema                                            .. .   .         mm
Commnunity water suply - Tema                                                   .          ._
Swerage rehabilitation - Kumasi                                                 .               w _           _        _        _
Sewerage rehabilitation - Kumasi
battoir - Tamale                                                                 _
Solid Waste Collection                                                                                                                                                                 x
Pvatized Collection Contracts
_u       Prepare designs and tender documents.                  Procurement up to contract signing.              Implementation.



52                                                  AnInLex 5
Page 1 of 2
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
URBAN ENVIRONMENTAL SANITATION PROJECT
Disbursement Schedule
(US$ Million)
IDA Quarter End Disbursements              Standard Disbursement Profiles
Ghana       Africa       Ghana
Quarter    Cumulative  Cumulative         Urban        Urban      All Sectors
(US$m)       (USSm)        (%)              (%)         (%)          (%)
1995   Ql
Q2
Q3
Q4            0.27         0.27     0%
1996   Ql            0.27          0.55     1%                Project Approval March 1996
Q2            0.27         0.82      1%
Q3            0.54         1.36     2%               0%          0%           0%
Q4            0.54         1.90     2%
1997   Ql            0.86          2.76     4%              6%           6%           6%
Q2            0.86         3.62     5%
Q3            1.03         4.65     6%              14%          10%          10%
Q4            1.03         5.67     8%
1998   Ql            4.18          9.85     14%             18%          14%          14%
Q2            4.18        14.03     19%
Q3            4.53        18.56     26%             26%          22%          22%
Q4            7.01        25.58     36%
1999   Ql            6.97        32.55     46%              38%         30%          26%
Q2            6.51        39.06     55%
Q3            6.26        45.32     64%             50%          38%          38%
Q4            5.85        51.18     72%
2000   Q1             4.36        55.53     78%             54%          46%          46%
Q2            4.36        59.89     85%
Q3            3.11        63.00     890/0           54%          58%          58%
Q4            3.11        66.12     93%
2001   Ql             1.07        67.19     95%             66%          66%          66%
Q2            1.07        68.26     96%
Q3            0.85        69.11     97%             74%          74%          74%
Q4            0.85        69.96     99%
2002   Ql             0.52        70.48     99%             82%          82%          82%
Q2            0.52        71.00    100%
Q3                                                  86%          86%          90%
Q4
2003   Ql                                                   90%          98%          94%
Q2
Q3                                                  100%        100%          98%



53
Annex 5
Page 2 of2
Disbursement Schedule
(US$ Million)
IDA       Other Donors         GOG             MAs         Beneficiaries      Total
Quarter Cumul.  Quarter Cumul.   Quarter Cumul.  Quarter Cumul.  Quarter Cumul.  Quarter Cumul.
1995 Q3
Q4      0.27   0.27                                                                    0.27   0.27
1996 Ql      0.27   0.55                                                                    0.27   0.55
Q2      0.27   0.82                                                                    0.27   0.82
Q3      0.54   1.36                     0.03   0.03                    0.08   0.08    0.66   1.48
Q4      0.54   1.90    0.15    0.15    0.03   0.06                     0.08   0.17    0.81   2.29
1997 Q]      0.86   2.76    0.21    0.36    0.03   0.09    0.06   0.06    0.08   0.25    1.24   3.53
Q2      0.86   3.62    0.21    0.57    0.03   0.12    0.06   0.11    0.08   0.34    1.24   4.76
Q3      1.03   4.65    0.21    0.77    0.06   0.18    0.06   0.17    0.08   0.42    1.43   6.19
Q4      1.03   5.67    0.21    0.98    0.06   0.24    0.06   0.23    0.08   0.51    1.43   7.63
1998 Ql      4.18   9.85    0.18    1.16    0.57   0.81    0.17   0.40    0.07   0.58    5.17  12.79
Q2      4.18  14.03    0.18    1.34    0.57   1.38    0.17   0.56    0.07   0.65    5.17  17.96
Q3      4.53  18.56    0.18    1.52    0.63   2.01    0.22   0.78    0.07   0.73    5.64  23.60
Q4      7.01  25.58    0.23    1.75    0.89   2.90    0.22   1.01    0.07   0.80    8.42  32.02
1999 Ql      6.97  32.55    0.23    1.98    0.89   3.78    0.22   1.23    0.07   0.87    8.38  40.41
92      6.51  39.06    0.18   2.15    0.89   4.67    0.22   1.45    0.07   0.94    7.87  48.28
Q3      6.26  45.32    0.22    2.38    0.82   5.49    0.28   1.73    0.09   1.03    7.67  55.95
Q4      5.85  51.18    0.22    2.60    0.82   6.31    0.28   2.00    0.09   1.13    7.27  63.22
2000 Ql      4.36  55.53    0.17   2.77    0.61   6.92    0.32   2.32    0.09   1.22    5.54  68.76
Q2      4.36  59.89    0.17   2.94    0.61   7.52    0.32   2.64    0.09   1.31    5.54  74.30
Q3      3.11  63.00    0.17    3.11    0.42   7.94    0.18   2.82    0.09   1.40    3.97  78.27
Q4      3.11  66.12    0.17    3.27    0.42   8.36    0.18   3.00    0.09   1.49    3.97  82.25
2001 Q1      1.07  67.19    0.17    3.44    0.12   8.49    0.18   3.18    0.09   1.58    1.63  83.88
Q2      1.07  68.26    0.17   3.61    0.12   8.61    0.18   3.36    0.09   1.67    1.63  85.51
Q3      0.85  69.11    0.17    3.78    0.10   8.70    0.02   3.38    0.09   1.76    1.23  86.73
Q4      0.85  69.96    0.17    3.95    0.10   8.80    0.02   3.41    0.09   1.85    1.23  87.96
2002 Q1      0.52  70.48    0.03    3.98    0.07   8.87    0.02   3.43    0.01   1.86    0.66  88.61
Q2      0.52  71.00    0.03    4.01    0.07   8.94    0.02   3.45    0.01   1.87    0.66  89.27
Total       71.00            4.01             8.94           3.45            1.87           89.27



54                                     =    6Annex
Page 1 of 2
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
URBAN ENVIRONMENTAL SANITATION PROJECT
Economic Analysis
Accra and Kumasi Drainage: Benefits and Costs
Kumasi         Kumasi       Accra Odaw    Accra Priority I
Recommended     Prioritized     Channel       Secondary
Scheme         Scheme       Enlargement      Drains
1995 US$ m.    1995 US$ m.   1991 Cedis m.*  1991 Cedis m.*
Present Value of Benefits  43.03         38.54          7,856           8,983
Present Value of Costs    11.26          11.63          1,502           3,112
Net Present Value         31.77           26.91         6,354           5,871
Benefit-Cost Ratio         3.82           3.31           5.23            2.89
Economic Rate of Return   47.8%           36.4%          43%             32%
*Figures from 1991 Accra Drainage Master Plan. New updating studies are underway to be completed
by March 1996.
Main Assumptions
Discount rate = Kumasi 12 percent (1995). At the time the Accra study was done in
1991, the norm was 10 percent. However, the updated study now
underway (to be completed in March 1996) will use the current standard
12 percent). The variation between the discount rates is slight and does
not alter the thrust of the findings of economic viability.
Real exchange rate constant.
Sensitivity Analysis
Kumasi:      Assume both a decrease of benefits by 20 percent and an increase of costs
by 20 percent. ERR then becomes 33.6 percent for Recommended
Scheme and 24.4 percent for Prioritized Scheme.
Accra:       Sensitivity analysis not performed in 1991 study but will be done in 1996
updated study.
Switching Values
Kumasi:      For NPV to become negative benefits would have to decrease by 74
percent (Recommended Scheme) or 75 percent (Prioritized Scheme).
Accra:       Switching values not calculated in 1991 study but will be done in 1996
updated study.



55                                  Annex 6
Page 2 of 2
Nature of Benefits
Avoidance of building fabric damage: Surveys were carried out to inventory structures
within the project areas (industry, trade, and residential). Assessments of the ratable
values of the structures were carried out. These were based on construction costs for
various categories of properties and calculated on floor areas (m2). Damage estimates
were based on the depth of flooding that properties are subjected to. Tables of depth-
flood damage potential relationships were developed. Based on the water surface profile
that would result from an expected 15 year flood, the expected mean flood depth over the
flood-prone areas and the corresponding damage were estimated with the aid of
topographical maps. Considering the 15-year flood occurrence, estimated damages were
spread evenly over the amortization period.
Avoidance of contents damage: This was based on estimates of the value of equipment,
materials, and commodities and their elevations in the structures. Sample surveys
determined the types, quantities and values of contents affected. Usually there is little
chance of salvaging contents before floods occur, so losses tend to be considerable
especially in wholesale establishments. Depth distributions of flood damage potential
related to structure content were combined with survey data. The percentage of potential
damage was estimated for each content category. For Accra, residential contents damage
was also estimated based on house inventory valuations drawn up with the aid of the
State Insurance Company and other sources.
Avoidance of sales losses: A huge variety of trade activities occur in the affected areas,
including foodstuffs, leatherware, glassware, metal products, clothing, and building
materials. A large amount of porterage and motorized transport services are carried out in
support of these sales. Losses are mainly the result of the suspension of trading activities
during floods and during the ensuing clean-up periods. Sample surveys of traders of all
categories was carried out to estimate daily sales volumes. This information was
combined with flood incidence data to estimate the annual losses. These were computed
on the basis of estimated net profits.
The value of potential flood damage is expected to increase each year due to new
construction and real expansion of economic activity. Benefits were thus assumed to
grow by three percent per year, commensurate with expected economic growth.
The above benefits alone produce the high ERRs reported in the table. Major non-
quantified benefits are: (a) reduced deaths and illnesses from elimination of standing
water, (b) reduced damage to infrastructure, (c) lower costs associated with traffic
disruptions, and (d) indirect or multiplier costs (e.g. extra economic costs due to utility
disruptions).
Main Beneficiaries
Industrial enterprises (large and small), wholesale and retail enterprises, small-scale
traders, and residents of flood-prone areas.



56
56                     ~~~~~~~Annex 7
Page 1 of 4
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
URBAN ENVIRONMENTAL SANITATION PROJECT
Drainage Component
OBJECTIVES
1.    The objectives of the component are (a) to improve priority primary and
secondary drainage systems serving the central business areas of Accra, Kumasi, and
Sekondi-Takoradi which suffer regular inundation and (b) to establish construction and
maintenance responsibilities for drainage along with practices and programs to ensure the
sustainability of drainage investments.
DETAILED DESCRIPTION
2.    The component will include the following:
a) Dredging and lining approximately 7 km. of Accra's primary drainage
channel, the Odaw River, to alleviate flooding of major commercial and
residential areas and construction of up to 20 km. of highest priority
secondary drains.
b) Dredging and lining approximately 7.6 km. of Kumasi's primary drainage
system, the Nsuben River, and selected secondary and tertiary drains which
serve the city's central commercial, market, and transportation node (lorry
park and railway station).
c) Rehabilitating parts of the drainage system serving the Market Circle in
Takoradi to relieve bottlenecks and alleviate flooding.
d) Strengthening the ability of the respective Metropolitan Assemblies to
maintain drainage infrastructure through the establishment of budget lines for
drain maintenance and implementation of maintenance plans.
3.    The sub-projects to be financed were identified from Drainage Master Plan
studies carried out with World Bank assistance in 1990-91 in both Accra and Kumasi.
The proposed investments represent the highest priority interventions proposed in each of
the studies based on benefit/cost ratios, populations served, and drainage capacity ratios.
4.    For Accra and Takoradi, consultants are preparing preliminary engineering which,
after review, will be followed by detailed engineering and preparation of bid documents.
Preliminary engineering is already complete for the Kumasi program, and consultants
have commenced detailed engineering. Bid documents for drainage in Kumasi are
scheduled for completion prior to scheduled credit effectiveness (July 1996).



57                               Annex 7
Page 2 of 4
5.    Based on the Master Plan study in Accra, the Odaw River will be dredged as a
trapezoidal channel. The top width will range from 65 m. at its outfall in the Korle
Lagoon to 45 m. at its upper reach near the Accra-Tema motorway, approximately 7.2
km. from the outfall. Depths range from 5 to 7 m. This was one of three options for
improvement of the Odaw River that were studied by the Master Plan consultants and is
the only option that would prevent flooding adjacent to the river. The channel would
have sufficient capacity to contain a 50 year design flood. With freeboard the channel
could also convey a 100 year event without flooding. The secondary drainage systems in
various locations within the city will be improved by desilting, realigning, and lining
with in-situ mass concrete sections and/or precast reinforced concrete U-sections or pipes.
6.   In Kumasi the upper length of the Nsuben River (0.5 km in length ) and major
secondary drains feeding it will be buried in concrete lined rectangular sections. The
primary drain will range in size from 2 to 2.5 m., and the secondary channels from 1.5 to
3.25 m. The middle section, of 2.5 km. length, will also be lined with in-situ concrete as
a rectangular section of 6-8 m. top width and 2.8 m. depth. The downstream section, of
4.6 km. length where development is much less dense, will be dredged and left as a
trapezoidal earth channel ranging in size from 6 to 12 m. wide and 2.5 to 2.65 m. deep.
This channel will also be lined with stone pitching in certain stretches to improve
hydraulic properties of the channel and reduce scour.
7.    A number of market stalls in Kumasi which are occupied during trading hours
would need to be temporarily relocated to permit construction. These would be restored
to their original locations. In addition, 15 shops in the railway area adjacent to the
Central Market would be permanently relocated. GOG and the KMA are following the
Bank's guidelines on relocation. A schedule of all properties affected by the works either
temporarily or permanently has been compiled. Alternative sites have been identified for
temporary stalls whilst works are carried out and also for the 15 shops to be relocated.
Shopkeepers are being fully consulted. Compensation will be assessed and paid. The 15
shops will be provided with new facilities at a mutually agreed location which will
provide equivalent or better incomes. Details of compensation, relocation logistics, and
development of the new shop site are being incorporated in a resettlement plan being
prepared by the consultants carrying out detailed engineering. This plan is to be
submitted and reviewed prior to negotiations
COSTS
8.    The base cost of the drainage component (excluding design and supervision and
physical and price contingencies) is estimated at an overall total of US$ 25.6 million.
This is made up of US$17.0 million in Accra, US$8.1 million in Kumasi and US$0.5
million in Takoradi. Table I summarizes program details and costs in the respective
cities.



58                             Annex 7
Page 3 of 4
IMPLEMENTATION
9.    Historically, responsibilities for drainage have been unclear and divided between
Roads Authorities, AESC Hydro, and respective local governments, each of which has a
different parent Ministry. Consequently attention to, and investment for, capital
improvements, rehabilitation, and maintenance have been inadequate. Local government
legislation points to drainage being the responsibility of local government (i.e.,
Metropolitan, Municipal, and District Assemblies). However, Assemblies lack the
technical capability to design and the funds to construct large-scale drainage works. The
component in the UESP will thus be implemented (and funded) by central government.
10.   The Technical Services Centre (TSC) of the Ministry of Works and Housing
(MWH) will have responsibility for procurement and administration of contracts for
drainage on behalf of the MLGRD. The bid documents will be prepared by consulting
engineers already engaged and funded through a PPF, and capital works will be carried
out by experienced civil works contractors who will enter into contracts with TSC.
Consultants will be engaged through the project for construction supervision.
MAINTENANCE
11.   Responsibilities for drainage maintenance have historically been unclear, and this
has contributed to inadequate budget allocations for drainage maintenance. Whereas
Assemblies are legally responsible for drainage, the reality is that they have neither the
expertise nor resources to carry out adequate levels of routine and periodic maintenance
for primary, secondary and tertiary drains. For the foreseeable future, the central
government will have to shoulder a considerable part of this responsibility. Communities
themselves, through locally based organizations, could assist in the routine maintenance
(cleaning and desilting) of tertiary drains. Priority drainage maintenance activities of
Assemblies should focus on secondary drainage systems. So that in future drainage
provision and maintenance responsibilities are rationalized and scarce funds targeted on
the most important drainage maintenance activities, the project would support a study
which would address these issues and make recommendations as to a more effective way
forward in the future.
12.  In the short term, the project will promote the gradual assumption of more
systematic responsibility for drain maintenance by the Assemblies by (a) providing
technical assistance for the preparation of drain maintenance plans and (b) requiring each
Assembly to allocate funds annually in a separate budget line for drain maintenance.



Table 1: DRAINAGE COMPONENT - SUMMARY COST TABLE
Costs are base costs in US$ million at July 1995
REF.            DESCRIPTION             QUANT  UNIT   UNIT TOTAL LOCAL FOREIGN                  NOTES
COST COST COST  COST
ACCRA
1 Odaw River trapezoidal channel     7200 m                   6.00                    1 contract
2 Priority secondary systems           13 no                 11.00                     2 contracts
Total Accra                                                          17.00
KUMASI
Upstream Section
1 Kejetia lorry park                  520 m                   0.57
2 Tertiary drains-central market     3300 m                   0.64
3 Tertiary drains-Asafo market       1020 m                   0.18                                          @
4 Diversion drain around central mkt  330 m                    1.2
5 Secondary drain to Asafo mkt        200 m                   0.22
Sub-Total                                                             2.81
Middle Section
1 Concrete lined rect.section        2500 m                   3.31
Sub-Total                                                             3.31
Downstream Section
1 Trapezoidal earth channel          4600 m                   1.93
Sub-Total                                                             1.93
Total Kumasi                                                          8.05                     All in 1 contract
TAKQRADI
1 Rehabilitation Market Circle drain    1 item     sum         0.5                     1 contract          X M
Total Takoradi                                                          0.5
GRAND TOTAL                                                          25.60



Annex 8
60                           Page 1 of 6
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
URBAN ENVIRONMENTAL SANITATION PROJECT
Sanitation Component
SANITATION PLANNING
1.   In Ghana's five major cities about 40 percent of the population pay to use public
latrines that are filthy, inconvenient and lack privacy; 15 percent use pan latrines which
have been banned because of the health hazard to conservancy workers; 40 percent use
household water closets that usually overflow to street drains; and 5 percent use
traditional or improved pit latrines. In addition, few schools have operational sanitation
facilities. At present, hardly any of the fecal waste generated in the MAs is properly
treated before disposal. Septic tank overflows, septage removed from household and
public facilities, industrial effluent from factories, leachate from sawmills and waste oil
from vehicle repair areas end up in local drains and vacant lots. As a result storm water
drainage systems have become open sewers. With rapid urbanization, the already poor
sanitation conditions will worsen if no urgent and effective actions are taken.
2.    To begin addressing these problems, the cities participating in the UESP have
prepared Strategic Sanitation Plans (SSPs) that set out their strategy for providing
comprehensive sanitation services by the year 2005. The SSPs include a priority listing
of the mix of household, public and school facilities needed to serve each city's low
income households and a description of the management and financing arrangements
needed to implement each component.
3.    The plans differ from traditional master plans in that they (i) tailor recommended
technical options to each type of housing or neighborhood in the city, (ii) consider user
preferences and willingness to pay, (iii) use a relatively short planning horizon (10-15
years) emphasizing high priority actions, and (iv) break the overall plan into projects that
can be implemented independently but which together provide full coverage. The intent
is to move away from a focus on conventional sewerage alone, and to consider a range of
proven technologies which address the needs of all segments of the urban population,
recognizing resource constraints and paying due attention to willingness and capacity of
users to pay for improved services.
4.    To address the MAs' immediate problems, the SSPs call for (i) elimination of pan
latrines and a move from public facilities to household sanitation facilities, (ii) improved
public facilities in neighborhoods and commercial centers, (iii) improved school
facilities, and (iv) new septage treatment facilities. The MAs would help pay the costs of
sewers and household latrines in low-income neighborhoods if the beneficiaries pay the
full cost of operation and maintenance. The MAs would also finance the rehabilitation of



61                              Annex 8
Page 2 of 6
public facilities in neighborhoods and new or rehabilitated facilities in commercial areas,
provided operation and maintenance is contracted to a private company.
5.   In order to make the best use of limited financial resources the MAs have decided
to provide for a mix of sanitation technologies. Recommended technological options for
each housing type are based on housing densities and household income, and subsidies
would be targeted on low-income households. In high-density, low-income housing areas,
where space limitations preclude less expensive on-site systems, the MAs intend to help
finance simplified sewers for which beneficiaries would pay the full cost of operation and
maintenance. In rural and medium-density, low-income housing areas the MAs would
split the cost of household latrines with the beneficiaries, as they are the least-cost,
technically-viable option for the area. In low-density, high-income housing areas
households would pay the full cost of on-site WC/septic tank systems.
PROJECT DESCRIPTION
6.    The five cities participating in the project have elected to use part of their UESP
funds to (i) finance sanitation programs to improve services in low-income
neighborhoods and schools, and (ii) construct septage treatment facilities. In addition,
Tamale would use UESP funds to construct a new abattoir; Kumasi would rehabilitate a
community septic tank disposal system; and Tema would rehabilitate selected existing
sewers systems in two communities and improve water supply services in a third. The
table below lists the numbers and types of facilities planned for each city under the
project. These numbers may change somewhat during implementation depending on
demand and actual unit costs.
Table 1: Types and Numbers of Facilities
Sekondi-
Accra  Kumasi Takoradi Tamale  Tema  TOTAL
Household latrines          1,200    1,700    1,200   1,000    460    5,560
Public facilities (neighborhood)  26    4        10       4      0       44
Public facilities (commercial)  10      5         3       3      0       21
Schools                      150       95        40      10     10      305
Septage treatment facilities   I        I         I       I      1        5
Sewerage rehabilitation                X                         X
Community water supply                                           X
Abattoir                                                 X
7.    Household facilities: About 15 percent of the households in low-income, medium
density neighborhoods in the five cities (where 30-45 percent of the cities' population
reside) would obtain a new household latrine through the project. While only a fraction
of the total number of households would directly benefit from the project, the component
would build demand for household latrines and put in place the public and private sector



Annex 8
62                           Page 3 of 6
support structures needed to construct and maintain them on a larger scale. It is expected
that additional financial support can be mobilized in the future to meet demand.
8.    Household latrines would be constructed by small local contractors who would be
selected through a prequalification process and trained to market, design and construct
household latrines. Day-to-day management services for the cities' household latrine
programs would be contracted to one or more local firms termed "management
intermediaries". Their management responsibilities would include vetting household
grant applications received through pre-qualified contractors, reviewing design at the site,
awarding individual contracts, and making payments to contractors (25% down and 25%
upon acceptance of the works). These firms would also provide training and follow-up
support to contractors. Marketing support would be provided by the city through
newspaper, radio and television advertisements.
9.    Day to day maintenance of household latrines would be the responsibility of the
households themselves. Usually households would employ private sludge haulers to
empty their latrine pits, although latrines with alternating pits can periodically be cleaned
out by hand by a household member or private individual after wastes have been
stabilized.
10.   Public Facilities: The project will finance the construction of public sanitation
facilities in commercial areas such as markets, lorry parks and light industrial areas, but
only where operation on a full cost recovery basis is possible. Operation and
maintenance would be contracted to private lease contractors who would charge a user
fee (which is currently the custom) to cover operating and maintenance costs, profit, and
a lease fee paid to the city to recover capital expenditures. Private sludge haulers would
periodically be hired by the operator to empty the latrine pits.
11.   Since household latrines provide a more convenient service at less cost than
public latrines, no new neighborhood public facilities would be built using public funds.
However, since not all residents would be able to afford a household VIP latrine even
with the proposed cost sharing program, the cities would finance the cost of minor
renovation of existing public aquaprivies and the rehabilitation of public pan latrines.
However, municipal financing would only be available to communities which agree to
contract operation and maintenance to a qualified private company. Revenues generated
from user fees at the public neighborhood facilities would cover operation and
maintenance, operators' profit, and in some cases a small rental fee. Operators would
periodically employ private sludge haulers to empty their latrine pits.
12.   School Facilities: The MAs intend to improve sanitation conditions at primary
and junior secondary schools and to instill proper hygienic behavior and attitudes among
school children. Parent-Teacher Associations (PTAs) would be able to obtain new or
improved sanitation facilities (VIP latrine or WC/septic tank with drain field) if (i) they
prepare a Facilities and Management Plan and (ii) collect sufficient funds to pay for
operations and maintenance for at least one year. A local management intermediary (see



63                                 ex 8
Page 4 of 6
Household Facilities, above) would be contracted to implement the program including (i)
promotion, (ii) assistance to individual PTAs to prepare their Facilities and Management
Plans, (iii) management of procurement, (iv) supervision of construction, and (iv) training
of selected teachers in hygiene education. Enrollment at each school averages about 400,
divided into morning and afternoon sessions. In some instances two or three schools are
clustered at the same site. Typically each would be served by a VIP latrine or WC/septic
tank with five cabins (four the children and one for the teachers). For the purposes of
implementing the UESP, schools would be grouped in batches of five to ten. Training
materials for hygiene would be provided by the local consulting firm which is preparing
similar materials for the National Community Water and Sanitation Program. Operation
and maintenance arrangements would be determined by school officials plus PTAs and
would be described in individual Facilities and Management Plans. PTAs would be
encouraged to contract a qualified private company to maintain their facility, with support
from school custodial workers. Private sludge haulers would periodically be hired to
empty the latrine pits or septic tanks.
13.   Septage Collection, Treatment and Disposal: The cities would begin to get out of
the septage hauling business by leasing at least some of their suction trucks to private
operators who could purchase the vehicles at the end of the lease period. Septage
removed from septic tanks and public latrines would be conveyed to the city landfill site
where it would be treated in a ponding system; settled sludge would be mixed with
sawdust or similar material and composted for resale as a soil conditioner or disposed in
the landfill site. The septage treatment ponds would be operated by private contractors
paid through compost sales where there is a sufficient market and/or through tipping fees.
COSTS
14.   The base cost of the sanitation component (excluding septage treatment facilities
for Kumasi, Sekondi-Takoradi and Tamale which are packaged with the solid waste
disposal sites) is US$8.1 million. A summary of planned costs by city and sub-
component is given below. The distribution of costs between sub-components in a given
city may shift during implementation depending on demand.



64                                   Annex 8
Page 5 of 6
Table 2: Cost of Facilities (US$ 1000s)
Sekondi-                      TOTAL
Accra  Kumasi Takoradi  Tamale   Tema    COST
Household latrines                780       905        540       530      299      3,054
Public facilities (neighborhood)  168        85        130        25        -        408
Public facilities (commercial)    250       175         75        75        -        575
Schools                           800       400        240        60       60      1,560
Septage treatment facilities      400         -          -         -     400         800
Sewerage rehabilitation              -      200          -         -     500         700
Community water supply               -        -          -         -      250        250
Abattoir                                                         250                 250
TOTAL                    2,398     1,765        985      940    1,509       7,597
PROCUREMENT
15.    The Metropolitan Assemblies would be directly responsible for all procurement in
the sanitation component, except for the septage treatment facilities in Kumasi, Sekondi-
Takoradi and Tamale which would be part of the landfill facilities implemented under
central government supervision. The following table gives a summary of procurement
methods and contract packaging for each sanitation sub-component.
Table 3: Procurement Arrangements
Cost         Procurement
(US$1000s)   Category  Method      Contract Packaging
Household latrines                 3,054        CW       Other   5 units per contract
Public facilities (neighborhood)    408         CW        LCB    5- 10 units per contract
Public facilities (commercial)      575         CW        LCB    2-3 units per contract
School facilities                  1,560        CW        LCB    5- 10 units per contract
Septage treatment facilities        800         CW        LCB    I contract per city (2 total)
Sewerage rehabilitation             700         CW        LCB    I contract per city ( 2 total)
Community water supply              250         CW                I contract
Abattoir                            250         CW                I contract
Management Intermediary              (I)        TA       Other   1-3 contracts per city
Design and const. supervision        (2)        TA       Other   I contract each (6 total)
TOTAL                              7,597
(I) Approximately 7.5% of construction costs (US$345,000) and covered under design and supervision.
(2) Approximately 10% of construction costs (US$220,000) and covered under design and supervision. Facilities
include septage treatment in Accra and Tema, sewer rehabilitation in Kumasi and Tema, Abattoir in Tamale, and
community water supply in Tema.



65                              Annex 8
Page 6 of 6
16.   Construction contracts for public sanitation facilities would be let through local
competitive bidding procedures to qualified contractors. Generally five to ten facilities in
neighborhoods (about ten contracts total) and two to three facilities in commercial areas
(about eight contracts total) would be packaged per contract. MA staff would prepare
contract documents, manage the bidding process, and supervise the construction of these
facilities. Contracts and bid evaluation reports would be reviewed by the MA Tender
Board, and contracts would be signed by the MA.
17.   Construction contracts for school sanitation facilities would be let through local
competitive bidding procedures to qualified contractors. Generally five to ten school
facilities (about 30 contracts total) would be packaged per contract. Management
intermediaries (one per city) would prepare contract documents, manage the bidding
process, and supervise the construction of these facilities. Contracts and bid evaluation
reports would be reviewed by the MA Tender Board, and contracts and payment checks
would be signed by the MA.
18.  Individual construction contracts for septage treatment facilities in Accra and
Tema, sewer rehabilitation in Tema and Kumasi, and water distribution piping would be
let through local competitive bidding procedures to qualified contractors. MA staff
would prepare contract documents, manage the bidding process, and supervise the
construction of these facilities. Contracts and bid evaluation reports would be reviewed
by the MA Tender Board, and contracts and payment checks would be signed by the
MA.
19.   Construction contracts for all household latrines would be let to pre-qualified
artisans through a private management intermediary, subject to confirmation that the
design and bill of quantities are correct. Five or more household facilities would be
packaged per contract neighborhoods (about 1,000 contracts total). A priced bill of
quantities, annually negotiated between the city and pre-qualified contractors, would be
used to set prices. Contracts and payment checks would be signed by the management
intermediary.
20.   Contracts with management intermediaries would be arranged by the MAs. A
stepwise selection process would be used in which interested local groups would be
invited to submit letters of interest together with the CVs of proposed personnel to be
assigned to the work. The group with the best management experience and technical team
would be selected, and a contract would be negotiated based upon agreed inputs and unit
costs. Contracts and evaluation reports would be reviewed by the MA Tender Board, and
contracts and payment checks would be signed by the MA. The management
intermediary would be paid on a commission basis at a flat rate of about 7.5 percent of
the construction cost of both household latrines and school facilities.



66Ane9
Page 1 of 8
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
URBAN ENVIRONMENTAL SANITATION PROJECT
Solid Waste Component
INTRODUCTION
1.    The solid waste component of the project is designed to address: (a) the
privatization of collection services in a portion of the five cities of Accra, Kumasi, Tema,
Tamale, and Sekondi-Takoradi, and (b) the implementation of sanitary landfills in the
three cities of Kumasi, Tamale, and Sekondi-Takoradi. Privatization of collection
services will be conducted through mixed contract and franchise arrangements in selected
zones and designed to optimize cost recovery according to the ability and willingness of
waste generators to pay for service.
2.    Information for the planning of the solid waste component was initially based on
the multi-sectoral feasibility studies conducted under the World Bank Urban II Project for
Tema, Tamale, and Sekondi-Takoradi, and Bank mission efforts in Accra and Kumasi.
Siting for the sanitary landfills was conducted by municipal officials, and geotechnical
studies and topographic surveys were conducted at the selected sites to verify their
viability. Preliminary willingness-to-pay studies were conducted in Kumasi, Tamale and
Sekondi-Takoradi to determine the viability of privatization. A seminar with local
officials and potential private sector investors in July 1995 established their mutual
interest in privatization and the terms and conditions which would be necessary.
SERVICE LEVELS FOR SOLID WASTE COLLECTION
3.    According to interviews with solid waste managers, the following levels of
service existed at the time of project appraisal: Accra, 60-65%; Kumasi, 45-50%; Tema,
50-55%; Tamale, 10-15%; Sekondi-Takoradi, 40-45%. In recent years Accra and
Kumasi obtained bilateral assistance grants (from Germany and England, respectively) in
the form of solid waste collection vehicles and spare parts, and no new assistance in the
near future is anticipated. Tema, Tamale and Sekondi-Takoradi are expected to receive
new solid waste collection vehicles and spare parts in 1995 through the World Bank
Urban II Project. After receipt of the new vehicles, the service levels in these cities are
expected to be increased by 10-20%. A shortfall in service will remain in each city.
Initially, privatization will address the shortfall in service levels. Gradually, if successful
in introducing efficiency and obtaining private sector investment, privatization may be
extended to cover as much as 70% of the service requirements of each city, leaving at
least 30% of service coverage to government to conduct with its own personnel and
equipment. Transition to increased privatization will depend on natural attrition of
personnel and the ability of the government to reduce roles in accordance with personnel
performance expectations.



67                              Annex 9
Page 2 of8
LOCAL GOVERNMENT INSTITUTIONAL ARRANGEMENTS
4.   In Accra, the solid waste management services have been consolidated under one
department to enable full accountability for service performance and cost. In addition to
solid waste management, this department also conducts human waste collection,
treatment, and disposal. In Kumasi and Tema, consolidation has been partially
accomplished; however, sweeping and drain cleaning services continue to be provided
under the Environmental Health Division (EHD) of the Medical Officer of Health
Department (MOH). In Sekondi-Takoradi and Tamale, the traditional arrangement still
exists wherein collection vehicles and landfill equipment, including drivers, are under the
management of the Fleet Maintenance Department (FMD), and the human resources for
collection, street sweeping, and drain cleaning services are provided by the EHD's.
5.    Under the project, the Accra institutional model of a fully accountable Waste
Management Department (WMD) would be adopted by the four remaining cities. The
change to an Accra model WMD shall include bye-laws comparable to those which Accra
has enacted enabling the WMD to generate revenues through direct user charges, manage
a segregated account utilizing these revenues, directly pay the salaries of their staff,
privatize selected aspects of their service, and perform vigilance and enforcement of laws
which control waste generators and haulers. In the process of establishing the new or
more autonomous WMDs and their supportive bye-laws, attention needs to be given to
providing structures which would minimize political interference in the use of department
resources. Technical assistance to help the cities improve their institutional arrangements
and development management information systems for solid waste management is
included within the project.
CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INSTITUTIONAL ARRANGEMENTS
6.    Solid waste management is a significant expenditure for local governments. For
example, in Kumasi the combined waste management services performed by the WMD
and the cleansing staff at the EHD consume about 20% of KMA's annual revenues. If the
salaries paid by central government were added, the waste management expenditures
amount to about 25% of KMA's revenues. In Tema, waste management services
consume 43% of the city's revenues, with payments to waste collection contractors
amounting to about 35% of the WMD's total recurrent expenditures. For the cities to do a
better job in this high expenditure activity, the central government should provide them
with an appropriate regulatory and technical base of support.
7.    Data collection and cost analysis on appropriate technology choices should be
conducted country-wide and technical assistance made available to the cities. Technical
assistance with privatization initiatives and implementation of sanitary landfill should be
available to the cities. A regulatory framework governing clandestine disposal, providing
sanitary landfill guidance, managing hazardous wastes, and targeting performance goals



68                              A
Page 3 of 8
needs to be put into place. These subjects will be addressed through the technical
assistance and training component of the project (see Annex 11).
ORGANIZATIONAL MANAGEMENT
8.    With technical support from the German Government, the Accra WMD has
implemented a complete set of record-keeping systems on stores inventories, distribution
and costs of spare parts, vehicle maintenance histories, maintenance labor, fuel
consumption, vehicle productivity, and cost analysis as part of the development of a
management information system (MIS). The MIS is complete and fully functional, and
has been clearly established as workable for large cities. It should be replicated in
Kumasi, and possibly in a modified form should be replicated in the other three cities.
PRIVATIZATION OF COLLECTION
9.    Since 1994 in Accra, there have been private franchisees working under three-year
agreements to provide collection in mixed income areas. These include door-to-door
service and communal container service. The franchisees are required to cover their costs
through collection of user charges which are established by the AMA. Since 1990 in
Tema, private contractors have been providing door-to-door collection. TMA pays the
contractors and collects user charges which partially cover the costs of the contracts.
Since 1994 in Shama-Ahanta East, there has been a private franchise providing collection
by door-to-door service and collecting fees based on individual negotiations between the
franchisee and the property owner.
10.   While the privatization experience in these cities is limited, there is a strong
indication that extending privatized services to a portion of each city and for a selected
group of services would be advisable. Efforts to improve the zoning of the contract areas
(i.e., to assure equitable distribution of easy and difficult collection problems, and high
and low income customers) are underway . Also, efforts to move to a competitive
tendering process with payment based on productivity measures (i.e., quantity collected)
are recommended, whether the agreement is of the contract or franchise mode. A
workshop was conducted in July 1995 with local govermment officials and existing solid
waste companies as part of project preparation. The workshop participants developed
model terms and conditions for contract and franchise agreements, based on a draft
agreement provided by the World Bank, which can be used for implementation of
privatization under the project.
11.   The key to successful privatization is development of service arrangements which
are long enough to allow depreciation of investment, large enough to allow economies of
scale, and competitive enough to encourage efficiency. The project will provide technical
assistance to support each city's privatization efforts. The following privatization
concepts are to be considered for implementation by the five cities: (a) licensing of all
private haulers for subscription service of large commercial/industrial generators or
construction/demolition debris generators; (b) implementing bye-laws requiring that



69                              Anex 9
Page 4 of 8
residents and establishments hire only licensed private haulers; (c) deregulating
subscription private hauling and allowing prices to be established on the open market
without control; (d) contracts to private workshops for repairs and preventative
maintenance; (e) development of equitable zones of about 50,000 to 100,000 residents
for purposes of giving franchises or contracts for general solid waste collection service of
some of the zones, while keeping others for public service; (f) contracts for the operation
and maintenance of the land disposal facilities; (g) contracts for the operation and
maintenance of transfer facilities; (h) contracts or commissions for fee collection; and (i)
contracts for comparative performance monitoring of all key services.
COLLECTION SYSTEMS
12.   Residents comply with the communal container system and bring their wastes
regularly to the containers. Neighborhoods are clean, except for the sites where the
communal containers are located or at communal depots (i.e., open ground transfer sites
used in the case where communal container sites have not been established). Lack of
adequate equipment, spares, and maintenance systems leads to low levels of vehicle
availability and thus to poor service of these communal containers. The result is
overflowing waste, highly unsanitary conditions at the communal containers, and
infrequent cleaning of the communal depot sites which do not have containers assigned to
them. No change in the technology of the current communal container system is
recommended, only extension and improved revenue generation. Based on interviews
with local officials, the project anticipates that communal container service will be
appropriate for the following estimated percentages of city population: Accra 80%;
Kumasi 60%; Tema 50%; Tamale 50%; Shama-Ahanta East 65%.
13.   There is door-to-door collection within some neighborhoods of the five cities.
Door-to-door collection is more sanitary than communal collection and more aesthetically
pleasing because the waste is contained in the household until the time of collection.
Obtaining compliance of residents with adequate dustbin storage requires more public
education, vigilance and enforcement measures to be put into place. To the extent
feasible, where residents can comply with the household storage needs of this higher
quality of service, it should be implemented. Neighborhoods receiving door-to-door
service may be more readily privatized than those receiving communal service, because
each dwelling and establishment exclusively receives service for which it can directly be
charged a fee. Based on interviews with local officials, the project anticipates that door-
to-door service will be appropriate for the following estimated percentages of city
population: Accra 20%; Kumasi 40%; Tema 50%; Tamale 50%; Shama-Ahanta East
35%.
14.   There has been considerable bilateral support (i.e., amounting to tens of billions of
Cedis over the past eight years) given to Accra and Kumasi for their collection systems,
including vehicles, containers, spares, training, and technical assistance. Yet, in both
cases the systems are inadequate because the equipment is not being adequately repaired,
fueled, and managed. Many vehicles in the workshops of Accra and Kumasi have been



70                               Annex 9
Page 5 of 8
seriously cannibalized for parts. Vehicle downtime in these cities is about 60% and 50%,
respectively. The problem lies with each city's lack of support to meet the budgetary
needs of operating and maintaining the fleet. Given this history of poor support,
provision of collection equipment to the project cities is not included in the project.
Instead, the project will support the privatization of selected zones, as discussed above.
15.   Each private collection contract will specify the shares of total costs to be covered
by user fees (to be collected by the contractors) and general revenues of the MAs. IDA
will finance 50% of the general revenue shares of a group of contracts in the five cities.
The total base costs of these contracts will be US$ 1.0 million in Accra; US$0.9 million in
Kumasi; US$0.7 million in Sekondi-Takoradi; US$0.5 million in Tema; and US$0.35
million in Tamale. IDA will finance 75% of the costs in years 1 and 2; 50% in years 3
and 4; and 25% in years 5 and 6.
DISPOSAL SYSTEMS
16.   All of the cities operate disposal by open dumping. Typically swamps, ravines,
and quarries have been used for dump sites. No soil is applied to cover the wastes at
these sites, and fires regularly burn fueled by the methane being generated within the
refuse fills by anaerobic decomposition. Tooth-wheeled payloaders and bulldozers are
used at the Accra and Kumasi sites to spread and grade the refuse so that the vehicles
have continuous access. Other sites must rely on periodically renting equipment for this
purpose.
17.   Sanitary landfill facilities are planned under the project for three project cities,
namely: Kumasi (11 km. one-way from city center), Tamale (15 km.), and Shama-
Ahanta East (10 km.). Sites have been selected which appear to meet technical and
environmental site selection criteria. All sites are within viable direct transport distances
for the types of collection equipment planned. Land acquisition is being completed for
the projected needs for a 10-year life. Preliminary designs and environmental
assessments are to be completed by project effectiveness.
18.   The possibility of private operation of waste disposal facilities through management
contracts or other arrangements will be explored and, and this approach will be
implemented if possible. Experience in other countries suggests that private operation of
treatment and disposal facilities is significantly more effective than public sector operation.



7 1                             Anx
Page 6 of 8
FINANCIAL ARRANGEMENTS
19.   Costs for solid waste collection depend on cooperation from residents in
providing readily liftable storage containers, accessibility of vehicles to collection points,
and travel distances and time between collection service areas and disposal sites. Total
owning and operating costs have been estimated for practical collection options in the
five project cities. Collection range from 11,000 to 16,000 Cedis/tonne for a travel
distance of 10 km. to 14,000 to 20,000 Cedis/tonne for a travel distance of 35 km. Total
owning and operating costs for disposal are estimated to range from 5,000 to 8,000
Cedis/tonne. Each person generates about 0.2 tonnes/year. Therefore combined
collection and disposal costs will range from 3,500 to 6,000 Cedis/capita/year.
20.  In Accra, direct charges to waste generators receiving door-to-door collection and
using communal containers provide revenues to the WMD. Private collection
contractors and franchisees generate revenues based on the same tariff schedule used by
the WMD. The tariff schedule is approved by the AMA, and in 1995 averaged a 33,333
Cedis/c.m. fee for door-to-door service, which comes to roughly 5,500
Cedis/month/household. Private haulers pay tipping fees for discharging at the WMD's
disposal facilities. Fees collected by the WMD are put into a special account for which
the WMD Director and the AMA Treasurer are co-signatories.
21.   Only about 1 1% of the total cost of solid waste collection in Accra is for door-to-
door service. All costs (even calculated costs for depreciation and spares which were
received through bilateral grants) are covered by the user charges collected. The surplus
of revenues from cost recovery for door-to-door collection is used to cross-subsidize
service by communal container, and the AMA is expected to subsidize the remainder of
the communal container service. The total city-wide costs for door-to-door service are
10.2 million Cedis/month and the total billings are 22.0 million Cedis/month. The
collection ratio on billings is above 80%.
22.  In Accra, 74% of the residents lives in densely populated low-income
neighborhoods for which communal container service is most practicable. The cost per
household for communal container collection is roughly 25% of the cost of door-to-door
service; but, this cost, as a percentage of disposal household income, is high for low
income families and not affordable by many. The WMD attempts to collect user charges
for services to waste generators receiving communal collection service. The total costs for
communal container service are 85.9 million Cedis/month and the total billings are 2.3
million Cedis/month.
23.   Kumasi has a direct fee of 3,000 Cedis/month/household for door-to-door service,
and revenues from direct charges cover about 10% of costs. Tema's tariff for door-to-
door household collection by private contractor is only 1,000 Cedis/month/household, but
recovery is over 90% of billings. Revenues from direct fees for door-to-door household
service cover about 40% of the costs of the private contracts, the rest is subsidized from
municipal general revenues. Neither city collects fees for communal container service to



72
Page 7 of 8
households; however, Tema collects fees for communal container service to large
commercial establishments and reportedly covers its costs. Both Kumasi and Tema
collect tipping fees from private haulers (not their own contractors) at their disposal sites.
24.   Tamale is the only project city with a bell/block system of collection. For this
type of service, the MA charges 500 Cedis/monthfhousehold. Tamale has privatized
collection by franchise agreements in one area and allows the private company to
negotiate fees directly with each household, with 10% profit sharing going to the city.
25.   Only Accra has a system of cost accounting which is used routinely for
performance evaluation. In the other cities, only data on direct municipal budget items
for salaries, parts, and consumables are available. Performing a costing exercise is
complicated by the fact that many staff are seconded to the waste management service
from other government agencies. For examnple, accounting staff are seconded from the
central government Treasury Department, audit staff are seconded from the central
government Audit Department, field supervisors are seconded from the municipal MOH
Department, and some management staff are seconded from the central government
Public Works Department. Salaries for seconded staff are paid wholly by the Department
from which they were seconded in the case of central government employees and half by
the Department from which they were seconded in the case of local govermnent
employees..
26.   Preliminary willingness-to-pay studies conducted in Kumasi, Sekondi-Takoradi,
and Tamale during project preparation indicate that the most residents (over 60%) are
willing to pay something for solid waste collection service. Experience in Accra and
Tema also indicates that most residents are willing to pay something for collection
service. High income residents who are well educated are likely to be willing to pay
enough to cover costs, as indicated by the Accra experience in areas serviced by door-to-
door collection. However, middle-income residents are willing to pay only a fraction of
the cost (from 40% to 50%), as indicated by the Tema experience in areas serviced by
door-to-door collection. Low-income residents are less willing to pay, and the amount
which they could afford would cover only a small portion of cost (less than 40%). To
better determine how willingness-to-pay matches service options which could be
provided, more detailed willingness-to-pay surveys should be carried out.
RECYCLING
27.   There is very little waste of recyclable value left in the refuse by the time it arrives
at the open dump sites. The small number of waste pickers who work at the open dumps
confirms the very limited value of the solid waste discharged to the collection system.
Fewer than 20 waste pickers are working at each site. Local industries for plastic, paper,
steel, aluminum, and glass provide a good market demand for recyclables, and most
wastes are recovered from the source of waste generation. No actions in recycling are to
be included in the project.



Page 8 of8
SPECIAL WASTE SYSTEMS
28.   Systems for separating infectious and hazardous medical wastes from general
hospital effuse need to be better developed. The current hospital practice of separating
only body parts and major infection wastes for special burial or burning within a hole is
not adequate. Quick lime is not used in the burial, and burning is incomplete, according
to the studies conducted under Urban II Project. Sharps, contaminated cotton, laboratory
wastes, etc., also need to be separated from the general hospital refuse. Syringe needles
were evident in large quantities within refuse at all of the city dumps visited by the
mission and contaminated cotton fabrics are apparently being recycled by waste pickers.
These wastes are currently going to the city's open dumps and present a significant hazard
to the workers and waste pickers. The wastes can have an effect on the surrounding
population due to the spread of disease by vectors such as flies. Designs for the sanitary
landfills which are planned under the project should provide for special handling and
burial of medical wastes which are suitable for landfill. For other wastes, which require
special treatment such as incineration, the project will conduct a feasibility study to
determine the most cost-effective environmentally acceptable solution.
29.   Based on visual inspection of all official city dumps in Accra, Kumasi, and Tema,
hazardous industrial waste was not evident. Interviews with the landfill staff confirm that
no large quantities are being discharged and that there have been no known cases of
chemical burn or other hazardous waste accidents at the sites. Study for Tema under the
Urban II Project further confirms that hazardous waste generation is limited. Based on
the level of industrialization present in the five project cities and the information
available, no recommendations for hazardous waste management are suggested. The
operating plans for the proposed sanitary landfills developed under this project will need
to exclude receipt of hazardous wastes, or provide a special secured location for storage
until Ghana has a national hazardous waste treatment and disposal facility.
30.   Slaughterhouse wastes are not being discharged at the existing open dumps.
Available information suggests that nearly all slaughterhouse wastes are being recovered
for use and that waste generation is minimal.
31.   As the five cities expand their sanitation systems, increased production of night
soil, septage treatment plant sludge, and wastewater treatment plant sludge will result.
These sludges are being composted with sawdust at some locations (i.e., Accra), and
there appears to be good market demand for the compost provided that the compost price
is kept low. However, as quantities of sludge increase and if market demand does not
cover the extra costs of composting, it may become necessary to dispose of this waste by
land disposal. These sludges are acceptable at the landfill as long as they are dewatered
to less than 65% moisture and they comprise no more than 10% of the volume of
incoming waste.



74                            Annex-10
Page 1 of 13
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
URBAN ENVIRONMENTAL SANITATION PROJECT
Community Infrastructure Upgrading Component
OBJECTIVES
1.    The objectives of the component are to increase the health, general well-being and
productivity of selected low income communities by provision of priority basic
infrastructure and municipal service improvements which have been identified through
consultations with beneficiaries in order to promote sustainability replicability. These
objectives would be achieved by:
a) Upgrading local (secondary and tertiary) infrastructure in selected urban
communities with the severest infrastructure deficiencies in Ghana's three
largest cities (Accra, Kumasi and Sekondi-Takoradi);
b) Promoting the use of participatory planning and design procedures and
functional, affordable standards and levels of service;
c) Strengthening the ability of local governments (Metropolitan Assemblies) to
collaborate with communities in the planning, design, and implementation of
infrastructure upgrading schemes to foster a sense of ownership by the
communities;
d) Promoting sustainable arrangements for operation and maintenance of basic
infrastructure and services.
PRINCIPLES
2.    The component has been developed in accordance with the following principles:
3.    Communities have been selected and formally approved by way of formal
resolutions of the respective Metropolitan Assemblies. Communities were selected based
on the poor state of existing infrastructure and services together with other criteria
including community cohesiveness and initiatives being taken by the communities
through the various community groups already established.
4.   Improvements have been planned and designed adopting functional standards and
service levels and to cost ceilings (per hectare and/or per capita) for affordability and
replicability reasons. The planning and design process has involved participation of the
respective beneficiary communities. A range of service level options (basic,



75                              Annex 10
Page 2 of 13
intermediate, and full) for the "menu" of possible basic infrastructure components was
developed, together with their respective cost implications (capital and maintenance
costs). These were used to commence the participatory planning process. Functional
standards and existing planning guidelines and requirements are to be adopted and
applied flexibly to ensure sensitive least cost proposals and the minimization of any
resettlement
5.    Based on initial perceptions of need and affordability, the anticipated costs would
be on the order of US$25,000 per hectare (or up to about US$ 100 per capita) dependent
on densities. Costs estimated following the survey and preliminary design process have
taken account of not only the basic infrastructure components demanded by communities,
but densities, existing service levels, and physical conditions (e.g. soils, topography)
encountered in the selected communities.
6.    The "menu" of components to be supported was made up of access (roads and
footpaths); drainage; water supply; sanitation (human waste management); solid waste
management; and street lighting. Beneficiaries expressed a preference for a "balanced"
program of improvements (including all components on the menu), mainly in order to
have a greater overall impact on the quality of life.
7.    A fundamental program criterion has been that operation and maintenance (O&M)
costs for the infrastructure improvements will be covered through contributions from the
respective communities, whether by way of user charges, existing tariff structures,
property taxes, or other community contributions.
8.    Details of the facilities to be upgraded, their implementation, capital and
estimated annual O&M cost requirements and modalities are to be set out in "Facilities
and Management Plans" to which each community (via a joint group of representatives of
both formal structures--e.g. Assemblies, Town Councils, Unit Committees, utility
agencies--and informal structures--e.g. community organizations such as religious
groups, women's groups, youth groups) is to formally agree.
9.    Assemblies are to contribute 10 percent of the total capital costs of the program
(excepting the sanitation component--see below) with the remainder funded on a grant
basis through central government.
10.   In addition to the upgrading component, a citywide sanitation program is included
as a further component of UESP which is complementary to the upgrading program. The
citywide sanitation component will include the rehabilitation of existing neighborhood
public facilities as well as establishment of a domestic sanitation program which will
require the individual beneficiary to contribute 50 percent of the cost of the VIP or pour-
flush facility.



76                              Annex 10
Page 3 of 13
11.   Essential trunk infrastructure required to ensure the effective operation of
secondary and tertiary infrastructure to be upgraded will also be provided under the
component (e.g. off-site drainage) and through other UESP components (e.g. city-wide
sanitation and solid waste components).
DETAILED DESCRIPTION
12.   The component will be implemented in Ghana's three largest cities, Accra,
Kumasi and Sekondi-Takoradi. In each of these cities, communities severely deficient in
basic infrastructure and services were identified in a 1994 consultant's study. The
communities included in the UESP program were identified by the respective Assemblies
on the basis of the study which ranked communities according to the severity of their
needs and their prior demonstrations of community initiative and cohesiveness.
13.   In total seven communities in the three cities, covering approximately 530
hectares in which about 265,000 predominantly low-income residents reside, will be
upgraded. (see Table 1). The service levels and functional standards developed for the
sub-components are summarized below.
Access
14.   Road hierarchies have been developed in each community: distributors, collectors,
access roads and footpaths. Only the busiest routes will be upgraded, namely the links
from district distributor roads to markets, lorry parks, public sanitation sites, schools,
clinics, etc. Roads and footpaths will be surfaced. Roads will range from 4.5 m. to 7.0
m. wide dependent on function and space availability. Footpaths generally will be 2 m.
wide but also dependent on space availability. Construction will consist of double
surface dressing on 150 mm. gravel base and 150 mm. gravel sub-base. Road
construction will be closely integrated with drainage construction.
Drains
15.   The project will finance main secondary drains and drains along roads to be
upgraded. Drains will be provided on both sides of the road for wider, cambered roads
where space permits or on one side of the road for narrower typologies where roads can
drain to one side. Capacities for secondary and tertiary drains will be calculated based on
catchment areas and rainfall intensity data. Run-off will generally be based on I in 5 year
return period storm plus an allowance for sullage flows. Drains will consist generally of
open rectangular section mass concrete sections (in-situ or precast). Three sizes (widths)
will be adopted: 450 mm., 600 mm., and 900 mm. In cases where existing conditions
demand it, trapezoidal section drains will be provided. Headwalls and protection works
will be provided at outfalls to major streams or rivers. To ensure efficient discharge to
existing primary accepting channels, the component includes a limited budget for
eliminating primary drainage bottlenecks in the vicinity of outfalls.



77                             Annex 10
Page 4 of 13
Water Supply
16.   Water supply system reticulation improvements will be served by existing GWSC
distribution systems. Major elements of the system will be designed such that all
compounds/houses could eventually connect to the system. However the project will be
designed to ensure coverage of no less than one standpipe available for public use (at
normal GWSC tariff rates) for every five hectares to augment existing facilities and to
ensure availability within 100 m. of all dwellings. Management of the system will be the
overall responsibility of GWSC.
Sanitation
17.   A limited number of public toilet facilities will be provided (20 seat aqua-privy
units to serve up to 2,000 people). The major part of the program will, however, provide
on-plot facilities (VIP or pour flush toilets) to householders who are prepared to fund
50% of the costs of such an on-plot facility. These facilities have been costed as three
cabin VIPs to cater for approximately 30 persons. Management of the sub-component
will be as for the city-wide sanitation component of the project, and the budget for the
sanitation in the communities to be upgraded is included within the Sanitation component
of the Project (see Annex 8).
18.   Program sizing has not only taken account of priority demands ascertained from
the communities but also affordability, overall budget limitations, and implementation
capacity realities. For these reasons the sanitation component of the program is based on
meeting about 25 percent of the estimated demand during the project period.
Solid Waste Management Facilities
19.   Communal containers (10 cu.m.) will be provided together with concrete
hardstandings at a coverage of one per four to ten hectares, with the objective of
keeping walking distances in the order of 100 m. of every property. Assemblies or
private contractors engaged by Assemblies will be responsible for servicing (collection,
disposal, return) of the communal containers (skips) in accordance with city-wide
arrangements. Disposal of refuse to the skips will be the responsibility of the individual
householders or may be through local collection arrangements organized and fumded by
the community.



78                             Annex 10
Page 5 of 13
Street Lighting
20.   Basic street lighting (lanterns and required cabling) will be provided on existing
ECG poles at approximately 50 m. to 100 m. intervals or five to ten lights per hectare.
ECG will be responsible for providing electricity to the streetlights and covering the
power and maintenance costs through the street lighting tariff added to normal electricity
bills.
Environmental Infiastructure Fund
21.   A small "environmental infrastructure fund" is to be made available for each
community to support construction of minor infrastructure (e.g. small drainage channels
between properties) which is identified by the community during the course of the
project. Small schemes to access this fund will be vetted by the supervisory consultants
(see Implementation, below), and the community (through the Management Committee)
will be expected to contribute 50 percent of the scheme cost. The size of the fund
available to each community has been based on the area of the community at a rate of
approximately US$1,000 per hectare, as the infrastructure likely to be provided through
the fund is of an "area sensitive" nature (i.e. drainage).
ENVIRONMENTAL ASPECTS
22.   Costs have been kept as low as possible, and involuntary relocation has been
minimized through the adoption of functional standards and appropriate service levels. At
the completion of preliminary designs, only one area--West Maamobi in Accra--was
found potentially to involve relocation to accommodate an access road. This would affect
about approximately 31 rooms in 11 compound houses. Roughly 180 residents would
need to be relocated. Discussions already have been held between the consultants,
landlords, tenants, and officials of the AMA. In the next phase of studies, alternatives
will be considered, including further consultations with the affected people. If relocation
is deemed to be necessary, a relocation plan would be prepared following World Bank
guidelines.
23.   Basic environmental impact assessments have been carried out as part of
preliminary designs. Where necessary, appropriate localized mitigative measures to
protect surface and ground water will be incorporated into designs and bidding
documents. Generally, given the infrastructure deficiencies, extremely poor level of
sanitation, solid waste management, access and drainage in the communities, the overall
environmental impact of the component is significantly positive.



Annex 0l
Page 6 of 13
PROGRAM SUMMARY
24.   Summaries of infrastructure programs in each of the communities, with costs, are
given in Tables 2 to 5. A general summary of the infrastructure to be provided is as
follows:
Access    Drains        Water         Sanitation     Solid     Street-
Waste    lights
ACCRA
Sukura         3260m      4950m     6320m/ 11 taps    IOOIF/2 PF    5 skips    263 no.
Old Teshie      6650m     6760m     4000m/102 taps    1751F/1 PF    25 skips   508 no.
West Maamobi   5880m      6050m     6640m/ 18 taps    140 IF/2 PF   9 skips    441 no.
Sub-Total     15790m    17760m    16960m/131 taps   415IF/5PF      39 skips    1212 no
KUMASI
Aboabo          6800m     10770m    8060m/73 taps     70 IF/3 PF     18 skips   729 no.
Anloga          5220m     123 1Om    5780m/75 taps   90 IF/6 PF     19 skips   375 no.
Sub-Total     12020m    23080m    13840m/148 taps   160 IF/9 PF    37 skips    1104 no.
SEK-TAK
Effia Zongo     5570m     5070m     3700m/ I taps     75 IF/3 PF     14 skips   285 no.
Kwesimintsim.   3850m     8680m     4600m/16 taps     100 IF/3 PF   20 skips   402 no.
Sub-Total     9420m      18820m    8300m/2 7 taps   175 F1/6 PF    54 skips    687 no.
TOTAL           68810m    59660m    39100m/437 taps  750IF/20PF    130 skips  3003 no.
COSTS AND FINANCING
25.   The base cost of the on-site infrastructure component (excluding design and
supervision costs and physical and price contingencies) is estimated at US$10.61 million.
With off-site drainage costs the total component cost is US$11.67 million. A summary of
costs by city is given below.
Sanit'n/
US$     Access   Drains   Water   Env.Infr.   Solid    Street   Off-site  TOTAL
million                     Supply     Fun      Waste   Lights   Drains
Accra      1.987     0.743   0.719      0.240     0.263    0.363    0.432     4.747
Kumasi    1.621      1.003   0.552      0.150     0.250    0.331    0.391     4.298
Sek.-Tak.   0.870    0.676   0.269      0.140     0.230    0.206    0.239     2.63
TOTAL    4.478       2.422   1.54       0.530     0.743    0.9      1.062    11.675
26.   In the communities densities are relatively high, ranging from approximately 380
persons/hectare to 715 persons/hectare. Costs of components are either "area sensitive"
(e.g. roads and drainage networks) or "population/household sensitive" (e.g. on-plot
sanitation) and range from an average of US$16,400 per hectare (Sekondi-Takoradi) to
US$27,600 per hectare (Kumasi) or US$34 per capita (Sekondi-Takoradi) to US$45 per
capita (Accra) excluding the sanitation component.



80                            Annex 10
Page 7 of 13
IMPLEMENTATION
27.   The three participating Assemblies will take the lead in implementing the
program. Beneficiary communities will be involved and consulted as necessary. In each
community a Management Committee (MC) will be formed under the auspices of the
sub-metropolitan structure and including representatives from relevant formal
government entities as well as representatives of established community groups or
organizations such as women's groups, youth groups and religious groups. The MC will
have a particularly important role, not only being the linkage with, but also the body to
resolve issues arising within the community during the construction phase of the
program, but more importantly in the subsequent management, operation and
maintenance of the facilities to be provided.
28.   Supervision of civil works and goods contracts and provision of assistance with
O&M programs will be carried out by the MAs through their core project teams. The
MAs may contract with a local consultant or other group to assist with the organizational
aspects of O&M in the upgrading areas. The responsibilities and functions of the
Management Committees JMCs to provide technical and financial services will be
detailed in the Facilities and Management Plans.
PROCUREMENT
29.   One major contract for "network" infrastructure (i.e. roads, drains and water
supply and streetlighting) will be awarded in each community to ensure works are
properly coordinated. In addition one small contract in each community for solid waste
container hardstandings will also be awarded. A number of small contracts are envisaged
for the "stand alone" facilities (i.e. solid waste container hardstandings) as well as works
funded from the environmental infrastructure funds. An objective of this fund is to
finance small, simple civil works capable of being done by community labor or small
local contractors, thus generating employment within the community.
30.   Management, procurement and supervision of the sanitation component in each of
the communities will be in accordance with, and be part of, the city-wide sanitation
component being implemented in each of the cities. The solid waste containers (goods)
for the respective communities in each of the towns will be aggregated, and one contract
for each town (not community) will be bid for internationally, following International
Competitive Bidding (ICB) procedures, for economies of scale.
OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE ARRANGEMENTS
31.   The funding and execution of simple O&M activities (e.g. tertiary drain
maintenance) may be carried out by communities themselves. Other O&M may be
undertaken by private contractors. The Management Committees will ensure that
necessary periodic maintenance is carried out by the responsible authorities and may



81                             Annex IO
Page 8 of 13
directly organize routine and emergency maintenance of tertiary infrastructure. The
following table summarizes the O&M responsibilities as envisaged under the project:
COMPONENT               0 & M WORKS                0 & M FUNDING
Roads and          Routine-Community itself or via  Assemblies via Property Tax
Footpaths          small contractors.           or Community Charge
Periodic- Urban Roads Units
direct or through contractors
Drainage           Routine -Community itself or    Assemblies via Property Tax
via small contractors.       or Community Charge
Periodic-Urban Roads Units
direct or through contractors
On-Plot Sanitation   Individual Householder      Individual Householder
Community Toilets   Community/Assembly via      Direct User Charge
Contractor or Franchisee
Solid Waste        Assemblies direct or via     Assemblies via Property Tax
Management         Contractor                   or Community Charge
Water Supply       GWSC direct or via contractor   Water Tariff
Streetlighting     ECG direct or via contractor  Electricity (streetlighting)
Tariff
32.   Operation and maintenance costs are to be covered by the respective communities
through user charges, property taxes and other contributions that might be raised from
community efforts. For water supply and street lighting the responsible utility agencies
(GWSC and ECG respectively) will be responsible for operating and maintaining the
systems, after taking them over following the end of their defects liability periods, with
funding from existing tariff revenues. It is envisaged that the community standpipes will
be franchised to private operators or community groups which would be responsible for
standpipe operation, sale of water, and payment of the GWSC water bill. Street lighting
will be maintained by private contractors engaged by ECG as is now the norm. For roads
and drainage, major periodic maintenance (i.e. resurfacing and major structural repairs)
will be carried out by the urban roads units in the respective Assemblies. However,
routine maintenance of roads and drains may be organized within the communities and
carried out by community gangs or small contractors organized through the respective
sub-metropolitan structures with budget channeled through the respective Assemblies.
33.   Estimates of total operation and maintenance costs for the infrastructure to be
upgraded have been made (Tables 1 to 5) based on a percentage of estimated capital
costs. Order of magnitude annual funding requirements for routine maintenance for roads
and drains has also been estimated (Tables 2,3, and 4), but precise estimates will be made
by the respective Assemblies prior to annual budget setting. The respective Assemblies
will agree to allocate such sums each year to the respective sub-metropolitan structures
for routine maintenance of roads and drains for the beneficiary communities commencing
in Year 3 of the project.



Table 1: Community Infrastructure Upgrading Program
Summary Data and Cost Table
(Base costs at July 1995)
Communities      Area      Popn.    Density      No. of   DweHlings Avge H/H  Avge H/H   Cost/ha   Cost/cap Total Capial Ann.O&M
(Ha)                pers/ha    Dwellings   per ha  /dwelling    Size     (USS)    (USS)   Cost (USS)  Cost (US$S)
Sukua                52.50    22,700        432        631      12.02         6       6.00    22,918        53    1,203,177      48,019
Old Teshie          101.50    38,500        379        1068     10.52         6       6.01    14,988        40    1,521,300      60,498
West Mawnobi         88.00    34,200        389         814      9.25         7       6.00    18,083        47    1,591,344      64,731
Sub-Total         242.00    95,400        394       2513      10.38                         17,834        45    4,315,821      173,248
Off-site drains    max.lIt10  upgrading costs                                                                       431,582
Total                                                                                                           4,747,403
KUMASI                                                                                                                                           0
Aboabo               73.00    52,300        716         594      8.14        11       8.00    27,608        39    2,015,367       81,024          I
Anloga               75.00    45,800        611         595      7.93        11       7.00    25,215        41    1,891,124       79,812
Sub-Total          148.00    98,100        663       1189      8.03                          26,395        40    3,906,491     160,836
Off-site drins    max.10% upgrading costs                                                                           390,649
Total                                                                                                            4,297,140
SEKONDI-AKORAD
Effia Zongo          57.00    33,900        595         424      7.44         8       9.99     17,240       29      982,690       39,904
Kwesimintsim         80.50    37,200        462         600      7.45        10       6.20     17,497       38    1,408,515       58,009
Sub-Total          137.50    71,100        517       1024      7.45                          17,391        34    2,391,205      97,913
Off-site drains    max. 0l%/ upgrading costs                                                                        239,121
Total                                                                                                            2,630,326
Grand Total         527.50   264,600        502       4726       8.96                         22,132        44   11,674,869
a'



Table 2: Community Infrastructure Upgrading Program
Local Infrastructure Cost Table for Accra
(Base costs at July 1995)
Communities      Area      Popn.    Density       Total    Cost/ha   Cost/cap  Ann.O&M  Ann.O&M    Notes          % of Total
(Ha)                pers/ba   Cost (USS)  (USS)    (USS)   %capital Cost(USS)                   Capital Cost
Sukura
* access             52.50    22,700         432    467,260      8,900        21          5     23,363                         39
drains               52.50    22,700         432    303,325      5,778        13          5     15,166                         25
*water supply        52.50    22,700         432    269,942      5,142        12          2      5,399                         22
*streetlighting      52.50    22,700         432      78,900     1,503         3          2      1,578                          7
*env.infra.fund      52.50    22,700         432      50,000      952          2          3      1,500                          4
*solid waste         52.50    22,700         432      33,750      643          1          3      1,013                          3
Sub-Total          52.50    22,700         432   1,203,177    22,918        53                48,019                        100
Old Teshk
* access             101.50    38,500        379    662,000      6,522        17          5     33,100                         44
drains               101.50    38,500        379    250,800      2,471         7          5     12,540                         16                      x
water supply         101.50    38,500        379    187,350      1,846         5          2      3,747                         12
*streetighting       101.50    38,500        379    152,400      1,501         4          2      3,048                         10
env.infrafund        101.50    38,500        379    100,000       985          3          3      3,000                          7
*solid waste         101.50    38,500        379    168,750      1,663         4          3      5,063                         11
Sub-Total          101.50    38,500        379   1,521,300    14,988        40                60,498                        100
West Maamobi
*access               88.00    34,200        389    857,200      9,741        25          5     42,860                         54
*drains               88.00    34,200        389    189,350      2,152         6          5      9,468                         12
water supply          88.00    34,200        389    261,744      2,974         8          2      5,235                         16
*streetlighting      88.00    34,200         389    132,300      1,503         4          2      2,646                          8
*env.infra.Fund      88.00    34,200         389      90,000     1,023         3          3      2,700                          6
*solid waste         88.00    34,200         389      60,750      690          2          3      1,823                          4
Sub-Total          88.00    34,200         389   1,591,344    18,083        47                64,731                        100
TOTAL               242.00    95,400         394   4,315,821    17,834        45               173,247
.  . . _ _ _ . _ .~~~~I



Table 3: Community Infrastructure Upgrading Program
Local Infrastructure Cost Table for Kumasi
(Base costs at July 1995)
Communities      Area      Popn.    Density     Total    Cost/ha  Cost/cap  Ann.O&M Ann. O&M    Notes          % of Total
(Ha)               pers/ha   Cost(USS)   (USS)    (USS)   % capital Cost (USS)               Capital Cost
Aboabo
*access              73.00    52,300        716    880,400    12,060        17          5    44,020                        44
*drains              73.00    52,300        716    411,310     5,634         8          5    20,566                        20
*water supply        73.00    52,300        716    308,457     4,225         6          2      6,169                        15
*streetlighting      73.00    52,300        716    218,700     2,996         4          2      4,374                        1 1
*env.infiafund       73.00    52,300        716      75,000     1,027        1          3      2,250                        4
*solid waste         73.00    52,300        716    121,500      1,664        2          3      3,645                        6
Sub-Total          73.00    52,300        716  2,015,367    27,608        39                81,024                       100             X
Aaga
*access              75.00    45,800        611    740,450     9,873        16          5     37,023                       39
*drains              75.00    45,800        611    591,440     7,886        13          5    29,572                         31
*water supply        75.00    45,800        611    243,484     3,246         5          2      4,870                        13
*streetlighting      75.00    45,800        611    112,500      1,500        2          2      2,250                         6
*env.infra.fund      75.00    45,800        611      75,000     1,000        2          3      2,250                         4
*solid waste         75.00    45,800        611    128,250      1,710        3          3      3,848                         7
Sub-Total          75.00    45,800        611   1,891,124    25,215       41                79,812                       100
TOTAL               148.00    98,100        663  3,906,491    26,395        40               160,835
0S



Table 4: Community Infrastructure Upgrading Program
Local Infrastructure Cost Table for Sekondi-Takoradi
(Base costs at July 1995)
Communities      Area       Popn.    Density       Total    Cost/ha   Cost/cap  Ann.O&M  Ann.O&M    Notes           % of Total
(Ha)                pers/ha   Cost(USS)   (USS)    (USS)   %capital Cost(USS)                    Capital Cost
Effia Zongo
*access               57.00    33,900         595    365,300      6,409        11          5      18,265                         37
*drains               57.00     33,900        595    258,190      4,530         8          5      12,910                         26
*water supply         57.00     33,900        595    119,200      2,091         4          2       2,384                         12
*streetlighting       57.00    33,900         595      85,500     1,500         3          2       1,710                          9
*env.infra.find       57.00     33,900        595      60,000     1,053         2          3       1,800                          6
*solid waste          57.00     33,900        595      94,500     1,658         3          3       2,835                         10
Sub-Total           57.00    33,900         595    982,690    17,240         29                39,904                         100
Kwesimin
*access               80.50     37,200        462    505,050      6,274        14          5     25,253                          36
*drains               80.50     37,200        462    417,890      5,191         11         5     20,895                          30
*water supply         80.50     37,200        462    149,975      1,863         4          2       3,000                         11
*streetlighting       80.50     37,200        462     120,600     1,498         3          2       2,412                          9
*fenv.infra.fiud      80.50     37,200        462      80,000      994          2          3       2,400                          6
*solid waste          80.50     37,200        462    135,000      1,677         4          3       4,050                         10
Sub-Total           80.50    37,200         462   1,408,515    17,497        38                58,009                         100
TOTAL                137.50     71,100        517   2,391,205    17,391        34                 97,912
-o



Table 5: Community Infrastructure Upgrading Program
Costs for Off-Site Drainage Trunk Infrastructure
Communities    Length       Cost    Total U/G       Cost at 20%                Cost at 10%
(metres)   (USS)   Cost (USS)   of upgrade (USS)            of upgrade (USS)
ACCRA
Chemu Stream          3078  1,180,000
Mampon Stream          1401    370,000
Nima Stream             600    170,000
Sub-Total           5079  1,720,000   4,315,821    863,164              431,582
KUMASI
Sisai River           8200  3,480,000                                                                                                           c
Aboabo River          5000   950,000                                                                                                            cON
Sub-Total          13200  4,430,000   3,906,491    781,298              390,649
SEKQND ITAKRAD
KansawaraRv.          4180  2,250,000
Ayire/Mvale Rv.       2100    950,000
Sub-Total           6280  3,200,000   2,391,205    478,241              239,121
GRAND TOTAL          24559  9,350,000  10,613,517   2,122,703            1,061,352
o
ox
r 



Annrex1 1
87                            Page I of 4
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
URBAN ENVIRONMENTAL SANITATION PROJECT
Institutional Strengthening
1.    The institutional strengthening component of UESP has two major objectives:
a) To build durable technical and management capacity related to urban
environmental sanitation at the central and local levels; and
b) To ensure that the participating agencies have the resources needed to perform
their implementation functions effectively.
2.    Accordingly, assistance will be provided to the Ministry of Local Government
and Rural Development (MLGRD), the Technical Services Centre (TSC) of the Ministry
of Works and Housing, and the five Metropolitan and Municipal Assemblies (MAs) of
Accra, Kumasi, Sekondi-Takoradi, Tema, and Tamale.
3.    The institutional strengthening component will consist of the following five
activities:
SUPPORT TO MLGRD
4.    MLGRD has established a Local Government Support Unit (LGSU) which is
assisting Regional and District capital cities to improve urban services and finances.
Under the UESP, LGSU will hire individual national consultants to bolster its capacity to
provide technical and implementation support to the cities in environmental sanitation.
The inputs to be financed are as follows:
Item                     Quantity/unit cost       Total Cost
Capacity Building Coordinator      48 months @$2,500/month=        $ 120,000
Environmental Sanitation Specialist    72 months @$2,500/month=     180,000
4 vehicles for travel to project sites  4 vehicles @$40,000 =       160,000
(2 LGSU; 2 Enviro. Health Div.)
4 computer packages                   4 packages @$5,000 =           20,000
(2 LGSU; 2 Enviro. Health Div.)
I photocopy machine                   1 machine @$12,000             12,000
Materials                                                            24,000
Operating costs                                                      60,000
In-country travel and subsistence                                    30,000
Workshops and training for MAs                                       20,000
TOTAL                                                         626,000



88                            Annex I 1
Page 2 of 4
SUPPORT TO TSC
5.    The Technical Services Centre of the Ministry of Works and Housing will be
responsible, on behalf of MLGRD, for administration of procurement, accounting,
monitoring, and contract management. TSC will also provide technical support and on-
the-job training to the five MAs concerning these activities. MLGRD will provide the
following inputs to TSC:
Item                    Quantity/unit cost      Total Cost
3 professional contract staff    72 months x 3 @2,500/month -    $540,000
2 vehicles for travel to project sites  2 vehicles @$40,000 =       80,000
4 computer packages                  4 packages @$5,000            20,000
l photocopy machine                                                12,000
Materials                                                          33,000
Operating costs                                                    110,000
In-country travel and subsistence                                   36,000
Workshops and training for MAs                                     20,000
TOTAL                                                       851,000
PROJECT-WIDE CAPACITY BUILDING AND TRAINING
6.    A project-wide capacity-building and training (PWCBT) program will be financed
by the project. It will be overseen by MLGRD's Local Government Support Unit. There
would be two sources of financing: the Nordic Development Fund and the Association of
Netherlands Municipalities. The PWCBT will provide assistance to the five MAs and
relevant central government agencies. Its work will be carried out by national consultants
supported by a limited number of international specialists who would provide knowledge
not available locally. This group will prepare an annual work program in response to the
needs of the client institutions and the activities of the UESP. The work program would
be approved by the clients. Each year the clients and the PWCBT group would review
the effectiveness of its activities.
7.    The CPT would cover two main areas, environmental sanitation and municipal
finances. Examples of the types of assistance to be provided include (this is an
illustrative list, not a complete one):
* Drafting of local government by-laws for environmental sanitation.
* Establishing and using performance monitoring systems for waste collection.
* Developing and implementing cost accounting and management information
systems.



89                             Annex I I
Page 3 of 4
*  Compiling standard designs, specifications, and cost data on appropriate
technologies for sanitation, waste collection, treatment facilities, and disposal
systems.
*  Designing public enlightenment campaigns and preparing health education
materials.
*  Updating and maintaining data bases on municipal revenue collection.
*  Privatizing revenue collection using the commission system.
Nordic Development Fund
8.    The inputs to be financed for project-wide capacity building and training by the
Nordic Development Fund are as follows:
Item                    Quantity/unit cost        Total Cost
International consultants         93 months @$20,000 =           $1,860,000
National consultants              216 months @$2,500 =              540,000
National support staff             216 months @$300 =               65,000
2 vehicles                        2 vehicles @$40,000 =             80,000
4 computer packages               4 packages @$5,000 =              20,000
1 photocopy machine               1 machine @$12,000 =              12,000
Other office equipment                                              25,000
Operating costs                                                     180,000
Office rent                                                         180,000
In-country travel and subsistence                                   40,000
Training activities                                                 100,000
TOTAL BASE COST                                             3,102,000
Association of Netherlands Municipalities
[ANM will finance training activities. A detailed proposal is being prepared]
Base Cost:                                           $ 545,000
CONTRACT STAFF FOR METRO AND MUNICIPAL ASSEMBLIES
9.    Each of the five MAs is establishing a project team which will be responsible for
day-to-day management of the city's sub-projects of the UESP. Each MA will hire three
long-term contract staff to form the nucleus of its project team. Regular staff of the MAs
will also be assigned to work on the project team. The Assemblies will provide offices
and office furniture for the team. The inputs to be financed by the project are:



90
Annex I
Page 4 of 4
Item                      Quantity/unit cost     Total Cost
3 national contract staff for each city  72 months x 15 @$2,500  $2,700,000
1 vehicle for each staff                   15 @$20,000 =           300,000
(simple car or double-cab pickup truck)
I computer package for each staff          15 @$5,000 =             75,000
1 photocopy machine for each team          5 ($ 12,000 =            60,000
Other office equipment                   5 @$2,000 per city =       10,000
Materials                               5 @$15,000 per city=        75,000
Operating costs                         5 @$25,000 per city =      125,000
TOTAL                                                      3,345,000
INDIVIDUAL CITIES' CAPACITY-BUILDING
10.  It is important for each Metropolitan or Municipal Assembly to implement its
own individual capacity-building activities, apart from those undertaken by the project-
wide CPT program (item 3 above). The project will finance a package of capacity-
building resources which will be available to each city to use as it wishes, as long as the
activities are relevant to UESP. With these resources, the MAs will be able to hire their
own consultants (with terms of reference cleared by MLGRD) and finance training
activities tailored to their specific needs. Each city will be required to submit an annual
capacity building and training plan for approval by MLGRD. The inputs to be provided
by the project are as follows:
Item                      Quantity/unit cost   Total Cost
National consultants (waste management,  64 months @$2,500 x 5 =  $800,000
sanitation, municipal finance)
2 vehicles (double-cab pickups or 10-person  10 @$20,000 =         200,000
vans) for each city
2 computer packages for each city            10 @$5,000 =           50,000
1 photocopy machine for each city           5 @$12,000 =            60,000
1 set of communications equipment for each  5 @$ 10,000 =           50,000
city
Materials for each city                      5 @$15,000=            75,000
Operating costs for each city                5 @$25,000 =          125,000
Training activities per city (not to duplicate  5 @$20,000 =       100,000
that provided through project-wide CPT--
item 3 above)
TOTAL                                                      1,460,000



91                             Annex12
Page 1 of 5
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
URBAN ENVIRONMENTAL SANITATION PROJECT
lalld Titlin
BACKGROUND
1.    Since its early involvement in the urban sector in Ghana, the World Bank
recognized the problems associated with land delivery, land administration and the lack
of cadastral and other maps. Consequently, the Bank-assisted Urban II Project includes a
Land Administration Component whose objectives are to improve mapping, land titling,
registration and conveyancing in the main urban areas and to develop cost effective
methods of adjudicating land and issuing clear titles.
2.    The Land Administration Component consists of:
a) A Pilot Land Adjudication and Titling (PLAT) project, to support the
implementation of the 1986 Land Title Registration Law.
b) The production of 1:2500 scale photomaps for Accra and Kumasi (by KLM
Aerocarto), which would be used for the PLAT project.
c) Institutional support (vehicles and equipment) for the key land administration
agencies.
d) Studies and documentation.
3.    The project is guided by a Land Administration Steering Committee composed of
the heads of the participating agencies: the Survey Department, the Land Title Registry,
and the Land Commission. The Steering Committee is supported by a Secretariat and
directed by an internationally recruited advisor.
4.    The World Bank-supported LGDP project recognized also that up-to-date base
maps are an important component of the information base for urban planning and
development. LGDP includes a mapping component which comprises aerial photography
and digital mapping (by outside firms) of 11 towns, provision of an analytical
stereoplotter, and technical assistance.
5.    The Bank-supported Ghana Environmental Resources Management Project
(GERMP) provided the Survey Department with a modest digital mapping capability and
modernization of the photo laboratory. The digital mapping facility is employed to
establish a digital Topographic Database in support of GERMP's geographic information
systems. The PLAT Project took advantage of these facilities to carry out a "proof of



92                             Annex 12
Page 2 of 5
concept" project to demonstrate the application of digital mapping technology for the
production of Land Title (Registry) Maps and Plans.
6.    Although the PLAT Project was slow in starting and the Advisor was not
recruited until the end of September 1994, the Project is gaining momentum and is
starting to bear fruit. Major bottlenecks in the process of land adjudication and titling
have been identified, and steps are being taken to make the whole process more efficient
and effective. To this end recommnendations were made by the Advisor regarding the
merger of the Deed Registry with the Land Title Registry, introduction of a unique parcel
identification number (PIN), and strengthening of confidence in the land title system. On
the technology side, a "proof of concept" project demonstrating the use of computer
technology for the compilation of Land Title (Registry) Maps and Plans has been
successfully completed. The potential time savings are substantial. Registry Maps could
be compiled within days instead of months, and once they are available in digital form,
the Registry Plans could be prepared in less than one hour.
7.    As a first step in introducing this technology to routine operations of the Survey
Department, a Pilot Production of Digital Registry Maps and Plans will begin early in
1996. The Survey Department will provide the hardware and some software, and
contingency funds from the Urban II Land Administration component will be used to
engage a digital mapping expert for six months and to purchase additional software. The
objectives of this Pilot Production are to work out production procedures and standards,
train personnel, and enable the implementation of this technology in the day-to-day
operations of the Survey Department when funds for modernization become available.
8.   In order to foster the development of a technologically advanced private sector in
Ghana, two Ghanaian survey firms will be engaged shortly to produce digital Land Title
(Registry) Maps in the Accra and Kumasi areas using digital orthophoto maps as the
base. These are small contracts (less than $50,000 each) involving the development of
new procedures and methods. This new approach promises substantial savings in time
and effort as compared with the traditional ways of surveying and preparing Registry
Maps.
9.    The sub-project to be funded under UESP is intended to build upon and carry
forward the progress made to date.
OBJECTIVES
10.   The overall objectives of this sub-project are to continue the initiatives started
under Urban II; to acquire a critical mass of data and experience in order to start an
irreversible process of modernization; and to prepare for the design of a major Land
Administration/Management Project which could be supported by the World Bank or
other donor agencies.



93                             Annex 12
Page 3 of 5
11.   Specific objectives are:
* To increase the efficiency and effectiveness of the Land Title Registry.
* To modernize the Land Registry Section of the Survey Department.
* To foster the establishment of a competent and technologically advanced
private sector.
* To assist the Lands Commission in collecting and preparing information about
state and public lands in an efficient and effective manner.
DESCRIPTION
Modernization of Land Title Office
12.   This component of the sub-project will provide the Land Title Office with modern
filing shelves, computerized document tracking, and an efficient documents management
system. This will reduce the time of processing Land Title applications and increase
outputs.
13.   An additional vehicle will provide the much needed transportation for field work
in connection with explaining the Land Title process to the public.
Cost:
- Computer software and other equipment    US$60,000
- Vehicle                                  US$30,000
Modernization of the Land Registry Section of the Survey Department
14.   Drawing on the experience of the "proof of concept" project and the Pilot
Production of Digital Registry Maps, an improved production unit will be established.
Additional PCs, workstations and a plotter will be purchased together with the required
software. The aim is for the Survey Department to be in a position to utilize a number of
different inputs such as digital orthophotos, scanned or vectorized maps, field survey data
or lists of co-ordinates for the purpose of establishing a Digital Land Registry Database
(Parcel Database) and to produce Registry Maps and Plans by automated means.
15.   An expert in digital mapping will be engaged for a period of three months to
manage this section in close liaison with a counterpart Ghanaian and to train staff in
production, quality control and management of digital data.
16.   Another important function of this component will be to provide quality control
for work done on contract with private survey firms. In addition, this component would



94                             Annex 12
Page 4 of 5
demonstrate the use of Digital Land Title (Registry) Maps in the works of the Land
Valuation Board and the Town and Country Planning Department as well as provide
technical support to the Land Title Registry.
Cost:
- Computers, plotter, and software         US$100,000
- Expert in digital mapping (3 months)     US$ 50,000
Fostering the Establishment of a Competent Private Sector
17.   The demand for timely, up-to-date geospatial base information cannot be satisfied
by the Survey Department alone and must involve a competent indigenous private sector.
Many projects could be carried out more economically and rapidly by Ghanaian survey
companies than by foreign enterprises. The preparation of survey documents and
Registry maps required under the 1986 Land Title Registration Law is the best example
of the need for a competent and technologically advanced private sector.
18.   The proposed contracting out of the preparation of Land Title (Registry) Maps
with Ghanaian survey firms is a step in the right direction, towards building a competent
private sector.
19.   The work will be carried out in the Accra-Tema and Kumasi areas of the PLAT
project employing novel approaches which promise to substantially reduce costly and
time consuming ground surveys. The digital orthophotomaps will be used as the base for
identification, in the field, of property boundaries and for making measurements.
Property corners will be surveyed relative to the features which appear on the photomaps
such as buildings, fences, curbs, etc. The co-ordinates of these lot corners will then be
determined on a computer screen employing digital mapping technology.
20.   At this time there are two fair size Ghanaian survey companies capable of
undertaking this type of work. Others are in the process of organizing themselves.
21.  It is estimated that the $210,000 allocated for this item will pay for the preparation
of Registry Maps covering some 10,000 average size properties. This will undoubtedly
give a boost to the land titling process and will be the largest effort of this kind to-date.
To put this effort in a proper perspective, however, it should be remembered that in Accra
alone there are an estimated 500,000 lots and in Kumasi 80,000 lots.
22.   Nevertheless, this gradual expansion of modem titling will be a major
contribution to reducing the risks and problems associated with land transfer, will expand
the amount of real property that can be used as collateral in bank credit, and should
stimulate private sector investment.
23.   Experience gained on this project will be most beneficial in formulating and
carrying out a much larger project of Land Administration/Management in Ghana,



95                            Annex 12
Page 5 of 5
hopefully to be finned with the assistance of the World Bank and/or other donor agency,
and will prepare Ghanaian survey companies to meet this challenging opportunity.
Cost:
- Contracts with local survey companies for about 10,000 properties  US$210,000
Assistance to the Lands Commission
24.   The Lands Commission is one the important Government agencies involved in
land management. It manages public lands or lands vested by law in the President, grants
consent/concurrence for all allocations of Stool, Skin and family lands, and advises the
Government and local authorities on policies for land use and development.
25.   The Lands Commission will research, collect and prepare a layer of information
on Government vested lands as well as on StoollSkin and family/clan lands within the
PLAT Project area for demarcation by the Survey Department and inclusion in the Land
Registry Maps to be prepared by the pilot project. This information will be assembled by
contacting chiefs, and collecting data from Deeds Registry, the Land Title Registry, the
High Court, the Courts of Appeal, and other sources.
26.   To accomplish this, the Lands Commission would need the services of an
experienced Licensed Surveyor and a vehicle for field operations.
27.   The infonnation provided by the Lands Commission will facilitate issuance of
Land Titles in areas adjacent to public lands and the settlement of disputes about Stool
lands boundaries.
Cost:
- Licensed Surveyor (consultant)    US$10,000
- Vehicle                           US$30,000
Land Administration and Information Systems Advisor
28.   The services of a senior expert to assist in coordinating, documenting, and
providing technical advice will be required.
Cost:
- Senior Adviser        US$60,000



96                              Amex 13
Page 1 of I
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
URBAN ENVIRONMENTAL SANITATION PROJECT
Procurement Schedule 1996-97 - Key Contracts
Activity                                 Date
First General Procurement Notice                   April 1996
Accra Drainage - Odaw Primary Drain
- Tender documents ready                       March 31, 1997
- Bid evaluation report to IDA                 September 30, 1997
- Contract signed                              January 15, 1998
Kumasi Drainage
- Tender documents ready                       December 31, 1996
- Bid evaluation report to IDA                 June 30, 1997
-Contract signed                               October 31, 1997
Solid Waste Disposal Facilities (3 packages)
- Tender documents ready                       March 31, 1997
- Bid evaluation report(s) to IDA              September 30, 1997
- Contract(s) signed                           January 15, 1998
Vehicles for Institutional Strengthening
- Tender documents ready                       May 15, 1996
- Bid evaluation report to IDA                 September 15, 1996
- Contract signed                              November 30, 1996
Community Infrastructure Upgrading (7 packages)
- Tender documents ready                       August 31, 1996
- Bid evaluation report(s) to IDA              December 31, 1996
- Contract(s) signed                           February 28, 1997



MAP SECTION



IBRD 27584
3-~~~~~~~~~~~~~- 
Ien Ie - I)  Boo9o Un R K IN  V        SO   '  M                      BENIN               -
Bo   an  D             '       TOGO
NT IN  GEKumosi PARTICIPATING CITIES
YtAdo PRIMARY ROADS
nJChakgtk   ---     _ SECONDARY ROADS
_t                                                                                                         5|  ironloq H 0,              $  9  0  )i  i -    RIVERS  10
-s---RAILROADS
S. A                    NATIONAL CAPITAL
\   >  aTunq   / <   T.j.         (D %   rS   REGIONAL HEADQUARTERS
omale               Y N                         DISTRICT AND SUB-DISTRICT
X.rkp.           Snsb                  IHEADQUARTERS
Lon t  nisga  N   RT.  RN  /       nRECU71GOI'    s,           .Znh0igu      0   OTHER SELECTED TOWNS
REGION BOUNDARIES
9                                                                               V \uh    N-kpoI                  INTERNATIONAL
."P. \,   aSefIpe      /    t  pon            woN ok l             'm j\               BOUNDARIES                 9
>51                 ~~~~~~~The boundaries, colors,
DCI V OTI R E  W               (     ~         X        8)   iQ|J9al -iki       a       IWor,bu            deenominal,ons and any
D  IVOIRE                                                           Jo,                 '~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~irnS  ther information shown
on this mop do noi
One              i~~~~~~mpty, on the Port of
-'  Nkoonnn a           The WorId Bank Group,
~~i   nis9o-  yen p      a~~ny uvdgment on the leqal
'           stotus of any terr"tory,
K               ~~~~~~or ony endorsement
' |3'  3'                ni                     or acceptance of such
j    K0luotomesa  T m  t  1sW    ~^;_>  _    jboundarres           8
-Z    IS 7v,Eluro                                                      t Xi 79 TOGO                                  BENIN
-7-                        ~~~~~~~~SH  T   RE G. I              Ookokre                                                            7-
I Ef d-.s Ag.9        T5   R t"'  q>
Ale      nh             K     Nk-nto       in os                 GI       Dmn.               pi
K \R'I ,
n   I -                      Akon       AKrn 9un           'hb.w         A
-6           A   E       .  .                                                                n      1AeyuDAO                                6'
;G n~A    *tNt none                                    Itosa t                      URBAN ENVIRONMENTAL
5oJ*wiwliF<ml   ko7diTaopeCoos                                                  SANITATION PROJECT   s-
>    i>'gthrarcii                                                  PARTICIPATING CITIES
Isoee' idoa
0   20  40  60  80 KILOMETERS
Gulf  of  Guinea                                                             
3                       2                        10 0                                              1'
DECEMBER  995



IMAGING
Report No:      15089 GH
Type: SAR



