                                    Document of
                                  The World Bank




                                                               Report No: 29368

                      IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                          (IDA-28360 PPFI-P8830 PPFI-P8831)

                                       ON A

                                      CREDIT

                        IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR47.8 MILLION
                           (US$71.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                             TO THE GOVERNMENT OF

                                      GHANA

                                      FOR AN

                   URBAN ENVIRONMENTAL SANITATION PROJECT




                                    June 28, 2004




Water and Urban II
Country Department AFC10
Africa Region

                                  CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                             (Exchange Rate Effective June 23, 2004)

                                   Currency Unit = Cedi (GHC)
                                     Cedi 10,000 = US$ 1.10
                                            US$ 1 = Cedis 9,080

                                         FISCAL YEAR
                                    January 1     December 31

                            ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AFD      Agence francaise de Développement
AMA      Accra Metropolitan Assembly
CAS      Country Assistance Strategy
CBD      Central Business District
DCA      Development Credit Agreement
EHD      Environmental Health Department
EOP      End of Project
ICR      Implementation Completion Report
IDA      International Development Association
KMA      Kumasi Metropolitan Association
KVIP     Kumasi Ventilated Improved Pit Latrine
LGPSU    Local Government Project Support Unit
MA       Metropolitan/Municipal Assemblies
MLGRD    Ministry of Local Government and Rural Development
NDF      Nordic Development Fund
O&M      Operations and Maintenance
PDO      Project Development Objectives
PPF      Project Preparation Fund
PSR      Project Status Report
PTA      Parent Teacher Association
PWCBT    Project-Wide Capacity Building and Training
SAETA    Shama Ahanta East Metropolitan Assembly
SAR      Staff Appraisal Report
SDR      Special Drawing Right
SSP      Strategic Sanitation Plan
TAMA     Tamale Metropolitan Assembly
TMA      Tema Municipal Assembly
TSC      Technical Services Centre
UESP     Urban Environmental Sanitation Project
VBT      Van's Biological Toilet
WC       Water Closet
WMD      Waste Management Department




                                  Vice President:     Callisto E. Madavo
                                Country Director      Mats Karlsson
                                 Sector Manager       Inger Andersen
                             Task Team Leader:        Gerhard Tschannerl

                                            GHANA
                        URBAN ENVIRONMENTAL SANITATION


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            6
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            19
6. Sustainability                                                                21
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 23
8. Lessons Learned                                                               25
9. Partner Comments                                                              26
10. Additional Information                                                       29
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             30
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             31
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             36
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             38
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             40
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                41
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            42

Project ID: P000973                                                  Project Name: URBAN ENVIRONMENTAL
                                                                     SANITATION
Team Leader: Gerhard Tschannerl                                      TL Unit: AFTU2
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: June 28, 2004


1. Project Data
                   Name: URBAN ENVIRONMENTAL SANITATION                           L/C/TF Number: IDA-28360; PPFI-P8830;
                                                                                                     PPFI-P8831
   Country/Department: GHANA                                                              Region: Africa Regional Office

        Sector/subsector: General water, sanitation and flood protection sector (78%); Central
                            government administration (9%); Sub-national government
                            administration (8%); Roads and highways (5%)
                  Theme: Access to urban services for the poor (P); Other urban development
                            (P); Municipal governance and institution building (P); Municipal
                            finance (P); Pollution management and environmental health (P)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 10/11/1994                                     Effective: 09/03/1996                09/03/1996
     Appraisal: 06/01/1995                                         MTR: 09/03/1999                  02/08/2000
      Approval: 03/26/1996                                      Closing: 12/31/2002                 12/31/2003



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          MINISTRY OF FINANCE/Government of Ghana/Ministry of Local Government
                                           & Rural Development/Municipal Assemblies
                      Other Partners:      NDF, VNG, AFD

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Callisto E. Madavo                             Kim Jaycox
Country Director:               Mats Karlsson                                  Olivier Lafourcade
Sector Manager:                 Inger Andersen                                 James O. Wright
Team Leader at ICR:             Gerhard Tschannerl                             Alan Carroll
ICR Primary Author:             Rohit Khanna


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      UN
   Institutional Development Impact:       M
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
The objectives of the Urban Environmental Sanitation Project (UESP) were to:

    (a) Promote productivity and raise living standards in Ghana's major cities, especially for
        lower-income people, by improving drainage, sanitation, and solid waste services.
    (b) Help establish better institutional and financing mechanisms and more effective policy
        frameworks so that improvements are sustained over time.
    (c) Build capacity of the Metropolitan and Municipal Assemblies to manage environmental
        sanitation services.

The project supported four of five objectives of the World Bank Ghana Country Assistance
Strategy (CAS) for 1999-2003.

    (a) Poverty reduction, by improving services which have high impact on the productivity and
        welfare of the urban poor;
    (b) Capacity building, by strengthening the ability of the Metropolitan and Municipal
        Assemblies to plan and manage delivery of basic urban environmental sanitation services;
    (c) Private sector development, by promoting the contracting out of various waste collection
        and sanitation services; and
    (d) Environmental improvement, by directly addressing the highest priority urban
        environmental problems highlighted by the Government's National Environmental Action
        Plan.

The project was identified as a result of the Urban Development Strategy Review, conducted
jointly by the Bank and the Government in 1993-94. The Review concluded that sanitation and
waste management are the most urgent urban environmental problems, and that improvements in
basic urban infrastructure and services are needed to increase productivity of urban households
and firms. The Review also recommended that urban service delivery should be made more
efficient and sustainable by greater competition, more reliance on commercial principles, private
sector participation, and attention to consumer demand.

The objectives and design of the project need to be assessed in the context of the Government's
urban development strategy and the decentralization policy. Under the 1992 Constitution and the
Local Government Act of 1993, Ghana's Metropolitan, Municipal and District Assemblies are
autonomous local governments with legislative and executive powers within their areas. The
project supported the nascent Metropolitan and Municipal Assemblies in the five project towns in
carrying out their functions of preparing and approving annual waste management budgets, raising
revenues, and providing basic urban environmental sanitation services (which are the largest
discretionary expenditure items for the local governments). The five project towns of Accra,
Kumasi, Sekondi-Takoradi, Tamale and Tema have an estimated combined 2004 population of
4.3 million, constituting 23 % of Ghana's total population.
All three project objectives contained cause and effect statements, which made it difficult to
identify a consistent set of Performance Indicators for impact. Moreover, the general nature of
the objectives statement perhaps over-stated the more modest intent of the project, given the



                                                - 2 -

limited experience with decentralization and local government waste management services in
Ghana.

3.2 Revised Objective:
The development objective was revised in October 1997: To improve environmental sanitation
services in Ghana's five main cities. This was the "retrofitted" development objective in
accordance with the log frame format. This revision eliminated the cause and effect statement in
the original Project Development Objective (PDO) and provided a clearer understanding of the
project's intent.

In June 2000, the project objectives were revised again: To improve the urban environment in
Ghana's five main cities in a sustainable manner. Five performance indicators for impact were
developed (see Annex 1).

Neither change amounted to a restructuring, since they were refinements of the original
objectives, which were broad enough to accommodate the revisions.

3.3 Original Components:
The project consisted of five components:

Component 1 - Storm Drainage (US$33.38 million). Improving primary and secondary drains in
Accra, Kumasi and Sekondi-Takoradi to alleviate flooding, particularly in the central business
districts:

    (a) Accra: Dredging and reconstruction of approximately 7 km of the city's primary drainage
        channel, the Odaw. Reconstruction of about 20 km of secondary drains serving 13
        neighborhoods.

    (b) Kumasi: Construction of four new secondary drains, widening the existing primary channel
        from the Zoo through Kejetia to Asafo Market, and reconstruction of a 4 km stretch of
        the Nsuben primary channel.

    (c) Sekondi-Takoradi: Desilting covered drains in the Market Circle area, restoring capacity
        of existing drains, and providing additional capacity in the Market Circle drain.

Component 2 ­ Sanitation (US$9.84 million). During project preparation, each of the five
Metropolitan/Municipal Assemblies (MAs) prepared a Strategic Sanitation Plan (SSP) that sets
out its strategy for providing comprehensive sanitation services by 2005. The SSPs included a
prioritized listing of the mix of household, public and school facilities needed to serve the city's
low and middle-income households. The MAs used their SSPs to identify the specific sanitation
sub-projects to be included in the UESP.

    (a) Construction of about 5,560 household latrines in the five project cities through cost
        sharing arrangements between the beneficiaries and the project.
    (b) Rehabilitation and construction of public latrines at markets and other commercial
        locations in all five cities (about 65 facilities).
    (c) Construction of about 305 sanitation facilities at primary and junior secondary schools in
        the five cities.



                                                   - 3 -

    (d) Construction of septage treatment facilities in each of the five cities.
    (e) Rehabilitation of selected segments of the sewerage systems in Tema and Kumasi.
    (f) Construction of an abattoir in Tamale.
    (g) Extension of water distribution in East Ashaiman in Tema.

Component 3 - Solid Waste Management (US$18.93 million).

    (a) Construction of new sanitary landfills for Kumasi, Sekondi-Takoradi and Tamale, and
        provision of equipment to manage the landfills.
    (b) Technical and financial support for privatized solid waste collection in the Accra
        metropolitan area, Kumasi, Sekondi-Takoradi, Tamale, and the Ashaiman area of Tema,
        through cost sharing arrangements between user fees and general revenues.

Component 4 ­ Community Infrastructure Upgrading (US$15.1 million).                      Infrastructure
upgrading in seven lower-income communities of Accra, Kumasi, Sekondi-Takoradi, consisting of
access roads, roadside drains, street lighting, water supply, solid waste management facilities, and
sanitation.

Component 5 - Institutional Strengthening (US$12.05 million).

    (a) Local-Level Organization: Assisting the MAs to recruit additional qualified personnel
        through the hiring of individual contract staff; involving their existing officials and staff in
        project preparation and implementation; providing the MAs with technical assistance in
        waste management and municipal finance; and providing          equipment and training.
    (b) Capacity-Building: A Project-Wide Capacity Building and Training (PWCBT) Program,
        financed by the Nordic Development Fund and the Association of Netherlands
        Municipalities, covering environmental sanitation and municipal finances.
    (c) Land Titling: Providing resources for strengthening the field operations and records
        management of the Land Title Registry and establishing a small unit in the Survey
        Department which would employ digital methods on a routine basis in the production of
        Registry Maps and Registry Plans.
    (d) Operation and Maintenance: Support for initiatives of the MAs to increase the funding of
        O&M through both user fees and general revenues.
3.4 Revised Components:
There were no changes in components during implementation. However, the design of the project
was revised slightly at the level of sub-components.

    (a) IDA assisted the reconstruction of Lot 1 of the Odaw Channel (3.25 km), rather than 7
        km as envisaged in the original design. The revision was necessary due to cost escalation
        caused by the final engineering design, which changed first from an earth lined trapezoidal
        channel to a concrete lined trapezoidal channel and then to a reinforced concrete
        rectangular design. The rationale for the changes was a greater durability and a saving in
        space to reduce the extent of involuntary resettlement. The cost of reconstructing the
        bridges was also not included in the Staff Appraisal Report. AFD joined the project by
        assisting the reconstruction of Lot 2 (1.25 km), two bridges, and some secondary drains in
        Accra (see Section 4.2).
    (b) The land-titling sub-component was cancelled because financing became available from a



                                                 - 4 -

        parallel project aimed at improving land adjudication by the Ministry of Land and Forests.
    (c) Construction of the Kejetia transport terminal in Kumasi was added to the project, which
        was an emergency response to the delay of more than one year in allowing the traders who
        had been temporarily displaced to return. The delay was caused by a contractor's failure to
        complete the works under another project and the Government's failure to pay him the
        counterpart funds.
    (d) During the mid-term review in February 2000, the Development Credit Agreement (DCA)
        was amended to delete the Government of Ghana contribution to the household latrine
        construction, due to continuing delays in the release of its 15% share. Thus only the
        beneficiaries' contribution of 50% remained as counterpart financing. The change seems to
        have removed a bottleneck in the approval and construction process for household latrines
        and resulted in an appreciable acceleration of the construction program.
    (e) Construction of a septage treatment facility in Accra had to be abandoned, because an
        appropriate site could not be identified. A septage treatment facility was added in Kumasi
        (at Buobai), initially to divert the unauthorized fecal sludge disposal from the Nsuben
        storm drain while it was under construction. It is now heavily used as an alternative site to
        the sludge treatment plant at the sanitary landfill.

The project was extended by one year to permit sufficient time to complete the construction of
sanitary landfills in all three cities and the septage treatment facility at Tema. The reason for the
delay was land acquisition and reconstitution of the tender boards after the new government
assumed office in January 2001.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
The quality at entry is rated satisfactory, based on the strength of:

    (a) Consistency of objectives with the priorities for urban development and urban
        environmental sanitation in Ghana, as reflected in the CAS, National Environmental
        Action Plan and the Urban Strategy Review;
    (b) Responsiveness to the government's decentralization initiative, which strongly influenced
        urban development.
    (c) Extent of client consultations and participation, which fostered ownership of the project
        by the participating MAs and local communities and ensured that the project
        sub-components were based on agreed priorities, particularly in the community
        infrastructure upgrading component.

The project evolved during the implementation of the Urban II project (Cr. 2157-GH) and was a
priority for the sector and the country. The Urban II project (1992-1999) was the first major
infrastructure intervention of such kind in these five cities and addressed road, housing and local
government reforms and environment, and the UESP was conceived to address sanitation and
drainage challenges in the same cities as a complementary measure. At the time of the preparation
of the UESP in 1995, the Urban II project was in progress, financing infrastructure rehabilitation,
environmental services, and local government reforms. Therefore, it was thought ­somewhat
optimistically -- that no further reforms of the local government sector were needed.

The Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) documented the project and its background in a clear and


                                                  - 5 -

comprehensive manner, and accurately listed the risks to the project.           However, the SAR
under-estimated the substantial risk of inadequate capacity of the MAs to assume their
responsibilities for urban environmental sanitation services and of inadequate funding of operation
and maintenance.

The project implementing agency, as it existed at the start of the project (see Section 5.2) had
implemented three Bank-financed projects since 1985 and most of the personnel were in place.
Therefore, procurement, project accounting and fiduciary knowledge of the client were adequate
for project implementation.

The project complied with the Bank's safeguard policies relating to resettlement, land acquisition,
impact on livelihood, and environmental assessment and mitigation, with minor exceptions.
Environmental Impact Assessments were carried out as part of the design of the drainage works,
sanitary landfills and liquid waste management facilities. The project design sought to minimize
relocation; resettlement and compensation issues were appropriately flagged during preparation.
However, the resettlement plan was not completed until after project approval, once project
design was finalized.     Delays in environmental assessment caused design problems with the
landfills.

One shortcoming in project design was the lack of agreed monitoring indicators for impacts and
outputs, which was not a Bank requirement when the project was approved. The project was
retrofitted subsequently with performance indicators following the logframe approach, and these
were refined over the course of implementation.          The project's monitoring and evaluation
framework provided for baseline and impact assessments. However, the measurement of results
in terms of productivity, poverty-reduction and health benefits of the project, as outlined in the
Staff Appraisal Report, encompasses higher-level objectives that depend on other efforts outside
the scope of the project. Therefore, the project employed more direct measures of outcomes for
the MAs and the Waste Management Departments.

Project design could also have paid more attention to ­ and make available more funding for --
monitoring arrangements to provide data for sound urban environmental management. For
example, inadequate funds were allocated to the procurement of monitoring equipment for the
Environmental Health Departments (EHDs), which was needed for the smooth operation of the
solid waste collection contracts/franchises. The EHDs could also have been strengthened to
provide reliable data on water-associated diseases and effectiveness of interventions to facilitate
better decisions by the MAs with respect to water and sanitation investments.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The overall outcome of the project is rated satisfactory. The project reached the target of four
out of five outcome/impact indicators. Considering the fact that this was the first investment
operation in Ghana to provide comprehensive urban environmental sanitation services, and taking
into account the challenges inherent in a decentralization agenda and in establishing institutional
arrangements for sustained operations, the project has yielded significant benefits to the residents
of the five cities. Output targets were substantially met, with varying time periods for the different



                                                 - 6 -

components, ranging from 4 years for community infrastructure upgrading to 7 years for the
sanitary landfills.

From the longer-term perspective, an important project outcome is the emergence of a shared
vision -- among the central government ministries, MA Chief Executives and Waste Management
Departments (WMDs) -- for urban environmental sanitation services. It is based on a growing
policy consensus in the sector ­ although not fully reflected in the actions of key policy-makers --
that meeting the cities' sanitation and waste management needs requires private sector
participation and increased financial sustainability of services. The project took a critical first step
in the long-term process of improving local revenue collection, by beginning to build public
confidence in local government responsiveness and thereby enhancing the willingness of
communities and residents' to pay for urban sanitation services.

Assessment of achievement of objectives is based on the project's five performance indicators of
impact (see Annex 1):

Waste Management Departments are established and performing effectively in all five
project towns.     This performance indicator was substantially met. All five towns enacted
legislative instruments to include WMD under the list of Departments that MAs can have.
Simultaneously, the MA also prepared organizational, staffing and budgeting frameworks for
WMDs and began the process of implementing them. An amendment to the Local Government
Act was enacted to allow MAs to maintain separate accounts and budgets for WMDs. Model
by-laws were drafted covering topics such as levying user charges on piped sewerage, public
toilets and refuse collection; managing separate bank accounts utilizing revenues from such
charges; privatizing selected aspects of WMD services; and regulating and enforcing waste
generation, hauling and disposal.        The project reinforced the decentralization agenda by
demonstrating that the fledgling MAs could assume responsibility for waste management.

The Project-Wide Capacity Building component resulted in the creation of better working teams
at the central and MA levels, with improved communication, leadership, negotiation and
conflict-resolution skills, as well as enhanced technical competence in urban environmental
management and computerized systems. However, it achieved only modest results regarding (a)
the capability of the Ministry of Local Government and Rural Development (MLGRD) to
facilitate and monitor waste management in the Metropolitan and Municipal and District
Assemblies, and (b) the institutional and financial capacity of the five MAs for sustainable waste
management (see Sections 4.5 and 6).

Percentage of solid waste collected rises to 70% in Accra, 60% in Kumasi, 55% in
Sekondi-Takoradi, 30% in Tamale, and 70% in Tema.                  This performance indicator was
substantially achieved, with an increase in the percentage of refuse collected in all five cities. The
target was met ­ and in fact far exceeded ­ in Kumasi, Sekondi-Takoradi and Tamale. Refuse
collection was largely unchanged in Accra, which may be related to the fact that it did not
participate in the pilot solid waste collection program of the project because the previous
government established a monopoly for solid waste collection in Accra in 1999.




                                                - 7 -

     Project City                    Baseline            EOP Target        EOP Actual
     Accra                             60%                  70%                 63%
    Kumasi                              45%                 60%                 77%
    Sekondi-Takoradi                    40%                 55%                 72%
    Tamale                              10%                 30%                 57%
     Tema                              50%                  70%                 60%
   Source: Project Appraisal Document for the Ghana: Second Urban Environmental Sanitation Project

While the base line figures were approximations, the EOP figures are based on substantially
improved records kept by the WMDs. Other achievements besides an increase in solid waste
collection are that (a) the creation of engineered disposal sites for solid wastes and sludge is a big
improvement for the environment over dumping at uncontrolled sites, and (b) the increased
participation of the private sector in solid waste collection has increased the chances of attaining a
sustainable collection system in the long-run.

The MAs have gained valuable experience in introducing cost recovery principles and the
management of private sector contracts. The pilots solid waste collection program has been
highly successful in demonstrating that (i) private refuse collectors generally perform better than
the public sector, (ii) services are better when the contractors operate through a franchise, and
(iii) residents are willing to pay more for services provided by private operators because of their
better service record. The solid waste management pilots have resulted in plans for further
private sector participation in solid waste management, expansion of coverage, and in more cost
recovery.

In Tema the pilot solid waste collection program is in its second phase of implementation and has
improved significantly       over the years.      Almost all areas in Tema are currently receiving
privatized services (with the exception of rural and part of peri-urban communities). In the
Tamale pilot zone for privatized waste collection, the predominant mode of refuse disposal has
shifted from public containers and burning (prior to project implementation) to door-to-door
private collection services. Ninety percent of respondents in a field survey of the service area in
Tamale indicated that the post-implementation environmental conditions in their neighborhoods
had improved. The project has released children, especially girls, from the burden of walking long
distances to dispose of household refuse.

Flooding in central Accra and Kumasi prevented to 15-year storm level. It is projected that
this performance indicator has been achieved. Assessment of whether the reconstructed drains
meet the 1:15 storm level is constrained by the long-term nature of such statistics and uncertainty
in estimating the originally planned 1:15 or the revised 1:25 year storm. Property loss statistics
are not available to quantify the impacts of the project. It is likely that the benefits from flood
control are slightly less than anticipated ­ but not drastically - due to a reduction in the length of
primary drains built in Accra and Kumasi, as compared to what was planned (see Section 4.2 and
the Economic Analysis in Annex 3).

The main target group of this component is the urban population living and/or working in



                                                    - 8 -

low-lying areas subject to flooding. High population density and low income characterize many of
these neighborhoods. The lining of primary and secondary storm drains constructed under the
project has significantly reduced the frequency, severity, and duration of flooding in these areas,
according to residents and government officials (Urban Environmental Sanitation Project,
Baseline and Impact Assessments, prepared by The Consortium [CIHSD], 2003).

Only Sekondi-Takoradi and Tamale can be said to have adequate drain maintenance
arrangements. In Kumasi the activity is severely underfunded, while the absence of adequate
institutional and financial arrangements in Accra jeopardizes the achievement of the project's
objectives. The silt accumulation in the Odaw channel in Accra since the completion of
construction has created a flood hazard that was removed towards the end of the project at
considerable cost.

New landfills/septage treatment facilities in Kumasi, Sekondi-Takoradi, and Tamale
operating as planned and receiving all collected city refuse. Of the three planned sanitary
landfills, two (Kumasi and Tamale) are fully operational, but they may not be operated as required
for such a design due to shortfalls in financing of the recurrent costs. The incomplete landfill site
at Takoradi creates the risk of soil erosion and siltation of the river. The MAs have drafted
operational guidelines, identified which aspects could better be carried out by the private sector,
and prepared a budget for O&M. They are considering the option of private sector participation in
the landfill operation on a competitive basis. The experience so far with the two completed
landfills is that the smaller one, in Tamale, is being operated according to the recommended
procedures, while the large one, in Kumasi, is experiencing difficulties with equipment breakdown
and the restricted movement of refuse trucks due to the rains. The current dumping in Kumasi
runs the risk of a significantly reduced life of the landfill and an odor problem.

Percentage of population in the five cities using pan latrines and public toilets in residential
areas decreases by 10%. The target of reducing the use of pan latrines has been achieved, but
the continued reliance on public toilets in some neighborhoods (rather than on household latrines)
limits the health benefits in the long run, as studies in other countries have shown. Overall, the
outcome is an increased coverage of latrines, resulting in greater convenience and reduction in the
incidence of infectious diseases (Study of the Impact of Household Latrines and Review of
Standard Latrine Designs, The Consortium (CIHSD), 2003).

In all the project cities, residents in high-density, lower-income communities, as well as users of
public places (such as markets and transport terminals) and school children, benefited from
improved facilities. The estimated number of beneficiaries for household latrines is 60,000, for
school latrines 100,000, and for public latrines 30,000. Indiscriminate defecation has decreased
and environmental conditions have improved (Ibid). Residents also had cost savings in
fees/charges for public toilets, and there has been reduced pressure on public toilets (which is
expected to significantly increase the life span of the public facilities).

The impact of the project was perhaps greatest in Tamale, which was the only city to continue the
promotion of household sanitation after the project closed. In Tamale, 1300 households installed
in-house toilet facilities under the project, and the use of pan bucket latrines dropped from 30% of



                                                   - 9 -

the households to 12% (Ibid). The Tamale MA intends to use the experience it acquired through
the UESP to improve upon the delivery and coverage of this component. In other cities, the
catalytic effect of stimulating demand for household latrines was more modest. One critical factor
was the inadequate enforcement of by-laws on household sanitation. A full assessment of the
impact of the household latrine program ­ for example, the effect of the subsidy program -- is
constrained by the absence of socio-economic data on the beneficiaries.

The provision of toilet facilities in schools resulted in reduced defecation and improved
environmental conditions around schools, reduced costs of fees for school children to use
neighborhood facilities, and reduced incidence of truancy because students now stay on the school
premises. However, the greater impact of this component is likely to be the behavioral change
among children who received hygiene education (including hand washing) and improved
sanitation facilities, and the broader societal benefits of the attitudes they carry forward into
adulthood. The impact studies are silent on the availability of water supply in these schools and
the effects, if any, of the national hand washing program that was being carried out as a parallel
project, both of which is vital to better hygiene practices.

In this context, the impact of the school latrine program might have been greater had there been
more systematic and sustained participation of key stakeholders, such as school health
coordinators, the Ghana Education Service and Environmental Health Departments. Hygiene
education materials were developed under UESP, but the record of their utilization was mixed.
For example, Bank missions had observed that there were instances where flip charts distributed
to the beneficiary schools had been put away in the Head Teacher's office.

An assessment of the school latrine program indicates two basic problems (Study of Impact of
Household Latrines and Review of Standard Latrine Designs prepared by the Consortium
[CIHSD], 2003). First, the capacity of the toilets should be commensurate with the size of the
school. For example, a school with 655 students had been provided with only a 10-seater WC,
with two cubicles reserved for teachers. In some schools with KVIP latrines, school officials have
opened up all the drop holes to meet high demand during break time rather than using alternate
drop holes per cubicle, thereby creating problems for the periodic emptying the pits. Second,
most toilets were malfunctioning due to substandard materials used in their construction and/or
poor workmanship, thus placing additional burdens on the PTA for maintenance costs.

Most users and toilet attendants agreed that the public WC was an improvement on their previous
sanitation means, such as defecation in open spaces, pan latrines, public KVIP and public aqua
privy. However, they said this was only true if the flushing mechanism and the water tank were
functioning. An impact assessment of the latrine program (Ibid) found a low user opinion of
KVIP latrines, because they are frequently overloaded and not adequately maintained, thus
impairing their function and making them unsanitary. This may however be more a consequence
of inadequate management and maintenance (Section 6.1, Item 6) than faulty design or
construction.

Community Infrastructure Upgrading. The most visible impact of the project resulted from
the community upgrading activities, which brought about a striking transformation in the lower



                                                - 10 -

income neighborhoods. (The results for Community Infrastructure Upgrading are taken from the
Baseline and Impact Assessments, The Consortium [CIHSD], 2003.) The combination of access
roads and street lighting has resulted in a surge of economic activity in the beneficiary
communities, particularly when compared with neighboring communities that did not benefit from
the project. In the project communities, the majority of shop owners (many of whom are women)
experienced increased patronage ­ and increased revenue ­ as well as reduced expenditure on
kerosene, as a result of street lighting. Most commuters in the communities reported that access
to vehicular (public and commercial) transport ­ as well as average waiting times and costs ­ have
improved compared to the pre-project conditions. Surveys showed that a remarkable number of
new small and medium scale businesses opened after completion of the works -- bringing more
jobs and reduced prices of goods and services to the communities. Similarly, the average rent in
the project area has increased substantially and the quality of housing stock has improved.

A large percentage of households either no longer experience flooding after rains or experience
reduced flooding in the areas near the lined drains. Reclamation increased land supply for civic,
residential, educational and other uses. There has also been a positive correlation between the
provision of drains in the project localities and internal circulation (sullage). Before the project,
an overwhelming majority of residents in the project communities disposed of their sullage
directly onto access roads, resulting in pools of stagnant water and erosion of road surfaces.
These trends have been reversed since the completion of the project.            Comparative studies
showed that the majority of residents now use gutters that feed into secondary drains. However,
many newly lined drains were already becoming choked, raising concerns about maintenance.

In the project communities, most households reported reduced incidences of communicable
diseases such as typhoid, malaria, diarrhea and cholera since the completion of the sanitation
component of the project. No attempt was made however to determine whether these impressions
were supported by clinical evidence.

The provision of water supply reduced the drudgery for women and children, improved hygiene
practices, and reduced the cost of water for most households. For example, in Tema's East
Ashaiman area, the community water supply component resulted in the average distance from
water supply mains decreasing from 800m to 100 m. Kumasi had similar levels of reduction in
distances to fetch water. The proportion of households dependent on illegal connections in the
communities in Takoradi dropped from around 60% to less than 4%. In all cities, communities
reported that the quality of the water had improved as a result of the project. The reduction in the
proportion of households that depend on wells and runoff water -- which in is contaminated -- is
also a factor in this improvement. Results are more mixed in Accra, where project standpipes did
not become operational for a long time due to disputes over management responsibility within the
community.

In terms of poverty reduction impacts, competition from the project standpipes and the entry of
more private retail outlets have broken local monopolies in the water delivery sector and reduced
the price per bucket of water. For example, in pre-project conditions, residents in Takoradi paid
about one and half times the charges announced by the Ghana Water Company for a bucket of
water. In Kumasi, the length of service connections was reduced from about 1km to a maximum



                                                - 11 -

of 80 meters, resulting in a large saving for initial connections. Moreover, a number of residents
have found jobs either as operators or attendants at public standpipes.

In most cases, arrangements for O&M of the standpipes are in place. The increased volume of
sullage in the communities resulting from the provision of water has in some cases not been dealt
with and constitutes an environmental hazard.

4.2 Outputs by components:
See Annex 1 for the output indicators.

Component 1 - Storm Drainage (Actual: US$33.82 Million). The output of the component is
rated satisfactory. The first output indicator -- lining of agreed parts of major drains in Accra and
Kumasi completed ­ was fully achieved for the revised targets (see below). However, the second
output indicator ­ adequate drain maintenance program established in every project town ­ was
achieved only in 3 out of 5 towns.

In 1996, a comprehensive plan for the reconstruction of storm drains in Greater Accra was
prepared under UESP, which focused mainly on the four most populated basins: Chemu West,
Odaw, Osu Klottey and Kpeshie. IDA financed re-construction of 3.25 km as Lot 1 of the Odaw
as a reinforced concrete lined channel based on a 1:25 year flood. AFD funded reconstruction of
1.25 km of the Odaw channel as Lot 2, which was completed in April 2004. A works contract
has been signed for Odaw Lot 3, with Dutch financing. AFD also financed reconstruction of the
3.25 km Mukose Secondary drain, which was completed in December 2001, and two bridges over
the Odaw.
Reconstruction of Kpehe, Adabraka, West Ridge and circle drains in Accra was dropped due to
budget constraints caused by substantial design changes. The construction of a closed channel at
the downstream section of the Mataheko Drain ­ the section prone to the most severe flooding ­
was completed. The extent of the relocation of utilities and reconstruction of boundary walls was
greater than expected and involved considerably higher costs than anticipated.

The Kumasi Metropolitan Area extends over five main drainage basins. About 5.5 km of Nsuben
drain (the highest priority according to the 1991 master drainage plan) was reconstructed,
compared to the target of 7.6 km, the shortfall caused by budget constraints due to
under-estimation of construction costs. However, the reduction in benefits is minimal (see Section
4.1 and Annex 3).

Approximately 800m of the Market Circle drain in Sekondi-Takoradi were rehabilitated. The
Sekondi drainage works also included provision of new and larger culverts at three road junctions
and enlargement of the 110m long rectangular drain downstream of the Kumasi/Wiawso road
junction.

Component 2 ­ Sanitation (Actual: US$10.7 million). The output of this component is rated
satisfactory. The first output indicator ­ construction of at least 5,560 household latrines (drop
holes) ­ was exceeded by 42%, with a total number of 7,920 drop-holes constructed. All the
towns exceeded their targets, except for Sekondi-Takoradi, where the high water table made
construction of KVIP latrines impossible and the low-income beneficiaries could not afford to pay


                                                 - 12 -

their share of the higher cost of WC latrines.

The other two output indicators ­ at least 65 public toilet facilities constructed and operated by
private operators selected competitively and construction of at least 305 school toilet facilities --
were substantially achieved, with 245 school latrines and 42 public latrines built. However, the
number of seats per unit was much larger than planned, bringing the total number of seats
constructed close to the target.


                                              Number of Facilities

 Project City       House hold Toilets           School Toilets             Public Toilets
                 (Number of Drop holes)

                  Target     Achievement    Target     Achievement      Target     Achievement

 Accra             1,200           1,805       150             115          36             19

 Tema                460             613        10              12           0              0

 Sekondi-
 Takoradi          1,200             848        40              45          13              7

 Kumasi            1,700           3,613        95              63           9              9

 Tamale            1,000           1,041        10              10           7              7

 TOTAL             5,560           7,920       305             245          65             42


The success of the household latrine component in exceeding the physical targets can be
attributed in large part to the strategy adopted in marketing and administering the scheme through
the use of "Management Intermediaries" contracted by the MAs. Their responsibilities included
vetting household grant applications received through the contractors, reviewing the design at the
site, awarding individual contracts, making payments to contractors, and monitoring the
implementation.

Following a revision of the financing arrangements during the Mid-term Review (Section 3.4),
IDA financed 50% of the cost of household latrines, with beneficiaries providing the other 50%,
either in cash or in kind. The types of domestic toilets provided under the scheme were the Water
Closet (WC) with attached septic tank and soakaway system, the Kumasi Ventilated Improved Pit
Latrine (KVIP) and Van's Biological Toilet (VBT). There were two main principles involved in
technology selection: (a) technologies should be technically viable and (b) subsidies should be
targeted on the poor. Accordingly, project support for WC with septic tanks was limited. In the
high-density housing areas, they were not technically viable; in the medium-density areas,
low-income residents did not have running water or could not afford them.

The project included the rehabilitation or construction of public latrines, mostly WC with attached
septic tank and soak-away system and some rehabilitated public KVIPs. New construction took
place in public areas such as markets, lorry parks and light industrial areas, in accordance with the
Environmental Sanitation Policy of 1999. Operation and maintenance were contracted to private
contractors through competition. Some public latrines in low-income residential areas were also




                                                 - 13 -

rehabilitated or converted to more suitable types.

The project financed the renovation or construction of school latrines ­ WC with attached septic
tank and soakaway system and KVIPs -- in primary and junior secondary schools, hygiene
education in the classroom, and water supply connections to those schools that did not have them.
Schools were able to obtain a new or improved sanitation facility if (a) a Facilities Management
Plan was prepared, and (b) sufficient funds were collected to pay for O&M for at least one year.
A local "management intermediary" managed the implementation, including promotion, assistance
to individual PTAs to prepare a Facilities Management Plan, selection of a contractor,
construction supervision, training of selected teachers in hygiene education, and monitoring.
PTAs were encouraged to contract a qualified private company to maintain their facility, with
support from school custodial workers. Private sludge haulers are periodically hired to empty the
latrine pits or septic tanks.

Standard latrine designs were prepared at the beginning of the project, to be adapted by the MAs
to suit specific conditions. A review of standard latrine designs was conducted near EOP. It
concluded that some of the modifications prevented the latrines from functioning as intended. The
report recommended which design features, essential to the proper functioning of the latrine types
in question, need to be maintained during the adaptation of the standard design for future latrine
construction (Study of the Impact of Household Latrines and Review of Standard Latrine
Designs, The Consortium (CIHSD), 2003).

The project had a target to construct septage treatment facilities in Accra and Tema. Only the
facility in Kumasi, which was added to the project (Section 3.4), is operational. No site could be
found in Accra (Section 3.4). The Tema septage treatment facility suffered major delays in
completion due to inadequate supervision by the Tema Municipal Assembly, design faults, and
poor workmanship. In addition, an access road in the direction of Tema, the construction of
which had been planned under another program, was not constructed and will need to be financed
through a follow-up project.

The rehabilitation of the Tema sewerage system was substantially completed, involving sewerage
rehabilitation works in five communities, clay lining of Treatment Pond No. 3 and rehabilitation of
Pumping Station No. 3, including the pumps, rising main, and the sewer to the sea outfall. The
construction work at Pumping Station No. 3 was the subject of delays, first in the replacement of
parts of the rising main, then due to the deterioration of the sewer line, and then theft and
deterioration of equipment at the pump house. At the end of the project, no sewered wastewater
was as yet being treated in Tema ­ except for some factories that provide pre-treatment - mainly
due to (a) objections from communities adjacent to the treatment ponds, and (b) the inability of
the Tema municipality to pay the high electricity cost for pumping and sewage treatment. A more
fundamental problem is the inability of TMA to put in place a viable management system for the
sewage system, which could be largely financed by the users, especially the industries. After the
closure of the project, TMA is continuing the rehabilitation work with its own resources and is
currently testing the rehabilitated facilities.

The construction of the Tamale abattoir was completed after a delay of about 3 years due to
procurement problems, delays by the contractor, and delays in awarding the management



                                                 - 14 -

contract.

Component 3 - Solid Waste Management (Actual: US$13.69 million). The outputs of this
component are rated satisfactory. The first output indicator ­ at least eight new private solid
waste collection contracts awarded competitively ­ was fully achieved.             The other output
indicator ­ construction of three sanitary landfills completed ­ was not fully achieved, with one
remaining incomplete in Sekondi-Takoradi. The actual costs were 72% of the original estimate
due to the fact that the winning bids were substantially below the engineering cost estimates in the
Staff Appraisal Report.

Initial construction delays for the landfill were due to the long process of land acquisition.
Subsequently, contracts for the construction of the landfills were further delayed due to the
reconstitution of tender boards after the election of the new government in 2001. The incomplete
status of the Takoradi sanitary landfill has created serious concerns about soil erosion and siltation
of the river.

The planned equipment for the sanitary landfills was supplied and the electrical weighbridges
installed. The sanitary landfill designs followed the environmental guidelines and incorporated
septage treatment facilities with joint treatment of leachate and sludge. The possibility of
operating the landfills by private contractors is still being explored.

Eight (as planned) pilot solid waste collection schemes were implemented in Kumasi,
Sekondi-Takoradi, Tamale, and Tema. In the pilot solid waste collection zones of all four cities,
door-to-door service services were offered in high-income areas and communal container service
in medium and low-income areas. Accra was omitted because the Government had established a
monopoly (Section 4.1, Percentage of solid waste collected). Model contracts were developed for
engaging private collection firms in waste collection. In all cities, except for Tema, it took 2 to 3
years to award the solid waste management contracts, mainly due to a long drafting and review
process of the contracts, which do not follow a standard format, and to award the contracts.

IDA financed part of the cost of the collection contracts/franchises in the pilot zones on a
declining basis. To maintain the subsidy at the intended level in spite of the delay, the dates of the
declining percentages of IDA funding were amended in the DCA. Every WMD prepared periodic
financial analyses -- comparing the projected with the actual costs, the costs of different service
providers, and financing sources by socio-economic status of the zone -- and made adjustments in
the program accordingly.


Component 4 ­ Community Infrastructure Upgrading (Actual: US$13 million). The outputs of
this component are rated satisfactory, although no performance indicators had been established
for this component.

Community infrastructure upgrading has been part of nearly every Bank­assisted urban
development project in Ghana. It was carried out in 7 communities under UESP: 3 in Accra, 2 in
Sekondi/Takoradi, and 2 in Kumasi. All or some of the following infrastructure was provided:
upgrading of local roads, drains, water supply, public latrines, and street lighting, with roads



                                                 - 15 -

taking up more than half the budget. The work was started in 1998 and was substantially
completed in 1999.

The outputs were generally below target because the cost of the items was underestimated in the
SAR for the reason that the "area sensitivity" or "population/household sensitivity" of the unit
costs was not adequately taken into account.


  Indicator/Matrix                         Projected   Actual / Latest  % SAR
                                            in SAR       Estimate

  Length of roads completed, m                37,230           18,730        50%

 Length of drains completed, m                 54,590          29,221        54%

 Length of pipeline installed, m               39,100          43,575       111%

 No. of standpipes provided                        306             99        32%

  No. of streetlights installed                3,003              509        17%



The upgrading carried out under UESP improved the living conditions of people in slum areas at
the cost of US$52 per capita of the total population or $25,000 per hectare, which is on the high
end of the range projected in the SAR. The cost in other Bank-assisted projects has been higher:
$75 per capita or about $47,500 per hectare for typical upgraded sites.

The project promoted participatory means of selecting and implementing projects within the
communities through Joint Management Committees (comprised of chiefs, assemblymen and
opinion leaders in the beneficiary communities), which enhanced the willingness of the
communities to own the projects, manage them, and ensure their sustainability. The component
also brought together various groups within the communities to focus on common projects,
resulting in some level of empowerment within the community.

Some issues occurred during the initial part of implementation that were resolved later on. At the
start the tendency was to take an "engineering dominated" approach in some communities, rather
than a "people and property sensitive" one (Aide Memoire of December 1998). In these cases,
there was an insistence on following design standards and drawings, which in some cases affected
properties unnecessarily and resulted in higher costs. For example, drains were constructed in
straight lines, while the alignment could have been modified with little difference to functionality.
In some cases road centerlines were strictly adhered to according to the designs, when their
adjustment could have involved less demolition of drains, boundary walls and other structures
without a substantial deviation from the city development plans. Electricity supply poles had to be
relocated, when a slight reduction in the road width could have avoided it. The disagreements
between residents, supervisory engineers and contractors on "flexible standards" would suggest
that the community participation arrangements established under the project did not work as
effectively in the beginning. . Similarly, there were complaints about the lack of sensitivity of MA



                                                 - 16 -

staff, supervisory consultants and contractors with respect to the daily needs of property
occupants to gain access to their properties.

Component 5 - Institutional Strengthening (Actual: US$10.12 million). The outputs of this
component are rated satisfactory. The output indicator ­ creation of a separate line item in the
budget for waste management O&M in each project town ­ was substantially achieved. Four
towns did so, although cost recovery plans and their implementation were inadequate.

A Project-Wide Capacity Building and Training (PWCBT) program was carried out under UESP
with assistance from the Nordic Development Fund (NDF). The main target group was the
administration (Assembly staff) of the 5 project towns and particularly the staff of the Waste
Management Departments (WMDs). This program ended in January 2003 after substantially
completing all the targeted outputs, which mainly consisted of (a) a number of reports, manuals,
and guidelines, and sample documents; (b) training; (c) provision of office facilities, vehicles, etc.;
and (d) policy dialogue. However, there was no sustained follow-up in applying the outputs and
insufficient integration of the PWCBT component with the physical aspects of the project.
Moreover, documents that were distributed to the MAs tended to remain with individual officers,
who did not share the information with others concerned with the subject.

Support to MLGRD comprised two engineers, a quantity surveyor and a planner contracted to
assist in the management of the centrally implemented part of the project. In addition, three
long-term contract staff for each of the five MAs (project coordinator, sanitary engineer, and
accountant) were contracted. Capacity building activities included: solid waste collection analysis;
study of operation, management and maintenance of selected infrastructure works; preparation of
revenue roll/database for Accra and Tema; safeguards on Y2K project; planning and design of
infrastructure works; and, training in computer appreciation and application of programs.

Transport terminal and adjacent road works at Kejetia, Kumasi, (Actual: US$1.23 million),
which was added to UESP as an emergency measure (Section 3.4). While the roads were
satisfactorily completed and in time, the completion of the transport terminal was delayed for
more than a year due to the poor performance of the contractor. After its handover, serious
problems with the paving occurred, which appears to be partly due to poor design and partly due
to poor workmanship. The investigations were only recently concluded and remedial works are
planned.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
The Staff Appraisal Report for UESP of 1996 contains a benefit-cost analysis for flood mitigation
through drainage works in Accra and Kumasi. This analysis could not be repeated at EOP because
(i) the report containing the original calculations (not done by the Bank) is no longer available,
and (ii) the time of two years that has passed since the completion of the lining of the part of the
channel would not have given sufficient data to make an extrapolation to the 1/25 year flood
levels, and no new field interviews were conducted to update the cost of flood damage.

Instead, the present value data that were presented in the SAR were updated with known EOP
values: the projected costs were replaced with actual costs, and the PV of the benefits was
reduced to take account of the shorter actual length constructed as compared to the planned



                                                - 17 -

length (see Annex 3).

The results are that the EOP benefit-cost ratio for Kumasi (3.8) is about the same as projected
(3.3), and that the EOP benefit-cost ratio for Accra (1.6) is considerably less than projected (5.4).
Both are greater than 1, i.e. the PV of benefits exceed the PV of costs. The difference for Accra is
due to a gross underestimation of costs and an overestimation of benefits. The actual costs for
Accra were substantially greater due to (i) a change in the channel design, at first from unlined
trapezoidal to lined trapezoidal and then to reinforced rectangular, and (ii) a reduction of the
design flood frequency after appraisal from 1/15 to 1/25 years.

The adjusted PV of benefits for Accra as well as Kumasi is slightly less than projected because a
shorter length of the two channels than planned was actually lined. However, based on the
experience with flood control benefits in other cities, it is likely that the benefits for Accra were
underestimated, and that the actual benefit-cost ratio for Accra is substantially greater than shown
in the analysis. Other benefits that have not been included in the calculation are fewer deaths,
reduced illness from polluted water overflowing the drains, reduced damage to infrastructure,
fewer traffic disruptions, and gains in land surface and in land value.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
N/A

4.5 Institutional development impact:
The institutional development impact is rated as modest.

The DCA contained three covenants related to institutional and financial arrangements, which
were substantially complied with:
    (a) Establishment of WMDs;
    (b) Establishment of separate budget lines for waste management; and
    (c) Authority of MAs to enact by-laws regarding key aspects of waste management.

Waste Management Departments (WMDs) were established in all the towns except for Accra
(where such a department already existed). They are the only such departments in Ghana, with
organizational and staffing plans, financial management systems, record keeping for waste
management, and introduction of cost accounting. This provided for the first time a clearly
defined institutional home for environmental management in the MAs. The head of WMD became
a member of the MA's management team, on the same functional level as public works or
accounting. Another positive institutional impact was the acquisition of expert knowledge in the
WMDs on various aspects of environmental management, aided by the capacity building
component, which complemented the considerable amount of empirical knowledge of the
practitioners. (See also Section 4.1, Waste Management Departments.)

There has been an increase in public awareness on waste management. Recently, hardly a day
would go by without an item on this subject in the newspapers. Numerous conferences and
workshops have taken place, and the performance of the Metropolitan Chief Executives is being
partly judged on how well they deal with waste management and sanitation in their city.




                                                 - 18 -

The Waste Management Departments face common difficulties in carrying out their functions:

    (a) Employees are frequently transferred, retire, or take employment in the private sector due
        to poor remuneration. They are not promptly replaced with qualified staff, leaving key
        positions in the WMDs vacant.
    (b)The Local Government Service Act was not enacted until 2003, and the key provisions
        remain to be implemented. An earlier enactment would have given the Assemblies the
        legal mandate to recruit and retain their own staff, and fill the critical vacancies.
    (c) The financing of WMD operations is inadequate and is constrained by Assembly decisions
        ­ and in some cases national decisions on rate capping ­ to set waste management
        charges below the cost recovery level.

The use of contract staff to support the MAs helped to ensure the delivery of works, but
contributed little to long-term institutional development. They were seen as operating outside the
MA structure, even though some of them were former MA staff. The contract staff, rather than
the MA management and staff, were considered responsible for project outputs. However,
through their work they demonstrated a professionalism that set a standard for the WMDs to
emulate, and they served as a conduit of information and dialogue between MLGRD and the MAs
on urban environmental management.

While significant institutional advances were made, the required financing to make the changes
operational and sustainable is not forthcoming (see Section 6). Moreover, many staffing changes
have taken place in the project cities whereby in time many officials who benefited from the
capacity building component are no longer in their original posts.

Overall, the project placed somewhat more emphasis on capital investments than on capacity
building for sustaining the investments and related sector reforms. With the benefit of hindsight,
the capacity building component should have reached beyond the WMDs to the decision makers
and administrators of the MAs to change their attitudes towards waste management, to address
sector policy issues more directly (such as revenue generation), and to include public awareness
campaigns.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
International cocoa prices fell in the course of the project, weakening the revenue base of the
towns and reducing the size of the central government's Common Fund for the MAs. A power
shortage affected the availability of cement, which slowed down the latrine construction program.


Large fluctuations in the value of the US Dollar vis-à-vis the SDR made budgeting difficult,
resulting first in the deletion of some items when the Dollar rose and then in the addition of others
when the Dollar fell.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
The change of government in January 2001 resulted in the dissolution of the central and local



                                                     - 19 -

tender boards, whose clearance was required for the contract award for the major project works.
The delays in reconstituting the boards and delays in decision-making by the newly appointed
Ministers resulted in a considerable delay in implementation, particularly for the construction of
the sanitary landfills and Tema septage treatment plant.

Constraints for the Waste Management Departments to carry out their functions are described in
Section 4.5.

Land acquisition remains a tenuous and complex process in Ghana with different areas having
different forms of land tenure, leading to complicated compensation arrangements and disputes.
As land is often communally owned and put in trust for the community by the chief, the chief
receives compensation on behalf of villagers.            In particular, land rights affected the timely
completion of the sanitary landfills. Compensation to the chiefs for land for the Kumasi landfill
had to be paid twice due to a dispute over land rights by two contending families.

The withholding tax of 5% for contractors was increased to 7.5 % during the project. Since the
Internal Revenue Service does not consider this to be a tax, but only a withholding, contractors
were not entitled to a corresponding increase in the contract price. Difficulties in preparing tax
returns and getting refunds is said to have resulted in a substantial loss to some contractors. The
Value Added Tax was increased from 10% to 12.5% during the life of the project, but very few if
any price adjustments in the value of the affected contracts (mainly for consultants) were made.

Many procurement decisions were reviewed on different government levels, causing delays and
confusion over responsibilities. Decentralization of the procurement functions to the MAs ­
combined with capacity building ­ could have improved the efficiency of the procurement process
and avoided many of the delays. The recently enacted procurement act clarifies the institutional
responsibilities for public procurement decisions.

The implementing arrangements were changed in 1999 when the Technical Services Center (TSC)
of the Ministry of Works and Housing, which initially implemented the project, was absorbed into
MLGRD as the Local Government Project Support Unit. LGPSU continued to be staffed by
consultants and retained its quasi-autonomous status. While the leadership in MLGRD changed
over time, the implementing unit provided a certain continuity, albeit at the expense of long-term
capacity building for project implementation. At the time the project closed, MLGRD decided to
mainstream all future externally assisted projects, a transformation which is still ongoing.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Procurement delays and weak contract management resulted in several components falling well
behind schedule. The weak enforcement of contract provisions contributed in some cases to poor
quality and additional costs.

LGPSU staffing was stable throughout the project, and the unit had qualified staff for its
functions. It continued to play its original role of providing technical assistance for the
implementation of civil works ­ with tacit support from MLGRD - and was not sufficiently
engaged in the institutional aspects essential to project sustainability in collaboration with other
departments of the Ministry, as had been recommended by numerous supervision missions.


                                                    - 20 -

Poor financial planning of project commitments and expenditures allowed for a cost overrun to
occur (Section 5.4). This happened in spite of the repeated advice of supervision missions on the
use of the correct method for the forecasting of expenditures and commitments from the credit
and on the need for closer collaboration between engineers and accountants of LGPSU in the
assessment of the financial status.

5.4 Costs and financing:
Total project cost, as projected in the SAR, was US$89.3 million, comprising US$38.5 million
(43%) in local costs and US$50.8 million (57%) in foreign costs. Financing was to be provided
as follows: IDA US$71 million (79.5% of total project cost); Government of Ghana,
Municipal/Metropolitan Assemblies, and Beneficiaries: US$14.3 million (16%); Co-financing
(Nordic Development Fund and Government of Netherlands): US$ 4 million (4.5%).

Final disbursements were: IDA US$63.77 million; Government of Ghana, MAs and Beneficiaries:
US$6.4 million; Co-financing (AFD, NDF, and Netherlands): US$12.7 million. The total final
disbursements were: US$ 82.96 million (see Annex 1).

The most significant changes in the financing plan were (a) addition of financing from AFD for the
Odaw Channel, 2 bridges and secondary drains; (b) deletion of the Government of Ghana
contribution for the latrine program; (c) the reallocation of about US$1.7 million of the credit to a
new category for the completion of the Kejetia transport terminal in Kumasi (see Section 3.4);
and (d) the US Dollar appreciation against the SDR decreased the total IDA contribution by
$7.24 million However, a large part of the exchange loss- was offset by lower construction costs.
(For an example see Section 4.2, Component 3.) Government contributions were also reduced
due to the large foreign exchange ratio of payments for civil works. Counterpart contributions
were received in a reasonably timely manner.

The project was one of the few IDA-financed operations in Ghana to fully utilize the IDA credit.
In fact, there was an overrun in the total project cost of about US$600,000. This was mostly due
to unexpected progress in the last few months with the construction of the sanitary landfill at
Sekondi-Takoradi, which had been far behind schedule and which remains incomplete, and the
late submission of construction certificates for other works that were submitted by consultants
just before or after the end of the grace period, which ended on April 30, 2004.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The sustainability of the project is rated unlikely, based on the fact that the significant
achievements in institutional development (Section 4.5) have not been accompanied by the
mobilization of the necessary funding to make the WMDs fully operational and by organizational
plans for maintenance. In particular:

    (a) Current financing arrangements are inadequate for the sound operation of the sanitary
        landfills. There is a risk that they will revert to dumps and will fill up much faster if the
        operating principles of sectional filling, compaction and covering are not followed.



                                                  - 21 -

    (b) The private solid waste collection schemes that were piloted through the project are
        expected to be continued as franchises, but user fees remain below the cost of service. The
        project's experience has shown that high-income users are willing to pay fully for the
        service while middle-income users for only part of it. Collecting fees directly from
        low-income users has been difficult partly because waste collection is not door-to-door.
        Franchising, whereby the contractor recovers at least part of the costs directly from the
        customer, appears to be more sustainable as it reduces the payment commitment of the
        Assembly to the contractor. Most project cities, notably Accra, are far in arrears with their
        payments to waste management operators, which reduces the ability of the contractors to
        provide a regular service. The pilot has also shown that all the key aspects of the mutual
        obligations should be specified in the contract.
    (c) The absence of a clear assignment of responsibilities for drain maintenance in Accra, and
        the related lack of funding, could undermine the achievements of the project in
        reconstructing the drains and reducing flooding.
    (d) The household latrine construction program has not become part of the regular programs
        of the MAs and has no budget allocations for continued operations. The institutional
        separation of water and sanitation services makes it difficult to introduce a water levy for
        sanitation, thus reducing options for sustainable financing for sanitation. Only in Tamale
        can the program be considered sustainable, due to the replication of the scheme with the
        involvement of NGOs. Weak enforcement of by-laws on domestic sanitation is likely to
        undermine the demand for household latrines and limit the potential for replication.
    (e) The main problem for maintaining the project's impacts in the school latrine component
        lies in the quality of the materials used for the facilities and the adequacy of the facilities
        for the size of the student population.         Project benefits are also dependent on the
        willingness of Parent-Teacher Associations to assume responsibility of the day-to-day
        maintenance, commitment of the MAs to finance major capital improvements and repairs,
        and resolving conflicts with neighboring communities on the unauthorized use of school
        facilities by nearby residents.

The Assemblies often award maintenance contracts for public latrines in a non-transparent
manner, resulting in a high costs to the users, low revenue generation for the Assembly,
inadequate cleaning and maintenance, infrequent sludge emptying which makes the system
malfunction, unreliable supply of water and electricity, and sometimes conflicts between interest
groups, such as the assemblymen themselves. (See Joseph Ayee and Richard Crook, "Toilet
Wars:" urban sanitation services and the politics of public-private partnerships in Ghana,
Institute of Development Studies, Brighton, England, Working Paper 213, December 2003.)

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
In order to address the sustainability issues, the Bank is preparing a "repeater" project, the
Second Urban Environmental Sanitation Project (UESP-2). It was approved by the Board in April
2004 and would provide a geographic expansion as well as an intensification of the approach
where pointed out from the experience of UESP-1. As waste collection improves, cost recovery
can be increased, and with economic growth the financial situation in the project towns is
expected to improve to the extent that they can finance the operation and monitoring of the
landfills eventually on their own. The greatest risk in a repeater project is that the Bank would
support doing more of the same without substantially improving the sustainability. Therefore,


                                                  - 22 -

UESP-2 seeks to deepen the sector policy and institutional reforms in collaboration with other
IDA-assisted projects, including the PRSC.

UESP-2 addresses the sustainability issues in the following ways:

(a) It will subsidize the effective operation of the three sanitary landfills in Kumasi, Tamale, and
    Sekondi-Takoradi, which have been constructed under UESP, including monitoring for
    environmental compliance and the involvement of local private operators in their operation.
    UESP-2 would provide limited financial support for the normal O&M costs associated with
    the operation of the sanitary landfills through operational subsidies applied on a declining
    basis. To ensure that the MAs make a serious effort to bridge the funding gap by project
    closure, each MA will produce an annual operational plan for the landfill with evidence of
    adequate budgetary provision for meeting the funding shortfall during the operational year.
    Support to the private solid waste collection pilots will be continued, based on the lessons
    learned from UESP.
(b) A Performance-Based Fund will be used to make allocations to the MAs for additional
    activities within the project objectives according to their achievement of the MA Performance
    Criteria contained in the Project Implementation Manual and specified in the Grant
    Agreement.
(c) Implementation conditions include the requirement that, before signing works or goods
    contracts, each Assembly will appoint key staff in its Waste Management Department, with
    adequate qualifications and experience.
(d) Before starting the construction of more storm drains, each MA will provide evidence of
    having established satisfactory institutional and financial arrangements for drain maintenance.
(e) It will again include a capacity building component, which will be broader than in UESP to
    encompass other relevant units in the MAs and improvements in revenue-generation, planning
    and accounting practices, and public awareness campaigns.

The Bank will continue to assist the Government in exploring the potential for carbon finance as a
source of revenue for meeting the recurrent cost of solid waste disposal. Emission reduction
purchase agreements could contribute to cost recovery and could potentially reduce the need for
subsidies for the operation of the sanitary landfills.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
The Bank's performance in lending was satisfactory.

The Bank was responsive to the initiative of the government, arising out of previous IDA lending
in the urban sector. The project was based on an Urban Strategy review carried out with Bank
support. The Bank also arranged a PPF to finance project preparation activities. The nature and
number of conditions of Board presentation, effectiveness and disbursement were realistic.
However, the Bank under-estimated the land rights issues and the risks of weak capacity for
sustainable waste management services.




                                                 - 23 -

The Bank's appraisal team had the appropriate broad range of expertise required for such a
project, including engineers, urban specialists and financial analysts. The team would have been
strengthened by the inclusion of specialists from the public health sector, given the important
health impacts envisaged in the project. In order for the Bank's clients to take a more
cross-sectoral perspective, the Bank will need to do the same for UESP-2, by including a health
specialist in its team.

7.2 Supervision:
The Bank's performance on supervision was satisfactory.

A Quality of Supervision Assessment was carried out by QAG in 2000, which rated the
supervision performance satisfactory in the overall; highly satisfactory on adequacy of supervision
inputs and processes; and satisfactory for all other aspects: focus on development effectiveness,
supervision of fiduciary/safeguard aspects; and quality and realism of reporting. The assessment
noted the positive impact of shifting supervision responsibility from headquarters to the field, in
terms of responsiveness to implementation problems and close contact with the borrower. The
assignment of an experienced task team leader, supported by a well-qualified team (mostly in the
country office), contributed to supervision quality. In particular, the task team substantially
improved the quality of project status reporting over the course of implementation.

The need to focus supervision efforts on the sustainability of the WMDs and O&M of works was
identified in the QAG assessment, and this was the subject of much supervision attention ­
although with limited results.

The project was assessed in October/November 2002 by environmental and a social safeguards
specialists. The safeguards supervision report indicated some issues, not considered major by the
specialists. The mission recommended that due diligence was required to implement safeguards
covering such aspects as land compensation, leachate control, and monitoring and training of staff
in environmental planning and management.

One area of weakness in supervision was the lack of regular inputs on financial analysis and
municipal finance on the task team, given the central importance of improving municipal financial
systems to the project's objectives. Budget constraints during supervision spread resources too
thinly across specialists, considering the multi-disciplinary nature of skills needed for the project.
Finally, coordination with NDF, as co-financier of the PWCBT component, could have been
stronger. IDA as the "lead agency," MLGRD as the implementing agency, and even NDF as the
financing agency, provided insufficient supervision of the firm that implemented the capacity
building component.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
The overall rating of the Bank's performance is satisfactory.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The Borrower's performance in preparation is rated satisfactory. The project was a high priority
for the government, and there was strong ownership, given the importance of urban infrastructure



                                                - 24 -

and sanitation services in the five project towns. The consultation and participation process
included an initial preparation workshop with all the key central and local government officials,
consultations with community leaders and residents, and a workshop on implementation
arrangements.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
The Government's implementation performance is rated as satisfactory in view of the achievement
of project objectives, as outlined in Sections 4 and 5. All the conditions of the credit were
fulfilled. Counterpart contributions from the central government improved over time, although
they had to be cancelled for the household latrine sub-component due to delays. Government fell
short in providing support to the MAs in establishing the institutional and financial arrangement
for O&M. Over the course of the project, leadership changes at the Ministry at times weakened
the Government's engagement with the project.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
The implementing agency's performance is assessed as satisfactory, in view of the achievement of
project objectives, as outlined in Sections 4 and 5. The project unit was adequately staffed and
motivated. However, the MAs were affected by turnover, with the resulting loss of skills. Much
of the work being carried out by contracted consultants, and it was difficult to find champions for
the project among senior MA staff.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
The overall Borrower performance is rated satisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned

(a)Capacity building for urban environmental management should be broad enough to include
    strengthening capabilities in planning, budgeting and revenue collection and include all related
    departments of the MAs and the decision makers. The experience with UESP has
    demonstrated the limitations of attempting to improve the sustainability of urban
    environmental sanitation services through capacity building targeted to sanitation and waste
    management without the reforms in the civil service and without a substantial increase in local
    government revenues.

(b) Project budgets should be allocated ­ at least partially -- on the basis of O&M performance in
    order to provide an incentive for the local implementing agencies. The key to effective local
    government services is to establish measurable performance benchmarks, in order to promote
    accountability to its citizens for results. In the case of the urban environmental sanitation
    sector, these benchmarks could include: level of community ownership and empowerment in
    infrastructure and service delivery; establishment of performance-based contracting and
    targets for revenue collection; and a shift from service delivery to policy and regulatory
    functions in the WMDs.

(c) The Ministry of Local Government and Rural Development should be more pro-active in
    providing institutional development support to the MAs. In addition to the current assistance
    with physical investments in the MAs, the central government should also provide for the
    coordination and dissemination of expertise on waste management. This is a rapidly changing



                                               - 25 -

    field, as the newly gained worldwide recognition of the importance of urban waste
    management yields new experiences and insights, which needs to be assessed and shared with
    the MAs.

(d) Addressing environmental health requires a cross-sectoral approach. Public health promotion
    and education strategies ­ such as programs to improve hand-washing habits -- are needed to
    change behaviors so as to realize the health benefits of improved sanitation. International
    experience suggests that public funds might be better spent on promotional campaigns and
    training/establishing latrine artisan businesses than on subsidies for constructing latrines.
    Education and information are key to increasing community demand for improved sanitation
    facilities.

(e) Bank assistance to decentralization requires a coordinated multi-sectoral approach. One
    project can achieve only minor results. Decentralization is a crosscutting theme that involves
    several sectors and coordination with work on improving the macro and governance. At the
    same time it should be recognized that the urban sector is a key player in that group.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
        The Ministry of Local Government and Rural Development prepared its own evaluation
report, which is shown below, and contributed data for the Bank to prepare its ICR.

Introduction
        The UESP was implemented in 5 Metropolitan and Municipal Assemblies from September
1996 to December 2003. This report provides an assessment of the project from the point of view
of the MLGRD and its implementing Agencies. The assessment covers:

    (a) The degree to which the project achieved its development objectives as set out in the
        project documents
    (b) Other significant outcomes and impacts
    (c) Prospects for the projects sustainability
    (d) Bank, Borrower performance, including compliance with relevant Bank safeguard and
        policies and
    (e) Identify lessons learned from implementation.

Project Objectives and Components

        The Urban Environmental Sanitation Project was formulated with the following key
objectives:

  (a) Promoting productivity and raising living standards in the 5 major cities, especially for
      lower-income people, by improving drainage, sanitation and solid waste services
  (b) Helping establish better institutional and financing mechanisms and more effective policy
      frameworks so that improvements are sustained over time, and
  (c) Building up the capacity of the 5 Metropolitan and Municipal Assemblies to manage



                                                - 26 -

       environmental sanitation services.

         These objectives were to be achieved through the implementation of 5 main components,
listed in the table below.

Extent of Achievement of Component Objectives

 Component                    Outcomes                               Achievements
 1. Reconstruction of         Two major primary drains in Accra      The objective of this component has
 Storm Drains in Accra,       and Kumasi, namely the Odaw and        been largely achieved. Much remains to
 Sekondi-Takoradi and         Nsuben, have been reconstructed to     be done however to complete the
 Kumasi to alleviate          increase their discharge capacities    reconstruction of secondary drains,
 flooding, particularly in    from about 1:10 years to 1:25.         which belong to the drainage network
 the Central business         Similarly, the major bottlenecks to    that has been partly rehabilitated.
 districts.                   storm water discharge in the
                              Takoradi Central Business District     The provision of resources for routine
                              have been removed                      maintenance of the completed drains
                                                                     would be critical for the sustainability of
                                                                     the achievements.

                                                                     The output was highly satisfactory.
2. Provision of Solid Waste Sanitary landfill facilities             The objective of this component was
management facilities         successfully provided in Tamale and    achieved to a large extent in Tamale,
(landfills and septage        Kumasi. The Sekondi facility was       Kumasi.
treatment facilities) in      however only partially (70%)
Sekondi-Takoradi, Kumasi completed                                   Tema also achieved the objectives of the
and Tamale; provision of                                             solid waste collection subcomponent,
equipment to manage the       Landfill management equipment was      which was the only subcomponent
landfills; and the            delivered more than a year before the  provided to the city.
establishment of pilot        facilities were completed.
privatized refuse collection                                         Sekondi achieved the objectives of the
systems. The objective was With the exception of Accra, all          solid waste collection subcomponent,
to facilitate waste           other MAs established the pilot        but would need further assistance to
management and improve        privatized refuse collection systems   complete the Landfill facility.
environmental sanitation.     as planned.
                                                                     The output of this subcomponent was
                                                                     generally satisfactory.
3. Provision of Sanitation    A total of 7,920 household facilities, The output of the component is highly
facilities, including public, 245 schools facilities and 42 public   satisfactory.
schools and household         facilities were provided
toilets
4. Community                 A total of 18.73 km of community        The objective of the subcomponent was
Infrastructure upgrading in roads were upgraded in the 5 MAs, as     highly satisfactorily achieved. The
Low-income Urban Areas, against an original target of 37.23 km.      extent was limited because of limited
including roads,                                                     budget as road works tend to be much
secondary/tertiary drains, A total of 43.6 km of pipelines were      more expensive than other municipal
improving access to water installed as compared to a target of       services. However the impact was
supply, street lighting and 39.1 km. Only 99 out of 306 public       significant as general circulation in the


                                                     - 27 -

provision of sanitation    standpipes were provided.              communities significantly improved and
facilities                 A total of 30 Skip pads were provided  there were rises even in property values
                           in KMA and SAEMA as against a          The extended pipe reticulation system
                           target of 110. In addition 36 communal provided opportunity for residents to
                           containers were procured. The          make direct connection to their houses.
                           subcomponent of AMA was cancelled
                           as a result of decision of the AMA to  The new abattoir in Tamale has however
                           privatize its activities.              not been put to use since its completion
                                                                  in June 2002. Several reasons have been
                           A new abattoir has been constructed assigned for the inability of the MA to
                           at Tamale.                             put the facility to use, including delays
                                                                  in award of a facilities management
                                                                  contract.
 5. Capacity building        A 6-year programme of capacity       The objective of improving the
 including the provision     building for MLGRD and the MAs       performance of MAs waste management
 of technical assistance,    comprising a mixture of training,    departments was largely achieved during
 training and equipment      technical assistance and on the job  the 6-year implementation period.
 to improve the capacity     coaching was successfully delivered,
 of the Assemblies to        with NDF Funding.                    However, changes in MA staffing ­ both
 manage basic services                                            operational staff and Management staff-
                             In addition, four professionals were after the programme has had a negative
                             hired for MLGRD, 3 professionals     effect on the impact of the component.
                             for each of the 5 MAs, and a number
                             of studies undertaken by each MA,    There is a need for a succession plan,
                             with IDA funding.                    which spells out how such programmes
                                                                  could be sustained.

Significant Outcomes and Impacts

The most significant outcomes and Impacts made under the project include:

    (a) The reconstruction of Primary storm drains in Accra and Kumasi to mitigate flooding
    (b) Provision of Sanitary landfill sites in Tamale and Kumasi, acceptable to the community for
         both solid and liquid waste management
    (c) Provision of about 8,000 household sanitation facilities benefiting an estimated 60,000
         people
    (d) Provision of waste management and waste collection bins for MAs in support of waste
         collection services.

Prospects for Project Sustainability

         The probability of maintaining the achievements generated from the project in relation to
its objectives vary from component to component. It is highest for the Storm Drainage
component, and lowest for the institutional strengthening/capacity building component.

Bank/Borrower performance




                                                    - 28 -

     The Bank provided useful support during all stages of project identification, preparation and
implementation. The Ministry, MAs and other implementing agencies also performed satisfactorily
in meeting compliance with reporting and audits.

Lessons Learned from implementation

     A number of issues directly or indirectly affected the outcome of the project. These can be
classified under the following headings:

     (a) Project Preparation: The project was well prepared with the involvement and inputs from
     all participating Metropolitan and Municipal Assemblies. As a result, the selected components
     were consistent with MAs priorities whilst the implementation arrangements ensured effective
     delivery of services for the urban poor.
     (b) Institutional development: Notwithstanding the extensive arrangements made to provide
     support for capacity building and project implementation, there appears to be the need for
     further support. This is largely the result of high staff turnover. A comprehensive long-term
     programme for decentralization implementation support may be able to fill this gap.
     (c) Ownership: The sense of ownership during project preparation and implementation was
     quite high. Unfortunately, this sense of ownership diminished at the later stages, following
     changes in leadership at the MAs.
     (d) Procurement Processes: The time taken for bid documents to be prepared, and bids to be
     evaluated are the main causes of delays, and not the procurement process per se. Although
     this was largely achieved under the project, there were still substantial delays on the part of
     contractors in completing works.
     (e) Consultant and Contractor's Performance: As is the case with several other projects,
     consultant and contractor performance is one of the most important factors -affecting the
     delivery of infrastructure services. Delays in completion of the landfill designs, and the
     inability of the contractor to complete the Sekondi Landfill are examples of difficulties
     encountered with consultant and contractors performance. Even where works were
     completed before project closing, they were achieved after inordinate increase in original
     construction periods.

(b) Cofinanciers:
No comments received.

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
N/A

10. Additional Information




                                                 - 29 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                              1
               Indicator/Matrix                         Projected in last PSR                       Actual/Latest Estimate
1. Waste Management Departments are            5 towns                                    5 towns
established and performing effectively in all
five project towns.
2. Percentage of solid waste collected by
EOP rises to:
Accra 70%                                      Accra 60%                                  Accra 63%
Kumasi 60%                                     Kumasi 50%                                 Kumasi 77%
Tema 70%                                       Tema 60%                                   Tema 60%
Sekondi-Takoradi 55%                           Sekondi-Takoradi 55%                       Sekondi-Takoradi 72%
Tamale 30%                                     Tamale 20%                                 Tamale 57%
3. Flooding in central Accra and Kumasi        Yes                                        Yes
prevented at least to the 15-year storm level.
4. New landfills/septage treatment facilities  2                                          2
in Kumasi, Sekondi- Takoradi, and Tamale
operating as planned and receiving all city
refuse
5. Percentage of population in the five cities Yes                                        Yes for pan latrines;
using pan latrines and public toilets                                                     no for public toilets
decreases by at least 10%.


Output Indicators:
                                                                              1
               Indicator/Matrix                         Projected in last PSR                       Actual/Latest Estimate
1. Construction of at least 5,560 household    5,560                                      7,920
latrines (drop holes).
2. At least 65 public toilet facilities newly  65 (same number of drop holes as planned)  42 (same number of drop holes as planned)
constructed and operated by private
operators selected competitively.
3. Construction of at least 305 school toilet  305 (same number of drop holes as planned) 245 (same number of drop holes as planned)
facilities.
4. At least 8 new private solid waste          8                                          8
collection contracts awarded competitively.
5. Lining of agreed parts of major drains in   100%                                       100%
Accra and Kumasi completed.
6. Construction of 3 sanitary landfills        2                                          2
completed.
7. Adequate drain maintenance program          5                                          5
established in every project town.
8. Creation of a separate line item in the     5                                          5
budget for waste management O&M in each
project town.

1 End of project




                                                                - 30 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                          Appraisal     Actual/Latest  Percentage of
                                                          Estimate       Estimate        Appraisal
                        Component                         US$ million   US$ million
Storm Drainage                                              33.38           33.82              101
Sanitation                                                   9.84           10.70              109
Solid Waste                                                 18.93           13.69               72
Community Infrastructure Upgrading                          15.10           13.00               86
Institutional Strengthening                                 12.05           10.52               87
Kejetia Transport Terminal                                   0.00             1.23

Total Baseline Cost                                         89.30           82.96
                          Total Project Costs               89.30           82.96
                   Total Financing Required                 89.30           82.96


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category            ICB            NCB                2        N.B.F.     Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                           42.99           20.44         3.74          0.00         67.17
                                  (37.26)         (16.20)      (1.38)          (0.00)       (54.84)
2. Goods                            2.88            0.00         0.20          0.14          3.22
                                   (2.88)          (0.00)      (0.20)          (0.00)       (3.08)
3. Services                         0.00            0.00        11.17          3.87         15.04
                                   (0.00)          (0.00)      (11.17)         (0.00)       (11.17)
4. Op. & Maintenance                0.00            0.00         3.83          0.00          3.83
                                   (0.00)          (0.00)      (1.92)          (0.00)       (1.92)
   Total                           45.87           20.44        18.94          4.01         89.26
                                  (40.14)         (16.20)      (14.67)         (0.00)       (71.01)


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category            ICB            NCB                2      N.B.F.      Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                           30.47           17.57        3.64           8.70        60.38
                                  (28.41)         (15.71)      (1.68)         (0.00)       (45.80)
2. Goods                            1.59           0.60         0.54           0.00         2.73
                                   (1.58)         (0.56)       (0.54)         (0.00)       (2.68)
3. Services                         0.00           0.00        16.21           1.02        17.23
                                   (0.00)         (0.00)      (13.21)         (0.00)       (13.21)
4. Op. & Maintenance                0.00           0.00         2.61           0.00         2.61
                                   (0.00)         (0.00)       (2.14)         (0.00)       (2.14)
   Total                           32.06           18.17       23.00           9.72        82.95



                                                - 31 -

                                      (29.99)           (16.27)           (17.57)            (0.00)           (63.83)

1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.

2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
  of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
  managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.




                                                      - 32 -

PROJECT COSTS BY FINANCING SOURCE.doc




                                      - 33 -

- 34 -

                             Municipal Solid Waste Management, 2004


Characteristics                       Accra     Kumasi    Sekondi-
                                                          Takoradi    Tamale      Tema       All cities

 Population, thousand                  1,904      1,343      348        228          437       4,260

 MSW generated, kg/capita/day           0.79       0.82      0.68       0.66         0.59       0.76

 MSW generated, tons/day               1,500      1,100      236        150          260       3,246

 MSW collected, tons/day                 950        850      170         85          155       2,210

 Percent collected                         63%       77%        72%        57%        60%          68%

 Collection cost, US$/ton               10.0        8.0      7.0        6.0          8.0        7.8

 Disposal cost, US$/ton                  2.0        1.0        -          -           -         1.5

 Total cost, US$/ton                    12.0        9.0      7.0        6.0          8.0        8.4

Source: Project Appraisal Document for the Ghana: Second Urban Environmental Sanitation Project




                                                    - 35 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

A benefit-cost analysis for drainage in Accra and Kumasi was included in the Staff Appraisal
Report for UESP (Annex 6). While the SAR is dated March 1996, the analysis for Accra drainage
had been done in 1991 as part of the Accra Drainage Master Plan and that for Kumasi in 1995.

The analysis could not be repeated at EOP because (i) the report containing the original data,
assumptions, and calculations (not done by the Bank) is no longer available, and (ii) the time of
two years that has passed after the completion of the lining of the channel would not have given
sufficient data to make an extrapolation to the 1/25 year flood levels. For these reasons no new
field interviews were conducted near the closing of the project to update the cost of flood
damage. Instead, the data that were presented in the SAR were updated with the information that
was available: the projected costs were replaced with actual costs, and a percentage of the present
value of projected benefits was used to take account of the shorter actual length constructed as
compared to the planned length. The results are presented below in the form of a benefit-cost
ratio, as the ERR at EOP could not be determined in the absence of a time stream of data.

Assumptions and methodology of the original analysis
·       Discount rate ­ Kumasi 12%, Accra 10% (SAR, p. 54)
·       US$ unadjusted for inflation
·       Tables of the relationship between water depth and flood damage potential were
developed at the time of the original analysis. Based on the water surface profile that would result
from a flood with a 15-year frequency, the expected mean flood depth over the flood-prone areas
and the corresponding damage were estimated at that time with the aid of topographical maps.
Estimated damages were spread evenly over the amortization period.
Costs
The actual costs for Accra were substantially greater due to (i) a change in the channel design,
first from unlined trapezoidal to lined trapezoidal and then to reinforced rectangular, and (ii) a
reduction of the design flood frequency from 1/15 to 1/25 years after appraisal. The SAR is silent
about maintenance costs, which presumably were not included in the analysis. If the considerable
cost of desilting the lined sections of the Odaw channel, which is in the order of magnitude of
$250,000 per year, were included, the benefit-cost ratio would be even lower.

Benefits
In the SAR the projected benefits were assumed to consist of avoidance of damage to buildings
due to flooding, avoidance of the damage to contents, and avoidance of sales losses. Lot 1 (3.25
km) of the Odaw channel in Accra was completed only 2 years ago, Lot 2 (1.25 km) has just been
substantially completed (with assistance from AFD), and the construction of Lot 3 (2.75 km) has
just started. In Kumasi the completion was also about 2 years ago. The short flood record of 2
years makes it impossible to extrapolate the flood levels to a frequency of 1/25 years and, thereby,
to confirm whether the aimed-at reduction in the frequency of flooding had been realized. Since
only the most flood prone 4.50 km long lower section of the planned 7.25 km of the Odaw
Channel were actually lined, the benefits in Accra were reduced to 80% of the projected benefits.
Similarly, since a portion at the end of the Nsuben Drain was deleted from the contract, the
benefits in Kumasi were reduced to 90%.



                                                - 36 -

Results
The following table shows a comparison between projected and adjusted (EOP) costs and
benefits of drainage works in Accra and Kumasi. They are not based on an EOP time stream
calculation, for the reasons explained above.

                             Odaw Channel,    Odaw Channel,    Nsuben Drain,    Nsuben Drain,
                             Accra ­          Accra ­          Kumasi ­         Kumasi ­
                             Projected at     Adjusted to      Projected at     Adjusted to
                             Appraisal        EOP              Appraisal        EOP
Present Value of Benefits,      39.3               31.4           38.5               34.7
        US$ mill.
Present Value of Costs,           7.5              19.5           11.6                9.1
        US$ mill.
Net Present Value,              31.8               11.9           26.9               21.7
        US$ mill.
Benefit-Cost Ratio               5.2                1.6            3.3                3.8
Economic Rate of Return         43 %               n/a            36 %                n/a



The estimated EOP benefit-cost ratio for both Accra and Kumasi is greater than one, i.e. the
benefits exceed the costs. While the EOP B-C ratio for Kumasi (3.3) is nearly the same as the
projected one (3.4), the ratio for Accra (1.4) is much less than projected (5.4). The difference for
Accra is due to a gross underestimation of the costs and an overestimation of the benefits.
Moreover, it is unlikely that the design flood frequency of 1/25 years will actually be reached.

Other benefits that have not been included in the projections are fewer deaths, reduced illness
from polluted water overflowing the drains, reduced damage to infrastructure (bridges,
telecommunications, etc.), fewer traffic disruptions, and gains in land surface and in land value.
Moreover empirical studies of flood frequencies, mostly in Asia, have shown that the right tail of
the flood frequency curves that are used in standard engineering estimates is far too narrow,
thereby grossly underestimating the frequency of flooding. A new generation of flood frequency
curves has been introduced under the title of robust and resistant estimators, but they have not
been generally adopted by the profession due to their newness and analytical complexity.

Based on the experience with flood control benefits in other cities, it is likely that the projected
benefits for Accra were underestimated, and that the benefit-cost ratio is substantially greater than
shown in the analysis.




                                                 - 37 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty             Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)     Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                    Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              10/1994                        1 URBAN DEV. SPEC./TTL; 2
                                             SANITARY ENGINEERS; 2
                                             MUNICIPAL ENGINEERS; 1
                                             CIVIL ENGINEER; 1 SOLID
                                             WASTE MANAGEMENT
                                             SPECIALIST


 Appraisal/Negotiation
              07/1995                   8    1 URBAN DEV.
                                             SPEC./TTL; 2 SANITARY
                                             ENGINEERS; 2
                                             MUNICIPAL ENGINEERS;
                                             1 CIVIL ENGINEER; 1
                                             SOLID WASTE
                                             MANAGEMENT
                                             SPECIALIST


 Supervision

              10/04/1996                5    TTL/SR. URBAN SPEC. (1);          S               S
                                             CIVIL ENGINEER, CONS. (1);
                                             MUNIC. FIN, SPECIALIST (1);
                                             SANITARY ENGINEER (1);
                                             SOLID WASTE SPEC, CONS
                                             (1)
              03/07/1997                5    CIVIL ENGINEER, CONS. (1);        S               S
                                             SOLID WASTE SPEC. CONS
                                             (1); TTL/SR. URBAN SPEC. (1);
                                             SANITARY ENGINEER (1);
                                             MUNIC. FIN SPECIALIST (1)
              10/03/1997                7    SOLID WASTE SPECIALIST            S               S
                                             (1); TEAM LEADER/URBAN
                                             SPEC (1); MUNICIPAL
                                             ENGINEER (1); SANITARY
                                             ENGINEER (1); FINANCE
                                             SPECIALIST (1); MUNI.
                                             FINANCE SPEC. (1); CIVIL
                                             ENGINEER (1)
              04/30/1998                4    TEAM LEADER/URBAN SPEC            S               S
                                             (1); MUNICIPAL ENGINEER
                                             (1); SANITARY ENGINEER
                                             (1); URBAN PLANNER (1)
              12/18/1998                5    INCOMING TEAM LEADER              S               S
                                             (1); OUTGOING TEAM



                                              - 38 -

                                           LEADER (1); SANITARY
                                           ENGINEER (1); URBAN
                                           PLANNER (1); MUNICIPAL
                                           ENGINEER (1)
               05/21/1999              7   MISSION LEADER (1);                S    S
                                           MUNICIPAL ENGINEER (2);
                                           SANITARY ENGINEER (1);
                                           CIVIL ENGINEER (2); PUBLIC
                                           HEALTH (1)
               12/15/1999              3   TEAM LEADER, ENGINEERI             S    S
                                           (1); HIGHWAY ENGINEER (1);
                                           CIVIL ENGINEER (1)
               03/15/2001              7   TTL ENGINEER (1); ROADS            S    S
                                           (1); SANITARY
                                           ENGINEERING (1); URBAN
                                           MANAGEMENT (1);
                                           PROCUREMENT (1);
                                           FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT
                                           (1); TEAM ASSISTANT (1)
               02/21/2002              3   TTL, MUNICIPAL ENGG (1);           S    HS
                                           WASTE MANAGEMENT (1);
                                           TEAM ASSISTANCE (1)
               11/14/2002              5   TEAM LEADER (1); URBAN             S    S
                                           MANAGEMENT (1);
                                           FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT
                                           (1); TEAM ASSISTANCE (1);
                                           CONTRACT MANAGEMENT
                                           (1)
               09/12/2003              5   TTL, ENGINEERING (1);              S    S
                                           SANITRY ENGINEERING (1);
                                           URBAN MANAGEMENT (1);
                                           PROCUREMENT (1); TEAM
                                           ASSISTANCE (1)


 ICR
               02/02/2004                   TTL, ENGINEERING (1);
                                            ENVIRONMENTAL
                                            SPECIALIST (1); TEAM
                                            ASSISTANCE



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation
  Appraisal/Negotiation
  Supervision
  ICR
  Total                                                              1,029
Year Range 1998 to 2004.



                                            - 39 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
        School children
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 40 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 41 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

  1.UESP Staff Appraisal Report, March 1996
  2. UESP Implementation Progress Report, June 2003
  3. UESP Aide Memoires
  4. UESP Project Status Reports
  5. QAG, Quality of Supervision Assessment, 2000
  6. UESP Baseline and Impact Assessments, The Consortium (CIHSD), 2003
  7. UESP: Study of the Impact of Household Latrines and Review of Standard Latrine
     Designs, The
     Consortium (CIHSD), 2003
  8. UESP-2, Project Appraisal Document, April 2004
  9. MLGRD, GOG, Draft Implementation Completion Report, May 2004




                                         - 42 -

- 43 -

