Page  1
                                              CREDIT NUMBER 2836 GH
                    Development Credit Agreement
              (Urban Environmental Sanitation Project)
                               between
                          REPUBLIC OF GHANA
                                 and
                INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                         Dated May 20, 1996
                                                 CREDIT NUMBER 2836 GH
                    DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated May 20, 1996, between REPUBLIC OF GHANA (the
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
      WHEREAS: (A) the Association has received a letter dated January
18, 1996 describing a program of policies, goals and actions designed to
improve the Borrower's urban sanitation and infrastructure services (the
Program) and declaring the Borrower's commitment to the execution of the
Program;
      (B)   the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility
and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement,
has requested the Association to assist in the financing of the Project;
      (C)   the Borrower intends to seek additional funds from the Nordic
Development Fund, the Kingdom of the Netherlands and other donors to
assist in the financing of the Project; and
      (D)   the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                              ARTICLE I
                   General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications thereto set forth below (the General Conditions),
constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
Page  2
      (a)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
      (b)   The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
            "Except as the Association and the Borrower shall otherwise
            agree, no withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of
            expenditures in the territories of any country which is not
            a member of the Bank or for goods produced in, or services
            supplied from, such territories; or (b) for the purpose of
            any payment to persons or entities, or for any import of
            goods, if such payment or import, to the knowledge of the
            Association, is prohibited by a decision of the United
            Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the
            Charter of the United Nations."
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several
terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective meanings
therein set forth, and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
      (a)   "Assembly" or "MA" means each Municipal or Metropolitan
Assembly for Accra, Kumasi, Shama-Ahanta East, Tema and Tamale,
established under the Borrower's Local Government Act (No. 462) of 1993;
      (b)   "Cedi" means the currency of the Borrower;
      (c)   "MLGRD" means the Ministry of Local Government and Rural
Development of the Borrower;
      (d)   "MWH" means the Ministry of Works and Housing of the Borrower;
      (e)   "TSC" means the Technical Services Center established in MWH;
      (f)   "Project Implementation Manual" means the manual referred to
in Section 6.01 (e) of this Agreement;
      (g)   "Project Preparation Advance" means the project preparation
advance granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to an
exchange of letters dated August 30, 1994 and September 26, 1994 between
the Borrower and the Association;
      (h)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in Section
2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
      (i)   "Advance Account" means a subaccount of the Special Account
referred to in Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement;
      (j)   "Grant Agreement" means each of the agreements to be entered
into between the Borrower and each of the MAs pursuant to Section 3.01
(b) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time, and
such term includes any schedules to the Grant Agreements;
      (k)   "Project Account" means the account referred to in Section
3.01 (d) of this Agreement;
      (l)   "Project Cities" means the cities referred to in paragraph
(a) above; and
      (m)   "Project Subaccounts" means the accounts referred to in
Section 3.01 (e) of this Agreement.
                             ARTICLE II
                             The Credit
      Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Development
Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent to
forty-seven million, eight hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights
(SDR 47,800,000).
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from
Page  3
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of works, goods
and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
      (b)   The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and
maintain in US dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank on
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, including
appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits
into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
      (c)   The Borrower shall:
            (i)   open and maintain in dollars for each Assembly an
                  Advance Account of the Special Account, in one or more
                  commercial banks acceptable to the Association, on
                  terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association
                  (including appropriate protection against set-off,
                  seizure or attachment), to be used by such Assembly
                  exclusively for the purposes of financing works, goods
                  and services under the Project to be carried out by such
                  Assembly, as specified in paragraph 7 of Schedule 4 to
                  this Agreement; and
            (ii)  withdraw from the Special Account and deposit into each
                  Advance Account an amount not exceeding $200,000 each
                  for Accra, Kumasi and Shama-Ahanta East and $100,000
                  each for Tema and Tamale, and thereafter replenish said
                  Advance Accounts in accordance with paragraph 7 of
                  Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
      (d)   Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to itself
the amount required to repay the principal amount of the Project
Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstanding as of such date and to pay
all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn balance of the authorized
amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be cancelled.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2002, or such
later date as the Association shall establish. The Association shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
      Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn
from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association as of June 30
of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of one percent
(1/2 of 1%) per annum.
      (b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty
days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective
dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit
Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate set as of the June 30
immediately preceding the accrual date or at such other rates as may be
set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The
rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next
payment date in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
      (c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as
the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of
any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in
the currency specified in this Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02
of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency or
currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to
the provisions of that Section.
      Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum
on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time.
Page  4
      Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable
semiannually on January 1 and July 1 in each year.
      Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual
installments payable on each January 1 and July 1, commencing July 1,
2006 and ending January 1, 2036. Each installment to and including the
installment payable on January 1, 2016 shall be one percent (1%) of such
principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two percent
(2%) of such principal amount.
      (b)   Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790 in
constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive years, and (ii) the Bank shall
consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may,
subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the Executive Directors
of the Association and after due consideration by them of the development
of the Borrower's economy, modify the terms of repayment of installments
under paragraph (a) above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the
amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount
of the Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower,
the Association may revise such modification to include, in lieu of some
or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment
of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on the
principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such revision
shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned
repayment modification.
      (c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to
paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the Borrower's
economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the Association may,
if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the terms of repayment
to conform to the schedule of installments as provided in paragraph (a)
above.
      Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
                             ARTICLE III
                      Execution of the Project
      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement
and, to this end, shall:
            (i)   carry out Parts A, B.4, B.5, C.2, C.3 and E.1 (a) of
                  the Project through MLGRD, with due diligence and
                  efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
                  administrative, financial, engineering and environmental
                  practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the
                  funds, facilities, services and other resources required
                  for such Parts of the Project; and
            (ii)  cause the MAs to carry out Parts B.1, B.2, B.3, B.6,
                  C.1, D and E.1 (b) of the Project with due diligence
                  and efficiency, in conformity with appropriate
                  administrative, financial, engineering and environmental
                  practices, and provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
                  facilities, services and other resources required for
                  such Parts of the Project.
      (b)   The Borrower shall make part of the proceeds of the Credit,
allocated from time to time to Categories (1) (a), (2) (a), (3) (a) and
(4) of the table set forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement,
available to the MAs as grants, under Grant Agreements to be entered into
between the Borrower and each MA, respectively, under conditions which
shall have been approved by the Association, which shall include those
set forth in paragraphs 6 and 7 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
      (c)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under each Grant
Page  5
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower
and the Association and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and
except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not
assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Grant Agreements or any provision
thereof.
      (d)   Without limitation upon its obligations under paragraphs (a)
and (e) of this Section, the Borrower shall: (i) provide in its annual
budget, in each year during the carrying out of the Project, amounts
sufficient to cover its counterpart contributions to the cost of the
Project; (ii) open and maintain in cedis in a commercial bank, a Project
Account, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, in the
name of MLGRD, to be used by MLGRD exclusively for the purposes of the
Project; (iii) deposit into said Project Account (A) an initial amount
of $25,000 equivalent, and (B) the remaining part of its contributions,
quarterly in advance, in the amounts to be determined by the Borrower and
the Association.
      (e)   The Borrower shall: (i) open and maintain in cedis, in one or
more commercial banks, five Project Subaccounts, on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Association, in the name of each Assembly to be used
by such Assembly as the Assembly's counterpart contribution to the costs
of the Project; and (ii) deposit into each Project Subaccount: (A) an
initial amount equivalent to $5,000 for each Project City; and (B) the
remaining part of its contributions, quarterly in advance, in the amounts
determined by the Borrower and the Association.
      (f)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of
this Section and except as the Borrower and the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance
with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
      Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall
be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
      Section 3.03. For the purpose of Section 9.07 of the General
Conditions, and without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
      (a)   prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the
Association, and furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months
after the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this
purpose between the Borrower and the Association, a plan for the future
operation of the Project; and
      (b)   afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange
views with the Borrower on said plan.
      Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall carry out, jointly with the
Association and the Assemblies, not earlier than 36 months and not later
than 40 months following the Effective Date, a midterm review of the
progress made in carrying out the Project.  This review shall cover,
among other things: (i) the performance of the Borrower and the Assemblies
in carrying out the Project; (ii) the extent to which the institutional
objectives of the Project have been achieved; (iii) the performance of
the private contractors employed by the Assemblies under the Project;
(iv) compliance with the financial, audit and other obligations of the
Borrower included in this Agreement; (v) the structure and level of cost
recovery measures; (vi) procurement under the Project; (vii) the provision
of counterpart funds for the Project by the Borrower; and (viii) plans for
the further implementation of the Program.
      (b)   The Borrower shall transmit to the Association, at least 30
days prior to such review, a report, in scope and detail satisfactory to
the Association, prepared by MLGRD, TSC and each Assembly, describing the
status of progress regarding the items listed in paragraph (a) above and
of Project implementation generally.
      (c)   Based on such review, the Borrower shall, jointly with MLGRD,
TSC and the Assemblies, promptly prepare an action plan, acceptable to
the Association, for the further implementation of the Project and shall
Page  6
thereafter implement such action plan.
                             ARTICLE IV
                         Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect, in accordance with
sound accounting practices, the operations, resources and expenditures
in respect of the Project of the departments or agencies of the Borrower
responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
      (b)   The Borrower shall:
            (i)    have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph
                   (a) of this Section, including those for the Special
                   Account and each Advance Account, for each fiscal year
                   audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
                   principles consistently applied, by independent
                   auditors acceptable to the Association;
            (ii)   furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but
                   in any case not later than six months after the end of
                   each such year, a certified copy of the report of such
                   audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such
                   detail as the Association shall have reasonably
                   requested; and
            (iii)  furnish to the Association such other information
                   concerning said records, accounts and the audit
                   thereof as the Association shall from time to time
                   reasonably request.
      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from
the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure,
the Borrower shall:
            (i)    maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with
                   paragraph (a) of this Section, records and accounts
                   reflecting such expenditures;
            (ii)   retain, until at least one year after the Association
                   has received the audit report for the fiscal year in
                   which the last withdrawal from the Credit Account or
                   payment out of the Special Account or Advance Accounts
                   were made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices,
                   bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such
                   expenditures;
            (iii)  enable the Association's representatives to examine
                   such records; and
            (iv)   ensure that such records and accounts are included in
                   the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this
                   Section and that the report of such audit contains a
                   separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the
                   statements of expenditure submitted during such fiscal
                   year, together with the procedures and internal
                   controls involved in their preparation, can be relied
                   upon to support the related withdrawals.
                               ARTICLE V
                     Remedies of the Association
      Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
      (a)   A situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that
the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried out.
      (b)   The MAs shall have failed to perform any of their respective
Page  7
material obligations under their respective Grant Agreements.
      (c)   The Local Government Act (No. 462) of 1993 shall have been
amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived, so as to affect
materially and adversely the ability of MAs to perform any of their
respective obligations under their respective Grant Agreements.
      (d)   The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall
have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of any of
the MAs or for the suspension of their respective operations.
      Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
      (a)   any event specified in paragraph (b) of Section 5.01 of this
Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after
notice thereof shall have been given by the Association to the Borrower;
and
      (b)   any event specified in paragraphs (c) and (d) of Section 5.01
of this Agreement shall occur.
                             ARTICLE VI
                     Effective Date; Termination
      Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
      (a)   the Grant Agreements have been executed on behalf of the
Borrower and each MA;
      (b)   the Borrower has deposited the initial deposits into the
Project Account and each of the Project Subaccounts referred to in
Section 3.01 (d) and (e) of this Agreement, respectively;
      (c)   the Borrower has issued a directive, satisfactory to the
Association, requiring the Assemblies to establish separate budget lines
for financing waste management operations, including solid waste
collection and disposal, liquid waste management and for the maintenance
of storm drains;
      (d)   the Assemblies have each employed a Project coordinator,
sanitary engineer and accountant in accordance with Section II of
Schedule 3 to this Agreement; and
      (e)   the Borrower has adopted a Project Implementation Manual,
satisfactory to the Association, specifying, inter alia, performance
indicators, procedures and other arrangements for the purpose of
implementation of the Project.
      Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional matter
within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be
included in the opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Association,
namely that the Grant Agreements have been duly authorized or ratified
by the Borrower and the MAs, respectively, and are legally binding upon
the Borrower and each of the MAs in accordance with their terms.
      Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the
General Conditions.
                             ARTICLE VII
             Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 7.01. The Minister responsible for Finance of the Borrower
is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
Page  8
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Borrower:
            Ministry of Finance
            P.O. Box M40
            Accra, Ghana
            Cable address:                  Telex:
                   ECONOMICON               2205 MIFAEP GH
                   Accra
      For the Association:
            International Development Association
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                  Telex:
                   INDEVAS                  248423 (RCA)
                   Washington, D.C.          82987 (FTCC)
                                             64145 (WUI) or
                                            197688 (TRT)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in
their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of
America, as of the day and year first above written.
                   REPUBLIC OF GHANA
                   By /s/ Ekwow Spio-Garbrah
                                          Authorized Representative
                   INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                   By /s/ Olivier Lafourcade
                                     Acting Regional Vice President
                                                             Africa
                             SCHEDULE 1
              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the
Credit to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so
to be financed in each Category:
                              Amount of the
                                 Credit              % of
                                Allocated        Expenditures
                              (Expressed in          to be
      Category               SDR Equivalent)       Financed
(1)   Civil works:                               100% of foreign
                                                 expenditures and
                                                 75% of local
                                                 expenditures
      (a)  For Project Cities    10,410,000
Page  9
      (b)  For MLGRD             23,160,000
(2)   Vehicles, equipment and                    100% of foreign
      spare parts                                expenditures and
                                                 90% of local
                                                 expenditures
      (a)  For Project Cities       110,000
      (b)  For MLGRD              1,960,000
(3)   Consultants'                               100%
      services, studies
      and training:
      (a)  For Project Cities     3,310,000
      (b)  For MLGRD              2,920,000
(4)   Operating                                  75% up to June 30,
      costs for:                                 1999; 50% up to
                                                 June 30, 2001; and
                                                 25% thereafter.
      (a)     refuse collection   1,290,000
      (b)     Others                280,000              90%
(5)   Refunding of                1,010,000      Amounts due
      Project                                    pursuant to
      Preparation                                Section 2.02 (d)
      Advance                                    of this Agreement
(6)   Unallocated                 3,350,000
                                 __________
            TOTAL                47,800,000
                                 ==========
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or
services supplied from the territory of any country other than that of
the Borrower;
      (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower;
      (c)   the term "operating costs" means: (i) for Category 4 (a),
costs associated with refuse collection services to be carried out by
private contractors; and (ii) for Category 4 (b), costs on account of
project implementation for office expenses, utilities, fuel, supplies
and vehicle maintenance;
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of: (a) payments made for expenditures
prior to the date of this Agreement; and (b) payments made for expendi-
tures under Category (1) (a) for solid waste landfills for each MA until
land for such landfills within the MA concerned has been acquired in a
manner satisfactory to the Association.
4.    The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to
be made on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for:
(a) goods under contracts not exceeding $200,000 equivalent, (b) works
under contracts not exceeding $500,000 equivalent, (c) services with
consultants' firms under contracts not exceeding $100,000 equivalent,
(d) expenditures for individual consultants under contracts not exceeding
$50,000 equivalent, and (e) operating costs, all under such terms and
conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
Page  10
                             SCHEDULE 2
                     Description of the Project
      The objectives of the Project are to: (a) improve living conditions
for lower income urban residents, (b) improve institutional and financing
mechanisms in the urban sector, and (c) build up the capacity of the
Metropolitan and Municipal Assemblies to manage environmental sanitation
services.
      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:     Storm Drainage
1.    Accra
      (a)   Dredging and reconstruction of about seven km of the city's
primary drainage channel.
      (b)   Reconstruction of about 20 km of secondary drains.
2.    Kumasi
      (a)   Construction of about four new secondary drains.
      (b)   Widening of the existing primary channel.
      (c)   Reconstruction of about four km of the Nsuben primary channel.
3.    Sekondi-Takoradi
      Restoration of the capacity of existing drains in the Market Circle
area.
Part B:     Sanitation
1.    Construction of about 5,500 household latrines in all Project Cities.
2.    Construction of new, and rehabilitation of existing, public
sanitation facilities in all Project Cities.
3.    Construction of about 300 sanitation facilities at primary and junior
secondary schools in all Project Cities.
4.    Construction of a septage treatment facility in each Project City.
5.    Rehabilitation of selected portions of the Tema sewer system.
6.    Construction of an abattoir in Tamale.
Part C:     Solid Waste
1.    Provision of technical and financial support for waste collection
in the Project Cities.
2.    Construction of sanitary landfills in Kumasi, Shama-Ahanta East
and Tamale.
3.    Provision of equipment for disposal of solid waste.
Part D:      Community Infrastructure Upgrading
1.    Improvement of basic infrastructure in selected low-income areas of
Accra, Kumasi and Sekondi-Takoradi through rehabilitation of access roads,
storm water drainage, sanitation facilities, solid waste management
facilities, water supply and street lighting.
2.    Construction of community water facilities in Tema.
Part E:     Institutional Strengthening
Page  11
1.    Provision of technical advisory services and training on environ-
mental sanitation and municipal finance through: (a) MLGRD, and (b) the
Assemblies.
2.    Provision of vehicles and equipment.
3.    Strengthening of field operations and records management of the
Survey Department, the Land Title Registry and the Lands Commission
through the provision of technical advisory services and training.
                                * * *
      The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2002.
                                SCHEDULE 3
                Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:     General
      Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions
of Section I of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits" published by the Bank in January 1995 (the Guidelines) and the
following provisions of this Section, as applicable.
Part B:     International Competitive Bidding
1.    Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and
works shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the
provisions of Section II of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1
thereto.
2.    The following provision shall apply to goods and works to be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of
paragraph 1 of this Part B.
Preference for Domestically Manufactured Goods and Domestic Contractors
      The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and
Appendix 2 thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of
the Borrower and works to be carried out by domestic contractors.
Part C:     Other Procurement Procedures
1.    National Competitive Bidding
      Works estimated to cost less than $2,000,000 equivalent per contract,
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $16,200,000 equivalent, may be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of
paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
2.    National Shopping
      Vehicles, equipment and supplies estimated to cost less than $50,000
equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $500,000
equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of
national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of
paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.    Community Participation
      Works for household sanitation program under Part B of the Project
costing less than $10,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate
amount not to exceed $1,400,000 equivalent, shall be procured in
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association.
Part D:     Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.    Procurement Planning
Page  12
      Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding
or to bid for contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project
shall be furnished to the Association for its review and approval, in
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in
accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the
Association and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.    Prior Review
      With respect to: (i) each contract for works estimated to cost the
equivalent of $1,000,000 or more, and (ii) each contract for goods
estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures set
forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.    Post Review
      With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this
Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines shall apply.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
1.    Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded in
accordance with the provisions of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing
Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the Consultant Guidelines).
For complex, time-based assignments, such contracts shall be based on the
standard form of contract for consultants' services issued by the
Association, with such modifications thereto as shall have been agreed
by the Association. Where no relevant standard contract documents have
been issued by the Association, other standard forms acceptable to the
Association shall be used.
2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the
provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Association
review or approval of budgets, shortlists, selection procedures, letters
of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts, shall not
apply to: (a) contracts for the employment of consulting firms estimated
to cost less than $100,000 equivalent each, or (b) contracts for the
employment of individual consultants estimated to cost less than $50,000
equivalent each. However, said exceptions to prior Association review
shall not apply to: (a) the terms of reference for such contracts, (b)
single-source selection of consulting firms, (c) assignments of a
critical nature, as reasonably determined by the Association, (d)
amendments to contracts for the employment of consulting firms raising
the contract value to $100,000 equivalent or above, or (e) amendments
to contracts for the employment of individual consultants raising the
contract value to $50,000 equivalent or above.
                             SCHEDULE 4
                       Implementation Program
Project Implementation
1.    MLGRD shall have overall responsibility for Project implementation
and shall coordinate the activities of TSC and the Assemblies.
2.    The Borrower shall implement the Project in accordance with the
procedures set out in the Project Implementation Manual, and, except as
the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign,
amend, abrogate or waive any provision thereof so as to materially and
adversely affect the implementation of the Project.
3.    The Borrower shall, not later than twelve months after the
Effective Date, issue regulations under the Local Government Act
permitting the Assemblies to enact by-laws enabling the Waste
Management Departments of each Assembly to: (a) levy user charges
on piped sewage, public toilets, and refuse collection, (b) manage a
separate account utilizing revenues from such charges, (c) privatize
Page  13
selected aspects of their services, and (d) regulate and enforce waste
generation, hauling and disposal.
Annual Project Review
4.    Not later than September 30 of each year, representatives of each
Assembly, MLGRD, MWH, TSC and the Ministry of Finance shall meet with
the Association to review the progress made in respect of Project
implementation, including, without limitation, physical implementation,
institutional issues, procurement, disbursements, the involvement of the
private sector and progress towards the objectives of the Project for
the preceding year.
Progress Reports
5.    Not later than 45 days after the end of each quarter, TSC shall
prepare and furnish to the Borrower and the Association a quarterly
progress report: (a) comparing actual and forecast progress and
evaluating such progress against project monitoring indicators agreed
with the Borrower and the Association, including, inter alia, standard
agreed performance indicators monitoring the physical, financial and
operational progress and performance of all components of the Project,
(b) on procurement of civil works, goods and services required for the
carrying out of the Project, (c) on supervision of contracts, and (d) the
financial administration of the Project.
Terms and Conditions of Grant Agreements Required Pursuant to Section 3.01
(c) of this Agreement
6.    The terms and conditions of the Grant Agreements shall include the
following obligations of the MAs to:
      (a)   carry out Parts B.1, B.2, B.3, B.6, C.1, D and E.1 (b) of the
Project with due diligence and efficiency, in conformity with appropriate
administrative, financial and engineering practices, with due regard to
environmental factors, and in accordance with the Project Implementation
Manual; and provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the
facilities, services and other resources required for said Parts of the
Project, including their counterpart contributions at levels satisfactory
to the Association.
      (b)   comply with the procedures for procurement of goods and works
set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement;
      (c)   comply with the record keeping, auditing and report require-
ments set forth in Section 4.01 of this Agreement, with respect to Parts
B.1, B.2, B.3, B.6, C.1, D and E.1 (b) of the Project, including the
annual auditing of its accounts and financial statements (balance sheets,
statements of income and expenses and related statements) required by the
Borrower to meet its obligations under Section 4.01 of this Agreement;
      (d)   carry out their own operations and conduct their affairs in
accordance with sound administrative, financial and engineering practices;
      (e)   take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or make
other provision satisfactory to the Association for, insurance against
such risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate
practice;
      (f)   in accordance with Section 3.04 of this Agreement, (i)
participate in the review of the progress made in carrying out Parts B.1,
B.2, B.3, B.6, C.1, D and E.1 (b) of the Project, and (ii) thereafter
prepare and implement an action plan, satisfactory to the Association,
for the further implementation of said Parts of the Project;
      (g)   at the request of the Borrower or the Association, exchange
views with the Borrower and the Association with regard to the progress
of Parts B.1, B.2, B.3, B.6, C.1, D and E.1 (b) of the Project and the
performance of their obligations under their respective Grant Agreements;
      (h)   promptly inform the Borrower and the Association of any
condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress
Page  14
of Parts B.1, B.2, B.3, B.6, C.1, D and E.1 (b) of the Project or the
performance by the MAs of their obligations under the respective Grant
Agreements; and
      (i)   except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise
agree, neither take nor concur in any action which would have the effect
of amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving their respective Grant
Agreements.
7.    The Grant Agreements shall include provisions to the effect that
each Assembly shall:
      (a)   award the following contracts financed under the Project in
their respective cities:
            (i)    Civil Works:
                  (A)   community infrastructure upgrading (roads,
                        footpaths, drains, water supply, sanitation,
                        solid waste collection and street lighting),
                  (B)   household sanitation facilities,
                  (C)   public and school sanitation facilities,
                  (D)   construction of the abattoir, and
                  (E)   water supply at Tema.
            (ii)  Consultancy Services for:
                  (A)   design and supervision of works, and
                  (B)   technical assistance and training.
            (iii) Operations:
                  solid waste collections.
      (b)   establish and maintain, until completion of the Project,
separate budget lines in its budget for waste management and drain
maintenance, and every year, beginning with the 1999 fiscal year,
allocate amounts for such activities as agreed upon with the Association;
      (c)   not later than twelve months after the Effective Date,
establish a Waste Management Department, with staff in adequate numbers
and with qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Association,
and make appropriate allocations for salaries for Waste Management
Department staff;
      (d)   not later than twenty-four months after the Effective Date,
enact by-laws in relation to the matters referred to in paragraph 3 above;
      (e)   at all times until completion of the Project, maintain Project
staff in adequate numbers with qualifications and experience satisfactory
to the Association; and
      (f)   provide the required information to TSC on the progress of
Project implementation within fourteen days of the end of each quarter.
                             SCHEDULE 5
                           Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means the Categories set forth
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect
of the reasonable cost of works, goods and services required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit allocated
from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the
Page  15
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to
$3,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the
Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided,
however, that unless the Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized
Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to $2,000,000 until
the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Credit Account plus the total
amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the
Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be
equal to or exceed the equivalent of $8,000,000.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively: (a)
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule, and (b) in accordance with paragraph 7 of this Schedule.
3.    After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized
Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account
shall be made as follows:
      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower
shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for a deposit or
deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and
deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower
shall have requested.
      (b)   (i)    For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower
                   shall furnish to the Association requests for deposits
                   into the Special Account at such intervals as the
                   Association shall specify.
            (ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
                   Borrower shall furnish to the Association the documents
                   and other evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4 of
                   this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect of
                   which replenishment is requested.  On the basis of each
                   such request, the Association shall, on behalf of the
                   Borrower,  withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit
                   into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
                   shall have requested and as shall have been shown by
                   said documents and other evidence to have been paid out
                   of the Special Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit
Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective
equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents and
other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account or
by the Assemblies out of any of the Advance Accounts, the Borrower shall,
at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment
was made exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the
Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the
Special Account:
      (a)   if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that
all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the
Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
      (b)   if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the
Association, within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b)
(ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be
furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of the
audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account or the Advance
Accounts;
Page  16
      (c)   if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the
Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the
Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit Account pursuant to the
provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or
      (d)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to
the eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special
commitment entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of
the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwith-
drawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall
follow such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the
Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the
extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all such
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of
such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.    If the Association shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Advance Account or the Special Account: (i) was made
for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to
the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may
request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association
shall so request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the
amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.
Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the
Association into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has
provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
7.    (a)   The Borrower shall withdraw from the Special Account and
deposit into each Advance Account funds to assist the beneficiary of such
account to pay for works, goods and services under the Project.  Such
withdrawals and deposits shall be in amounts sufficient to assist each
beneficiary, in the manner contemplated in Schedule 4 to this Agreement,
to pay for such goods, works and services in due course, provided that at
no time shall the Borrower cause the amount held in any Advance Account
to exceed the equivalent of $200,000 each for Accra, Kumasi and Shama-
Ahanta East, and $100,000 each for Tema and Tamale.
      (b)   Payments out of Advance Accounts shall only be made for
eligible expenditures in respect of Categories (1) to (4) set forth in
the table in paragraph 1 of  Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
      (c)   Any withdrawal from any Advance Account must be justified to
the Borrower by the same documentation and other evidence regarding
eligible expenditures provided for under paragraph 3 of this Schedule.
      (d)   If the Association or the Borrower shall have determined at
any time that any amount outstanding in any Advance Accounts will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
beneficiary of such Advance Account shall, promptly upon notice from the
Association or the Borrower, refund to the Special Account such out-
standing amount.
