THE UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
~E778
MINISTRY OF WORKS
TANZANIA NATIONAL ROADS AGENCY - TANROADS
Review and Update of Feasibility Study and Detailed Design of
Singida-Shelui Road Section
Phase II
Detailed Engineering Design
FINAL REPORT
L..e-L lCo aipha9,1fame of #I LflICr GRJTP ESfl C.oIRg .t1lln r
Annex 8      L-  - 8 ------
ENVINRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT (EIA),
SOCIAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT (SIA) &
RESETTLEMENT A CTION PLAN(RAP)
ENVINR ONMENTAL IMPA CT A SSESSMENT (EIA),
SOCIAL IMPACTASSESSMENT (SIA)&
RESETTLEMENT A CTION PLAN (RAP)
AS AMMENDED BY TANROADS
-MY
TECHNIPLAN
Rome and Dar es Salaam, May 2003
FIlE COPYD



I



Review and Update of Feasibility Study and Detailed Design of
Singida-Shelui Road Section
Phase II
Detailed Engineering Design
FINAL REPORT
Annex 8
EIA, SIA & "IA
EIA, SIA & RIA AS
AMMENDED
BY TANROADS
-__ __ __ ___ __ _   TECHNIPLAN



i
I
I
I
I
I
i
I
I



Singida-Shelui Road: Detailed Engineering Design  Finzal Report: Annex 8 - E1A, SIA & RIA
Contents
Feasibility Study and Preliminary Engineering Design
of Singida Shelui Road Section
Final Report on Environmental and Social Impact Assessment (EIA and SIA)
and
Resettlement Impact Assessment (RIA)
Table of contents
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
Part 1.   THE ROAD AND ITS ENVIRONMENT
1.    PRESENTATION OF THE STUDY
1.1    Terms of reference
1.2    Work carried out
1.3    References
1.4    Study approach
1.5    Layout of the report
2.     THE PROJECT       ROAD
2.1    Location and characteristics
2.2    The road upgrading project
3.     THE TERRRITORY INFLUENCED BY THE ROAD
3.1    Road reserve area (RRA, 45 m wide)
3.2    Wider road influence area (WIA)
3.3    Physical environment of the Wider Road Influence Area
3.4    Human environment of the wider road influence area
3.5    Cultural heritage in the road influence zone
4.     ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS OF THE EXISTING ROAD
4.1    Health effects of current road use
4.2    Recent traffic accident rates
4.3    Lack of ancillary road facilities
4.4    Ongoing and projected trends of the road influence area
Part 2.  ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT
5.     ROAD WORKS: ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT & MITIGATION
5.1    Planned road works
5.2    Overview of the impact of planned road works
5.3    Short-term negative impacts of road works
5.4    Short-term positive impacts of road works
5.5    Long-term negative impacts of road works
5.6    Long-term positive impacts of road works
5.7    Impact of road works in the Rift Valley
6.     FUTURE ROAD USE ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT & MITIGATION
6.1    Traffic growth forecasts
6.2   Direct impacts of road use
Annex 8 - contents                  Annex 8 - i                      Techntiplan



Singida-Shelui Road: Detailed Engineering Design  Final Report: Annex 8 - EIA, SIA & RIA
Contents
6.3    Negative or problematic impacts of future road use
6.4    Positive, indirect impacts of future road use
7.     ENVIRONMENTAL ACTION PLAN (EAP)
7.1    Scope and phasing of the EAP
7.2    The three Phases of EAP (2001 onward)
7.3    Proposed institutional framework of E.A.P
8.     ENVIRONMENTAL COSTS
8.1    Overall cost estimates
8.2    Cost of environmental mitigation and enhancement measures
8.3    Financial schedule of EAP
Part 3.  RESETTLEMENT IMPACT ASSESSMENT (RIA) & RESETTLEMENT
ACTION PLAN
9.1    Project Description in Relation to Resettlement
9.2    Potential Impacts
9.3    Resettlement Objectives
9.4    Social Economic Study
9.5    Legal Framework
9.6    Eligibility
9.7    Valuation Procedure and Compensation for Losses
9.8    Resettlement Measures
9.9    Site Selection, Site Preparation, Relocation and Social Services
9.10.  Community Participation
9.11   Grievance and Appeals Channel
9.12   Implementation Schedule
9.13   Cost and Budget
9.14   RAP Institutional Framework and Organizational Responsibilities
Part 4. FIGUR-ES
Figure 1.   Tanzania's trunk corridors
Figure 2.   Air view of the project area
Figure 3.   Land cover and land use along the road
Figure 4.   Landscapes traversed by the project area
Figure 5.   Land use and in the road influence area
Figure 6.   Natural vegetation areas
Figure 7.   National parks, reserves and controlled areas
Figure 8.   Administrative set-up of the road influence area
Figure 9.   Settlement system of the road influence area
Figure 10. Archaelogical sites of the road influence area
Figure 11. Prehistoric artpaintinig
Figure 12. Identified borrow pits and quarries
Figure 13.  Route variants in Iguguno urban area
Figure 14. Soil protection with geomats
Annex 8 - contents                 Annex 8 - ii                    Techniplan



Singida-Shelui Road: Detailed Engineering Design  Final Report: Annex 8 - EIA, SIA & RIA
Contents
Figure 14. Soil protection with geomats
Figure 15. Soil reinforcement for long term application
Figure 16. Slope erosion control with geomat
Figure 17. Slope erosion control with geocells
Figure 18. Borrow pits
APPENDICES
Appendix A  Policy, legal and administrative framework
Appendix B  Environmental profile of the Road Project Area
Appendix C  Baseline socio-economic data
Appendix D  Agro-economic areas of Singida Region
Appendix E  Water resources of the Project Area
Appendix F  Health data of the Project Area
Appendix G  Archaeological heritage and road development
Appendix H  World Bank guidelines on involuntary settlement
Appendix I  Terms of Reference
Appendix J  Individual Compensation
Appendix K  Properties valuation analysis
Appendix L  Confirmation of Plot allocation
Appendix M  NEMC Reporting guidelines
Appendix N  Photographic album
Appendix O  Contractor's Clause
Appendix P  Minutes of Meeting with villagers
Appendix Q  List of People Consulted
Appendix R  Properties Declaration Form
Aninex 8 - conitents            Annex 8 - iii                 Techniplan



Singida-Shelui Road: Detailed Engineering Design  Final Report: Annex 8 - EIA, SIA & RIA
Executive Sumninary
Singida-Shelui Road Upgrading Project
Environmental, Social and Resettlement Impact Assessment
EIA, SIA & RIA Executive Summiary
1.   Road Influence Area
2.   The proposed road upgrading project
3.   Environmental impacts without the proposed project
4.   ELA and RTA methodology
5.   Participatory EIA and RIA approach
6.   The EIA and RIA Studies and Action Plans
7.   Environmental Impact Statement (EIS) & Action Plan (2003 onward)
8.   Resettlement Impact Statement (RIS) & Action Plan (2003 onward)
9.   Cost and Budget for RAP
10. Institutional Framework and Organisational Responsibilities for RAP Implementation
11. Monitoring and Evaluation
12. Conclusions and recommendations
Executive sumnmar-y             Annex 8 - S. 1                    Techniplan



Singida-Shelui Road: Detailed Engineering Design  Final Report: Annex 8 - EIA, SIA & RIA
Executive Sinmary
Singida-Shelui Road Upgrading Project
Environmental, Social and Resettlement Impact Assessment
EIA, SIA & RIA Executive Summary
1. Road Innluence Area
Singida Shelui Road Section is part of the Central Trunk Corridor, which connects Dar es
Salaam with northwestemn Tanzania and with landlocked Rwanda, Burundi and eastern
Congo. The project's Road Section extends northwestward from Singida town through
Shelui Trade Center until the border with Tabora region, for a total design length of 107 km.
The immediate influence area of the Road Section largely coincides with its feeder road
basin, covering some 5000 km2 with 250,000 people, of which 150,000 in Singida Urban
District and 100,000 in two rural Districts. The population density of the Road Influence
Area is 60 inhabitants per km2 (16 in the rural countryside). The land use pattern consists of
fallow and grazing areas (52% of the Road Influence Area), thicket (25%), forests of various
densities (8%), farmlands (12%) and water bodies (3%). The landscapes traversed by the
road display a low cropping intensity, with scattered villages and trading centers. The first
78 km cut across a rolling plateau with sparse cultivations at an average altitude of 1,150
meters, followed by the rugged, densely wooded relief of Sekenke escarpment, rising to
higher altitudes from km 78 to 90. After the escarpment, the road cuts across the flat,
intensively farmed Shelui plateau. The last three km traverse the uninhabited swamplands of
Wembere river, at an average altitude some 20 meters below the plateau.
2. The proposed road-upgrading project
The project aims at upgrading Singida Shelui road to bitumen standards, with a 20-year
design life for the new sections, 10 for the rehabilitation works. The design route will
overlap with the existing one for 86 km out of 110km. The major improvements include:
Road geometry: widening to 10 meters from present 7 to 10
Road reserve corridor: 45m in the rural areas, from present 25 to 45 m
Design speed: 110 km per hour
CalTying capacity: 1300 vehicle/day, up from 280 in the year 2000
Carriage way: 6.5 m wide, with two lanes and a 1.5m shoulder on both sides
Pavement: double surface dressing, with a 2.5% camber to bitumen standard
Drainage: cross drainage structures with intersection road apartments
Bypasses: the design route will avoid Iguguno town (5000 people), reducing the congestion
and pollution in this small town, and will bypass the hilly section of Sekenke escalpment,
which cut across a dense forest, where the present road is characterized by many traffic
accidents and has conduced to the depletion of the forestry cover.
3. Environmental impacts without the proposed project
The present road conditions generate a high accident rate especially in the rugged Sekenke
sub-section (km 78 to 90). The dirt surface and low vehicle speed cause dusts and pollution
in the traversed settlements. The rural landscapes crossed by the road show advanced signs
of soil erosion, forest destruction and disappearance of wildlife, due to extensive farming,
overgrazing and wood-cutting for the production of charcoal. Due to poor accessibility and
high transport costs under the present road conditions, the competent ministries find it hard
ExecLitive summary              Annex 8 - S. 2                     Techniplan



Singida-Shelui Road: Detailed Engineering Design  Finial Report: Annex 8 - EIA, SIA & RIA
Executive Summary
to extend sustainable methods of rural production to the road influence area. Moreover,
Singida Shelui road section is considered to be the bottleneck of the Central Trunk Corridor,
constraining national and international communications through Central Tanzania. This has
negative impacts on socio-economic development, including the tourism sector.
4. EIA, SIA and RIA methodology
General approach. The study was carried out in compliance with the methods recommended
by the Draft National EIA Guidelines and Procedures (see details in Appendix M). After
summarizing the present impact of the road without the project, the study outlines the
investment proposal and states its predicted impacts on: (a) the physical and human
environment (EIA and SIA), and: (b) the economic properties and business activities (RIA).
On this basis, the study identifies the measures to mitigate the negative and enhance the
positive impacts of the project, both on the natural and the socio-economic milieu.
5. Participatorv EIA, SIA and RE[A approach
Public consultations have been carried out at two levels:
- firstly, focus-group sessions were held with stakeholders at major settlements along the
project corridor, especially those affected by a high resettlement rate or potential
negative impacts of the project on the natural environment
-  secondly, detailed field inventories of affected environmental resources and economic
properties were carried out in collaboration with local communities and authorities
The participants in the consultation process had a strong conviction that paving the road will
have a positive and profound impact on their lives and livelihood, and they were genuinely
grateful for this "overdue" development. Negative impacts, like road safety, were cited.
Thanks to the active participation of the local people and authorities, the study was able to
carry out the detailed inventory of each building, business activity and farm holding to be
displaced by the project. The names of all people to be resettled under the project has been
taken, the properties described and their value estimated.
Assumptions and limitations. The study assumes that the influence area of the project road
coincides with its feeder road basin. The baseline information available for area is limited in
terms of both environmental and socio-econoinic data. However, the Consultant has tried to
overcome such limitations during the scoping stage of the study. The report was produced in
two stages (feasibility study and detailed design).
Administrative, Legal and Policy Requirements. The present study has taken in full account
the principal and subsidiary legislation on the evaluation and management of environmental
impacts for public works. The adopted planning procedures also comply with the World
Bank's guidelines for environmental impact mitigation and involuntary resettlement.
6. The E1A, SIA and RItA Sttudies and Action Plains
The present study is articulated in two parts, as follows:
a) Environnmental and Social Impact Assessment (EIA & SIA): after stating the potential
project impacts in critical environments along the road, the study recommends an Action
Plan with the measures apt to mitigate the negative and enhance the positive impacts (see
§ 7).
Executive summary               Annex 8 - S. 3                    Techniplan



Singida-Shelui Road: Detailed Engineering Design  Final Report: Annex 8 - EIA, SIA & RIA
Executive Surmmary
b) Resettlement Impact Assessment (RIA): the study deals with the project impacts on real
estate properties and economic activities, outlining an Action Plan both to compensate
the losses and relocate the assets in alternative areas .
Table S. 1 overleaf summarizes the expected EIA and RIA impacts of the project on the 12
settlement areas crossed by the Singida-Shelui Road.
Executive summary                Annex 8 - S. 4                      Techniplan



Singida-Shelui road: Detailed Engineering Design                                                                                      Finial Report: Annex 8 - EIA, Sia & RIA
Executive Sutm71171ary,
Table S.1 Overview of EIA and RIA study
District                                                   Iramba Rural District                                    Singida Rural District    Singida
km                       104-107          90-104            72-90    65-72     58-65       38-58       30-38      18-30         10-18         1-10
__________  _______                                                               ____________   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Total
Adniinistrative Village Area       Malende      Shelui Nselembwe     Misigiri  Ulemo   Kyengege     Kitusha    Iguguno      Msisi        Manga        SUnrbia
Sekenke Forest Reserve (kIn)               6 km of reserve front
3 km of
O Q      Wembere Game Reserve (km)       reserve
>, gfront
Borrow pits (No. of areas)       1                2                5        2         3           2           3          2             1                        22
Residential Buildings to be resettled (No.  1           3               2         1         1           3          18         33             -                        62
of buildings)
Businesses to be resettled (No. of businees                                       7         3                                  I4            3            4           57
activities)                               26*                     ~                                                4345
Number of Building StructLre       1               36               2         5         3           3          18         39            3             4          114
Iguguno Bypass                                                                                    34                                                 34
g      Farms to be       Borrow pits         -                                                                2                                   -                         2
X     resettled (No.)
Minor alignrments    -                                 4         -         2                                  4             -            -           10
Total Farms         0                0                4        0         2           2          34          4             0            0           46
It excludes 9 houses under constructioni thongli are plannedfor business  Note: Mosqtue is not included as butsinesses while two offices at Msisi were regarded as business
Source: Tanroads field investigatiol2s May 2003
Executive summary                                                          Annex 8 - S. 5                                                                        Techniplan



Singida-Shelui Road: Detailed Engineering Design  Final Report: Annex 8 - EIA, SIA & RIA
Executive Summnary
7. Environmental Impact Statement (EIS) & Action Plan (2003 onward)
The EIS bears upon the impact of the project during the road engineering and construction
phase (years 2003-04) and during the road use and maintenance phase (year 2004 onward)
EIS and mitigating measures in EIA Phases I & 11, Road Enzgineering & Contstruction (2003-
07)
EIS                 Ad% ised mim ,:iionr and enhlancenieni measures
Proper timing of works. Topsoil stock piled for
i     Land take, earthworkslaeus
later use
Works to transform the pits in permanent water
ji    BoIrow pits, qualTies     points
Minimize vegetation clearance. Restore sites
iii   Detours and haul roads    afeus
.                    ~~~~~~~~~after use
Careful   camp    location,  construction,
iv    Workers camps             maaemn
management
v     Machines (noise, vibration,  Machine mufflers. Dust sprinkling. Suspend
I pollution)                works in holidays
.i   Water and soil pollution  Recycle lubricants. Precautions to  avoid
vi    Water and soil pollution  acietlpll
accidental spillls
vi.  Site and detour hazards   Proper signalling. Careful driving of haul
vii    Site and detour hazards  trucks
...   Health  hazards  during   Health examination of workers with treatment
works                     when needed
.x    Breeding habitat of disease  Good landscaping, filling & drainage to avoid
vectors                   creating habitats
EIS andcl mnitigating measutres in EIA Phase II, Road Use and Maintenance (2007 onlward)
- EIS           :  ..   Ad. ised:maligationi and erhiianceinient rneasures
Traffic risks and pollution  Introduction of updated vehicle and traffic
effects                   control systems
Infrastructure development  Livestock route & market, energy & water
otential                 supply
Higher    pressure   on   Strengthening  of environmental  services,
ecosystems                 awareness campaigns
Handbook for ecologically sustainable road
iv    Road maintenance impacts  maintenance
Upgrading of medical facilities especially to
v     Increase of disease -vectors
prevent HIV-AIDS
vi    Cultural  and    tourism  Protection of heritage and development of eco-
potentials                tourism circuits
The Environmental Action Plan (EAP) is to implement the mitigation and enhancement
measures. Consistently with the identified impact cycles, the EAP spans three phases:
Execuitive summary              Annex 8 -.S. 6                     Techniiplan



Singida-Shelui Road: Detailed Engineering Design  Final Report: Annex 8 - EIA, SIA & RIA
Executive Summary
Phasing of Singida-Shelui EAP
Year
Phases         03- 03-    07             Key responsibilities
03  07   onwar
Environmental        o                Consulting engineers under TANROADS
design-               -           _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _
Works                    o            Contractor, TANROADS and other line
implementation           _           Ministries
III Road     use     &             000   TANROADS
maintenance        T_                     __                 _
Each mitigation or enhancement measure has been discussed with local communities and
national authorities (VPO, NEMC, Ministry of Tourism & Natural Resources, i.e Forestry
and wildlife Departments).
EAP Phases I & 11: Engineering and Work Implenmentation (2003-07): the mitigation
measures will counteract the adverse effects earthworks (land takes, materials spoiling, plant
operation, haul traffic), like soil erosion, water pollution, encroachment into natural and
human habitats. The construction work will require half million m3 of gravel materials and
crushed stones. Borrow pits and quarries cover a surface of 110 ha.
EAP Phase III, road utse and maintenance (from 2007), will mobilize five environmental
impact management processes, namely:
i.        Traffic Management
ii.       Development of Infrastructure
iii.      Ecosystem Protection in the Wider Road Area
iv.       Safeguard of Physical Cultural Resources in the Wider Road Area
v.        Environmentally Sustainable Road Maintenance
vi.       Health Protection Against Disease Vectors (HIV-AIDS and others)
vii.      Benefit Enhancement Measures
The following paragraphs deal with the seven components of the post-construction EAP.
I. Traffic management. If not curbed by appropriate measures, like speed signs, rumble
strips, intersection layout etc. across towns and villages or crash barriers and guardrails,
traffic related risks would increase proportionally to the traffic flow.
II. Development of infrastructure: economic and social infrastructure will increase the
advantage generated by the upgraded road. Investment costs, to be covered by the regional
budget assisted by credit line facilities, will be mostly recovered by user-fee mechanisms.
Executive summary                Annex 8 - S. 7                     Techniplan



Singida-Shelui Road: Detailed Engineering Design  Final Report: Aninex 8 - EIA, SIA & RIA
Executive Siunmtary
Projected infrastructutre developnment
.  Motor  Livestock  Feeder   Stock    Energy &
Location      Moto    r L   s     roads     route     water
parks    markets    (i)       (i)       spl
(km)      (km)     supply
1.  Singida        c                  250       15         0
2.  Tumuli         -                   -         15 
3.  Iguguno                  -        80         10    _
4.  Misigiri                          35         5         o
5.  Shelui         e                  25         10        o
Total          4        2        390        55         5
Im. Ecosystem Protection in the Wider Road Area. The project road will traverse 20 km of
ecologically sensitive areas in Sekenke Forest Reserve and Wembere Game Reserve.
Sekenke Forest Reserve. Dry forest formations like miombo cover the steep hills overhanging
the new design route along Kinkungu river as well as the existing hilly road. A wet gallery
forest lines the meanders of Kinkungu river. Both he dry and the wet forest formations need
to be preserved for the benefit of local ecosystems and wildlife. The old hilly road (12 km)
will be closed to normal traffic, and dedicated to forest service and tourism. Thanks to its
vitality and reduced fire exposure, the miombo forests will regenerate along the old road,
returning 300 ha to timber production and wildlife. The project will install signs and gates to
interface Singida Shelui road with the Forest Reserve. On the negative side, the new route
will affect wildlife along the Kinkungu river. Advised mitigations: : (a) green barriers
against fire propagation, and: (b) assistance to village communities in Sekenke escarpment to
set up associations of charcoal makers for the participative management of forest resources
Wembere Game Reserve. The future Reserve will include a vast swamp-river-lake complex,
rich of wildlife and fish. After reproducing in the swamps, fish migrate via the free-flowing
seasonal river to the lake, providing the basic resource to numerous fishermen. In Wembere
valley, the present road acts as a dam. The project hydraulic design parameters will minimize
the barriers to water flow during the peak rainy season in the Wembere basin, presently
hampered by the inadequate number and dimension of the existing culverts.
IV. Safeguard of Physical Cultural Resources (PCR) in the Wider Road Area. A
"Maintenance Handbook" will provide the specifications for environmental friendly road
maintenance, taking into account the type of structures, drainage system and impact
mitigation solutions adopted by the project. Special attention will be paid to the maintenance
of road cuts, drainage system
V. Environmentally sustainable road maintenance. A "Maintenance Handbook" will provide
the specifications for environmental friendly road maintenance, taking into account the type
of structures, drainage system and impact mitigation solutions adopted by the project.
Special attention will be paid to the maintenance of road cuts, drainage system. The manual
would not overlap with the cuirent Road Maintenance Handbook of Tanroads, insofar as the
latter provides general standards and procedures for road maintenance across the country,
while the former would impart specific guidelines for the maintenance of each km and
individual structure of a specific road: the one linking Singida to Shelui. The handbook will
also consider the collaboration of Tanroads with the Ministry of Education and Culture for
the protection of the cultural heritage in the road project area.
Executive summary                Annex 8 - S. 8                     Techlniplan



Singida-Shelui Road: Detailed Engineering Design  Final Report: Annex 8 - EIA, SIA & RIA
Execurtive Suinmary
VI. Health-oriented environmental measures. Incoming workers and traffic flows may carry
and spread disease vectors. Local medical services should closely monitor AIDS-I-IIV. The
project will provide a subvention to prevent and treat the disease.
VII. EAP Implementation. The key players will be: TANROADS, the Environment
Departhent of thle Vice President's Office (VPO), the Nationial Environment Management
Coutnlcil (NEMC) and Local Government. The TANROADS will appoint a Task Manager to
coordinate the project's environmental components. He/she will submit an EAP
Memorandum to VPO and NEMC, suggesting the tasks pertaining to TANROADS and other
Agencies. The VPO in collaboration with NEMC will provide guidance on the tasks
schedules for all involved Agencies.
EAP Field Schedule. The President's Office- Regional Administration and Local
Government will transmit the adopted EAP instructions to Singida Regional Government,
which will act as the delegated authority to instruct the District Offices, notify the local
communities and inspect the planned measures.
EAP management schedule (start-up stage)
Months since October
EAP activities                              2003
J2       3  4   5   6
1. TANROADS: appointment of Environmental Task Manager   o
2. Environmental Task Manager: preparation of Project       _
Environmental Memorandum
3. Vice President's Office: Review EAP schedule              o
4    Vice President's Office: notice to Ministries and other
Agencies
5    Ministries, other Agencies: comments on Memorandum and      o
Schedule                                                     0
6    Vice President's Office: notice to Ministry of Local        o
Government & RA
7.   PO-RALG: notice to Singida Regional Government                  o
8.   Singida Regional Government: notice to Districts, NGOs,            o
communities
9    Operational  start-up  of  Administrative  framework
operations                                                               0
EAP's Contractual Components. The environmental measures will be attached, along with
their bill of quantities, to the Works Contract. The Contractor shall take stock of the contents
of the final design version of the Environmental Impact Assessment Report of the project.
Supervision system and EAP monitoring. An environmental expert in the supervision team
will assure the compliance of the Environmental Measures. Monitoring mitigation impacts
measures by VPO are suitable to verify that all disposition are complied with.
Environmental audit. The audit of the long-term effects of the mitigation/enhancement
measures should be responsibility of the National Environment Management Council.
Constraints to be overcome. At present, a systematic consideration of environmental risks
stemming from infrastructure project is still uncommon at local administrative level. To
achieve a solid implementation framework, special efforts must be deployed by
TANROADS at central and local level, in collaboration with VPO and NEMC
Executive summary                Annex 8 - S. 9                    Techniplan



Singida-Shelui Road: Detailed Engineering Design  Final Report: Annex 8 - EIA, SIA & RIA
Executive Siun,nary
Community participation to EAP. During the field mission, the Consultant sensitised the
local communities toward the ecological and resettlement implications of the project. The
response has been positive at all levels. Comments, suggestion and additional accurate
information can be collected after the present report is circulated among local authorities.
Environmental costs. Environmental mitigation and enhancement measures are estimated
at Sh 572,000,000, equal to US$ 715,000. Investment costs for ancillary infrastructure do not
compete to the project. The details are shown below.
Cost of environmental mitigation. The remedial works to cancel the environmental damages
made during road construction will cost 370,000 US$, as summarized in the following table.
Environmental impact mitigation costs
Unt Total Cost
Item                     Unit   Quantity   Rate     [US $]
1. Mitigation of the impact of construction works
1.1   Filling/levelling of quarries, pits,  m 3                    f540,000,
rubble mounds                  -             270,000    2
1.2   Reforestation of 1.1 above          Ha        30     1,200     36,000
1.3   Reforestation of camps, yard sites,  Ha       20     1,200     24,000
detours, etc.
1.4   Disposal pits for solid, liquid waste  m     5,000     10      50,000
2
1.6   Vegetation cover of cutting slopes   m      60,000     1       60,000
1.7  "To spoil" areas (reforestation with  Ha       45      1200     40,000
indigenous trees)
1.8   Other work mitigation costs         sum                        50,000
Sub-total I                              160,000
2. Mitigation of the impact of road use & maintenance (start-up costs)
2.1  Tree planting in villages crossed by the seedling  4,000  5    20,000
road__                                          _  _
2.2  Fire barriers in forest areas      seedling  10,000     5      50,000
Entrances to Sekenke and Wembere
2.3                                             lump sum            10,000
Reserves
2.4  Awareness campaign for forests &           lump sum            20,000
wildlife
2.5  SuLport to local environmental NGOs        lump sum            45,000
2.6  Support   to   local   Government         lump sum             35,000
environmental services
Health  measures  including  HTV
2.7  prtci.nlump sum                                                30,000
27 protection
Sub-total II                             210,000
Grand Total                              370,000
(*) The cost of filling anid levellintg of borrow pits ancd qutarries is part of the Conitractor's
budclget and is not part of EIA budcget
Cost of environmental enhancement measures: they will amount to US$ 100,000, covering
two major groups of interventions:
Execultive summary              Annex 8 - S. 10                    Technziplan



Singida-Shelui Road: Detailed Engineering Design  Final Report: Annzex 8 - EIA, SIA & RIA
Executive Summary
Measuires to allay the environmenttal impacts of road use: an awareness campaign, to be
undertaken in collaboration with the Local Governments and NGOs based in Singida
Region, will target forest and wildlife protection, tree planting and control of firewood
cutting. A sum of 50,000 US $ can be earmarked for this purpose.
Ctultutral heritage and toutrism: The project should subsidize a cultural tourism program for
the prehistoric and historic sites, including:
- completion of the inventory of rock art paintings: 15,000 US $
- organization of cultural tourist circuits in the Road Influence Area: US $ 20,000
-  development of eco-tourist circuits in the Road Influence Area: US $ 15,000
Financial schedule of EAP. The funds provided by the project will be complemented by
Government funds, as well as the participation of NGOs and local communities.
EAP cost estimate (US $)
Phase I          Phase II
Engineering,      Road use &
Component               Works &         maintenance
Supervision
2003-05        2007 onward
1.   Fees                       40,000              -              40,000
2.   Supervision fees              -              20,000           20,000
3.   Mitigation works           160,000          210,000           370,000
4.   Maintenance handbook       10,000              -              10,000
5.   Health   .-                                  25,000           25,000
6.   Awareness campaign                           50,000           50,000
7.  1-leritage & eco-tourism                      50,000           50,000
8.   Enhancement measures          -             100,000           100,000
9.   Various & contingencies    25,000            25,000           50,000
Total                 235,000          480,000           715,000
8.0 Resettlement Impact Statement (RIS) & Actioii Plan (2003 onward)
Overview. Road works will last for two years. The Resettlement Plan must be completed
within the same time span, to avoid delay in project works, escalation in administrative costs
and disruption of economic activities. The buildings, business premises and farms to be
dislocated are tabulated below.
Executive summary               Annex 8 - S. 11                    Techniplan



Singida-Shelui Road: Detailed Engineering Design  Final Report: AInnlex 8 - EIA, SlIA & RIA
Executive Suintmary
Overall Butilding Stnrcture andfarnilands Resettlement Plan (2003-04)
Item                   Building units     Total size (Acre) Farms
Compensation
Urban Areas                                4
Singida Rural (Msisi and Manga)           42
[ramba district (Iguguno bypass)  -       18                    54.25
Buildings and farms
Iramba district ( Kitusha, Kyengege,.     13                      2
Ulemo and Misigiri)
Iramba district (Shelui Trading centre    37
and Malende)
Detours and campsite                                              3
Total                                     114                   59.25
A total of 114 building structures and 37 farms plots will be displaced. In addition to this 10
farm plots are likely to be affected by detours and campsites. The Resettlement Plan of the
project road belongs to Category B of the World Bank's resettlement processes.
Legal framework. Both the Land Act, 1999 and the Government Standing Order on
expropriation for public utility prescribe that the holders of occupancy rights on the land
estates pre-empted for the works must be compensated and assisted to relocate their assets in
the nearest suitable place. Most expropriation disputes in similar projects are due to
disagreements oni the value at which the estate and its improvements are to be compensated.
The compulsory resettlement of constructions, farms and business premises must ensure at
least equal compensation values, both to the legal owners and to those who have occupied
the road reserve area disregarding the right of way. ' According to the law, the expropriated
owner must be compensated with a price equal to the value that the "un-exhausted
improvements" (buildings, infrastructure, plantations, etc.) would fetch if sold on the open
market. 2 The replacement value is defined as the cost of acquiring a similar estate and
putting up such improvements as those existing when evaluated. Allowance is made for age,
state of repair and economic obsolescence. The compensation should cover:
i)   Market value of the real property (i.e value of un-exhausted improvements and land).
ii)  Accommodation allowance (i.e market rent of the affected building per month
multiplied by 36 months).
iii)  Loss of profit allowance which is assessed by establishing Net Profit per month
evidenced by audit accounts multiplied by 36 months.
iv)  Disturbance allowance which is calculated by the value of the land by average
percentage rate of interest offered by commercial banks on 12 months fixed deposit at
the time of loss of interest in land.
v)   Transport allowance which is actual cost of transporting 12 tonis of luggage rail or road
(whichever is cheaper) within 20 km from the point of displacement.
Real estate compensation. According to current applicable legislation in Tanzania, the land
has a value. The land owner with either a tile deed or customary ownership has to be
compensated in cash for loosing the land for other development.. The Government will
simply provide the resettled owner with alternative land plots of the same size in the nearest
suitable location for both residential and business purposes. The resettled individuals have to
buy the alternative plot for resettlement. Free plots are available close to the buildings and
1 Equal also apply to illegal houses built inside the road reserve area.
2 . Un-exhausted improvements i.e., those notfidlly depreciated, mean any quality permanently attached to the
land, resultingfroin capital or labor expenditure by the holder of a Right of Occupancy.
Executive summary                Annex 8 - S. 12                      Techiniplan



Singida-Shelui Road: Detailed Engineering Design  Final Report: Annex 8 - EIA, SIA & RIA
Executive Summary
farms that will be removed from the road reserve area. The District Council authorities, in
collaboration with Wards (Kata) authorities and village chairmen, will assist the resettlement
of the displaced owners. TANROADS in collaboration with the government valuer has
identified the holders of dislocated occupancy rights and estimated the value of such rights.
The District Council in collaboration with the village government will provide plots to
accommodate the displaced owners. The Ministry of Finance through TANROADS will
liquidate the compensation sums using project funds.
Farmland compensation. Majority of the farmlands along Singida Shelui road section belong
to the individuals. Only some are owned and managed by the village authorities under the
supervision of the Local Government. The allocation of individual property rights at village
level will be implemented as stipulated in the Land and Village Land Act, 1999. The farmers
will enjoy individual occupancy rights allocated by Village Councils. Farmers are legally
entitled to compensation for loss of lands, crops, not of grazing land or forest. However, a
small sum can be liquidated by the project for the loss of rangelands in the borrow pits.
Planned resettlement process. The owners of the houses, businesses and farms pre-empted
for road construction purposes have been identified by the present study in collaboration
with the local authorities and community leaders. The government Valuer for fair and
prompt compensation has conducted a detailed properties valuation. The people to be
resettled will receive timely notice and will be paid the full amounts related to:
-  the value of the buildings and other physical developments, including the graves
whenever they are attached to the homesteads according to local customary law
-  transport allowances for persons and goods to the resettlement sites
-  the value of the lost business income for the period required to re-start it
-  the value of the lands and associated crops.
Notice to the resettled population. Displaced households and farmers will receive timely
notice respectively to harvest the fields and salvage the frames, iron sheets or glasses from
the buildings. Contractor Clauses will ensure that notices are readily served and discomfort
is allayed. Village chairmen will allocate new plots to the isolated building owners and
farmers inside the same villages, offering equal chance to exploit traffic-related business.
The Town Planning Officers of Singida Rural and Iramba Districts will draft the urban
resettlement plans for the collective relocation of the buildings of respectively Msisi Village
and Shelui -Nselembwe Trade Center. The Agricultural Extension Officer of Singida Rural
District will prepare the resettlement plan for the fanming community dislocated along
Iguguno bypass. Both the urban and the agricultural resettlement plans will be drafted and
the land made available before the houses are demolished and the farmlands destroyed.
Problems to be avoided. Even though free plots are available in road-side villages, the
relocation process may become a sensitive issue. In similar projects, expropriation disputes
stem from disagreements on the value at which the estate and its improvements are to be
compensated. The, the property valuer has worked out the schedules to cover displacement
costs before road works start. 3 This will improve the public perception of the project,
reducing local resistance. To avoid mismanagement of compensation money, the relocation
scheme should be countersigned before payment, enabling the displaced person to
reconstruct his property as soon as he receives the money.
3Substandard houses may exist niear the road and they may collapse due to plant vibrations during the works.
Executive summary               Annex 8 - S. 13                    Techniplan



Singida-Shelui Road: Detailed Engineering Design  Finial Report: Annex 8 - EIA, SIA & RIA
Executive Sum mary
9. Costs and Budget for RAP
Individual Resettlement cost has four main cost components, corresponding to:
*  The value of the building and ancillary structures or improvements to be destroyed
within the right of way
*  The value of the business activities interrupted by the project
*  The value of land/farms to be affected by the project
*  The relocation costs, including transport and the new plot where the building will
be reconstructed and the business premises re-established
(a) Value of the buildings: The Government Valuer in collaboration with
District and Village authorities and the concerned house owners, has
estimated the value of the buildings to be demolished. The estimates comply
national legislation on the compensation and World Bank Operational
Directives.
(b) Compensation of business activities interrupted by the project: if a building
is used for commercial purposes, the daily turnover have been estimated in
order to compensate its loss for a given period, in addition to the
compensation for the buildilg structure and the transfer to other suitable
premises. Taking into account existing laws and regulations a profit of 36
months has been calculated for business compensation..
(c) Compensation for land/farms - The land/farmlands to be affected by
realignment, detours, borrow pits and quarries will be compensated
according to the Land Act 1999
(d) Relocation costs: It include transport and accommodation allowance.
Transport costs will be minimal, as all families and businesses will be
relocated in the same village or urban center. Transport costs can be
compensated as stipulated in Land Act 1999.
Executive summary               Annex 8 - S. 14                     Techniplan2



Singida-Shelui Road: Detailed Engineering Design  Final Report: Aninex 8 - EIA, SIA & RIA
Executive Stummary
The overall resettlement costs is estimated at TSh. 516,542,000.00 equivalent to US$
516,600.00. The components for this resettlement are categorized as follows:
-    Compensation and resettlement of 114 buildings in the design right of way for a cost of
TSh.128, 250,000.00 (a sum adequate for the typology of buildings to be relocated
under the National legislation and WB rules for "full replacement cost");
-    Compensation 3 acres farmlands to be affected by detour and camp sites at a cost of
Tsh 1,500,000.00
-    Compensation for range lands at a cost of Tsh 500,000.00
-    License for mnining building materials at a cost of Tshs. 5,000,000.00
-    Fee to the local government for building materials at a cost of Tsh 20,000,000.00
-    Monitoring and evaluation of RAP at a cost of Tshs 7,500,000.00
-    Relocating of utilities at a cost of Tsh 320,000,000.00
Electricity  - 170,000,000.00
Water Supply - 100,000,000.00
Telephone poles - 50,000,000.00
-    Contingency (7%) at a cost of Tsh 33,792,500.00
Summary budget of resettlement components of the project (in Tanzanian Sh.)
Component                       Resettlement costs
Buildings, business and farmnlands                      128,250,000.00
Detours                                                   1,500,000.00
Rangelands                                                 500,000.00
Relocation of public utilities                          320,000,000.00
Mining License                                            5,000,000.00
Fee to the local govemment for                           20,000,000.00
building materials
Workshops, meetings and M&E:                              2,500,000.00
Funds for Local NGOs efforts                              2,500,000.00
Funds for external monitoring                             2,500,000.00
Sub-total                       482,750,000.00
Inflation and contingency factor (7%)                    33,792,500.00
GRAND TOTAL                           516,542,500.00
10. Institutional Framework and Organizational Responsibilities for RAP
]lmplementation
This section provides (see Table ..below ) a list of all agencies and institutions involved in
each step of the resettlement process (preparation, appeals, implementation and monitoring).
The experience of the majority of the actors involved seems to adequate to the tasks to be
calTied out and therefore no particular capacity building measures are required.
Executive summary              Annex 8 - S. 15                   Techniplan



Singida-Shelui Road: Detailed Engineering Design  Final Report: Annex 8 - EMA, SIA & RIA
Executive Suninary
As soon as the RAP is cleared and finalised, Tanroads will formally disclose it to the
affected people. For this purpose, Tanroads will organize 10 sessions, one in each of the
Administrative Village Areas crossed by the road. The sessions will be chaired by the RAP
specialist of Tanroads and attended by representatives of the higher territorial hierarchies
(Districts and Division/Wards). Adequate display materials will be utilized.
TANROADS will provide to the Ministry of Land and Human Settlement Development: (a)
the topographic maps at scale 1:2000 of the design road reserve area, and: (b) a report on the
buildings and farming plots which presently exist within the design right of way.
TANROADS will also prepare the list of the occupants dispossessed by the project,
specifying their rights of occupancy and the assessed value. The Local Government (i.e
District Councils) will dispatch the dislocation notices to the concerned households and
farmers.
The Ministry of Finance through Tanroads will disburse the compensation funds to the
district council to pay the communities eligible for compensation.. After the effect of the
compensation and resettlement the communities will be given two months for resettlement.
TANROADS will then authorize the Contractor to start demolition works.
It was found that the effective NGO in the area is World Vision. The NGO will assist in
raising public awareness on resettlement and facilitate local community participation in RAP
implementation. The NGOs will also participate in conflict resolutions.
Executive summary               Annex 8 - S. 16                     Tech niplan



Singida-SheluLi Road: Detailed Engineering Design  Final Report: Annex 8 - EIA, SIA & RIA
Executive Summary
RAP Institutional Framework and Organizational Responsibilities
Steps              Agencies involved                    Activities to be carried out
Provide the Ministry of Land and Human Settlement
Development with:
a. Topographic maps at scale 1:2000 of the design road
Tanroads            reserve area
a. Report on buildings and farming plots existing within
the right of way
b. Valuation report approval
Ministry of Land and Human  Approval of the valuation report
Settlement Development
Concerned administrations:  Identify, allocate and make available the alternative plots
as follows:
Identify and allocate alternative plots for building
RAP Preparation          Village Chairmen       ownwers, farmers inside the villages and businessmen
within Singida Rural and Iramba Districts
Town Planning Officers of  Draft urban resettlement plans for the collective
Singida Rural and Iramba   relocation of the buildings of Msisi village and Shelui-
Districts           Nselembre Trade Center
Agricultural extension Officers of Prepare the resettlement plan for the farming community
Singida Rural and Iramba   dislocated along Iguguno bypass, borrow pits, detour and
Districts           camp sites and minor realignments
Ministry of Land and Human  Dispatch the dislocation notices to the concerned
Settlement Development    households, businessmen and farmers
TANROADS              Organize and maintain regular and final meetings during
RAP preparation
Hear complaints of a DPs and attempt to effect a
Local NGOs           resolution during community or traditional meetings
before the complaints enter the administrative appeals
hierarchy.
Grievance and         Wards Authority        Receive and give solution to grievances before
Grievance andr
appeals       District Council (Land Officer and
Agricultural Officer)    Receive and give solution to grievances before
Regional Engineer of
RegionAl              Receive and give solution to grievances before
TANROADS                         t
District Court        Receive and give solution to grievances before
Concerne admi n . Deliver to the dislocated persons the aareed compensation
sums and the new land plots
Local Government        Built urban infrastructures for the new plots
TANROADS              Authorize the Contractor to start demolition works
RAP                  TANROADS              RAP implementation and organization of meetings with
Implementation                                  communities and affected people
F LeandenfrmalsVill  Participation to the RAP implementation meetings
Leaders                                                     C
Ensure viable community participation and proper
Local NGOs           communication between affected persons and Tanroads
officials
Monitorin. and  M& E Committees composed of: (a) Identify problem cases ensuring they are dealt with
Evalation (ng         Departments of Lands,
Eval6ation (duriog  Ariculture, Livestock, Forestry  (b) Contribute to the database forming part of the overall
the   o    p         and Social Affairs, Tanroads'  evaluation of the resettlement program
implemntatio and Regional Engineer (as Secretary)  (c) Ensure proper participation of DPs in the RAP
implementation and                               process.
beyond)                Local NGOs           Ensure proper participation of DPs
External monitoring     Perform independent monitoring and evaluation tasks
Executive summary                  Annex 8 - S. 17                        Techniplan



Singida-Shelui Road: Detailed Engineering Design  Final Report: Annlex 8 - EIA, SIA & RIA
Executive Sunmnary
1i.Conclusions and recommendations
Taking into account that the project will displace just a total of 114 buildings and 37 farms,
the Resettlement Plan of Singida -Shelui road upgrading project belongs to Category B of
the World Bank's resettlement processes.
It is recommended to carry the resettlement and compensation plan according to the budget
figures proposed in § 6 and 7 above.
Executive summary               Annex 8 - S. 18                     Techntiplant



Singida Shelui Road: Detailed Engineering Design  Final Report: Annex 8 - EIA, SIA & RIA
Part I
Annex 8: EIA, SIA & RIA
Part 1
THE ROAD AND ITS ENVIRONINMUENT
Annex 8 - Part I                     Annex 8 - 1                       Techniplan



Singida Shelui Road: Detailed Engineering Design,  Final Report: A,inex 8 - EIA, SIA & RIA
Part I
Annex 8 - Part I                     Annex 8 - 2                       Techniplant






Singida Shelui Road: Detailed Engineering Design  Finial Report: Annex 8 - EIA1, SIA & RIAi
Part 1
Part 1. The Road and its Environment
1.  PRESENTATION OF THE STUDY
1.1 Terms of reference
The Terms of Reference of the study stipulate that "an Environmental Impact Assessment
(EIA) and Resettlement Impact Assessment (RIA) shall be carried out in accordance with the
requirements of the Financing Agency as part of the feasibility study" (Art. 111.7).
The study has followed the environmental and social impact assessment methodologies
recommended by the National Environmental Management Council (NEMC) of Tanzania
and by the World Bank. On this basis, the study deals with:
I.     The physical and social environment of the design road, see Part I
II.    The Environrmental Impact Assessment (EIA), see Part It
III.   The Resettlement Impact Assessment (RIA), see Part III
1.2 Work carried out
Four specialists 2 on ecosystems and human thematic areas, including environment and
social impact assessment and resettlement - have carried out the assignment in January -
February 2000 and in August-September 2001, through the following data collection and
processing operations:
i.   Review of reference documents on the policy, legal and administrative framework of
environmental and resettlement issues
ii.  Field survey of the ecosystems and human habitats in the road influence area, with
the detailed enumeration of all sites of natural interest, as well as the detailed
inventory of all buildings and farm plots impacted by road works and road use'
iii.  Data collection on the cultural heritage and archaeological relics located in the road
influence area, based on the documentation of the Project World Alchives of Rock
Art financed by the Italian cooperation in Singida Region in 1996-97 3
iv.   Collection of statistics on wildlife, hunting, wood cutting, rural production and other
indicators related to the environmental and socio-econoinic trends of the project area
v.   Valuation of the constructions and farmlands impacted by borTow pits, road
realignment,' new Iguguno bypass, and the enforcement of the rules protecting the
50mn-wide road reserve area.
i See Terms of Reference in Appendix A
2 Mr. Luigi Maccioni, ecologist, Mr Giovanni Conso, regional planner, Mr. Ezio Moriondo, RIA econonmist, Mr
Kassenga, ecologist.
3 See details in Appendix G
Annex 8 - Part I                    Annex 8 - 3                     Techitiplan



Singida Shelui Road: Detailed Engineering Design  Final Report: Annex 8 - EIA, SIA & RIA
Part I
vi.   Detailed definition of the compensation measures for the constructions and
farmnlands affected by road works
vii.  Investigation of the environmental impact of the present road in both the urban areas
(air pollution through dust and exhaust emission, safety issues), and rural areas (bush
fires, wood cutting) and in terms of traffic accidents.
viii.  Investigation of the environmental and social impact of the future road construction
and use, highlighting the positive and negative aspects on short, medium and long
term.
ix.   Contacts with the central and local environmental authorities, community leaders
and NGOs, to assess their perception of environmental and resettlement issues, as
well as their willingness to participate to environmental protection initiatives.
x.   Weighing of the positive and negative impacts of the project, to define the measures
for enhancing the former and offsetting the latter.
xi.   Formulation of the Environmental and Resettlement Action Plan, defining the
institutional responsibilities to be mobilized in order to carry out the recommended
measures.
1.3  References
Previous study. The environmental study prepared by Rites and M-Konsult JV in 1996
proposed measures to mitigate the impact of road construction and control the depletion of
wildlife caused by denser settlements or increased tourist presence after the upgraded road is
opened to service. In particular, the study emphasized the need to promote forest
conservation and tree planting schemes across the project area. The related cost estimates
were provided. Moreover, the study indicated the resettlement implications of the
construction of a bypass at Iguguno urban area, advising the compensation program.
Cartographic references:
-   topographic maps at scale 1:5,000 of the existing and alternative routes 4
-   air photographs at scale 1:30,000 of the year 1991
-   stanclard topographic map at scale 1:50,000 of Singida Region
-   administrative map at scale 1:200,000 of local Districts, and:
-   thematic maps on vegetation and land use at scale 1:200,000 5
1.4    Study approach
The present study follows the guidelines of the National Environmental Management
Council (NEMC) and the Environmental Department of the World Bank 6. Accordingly, the
impacts are categorized in relation with:
a. their relations with the project: direct and indirect impacts
b. environmental receptors: ecosystems, human habitat, cultural heritage
c. the timeframe: short, medium and long-term impacts.
A. Direct and indirect impacts: public works of the size and nature of Singida Shelui road
exert direct short ternm iMpacts usually limited to the construction period. Direct long-term
4 The topographic maps have been prepared under thle present project, see Volutme 2
5 Prepared by the Foresiry Departmenit and the ULiversity of Dares Salaam
6 See "Envir onmienital Assessment Soturcebook"
Anniex 8 - Part I                   Annex 8 - 4                      Techniplan



Singid.t Shelui Roadl: Detailed Engincer-ino Dcsign g;Finiul Report: Alniex 8 - Ell, Slit & RIA
l'art 1
impacts appear during and after construction, related especially to increased traffic volumes.
Incdirect impacts stem from multiplier effects on ecosystem and human habitat, induced
greater accessibility throughout the road influence area.
B. Environmental receptors have been divided into three categories:
-    niatutral ecosystems: forests, grasslands, swamps, with their wildlife resources
-    humizan habitat, focusing upon the farmlands, rangelands and constructions affected by
road realignment (dislocation and resettlement)
-    cutltutral heritage: pre-historic and historic relics located in the road influence zone and
sensitive to traffic increase or other changes induced by the project.
The upgrading of Singida Shelui road will impact upon nature, particularly in its western
part, across the proposed Sekenzke Forest Reserve and Wembere wetlands (proposed
Weinbere Ganie Reserve), a nesting place for birds migrating between Afi-ica and Europe.
Wembere valley has world relevance for bio-diversity conservation. Resettlement impacts,
by contrary, will be negligible. The cultural heritage will not be affected by the road project.
Thanks to the road, by contrary, they can be developed for education and tourism.
C. Timeframe: the expected environmental impacts have been projected over time in order to
phase the remedial measures. Six stages have been scheduled:
i.  Environmental engineering design (year 2001-03)
ii.  Environmental protection during the project implementation phase (2003-07)
iii.  Expropriation and.resettlement (2003-04)
iv.  Traffic management after opening of the road to traffic in 2007
v.   Construction of complementary infrastructure (2007 onward)
vi.  Ecosystem protection across the Road Influence Zone (2007 onward)
vii.  Enhancement of the environmental benefits of the project (2007 onward).
Table 1.1 overleaf displays an overview of the expected direct and indirect impacts
generated by Singida Shelui Road Upgrading Project, specifying the environmental and
social receptors, the sources of impact and the related time frame.
1.5  Layout-of the report
The present study is divided in three parts, namely:
Part I deals with the present environment of the Road Influence Zone, describing its natural
and human features and how they are affected by the existing road and traffic.
Part 2 highlights the expected impacts of road workls and fiture road utse on the ecosystems,
wildlife, human habitat and heritage. It predicts which datnages would occur if no preventive
measures are taken and suggests a detailed mitigation program
Part 3 presents the Resettlement Impact Assessment and recommends the expropriation and
compensation procedures.
At the end of the Report, seven Appendices (A to G) present the detailed background
information on which the EIA, SIA and RIA are based, including an analysis of the policy,
legal and administrative framework and the basic environmental and social indicators of the
Road Influence Area.
Annex S - Part I                   Annex 8 - 5                    Techntiplaiz



Singida ShcIlui Road: Detailed L ngriinccring Designi   Final Report: Atnnex d - EiA, SIA & RIA
Part )
Table .]I   Potential environmental annd social impacts of Singida Shelui road project
.   RECEPTOR
1 . - -                   .                      SOURCE OF
TlME-FRAME AND NATURE OF IMPACT                      IMPACT IN    E3   n
PROJECT     m      ' .
., e
LIFE-CYCLE
A.1- Direct impacts: short-term negative
I   Erosion from fresh roads cuts, sittng_ o twater courses                        o     o
2   Destruction of vEetation and wildlife, loss of ag cltural and range laon
3 __Water and soil pollution     _     ____           ____                            o
4   Construction of detours and haul roads                               Road       a          o
5   Environmental, social disru cnby onstruction camps     _  _   -    upgrading    a
6   Loss of human habitat                                                works           o
7   Noise and vibration                                                (2003-07)
8   Deterioration of air quality                                                         o
A.2 -,Direct impacts- short-term positive
I   Empt!yrnent generated by thjct _r oo
2     Local SME activities related to sub-contracting of work components            _
3B.1 - D)irect impacts: long-term negatiye. (works & road use)  * .
I   Landscape deterioration by land take and earthworks           _                      0 _
2   Material borrowing_andquary.in                                    Rd works 
3   Creation of breedinm habitats for disease vectors                  (2004-07)      0
4   Surfacejiroundwater pollution, interference on overland/subsoil dainage  . 
5   Soil erosion and sedimentation                                                  a
6   Noise, vibration and dust, deterioration of air aualitv            R
___ ___  _  __ _ __  _ _ _ _  _ a  _    _      _     ~~~Road use      ___ 
7   Road safety hazards and livestock kills due tO traffic and speed increase  (2007  o  _
8   Dislocation and compulsory resettlement due to road realignment     onward)     0    0
B. 2- Direct impacts:-long-term positive'
I   Borrow pits n4uapes transformed in pe-nent water points                              o
2   Better maintenance of social and environmcntal infrastructure                  _
C.1 - Indirect impacts: long-term negative
I   In-migration, increased land pres, spread of extensive agriculture              o    o
2   Unplanned, illegal timber cutting, excessive land clearing ___     Rod u             o
3   Aggravat                        s and weed transmission corridors  oa tae       o
__    L _   _ __  ___a    __o_________a_______                     and traFfic -_   _     _
4   Loss of cultural identity and sense of locality  ____        __     i
5   Spread of unsocial and criminal behavior                             (2007
C.2 - Indirect impacts: long-term positive  '             onward)
I   Economic growth                                                                      0
2   Development of tourisimi and recreation                                              o     o
3   Improved community services                                                          o
The overview provides a guideline for the consultation of the rest of the report.
Annex 8 - Part I                           Annex 8 - 6                            Techniplan



Singida Shelui Road: Detailed Engineering Design  Final Report: Annex 8 - EIA, SIA & RIA
Part I
2. THE PROJECT ROAD
-2.1  Locationi aind characteristics
Singida Region is located in central Tanzania7 (see Figure 1). The project road is an all-
weather gravel road, connecting the regional headquarters westward with Shelui town at the
border with Tabora Region, across 110 km of central Tanzania plateau. Singida Town is a
vital transit center between Dar es Salaam, two major lakes (Victoria, Tanganyika) and land-
locked countries as Rwanda, Burundi and easternl Congo. The road section also serves local
growth centers as Msisi, Iguguno, Misigiri and provides a link to the District Headquarter of
Kiomboi, 25 km off Misigiri junction.
Figure I - Road location
Due to the hazardous crossing of the                                              ir ., d
Rift Valley at Sekenke Escarpment
(km   87-99)  the  project road  is        a    , rL'i; .:   7a!            i
dangerous (20 severe accidents per
year) and   is considered  the real
bottleneck of the national trunk-road      .         ,.    "'   '     (        ;
corridor it belongs to. 8                      1
41  .,~~~~~~~~~~~4
For this reason, just 280 vehicles per                         .        '  .
day presently ply Singida - Shelui
road section (two-ways). Traffic is         a
constantly declining since 1991, due       ;,             -
to   poor   maintenance   and   the
deterioration of driving conditions.       -
The existing road spans three sub-                   l,,
sections:                                           . r    .
S,t,;  ;2.  r-  .,   ,   .|   ~~~~~.J , .   ' I  
Table 2.1 Sub-sectionis of the toad
Sub-section of             Chainage               Length (km)      Present ADT
the project road     fr   km                              m) to km
I Singida-iguguno           - I           33               34               153
2 Iguguno-Misigiri          33            75               42               154
3 Misigiri-Slhelui          75            108              33               123
Total and average        -l           108              109              140
Source: traffic counits of the present stutdy (1999)
7 Between longitudes 331 275" and 351 26' east, latitudes 3152' and 7134' south. Singida town is 700 kinfrom
Dar es Salaam, and 330 ki fromn the capital Dodoma.
8 The project road belongs to Trunk Corridor 2, Dar es Salaamn-Mwanza (see Fig. I in Part 4).
9 In theffuture, the road's Zero Point will be displaced one kmt toward the town center.9
Annex 8 - Part I                      Annex 8 - 7                        Techniplan



oingiua .neiui rsuau: UMtIICU nZlgilUcIrIng IJCign   rLILUl nuepJrl iinnllex O - iiu-i, .IA oc Alit
Part I
Albeit part of the national trunk network, the project road is a low-traffic artery. Multi-axle
trailers and oil tankers prevail, bound to Burundi, Rwanda and Congo. Lighter vehicles serve
Mwanza, Shinyanga and other national destinations. The project road is flanked by one of
the major stock routes of East Africa, which increases maintenance problems.
Table 2.2  Environmental landscapes traversed by the project road
Sub-section                                    Landscapes
Terrain mostly flat, with gentle downward slope NE to SW. Farms (subsistence crops)
and rallow lands intermingled with residual wooded savanna formations stretch on
Singida . iguguno  both sides, up to 40 km away from the road axis. Overgrazing is widespread and
I   ngida -Iguguno    herds graze farmlands after harvest. Wildlife is scarce - also due to excessive hunting
in the so called "Open Areas" where game is not protected - and tends to concentrate
in and around Singida and Kiari lakes, exploited by a growing fishermen population.
Bush fire risks are obviously low.
... Iggn ii Terrain generally flat. The landscapes, similar to Sub-section 1, show lower human
2 Iguguno - Misigiri  pressuLe on natural resources (residual forest groves and wetlands).
The Link - which joins Singida and Tabora regions through the Rift Valley and
Wembere swampy lowlands (10 km)    -   is the richest in natural landscapes.
Farmiands mainly lie to the north of the road until the escarpment, while wetlands and
3 Misigiri - Shelui   compact forests prevail to the south. The escarpment itself is covered with forests. In
Wembere basin - whiich has international significance as a breeding ground for birds
migrating between Europe and Africa - the road runs for i0 km on black cotton soil
and will be raised to avoid flooding.
Altogether, the landscapes traversed by the road have been profoundly altered by the action
of man, exerting high pressure on timber and grazing areas all over the road influence area,
except part of Sekenke escarpment.
2.2 The road upgrading project
2.2.1 Overview. The project will upgrade the road to bitumen standards. The existing
geometry is inadequate, with sharp curvature and an average of one horizontal curve per kin,
jeopardizing safety (see Figure 4 of Part 4). Maximum cut height (10 m) and fill (12m)
occur in the escarpment link, which also has substandard curves, with gradients as steep as
12%. Accident prone, the link has claimed many lives and loss of property. Realignments
and earthworks will improve curvature and gradients. Design improvements include:
-   geometric widening of the road to 10 meters
-   a double-surface dressed pavement, with a 2.5% camber to bitumen standard, a two-lane,
6.5m-wide carriage way and 1.5m shoulders on both sides
-   a road reserve corridor of 45m
-   cross-drainage structuLres, intersections, road appurtenances
-   a design speed of 100 kmph, with a design vehicle-capacity of 1300 vehicles/day, up
from 280 in the year 2000. The road has a 20-year design life.
2.2.2 Alignment. The design route will overlap with the existing route for 86 km out of 110.
Where the old alignment is confirmed, small adjustments will enable technical parameters
and safety standards to be complied with, smoothening both horizontal curves and vertical
profiles while minimizing intrusion on property and environment. Through the Rift Valley,
the project will rehabilitate the road constructed in 1995 and destroyed by the flood in 1996.
The residual cuts and embankments will be re-used and the eroded slopes consolidated.
Annex S - Part I                         Annex 8 - 8                          Techiniplan



Singida Shelui Road: Detailed Engineering Design  Finial Report: Atnnex 8 - EIA, SIA & RIA
Part I
2.2.3 Bridges and culverts. The hydrologic study has estimated the design peak flows for all
the 35 discemible watercourses crossed by the project road. A 100-year return period has
been adopted. The project will reconstruct Msisi River Bridge (km 20), build a new bridge in
Iguguno bypass and rehabilitate two bridges on Iguguno River on the existing alignment. Six
new viaducts will be built across Kinkungu River Gorge through Sekenke escarpment. More
than half of the existing culverts require reconstruction and adaptation to suit the new 10m-
wide embankment. Additional culverts will be built using metal pipes, easy to maintain.
2.2.4 Road-side drainage. Along most of the existing road, inefficient drainage has resulted
in severe erosion, with large ditches and even indents into the embankment. Though 70% of
the road has longitudinal drains, only 45% are functioning. No provision exists for open
drainage systems through congested urban areas like Singida, Iguguno and other major
settlements traversed by the road. Such drawbacks affect travel time and jeopardize safety,
especially after rainstorms. Stagnating road-side waters are a breeding habitat for pests and
disease vectors. High performance drainage systems designed by the project will dispose of
storm water runoff. The project will install side drains all along the road. They will be dug
and compacted on both sides parallel to the road centerline. Catch water or cut-off drains
will be installed clear of the road to intercept runoff before it hurts the embankment. Erosion
control will target sensitive cut slopes and sub-basements. Control methods will feature drain
paving, soil stabilization with cement, planting of vegetation, etc.
* * *
3.  THE   TERRRITORY INFLUENCED BY THE ROAD
3.0 Scoping of the road influence zones
The study has considered two concentric road influence zones, namely:
- Road Reserve Area, 45 m wide, along the design route, for a total surface of about five
square km  (see § 3.1): this is the area which will receive the most intense physical and
economic impact of the road works
- Wider Project Area, that coincides with the "National Traffic Basin" of the road and
covers about 8,340, within which an area of about 5,000 sq kin, equivalenit to a corridol
stretching some 25 km on each side of the road, will absorb the broader environmental and
socio-economic impacts (§ 3.2):.
There is very little published information about the two influences zones. All official data
regard Singida administrative region (49,341 sq km) and its Districts, three of which are
actually traversed by the road (see § Table 3.3 below)..For this reasons, it is convenient to
introduce the notion of "Project Region", comprising the three Districts served by the roaid
and covered by the published sources of information. In fact, some basic data on the
project's influence zones are taken from District records and adapted to shed light on the
situation of both the Road Reserve Area and the Wider Project Area. More generally, the
description of the Project Region is useful to basic a basic understanding of the physical ancl
socio-economic profile of the road influence areas.
Despite the vast potentially affected areas considered by the baseline survey, the identified
impacts are actually limited largely to the road reserve area and its immediate environs.
3.1    Road Reserve Area (RRA, 45 m wide)
3.1.1 IHouses, farms, stock-route and power line. The Road Reserve Area will be 45-meter
wide, 22.5 meters on each side of the centerline. The present study has accurately
inventoried all the constructions and farm plots existing in the futuire RRA. Moreover, an
Aninex 8 - Part I                  Annex 8 - 9                    Techntiplan



Singida Shelui Road: Detailed Engineering Design  Final Report: Annex 8 - EIA, SIA & RIA
Part I
important stock route utilizes long stretches of the RRA. The power line of Tanesco follows
long stretches of the design alignment but beyond the limits of the road reserve area.
3.1.2 Vegetal landscapes and land utse along the road. As shown in Figure 3 of Part 4, the
road crosses different vegetal landscape patterns along his length.
Table 3.] Vegetation pattents along the road
No.              Vegetal landscape         km
I       Closed woodland                   6
2       Open woodland                     6
3       Wooded grassland                  8
4       Woodland with scattered cropland  4
5       Bush land with emergent trees     2
6       Bush land with scattered cropland  23
7       Grassland with scattered cropland  30
8       Mixed cropping                    24
9       Swampland vegetation with crops   7
Total                     110
Farmed or fallow fields flank 85 km out of the 1 10 of the project road. The latter are covered
by derived bush-type vegetation, not particularly prone to fire. The areas exposed to bush-
fire and deforestation risks are the woodlands from km 79 to 83. The Kinkungu River route
crosses a dense forest, to be protected from fire propagation. As fire control services do not
exist in the area, prevention systems must be incorporated in road design and construction,
including green ban-iers with fire-resistant tree species when the road splits dense forests.
3.1.3 RRA in protected areas. The present road crosses, for about three km, the proposed
Sekenke Forest Reserve, which covers 34,200 ha in the Rift Valley. The forest, characterized
by nmiombo woodland and some African Blackwood, is the habitat of wild mammals and
prevents soil erosion. There are also proposals to create protection areas for migrating birds
which nestle in Wembere swamps. '° In such sensitive environment, the project will line the
road reserve area with tree plantations to reduce noise and curb air pollution (see § 11. 1.4).
3.1.4 Crossings of settlements. The existing road splits a dozen villages and one Trading
Center (Shelui Nselembwe at km 91), as shown in Figure 9. The new bypass off Iguguno
town is mapped in Figure 13. Some houses will be dislocated for road upgrading purposes.
Table 3.2 Settlements traversed by the road
Link                            Major centers                    Total urban
Link  Major centers             population
1. Singida-Iguguno   Singida Town, Manga, Msisi, Milade, Iguguno          140,000
2. Iguguno-Misigiri   Tumuli, Maluga, Kyengege, Kitukutu, Ulemo, Kizaga    19,000
3. Misigiri-Shelui    Misigiri (junction to Kiomboi town)                   6,000
Iguguno, Ulemo and Misigiri are fast growing centers and road safety measures are required.
Shelui town lies 5 km north of the project road.
3.1.5  Crossing of farming areas. Agricullural land use prevails between Singida and
Misigiri. Afterwards, farming is constrained by swamps and low soil fertility. Annual
10 See details in Part 3, Impact of Road Construction.
Annex 8 - Part I                      Annex 8 - 10                       Techniplan



Singida Shelui Road: Detailed Engineering Design   Finial Report: Annex 8 - EIA, SIA & RIA
Part 1
subsistence crops dominate everywhere.
3.2 Wider Project Area (WPA)
The Wider Project Area is shown in Figure 8 of Part 4 of the present report.
3.2.1 Demarcation criteria. The geographic area that will absorb the environmental impacts
of the road project is much wider than the Road Reserve Area. A range of transport
indicators can be used to dimension the WPA, including:
Local transport: the project will intensify local traffic in the transport basin fed by the
regional, district and rural roads branchinig off from, or intersected by, Singinda-Shelui trunk
road. The "Local Traffic Basin" will be the core of the WPA. Trucks exporting crops from,
or delivering goods to, the towns and villages gravitating upon the project road generate
most axle load in such basin.
Trunk transport: when a regional or district road connects Singida Shelui with another trunk
road, the WPAis assumed to cease at midpoint distance from the second artery.
Network interface: if the project road intersects another trunk road - as in Singida town -
two influence areas partially overlap, as they hinge upon the same junction. In other words,
the trunk transport basin is shared between the nearest trunk roads.
Using the proposed demarcation criteria, the Road Influence Area stretches over 8,340 kin2,
equal to about half the area of Singida Region.
3.2.2 Administrative set up. The Wider Project Area lies in Singida Region. The Region
covers 49,341 km-2  and is divided into four administrative districts
Table 3.3 Administrative inlits of Singida Region
Districts      km2      Population  Headqtiarters  Cbnstituencies  Divisions  Wards  Villages
1. Singida Urban   657        99,000    Singida          I          2       13    19
2.  Singida Rural  12,164     339,000    Singida         2          7       25    133
3. Iramba          7,900      353,000    Kiomboi         2          7       26    118
4.  Manyoni        28,620     164,000    Maniyoni        2          5       21    76
Total        49,341     962,000                    7          21      85   346
Souirce: Regional Cotmmissioner's Office, Sin gida (data referred to the year 1996)
The Wider Project Area lies within the three Districts of Singida Urban, Singida Rural and
Iramba and includes 14 Divisions or Sub-Districts(Tarafa), 64 Wards (Kata) and 270
Administrative Villages as detailed in Appendix C and illustrated in Figulre 9 (see Part 4).
There is a long chain of authority in the Local Government, with three intermediate levels
between the Regional Government and the Village Chairmen. Each administrative unit is
ruled by its own Council, responsible for environmental and resettlement measures.
3.3 Plhysical environiment of the Wider Road Influence Area
The key ecological indicators of the WPAare reviewed below and detailed in Appendix B
3.3.1  Ecosystems. The project area is part of the Central Plateau Ecological Region,
comprised between 1,000 and 1,600 m of altitude. It hosts a variety of ecosystems, ranging
from permanent to seasonal wetland, dense and derived dry forests, savannah woodland and
'1Equal to 6% of the area of Tanzania Mainland. Singida borders on the regions of Ar-usha (north), Dodonma
(east), Mbeya and Iringa (sotlth), Tabora (west), Shinyanga (northwest).
Anniex 8 - Part I                     Annex 8 - 11                        Techniplan



Singida Shelui Road: Detailed Engineering Design  Final Report: Annex 8 - EIA, SIA & RIA
Part 1
grasslands. Human action - deforestation, hunting, overgrazing and nature-depleting
extensive agriculture - has heavily modified all ecosystems.
3.3.2 Clintate. The valleys and the sheltered, western slopes of Iramba Plateau are hotter and
wetter, while the uplands enjoy a pleasant climate despite strong dry-season trade winds.
Maximum shade temperatures rise to 32°C in November-January and drop as low as 13°C in
July, when the greatest excursions occur. Rainifall pattenis are bi-modal and the region is
sermi-arid. The four local stations 17 indicate a diminishing rainfall 800 to 500 mm/year north
to south, with a dry June-November season and storm peaks in March-April. The lowest
values are recorded west of Manyoni district (500 mm), the highest ones on Iramba Plateau
(800 mrrm). Evaporationi is close to 2000 mm annually, a bit higher in Singida district,
ranging from 140 mm in April and 220 in October. Wind speed, highest in Singida district,
gets quite strong in the dry season (May-October).
3.3.3 Relief and geology. Singida region occupies the northern part of the Central Plateau. A
large plateau with an average elevation of 1000 m extends from the centre towards the south
and south-west of Singida town. The landscape drops west-ward towards the Rift Valley and
Wembere depression, while Iramba plateau rises to 1,600 m in the north-west. The road
section slants from 1530 m in Singida town to 1075 in Shelui. Vast expanses of land,
underlain by Precambrian rocks, have undergone weathering for millions of years resulting
in ferricretes (laterite), silcrete ("cement") and clay layers. Geologically, the region consists
of granite batholith rocks, peneplains and volcanic plateaus, featuring fertile clay loamy
soils on top and sandy clay loams to pebbly surface materials down the chain.
3.3.4 Drainage. Six major rivers furrow the region, all seasonal except Ndurumo, which has
an average discharge of 0.7 m3/sec. There are three lakes - Singida, Kindai, Kisingiri - with
a total surface of about 300 km2.
3.3.5 Vegetation. Some 60% of the road influence area consists of sermi-arid plateaus with
open plains and grasslands, sparsely farmed and heavily overgrazed (see Figure 5 part 4).
Natural vegetation remnants, with varying tree densities, survive in the deeply cut valleys
north of Sekenke. Further north, when the rolling granite country yields to the dissected
western slopes of Iramba Plateau, vegetation becomes stunted, with confined patches of
thorn thicket and matted undergrowth. Miombo - a vegetation complex of medium-height
grass with acacia trees and a good sprinkling of Pterocarpus (nmninga), exploited for timber -
covers most of the south-western quarter of the Road influence area. Residual forest massifs
lie to the south-west of the road, protected by flood-lands not accessible through feeder
roads. For this reason, feeder road development should be carefully planned once the Singida
Shelui road is upgraded. Further west, Wembere Steppe alluvium features either open
grassland or semi-open acacia-baobab bush. More luxuriant forests lie on the alluvial
flatlands traversed by the lower Durumo and Kisukwani Rivers. Residual forest resources are
under heavy pressure for timber and charcoal production.
Table 3.4 Harvesting of forest resolirces in 1998
Month     Timber m3  Firewood  Charcoal  Poles m  Gum (kg)
M3       bag      Plssn     u (g      Value Sh
January         I                   20                       |   12,000
February        10                 3.5                       |  251,110
March                          -              -                     -
April           I         -         3                       |   15,900
May             16        8        54.5       -                253,300
June            2         -        20        100                46,000
Juily          14.5       8         5        100        -       174,000
August         9.2        8        44        70       400      607,200
September       5.2       6         3                   -       275,900
October         2         7         I                           113,300
November        16        8         I                          671,000
12Mkaia,na, Sekenike, Sin gida and St Leo Mission, south east of Singida
Annex 8 - Part I                    Annex 8 - 12                     Techniplan



Singida Shelui Road: Detailed Engineering Design    Final Report: Annex 8 - EIA, SIA & RMA
Part I
December         6.5.   |          l    I    |          |          |   60,300
Total        81.4        45        156        270        400     2,480,300
Souirce: Forestry Departnent of Singida Local GovenZmenet
The rate of harvesting of forest resources is on the decline. Endangered species can be found
in the road influence area, including: Pterocarptus spp, Brachystegia spp. ("mkola"),
Dalbegia spp.; and "miombo" types of trees as a whole. Figure 6 in Part 4 shows the
residual natural forests of the project area.
3.3.6   Wildlife. The mammals found near the project road by the 1980 Game Enumeration,
the last made by wildlife authorities, are listed below.
Table 3.5 Mammals in the Road Infliuence Zonie
Animals          Frequency       Animals        Frequency
Baboons               High           Hartebeest     Medium
Dikdik               H-igh           Reed buck      Medium
Elephants             High           Roan           Medium
Grant Gazelle         High           Sable          Medium
Greater/lesser kudu   High           Warthog        Medium
Thomson Gazelle       High          Wild dog        Medium
Buffalo               Medium         Zebra          Medium
Duilker               Medium         Leopard        Low
Eland (big antelope)  Medium         Lion           Low
Giraffe               Mediutm  ..
Sottrce: 1980 Gamne enittneration
A lot of change has occurred since 1980. The field surveys of the present study have
observed none of the above listed mammals near the road, except baboons. Endangered
animals and birds include elands, buffalo, giraffe, wildebeest, lovebirds, and ostriches. Table
3.6 lists the main birds species found in the wider project area according to the 1980 Game
Enumeration. The data may not be realistic now.
Table 3.6 Birds in the neighborhood of Singida Shelui road
Bird type           Population
I   Love birds           Average
2    Ducks/geese         Average
3    Francolins           Many
4    Fowls                Many
5    Ostrich               Few
Soiirce: 1980 Game eltumneratiotn                       i
In Sekenke escarpment, which has denser forests, there is allegedly a greater frequency of
wild animals, but only monkeys and birds were seen during the field surveys. Lions and
leopards are reported to survive in some parts of the escarpment.
3.3.7 Openz Area hunting regime. There are no national parks or game reserves in the road
influence area. The nearest ones are hundreds of km away (see Figure 7). Therefore, the
wildlife areas of telTitory under study are subject to Open Area hunting rules, whereby
hunting of most game species is allowed, with a simple payment of fees to the wildlife
authorities. Wildlife Open A-eas include the south-western end of Sekenke Forest.
Expanding human settlements have driven away most mammals and birds. Shelui area forms
part of Wembere Plains, which harbors game habitats. Wembere plains joins Singida Open
Area to form extensions of Muhezi Game Reserve, adjacent to Rungwa/Kizigo Game
Reserve, used for tourist hunting. Mammals move south to Chaya near the railway in the dry
season and come back to thickets and miombo during the rains.
Table 3.7  Game hunlting data in Singida area, 1998
Animals       Number         Animals       Number
Eland              22      Duilker             72
Buffalo            25      Dikdik              106
Hart beast         15      Fowls               43
Annex 8 - Part I                       Annex 8 - 13                         Techniplan



Singida Shelui Road: Detailed Engineering Design         Finzal Report: Annlex 8 - EIA, SIA & RIA
Part I
Gazelle              93       Ducks (bata)          74
Reed buck            38       Francolins            59
Warthog              17
Sour-ce: 1998 hunting statistics of Singida Region (exclutding touirist hunters)
Regional Authorities have sent an application to the Government to create Sekenke Forest
Reserve, an initiative to prevent soil erosion and safeguard wildlife.
3.4   Human      environment of thc wider road influence area
3.4.1 Population. Singida Region hosted 1.1 million people in June 2000, according to the
Consultant's estimate, based on projections of the official data shown below.
Table 3.8   Population of Sinigida Region (1967-96)
Districts                            Population                        Annual growth rate
1967         1978         1988         1996      1967-78     1978-88
I .  Singida Urban          -          55,892       80,987       99,000        -          3,7
2.  Singida Rural         193,819      213,732     285,092      339,000       0.9         2.9
3.  Iramba                183,964      242,003     290,260      353,000       2.5         1.8
4.  Manyoni               80,157       120,403      135,475      164,000      2.2         2,8
Singida Region       457,940      614,030      791,814      962,000       2.7        2.5
Tanzania Maiaulan d   11,958,654   17,036,499  22,533,758   28,396,000     3.2         2.8
Soturces. a) Popullation Census: 1967, 1978 and 1988, B) Official administrative figures for 1996
The inter-census population growth rate of Singida region declined from 2.7%        in 1967-78 to
2.5% in 1978-88, reflecting a simnilar slowdown in country-wide trends. The average
household size increased from 4.1 % in 1967 to 5.3 in 1988.
3.4.2 Demographic structitre. Population is young: 46 % are under 15 years. The core labor-
force group (15 to 64) is 49 %. Males outnumber females less than 15 years, while females
15-64 prevail, due to the out-migration of male workers. The dependence ratio is higher in
Singida and Iramba than in other Districts, as fewer workers in the active group are
supporting the rest of the population.
3.4.3 Population density. With 19.5 inhabitants per km2 according to year 2000 projections,
density in Singida is much below the national average (30.1). In the road influence area,
density is lowest in Nduguti Sub-District (18.8, see App. C).
Table 3.9    Population density of Singida Region, 1978-96
District       Km2                 Population                     Population Density
1978        1988        1996      1978       1988     1996 estimate
1.  Singida Urban    657     55.890      80.990      99.000      85.        123         151
2.  Singida Rural   12.160   213.730     285.090     399.000      18        23           28
3.  Iramba          7.900    242.000     290.260     353.000     31         37           45
4.  Manyonii        28.620   102.400     135.480     164.000      4          5           6
Singida Regiont  49.340    614.040     791.80     962.000       12        16          20
Tanzania Ma,inloand  942.780  17.036.500  22.533.760  28.396.250  18        24          30
Source: Planninig Comunissiont analysis, 1996
3.4.4 Urban and rural population. The town dwellers of Singida Region are estimated at
180 thousand people, or 12% of the total residents. In the road influence area, the urban
segment amounts to 165 thousand people, of which 126 in Singida town (year 2000). The
rest lives in District headquarters and Shelui trading center.
Annex 8 - Part I                           Annex 8 - 14                             Techniplan



Singida Shelui Road: Detailed Engineering Design  Fiinal Report: Annzex 8 - EIA, SIA & RIA
Part 1
3.4.5 Ethnzic groups There are ten major ethno-linguistic groups in Singida Region, namely:
Nyiramba, Nyaturu, Kimbu, Gogo, Isanzu, Taturu, Sukuma, Mangati, Barbaig and Hadzebe.
The latter two, of Nilotic or Nilo-Hamitic descent, probably come from North Africa or the
Nile Valley through the Sudan, Ethiopia or Somalia. The other ethnic groups are of Bantu
stock originating from Lake Victoria, Congo and other areas, including Upare Mountains.
3.4.6 Econtomic activities anzd livinig standards. Agriculture employs 80 % of the manpower
and yields 60% of the regional domestic product. Industry is confined to small-scale, agro-
based processing and service-oriented handicrafts. Trading lacks wholesale facilities.
Tourism is poorly organized. Despite low monetary incomes, however the region's economy
does not suffer from acute poverty and the food balance is good, thanks to subsistence-
oriented farming and livestock resources. Children do not seem to suffer from widespread
malnutrition or diseases. Appendix C shows the key economic indicators of the project area.
In the last years; economic growth has been slower in Singida than Arusha, Dodoma,
Shinyanga and other regions. The lag is due, to a certain extent, to poor transport facilities.
3.4.7 Agriculture. The Ministry of Agriculture and Co-operative Development has divided
Singida region into six Agro-Economic Zones, where farming systems are sufficiently
similar to warrant the adoption of a single rural policy at District level (see details in
Appendix D). The bulk of local crops is grown in soils of classes 1 and 2, overlying granite.
Here and there, patches of ground overlain by non-laterized red earths (typical of class 3) are
favored on account of greater fertility. Dry climate and poor soils constrain agricultural
development in this part of Tanzania.
Table 3.10 Crops of Sinigida Region (1995)
Crop            000 ton
-I    Sorghum            155
2   Maize              51
3   Brown millet       21
4   Sweet potatoes      16
5   Cassava             5
6   Beans               I
7   Paddy              0.7
8   Wheat              0.5
9   Cow-peas           0.5
Source. Statistical yeatbook, 1999
Staple food crops - cereals, sweet potatoes, cassava, beans - represent 96% of the region's
agricultural output, against just 4% for cash crops like tobacco, cotton and sunflower. The
sale of market-oriented crops is hampered by high transport costs.
3.4.8 An2imal husbandry resources. Singida ranks second among the livestock raising
regions of Tanzania. Its livestock resources are detailed in Appendix D. Animal husbandry is
of the semi-nomadic type, with movements dictated by seasonal rainfall pattems. The region
is also traversed by one of the major cattle routes, running parallel to the project road. Cattle,
sheep and goats graze the grasslands on black calcareous clays. Despite the coarse type of
grass, these animals are almost ubiquitous. Most grasses do not reach maturity, due to early
grazing compounded by improvident cultivation. Overgrazing aggravates the already
alarming pace at which soil erosion is spreading around. At the heads of the streams on the
eastern and western slopes of the elevated fault-block of Singida and at their base,
"badlands" erosion has cut up the ground into innumerable deep and narrow gullies.
3.5 Cultural heritage in the road intluence zone
Singida region hosts prehistoric and historic relics, spanning more than 10,000 years (see
Figure 10 in Part 4 of the present Annex). As far as the impact of public works is concerned,
cultural heritage can be referred to in terms of Physical Cultural Resources (PCR).
Anniex 8 - Part I                  Annex 8 - 15                      Techlriplan



Singida Shelui Road: Detailed Engineering Design  Final Report: Annex 8 - EIA, SIA & RIA
Part 1
3.5.1 Pre-historic heritage. The earliest extant East African rock paintings are found in
north-central Tanzania and the best-known sites are concentrated in Singida region. Cultural
heritage authorities have inventoried - with the assistance of the Italian co-operation - more
than 50 rock paintings and other prehistoric sites, including the so called Drum Caves.
Stylized humans and isolated naturalistic animal figures are the most frequent motifs, shown
either in outline or flat monochrome (see Figure 11 part 4). The naturalistic art tradition did
not continue here into recent times as it did in South Afiica, and its interpretation is thus
more problematic. Certain features, such as the frequency of eland representations, are
common to both areas. Appendix G gives details on these important relics, providing the list
of the prehistoric art sites discovered so far. Some sites could be affected by the present
project, especially those located close to borrow pits and detour areas. In fact, some of the
sites, as those of Kiomboi, lie within the Wider Project Road at about 20 krm from the
selected route alignment, not so near the project road as to be exposed to the immediate
hazards of embankment construction and other works. However, exposure to vandalism and
other damage may increase after the opening of the new road to service and the consequent,
greater access to the local traffic basin. Local communities should be mobilized to volunteer
guardianship of the most exposed paintings. On the other hand, easier access to the region
may facilitate the development of this cultural heritage for tourist and educational purposes.
Some of the development costs might be supported by the project as part of the benefit
enhancement package (see § 9.6).
3.5.2 Historic heritage. There are two officially classified historic sites in the study area.
The first one, Iramba caves, is located in Ushora Village, southeast of Kiomboi town. These
caves were utilized during the German colonial rule and are still used for traditional worship
by the surrounding ethnic groups (Nyiramba, Sukuma, Kimba). The second historical site,
Mkaramo Fort, is in Nduguti Ward, about 60 km from the project road. The fort was built
during the German rule. Road improvement will enhance tourist visits to the sites, which
now do not rank as tourist attractions.
However, the disconnect between the wide 'road influence zone' and the corridor of
immediate impact results in this thread getting lost, for the impact assessment chapters (5
and 6) make no mention of any potential negative impacts on PCR, despite a clear and neat
tabulation of short-term and long-term impacts during the construction phase, and direct and
indirect impacts during the operations phase.
Although the location of the borrow pits seems to be already known (page 36, and Figure
12), the report does not clearly state where the cultural heritage sites are located in relation to
the project, and what the anticipated impacts are likely to be, in terms of their nature and
severity. (The map in Figure 10 is not clear enough for this purpose). Furthermore, no
corresponding mnitigating measures are proposed, leaving the reader somewhat in the dark.
No other type of PCR are addressed in the report.
4. ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS OF THE EXISTIlNG ROAD
The environmentally negative impacts exerted by the present unpaved road include:
-  deterioration of air quality
-  noise of vehicular movement, enhanced by low-speed driving
-  water stagnation in wet, dust in dry seasons
- traffic accidents
4.1 Healtlh effects of current road use
Annex 8 - Part I                  Annex 8 - 16                    Techniplan



Singida Shelui Road: Detailed Engineering Design  Final Report: Annlex 8 - EIA, SIA & RIA
Part 1
4.1.1 Pollution. Present traffic conditions, with heavy dLIst and exhaust emissions, may
affect the residents along the road, causing lung and bronchial disorders. Dust clouds may
also cause accidents by hindering visibility to drivers. Due to the lack of maintenance and
consequent road deterioration in the last few years, however, traffic has declined almost
50%, curbing such negative impacts as air pollution and noise.
4.1.2 Health and water services. Poor access hinders the delivery of health services.
Similarly, water supply suffers from lack of maintenance, compounded by transport. Local
communities rely more and more on polluted water sources, adding to the dismal picture of
human ecology in the project area. Appendix F presents basic data on the health situatioll.
4.2  Recent traffic accident rates
The high accident rate at Sekenke escarpment is undoubtedly due to bad road conditions, as
most accidents along the project road occur in that sub/section:
Table 4.1 - Traffic accidents alonig Sin gida Shelui Road, 1989-99
Year    Major accidents  Year    Major accidents
1989         16         1995         21
1990        21          1996         20
1991         18         1997         19
1992         12         1998         15
1993         23         1999         13
1994         17        lTotal       201
Source: traffic police records
Since 1995, there the number of accidents has declined along the project road, from 21 to 13,
due to less traffic (see study on Traffic Counts of the present project). Nevertheless, the
accident rate has raised by almost 20% and has grown considerably faster than in other
sections of the Central Trunk Corridor. Accident relief services are also insufficient, and
victims in the escarpment link have to wait a long time before being attended by traffic
police, ambulances and wreck hauling trucks.
4.3 Lack of ancillary road facilities
The present road is not endowed with infrastructure suitable to sustain the expected traffic
increase and its impact on economic activities. Major shortcomings bear upon:
i.   traffic police facilities in major towns
ii.   axle load control services
iii.  motor parks and land transport stations
iv.   organized parking areas for trucks at major stopovers
v.    workshop areas for vehicle repair
vi.  livestock markets and related hauling equipment
vii. communication services for transport-related and safety management needs
Lorries park on the catriage way due to lack of parking facilities at major village stopovers.
4.4   Ongoiing and projected trends of the road influence area
More than two thirds of the Road Influence Area shows a high degree of environmental
degradation, due to woodcutting for timber and charcoal production, extensive farming,
overgrazing,- bush fires and indiscrirminate huntinig in the Open Areas. Population growth and
the spreading of farms over increasingly marginal soils aggravate the ecological
deterioration. The declining trends of natural resources are reflected by a stagnant
agricultural output. The residual natural resources and most of wildlife are concentrated in
the south-western part of the road influence area, for two main reasons. First, vast swaths of
land have low fertility. Second they are not easily accessible to trucks which transport fuel
Annex 8 - Part I                     Annex 8 - 17                      Techniplan



Singida Shelui Road: Detailed Engineering Design  Fitial Report: Annex 8 - EIA, SIA & RIA
Part I
wood to the urban markets, due to swamps and rugged relief (Rift valley). In dry flatlands,
all arable land is exploited, wiping out most of the original vegetation.
As in many other parts of Africa, also in Tanzania the vegetal cover disappears at the same
rate as classified road networks expand, despite the protection measures advised by EIA
studies. Moreover, social poverty and environmental degradation tend to concentrate in and
around the areas where infrastructure, especially transport facilities, are more developed. The
demographic and econornic growth induced by the upgrading of Singida Shelui road section
will result in higher pressure on residual forests for fuel-wood harvesting and charcoal
production. The dwindling wildlife will face ultimate disappearance, except from the
planned Wembere game reserve and Sekenke Forest Reserve. Desertification risks will
increase in the higher plateaus, if adequate control methods are not introduced, along with
farm intensification, agro-forestry and range management practices. Road upgrading can
contribute to the strengthening of the extension networks, which should play a decisive role
in promoting the diffusion of sustainable rural production systems.
:k  *  *
Annex 8 - Part 1                   Annex 8 - 18                    TCechnriplan



Singida Shelui Road: Detailed Engineering Design  Final Report: Annex 8 - EIA, SIA & RIA
Part 2a
Part 2
ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT
Annex 8 - Part 2a                  Annex 8 - 19                     Techniplani



Singida Shelui Road: Detailed Engineering Design  Final Report: Annex 8 - EIA, SIA & RIA
Part 2a
Anniiex s - Part 2a                  Annex 8 - 20                       Techniplan



Singida Shelui Road: Detailed Engineering Design  Final Report: Annex 8 - EIA, SIA & RIA
Part 2a
Part 2. Environmental and Social Impact Assessment
5.     ROAD WORKS:
ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL IMPACT & MITIGATION MEASURES
5.1 Plaiined road works
During the road construction phase, ecological hazards will stem from numerous work
components, as quarries, detours and hill cuttings. In particular, the planned road works
require the movement of a couple of millions cubic meters of materials, the reclamation of
hundreds of hectares of road reserve area, the excavation of dozens of borrow pits and
quarries and the use of 8,000 tons of fuel and lubricants, with the possible spilling of toxic
liquids on the earth or in the streams. Moreover, road works Wvill displace farms and
constructions (resettlement). Finally, the construction and dismantling of makeshift camps
may alter the space sulTounding local villages. Most impacts will be direct, as they derive
from site operations. The most hazardous road works are listed below.
Table 5.1 Indicative quantities of road upgrading works
Work item                            Unit          Quantity
a   Rehabilitation of road reserve (60 km)           ha                 600
b    Land takes for realignments (22 kim)            ha                 220
a   Borrow pits, quarries                            nr                 45
2   b    Borrow pits, quarries (surface)                  ha                350
c   Borrow pits, quarries (extracted materials      mi3            1,100,000
3        Raise of embankment                       -      m            1,200,000
a   Cuttings (volume)                                in             990,000
b    Cuttings (length)                               km                 28
b.1 Cuttings at Sekenke                         km                 4.5
b.2 Cuttings in other links                    km                23.5
5        Pavement (local aggregates)                      m3            385,000
6        Bridges (new)                                    nr                  7
7        Culverts (rehabilitation and new construction)   nr                150
8        Construction camps (four)                        ha                400
9        Detours and haul tracks (150 kmn)                ha                 90
10       Camps (4 for 150 workers each))                  ha                400
11       Fuel, lubricants, liquid chemicals              ton               8,000
12       Asphalt works                                   ton              30,000
Anlex 8 - Part 2a                    Annex 8 - 21                       Tech niplani



Singida Shelui Road: Detailed Engineering Design  Final Report: Annex 8 - EIA, SIA & RIA
Part 2a
5.2 Overview of the impact of planned road works
The planned road works will exert the environmental impacts summarized below:
Table 5.2 Expected envir onmental and social impact of planned road works
Short-term negative impacts
I        Erosion from fiesh roads cuts
II       Loss of wildlife, farmland, habitat, PCR (road sites, quarries, camps)
III      Water and soil pollution
IV       Air pollution, noise, vibration
V        Safety risks
VI       Hlealth hazards
Short-term positive impacts
VII      Employment and on-the-job training of local labour force
VIII     Sub-contracting of work components to SME
Long-term negative impacts
IX       Landscape deterioration by quarrying, land take and earthworks
X        Obstacles to wild and domestic animal movements
XI       Water-borne diseases
XII      Surface/groundwater drainage obstruction and pollution
XIII     Soil erosion and sedimentation
XIV      Dislocation and resettlement due to road realignment
Long-term positive impacts
XV       Semi-permanent water points (abandoned borrow pits, quarries)
XVI      Amenities along the route
The short-term impacts of road works will be direct in nature. Long-term impacts will be
both direct and indirect.
5.3 Slhort-term negative impacts of road works
For two years, the contractor(s) will install camps and working sites, exploit quarries, open
up detour and haul tracks. To mitigate their impact, the contractors must adopt the
prevention and mitigating measures tabulated below, in italics.
I.   EROSION FROM FRESH ROADS CUTS, BoRRow PITS AND OTHER WORKS
Expected impacts                    Recommenided mitigation measures
The project will treat the exposed areas with
lervin soils usecessa ily eposed - stems f lo local vegetation using, if necessary, geoniats or
levn  ol  neesriyepsd-sesfo             geocells (see figutres 14 to 17 par-t 4). After
fills, hill cuts, haul roads, quarrying, leading to  works, detour/haul tracks will be ripped up and
silting of natural drainage ways.
Annex          c -PartAnnex 8topsoil rei2nstatedh.
Anniex 8 - Part 2a                    Annex 8 - 22                       Techniplan



Singida Shelui Road: Detailed Engineering Design     Final Report: Annex 8 - EIA, SIA & RIA
Part 2a
SS. I tD,<F WI'L DLiFE. 1IRM -\RIND. H.-\BiTAT. PCR i Ql.RRIES. E- AR TI-lVOR K S, CAMf IPS)a
Expected impacts                      Recomnmended mitigatioin uIeasui-es
Crops, trees, topsoil will be cleared from the  Apartfrom Weinbere basin (migratinig birds), n1o
45m road reserve, which already exists along 60  protected species is likely to be distuibed.
km and is sufficient in major centers as Singida, Displaced animrtals will returin once works are
Kizaga, Misigiri, Shelui. Fresh land take and  over, or seek  another habitat locally. As
clearance is needed along 12 km of realignment vegetation is cleared along an existing road, the
and 10 km of deep cutting or high fill.' Haul impact will be small. Farmers will be wariled to
roads will be opened for wagons to shuttle   harvest on tinle and comzpenisated to create new
to/from  pits, with  extensive bush clearing. farms. Land is available near the villages, so the
Camps and detours will also be created. Works  harn shiould not be great.2 CIrops and planted
will disturb  wildlife  close  to  the  road. trees will be reinstated on comipletioll.
Excavations and earth-fills may affect Physical
Cultural Resources (PCR), as paleontological
relics, graveyards, rock paintings
The most important impact will be exerted by borrow pit and quarry excavation.
Therefore, a special paragraph is devoted to this works item (see § 7.2)
. ,  ,; 1  , -. il1  \V A I' E  AND'Si1-)lLPOILLUVIl-oN  ,ll 
Expected impacts                      RecomluMended mnitigationi measurles
Due to construction   methods or accidental   Bridges and culverts should be buiit in the dry
spillage, works may pollute soil and water    season, reducing harn. Waterfor constiuction
especially at river and swamp crossings. Bridges  ancd drinking will be drawn fronm borelholes Withl
and   culvers  construction  may   discharge  pumps, avoiding suspetisionis in surface waters.
particulate matter and stir river bed deposits into  Care should be takeni as borehole water is hard.
suspension. While large suspended parts settle  No long-termi imitpact on aquifers is expected, as
quickly, the finer ones last longer, but turbidity  works  will not demnand  exhaustive  water
will be short-lived since stream crossings are  amounlts. Spillage offuel or chiemlicals is a risk,
built in a few weeks. Drainage channels will be  but spillages are likely to  be local and
dug to drain run-off from the road surface and  remnediationi should be easy. Spillage to water
its vicinity.  In flat terrain, drainage channels  couise is harmfil for all liviing beings. The
will be prolonged claiming land take. In rolling  contractor mrust exercise utmost care to avoid
terrain, as off-side structures may erode the soil  such  hazaids.  Careless  beliavior  will be
causing pollution of water sources and lakes.  sanctioned (see § 8.2.vi).
The ,,,ost important natuiral vegetation complex in the project area is at the proposed Sekenke Forest Reserve,
in the Rift valley, oni both sides of the proposed route.
2 Mitigationi and comnpensation for loss of vegetation and cultivation are discussed in Parts 4 and 5.
Antnex 8 - Part 2a                      Annex 8 - 23                         Technziplan



Singida Shelui Road: Detailed Engineering Design   Final Report: Annex 8 - EIA, SIA & RIA
Part 2a
IV. AIR POLLUTION, NOISE, VIBRATION
Expected impacts                    Recommended mitigation measures
To transpoit workers to/from sites, four camps  The nuisance will be transient and good work
will be built, occupying 400 ha. Heavy machines  practice will curb it. Tlhe contractor must use
will open detours or haul tracks and excavate  makeshift materials to build the camps and ease
pits. Plants and construction traffic will make  displacement. Dust being is already an every-
vibration and substandard houses closc to the  day nuisance close to the existing gravel road.
road may collapse. In dry weather, dust will  Tlte contractor will advise local households on
disturb local people.                       dust, noise, vibration and other dangers.
V. SAFETY RTSKS
Expected impacts                    Recommended mitigation measures
Work sites are dangerous places. Children  Plant operators must ensure that childreni are
are vulnerable to and machinery. Public    not allowed close to the machines. Accidents
safety may be a problem in two areas: (a)  are likely to occur to laborers. Effective
The immediate vicinity of the plant; (b) the  maniagemiienit of the camps adti working sites
detours around working fronts, unfamiliar  will prevent nuisance and accidents. Detours
to drivers and of lower standards than     and temporary haul tracks shall be well
roads. There will also be additional traffic  planned, signed and maintained to reduce
on the detours for construction needs.     safety risks for drivers and pedestrians.
VI. HEALTH HAZARDS DURING ROAD CONSTRUCTION
Expected impacts                    Recommended mitigation measur es
Road works expose laborers and the general  Working fatigues are needed. Good camp
public to bronchial and other pathological  management includes first aid facilities and
risks. HIV-Aids infection may also spread.  HIV-A ids preventioni measures
5.4 Sliort-term positive impacts of road works
Out of a total project cost of 50 million US Dollars, offshore costs will represent about 60%.
National costs (20 m-Lillion US$) will be split about half and half between taxes and local
costs. In Singida Region, 5 million US$ will be spent for both skilled and unskilled local
manpower (1.8 rmillion) and supply sub-contracts (3.2 million).
VII. EMPLOYMENT GENERATED BY THE PROJECT
Expected impacts                   Recommnended enhancementt measures
Road works will create job opportinities for  Tlhe contractor should brief workers on tiheir
some 150 workers recruited on the spot     tasks  to  prevent  inherent  risks.  Tlhe
along each particular road section, with the  contractor will also be responsible for on-
advantage of social harmony between the    the-job training of semi-skilled labor force.
workers and local communities. The influx  Work certificates will be given to skilled and
of labor will also increase commercial     semi-skilled workers by the contractor and
revenues, thanks to multiplier effects.    the Labor Office upon good performance
Annex 8 - Part 2a                     Annex 8 - 24                        Techniplan



Singida Shelui Road: Detailed Engineering Design   Final Report: Annex 8 - EIA, SIA & RIA
Part 2a
vl\ [. BENEFITS FR) LCC.\L SME
Expected impacts                   Recomnmenzded enzhancemenit mleasur-es
Part of the works will be sub-contracted to  The Contractors will be given a roster of local
locai enterprises, with economic spill-over  SME by regional authorities. Internlationial
benefits in terms of multiplication effects  credit lines should be mlobilized in due
and spread of construction know-how and    advance to support local enltreprenieur ial
private sector capacity building,          capacities in connection with the project.
5.5  Long-term negative impacts of road works
If poorly managed or not complying with design specifications, road works may disfigure
landscapes, harm wildlife and negatively affect land use.
A-.  L.ANDSC APE [)ETERIEIRAI;CIN  B~ QU -kRRI ING,, L.-\ND TAKE. E.;ARTH%k0)I7RS
Expected impacts                    Recommended mitigatiotn neasures
The upgraded road will have a 45 m right of Design cut/fills nimize net materials import.
way, totaling a land take of 820 ha along  82  Work methods will avoid visual impairment.
km. The existing road traverses wetlands on  Some borrow pits will be shaped into durable
small embankments, which require raising for  water reservoirs, witli raised  edges and
50 km. New alignments involve cuts and fills. concave inner geomnetry. Tlhe other pits and
Quarrying will clear vegetation, with unsightly  quarries will be reinstatecd. Their iimpact
effects. Disposal can destroy the economic and  depends on the size of material reserves.
aesthetic value of land. Borrow pits along the  Contract Documients will specify disposal of
existing road prove their damaging effects.  spoil material not reused for embankmnents
|.. OBST-XCLES Tt? \VILD ANCD DOMESTIC .A\NINIAL MOVEMENTS:-
Expected impacts                    Recommended niitigationi mleasures
The  embankment will create obstacles to    The design and the works schedule foresee
animals crossing the road. Weirs used to    smnoothening of the enmbaniklmzenit slopes every 2
streamline  the  rivers  may  obstruct  fish  knm to ease passage of aniamls. Weirs will Iave
movement along the streams                  openiings allowitg fish to mlove across thetmi.
Annex 8 - Part 2a                     Annex 8 - 25                        Techniplan



6ingica zfneiui ioac: uetailea engineering Jvesign  Pitnal Report: Annex d - MIA, 51A & RIA
Part 2a
XII. SURFACE AND GROUNDWATER DRAINAGE OBSTRUCTION            AND POLLUTION
Expected impacts                    Recommended mitigation measures
The project area is prone to floods. In Wembere  Road works interfere with water flow regimes.
Swamps, water levels rose, during El Ni?io rains,  Good design minimizes the impact via culverts
half the height of power line pylons, more than 4  and cross drainage, which preserve equilibritim
meters.3 Embankments impound water across   in surface and groundwater regime. Thus there
swamps and seasonal flood plains, altering local  will be no macro-hydrologic impact on the
hydrology. Currently, storm water seeps through  project area. The project will just modify sulface
the gravel and earth structure and, due to a high  water behavior in the immediate vicilnity of thle
run-off coefficient approaching 1.0, pools at  road.  Design  will ensuire controlled and
road side. Although the surface water regime  effective run-off dispersion. Thlere will be no
will change near the road, no ecological harm  impact on groundwater, as road upgrading will
will occur, also thanks to low rainfall.    not impounld water
XIII.  SOIL EROSION AND SEDIMENTATION
Expected impacts                    Recommunended mitigation2 measures
The road's tirst 90 km overlie erosive soils.  Careful engineerinzg design and re-vegetation
Storms wash away swathes even in gentle slopes  will control erosion of embankment, drains anld
obstructing streams or drainage channels and  adjacent land. Improper works managemzent
silting up surface waters. A  poor drainage  mnay spark erosion processes and scar adjacent
system causes erosion and sedimentation along  slopes. Erosion prevention measures foresee
the existing road. Erosion also results from off-  that all areas impacted by the works be re-
road drainage and run-off from poorly managed  vegetated using reinstated topsoil with local
farms. Run-off erodes embankments, cuttings  species as soon as the sites are closed. Local
and borrow pits. Stream bed erosion scours the  environmental authorities will inspect that sluch
inlet and outlet of culverts.               ruiles are complied witli.
XIV.    DISLOCATION AND COMPULSORY RESErFLEMENT
Expected impacts                    Recommnended mitigation measures
As most of the upgraded route will follow the  Dislocation and resettlement will be addressed
existing alignment, resettlement of farms and  in the works phase, giving tilnely notice to
houses will be limited. Most settlements are laid  own2ers and carryinig out the compensation
out in a well-planned manner on both road sides,  procedure before the works are over. At least
without encroaching the 45m  right of way,  equal standards of living will be ensured. The
except  in  22   cases  identified  by  the  process will be coordinated by the Ministmy of
topographical survey of the present project.  Lanlds and Hunan Settlement Development.
5.7 Long-ternm positive impacts of road works
The road will be a major step in strengthening the Central Trunk Corridor. The project
benefits will be fully felt when the whole Corridor is upgraded, including Dodoma-Singida
3In addition, conditions in the plains are bad, due to black cotton soil domrinant in the swamps. The
existing road across Wembere is relatively in good shape due to stabilization andc utse of borrow
miater-ials, but areas adjacenit to the road are in poor condition dute to prevailing black cotton soil.
Annex 8 - Part 2a                     Annex 8 - 26                        Techniplan



Singida Shelui Road: Detailed Engineering Design   Final Report: Annex 8 - EIA, SIA & RIA
Part 2a
Section. Meanwhile, local authorities will improve infrastructure and install additional
facilities for a proper fallout of the expected benefits.
'  .X !V ..  \\ .  SEBII-PERNI.:ANENTSATERPOINTS . .
Expected impacts                   Recommlienided enhlancemiienit imieasutres
Abandoned borrow pits and quarries will tLrn  Thle pits selected to be tranlsformed into wvater
into semi-permanent water points for domestic  points after use wvill be excavated according to a
and livestock use, as request by local authorities. plan which foresees tlhe creationI of hiedged or
The area is semi-arid and stockbreeders travel fenced rinig shoulders, a gebometric boowl slhape
long distance to seek water.               and impermzleable bottom
X\ V.   AM.IENITIES -\LONG T-1HE I.OmL'iE
Expected impacts                   Recommended enhancement mneasuires
Traffic  increase  will  stimulating  local  Basic facilities to be developed iniclude: (a)
investment and  trade. Public services will  parkintg places at llmajor stopovers, (b) traffic
become more diffuse and delivered at cheaper  police facilities, (c) livestock imtarkets, (d)
costs. The fallout of such benefits will however  wvorkshop wit/li basic amyieniities, (e) Imiotor parks.
be constrained by the lack of ancillary facilities  Public services will nzeed to be strenzgthened to
to receive additional traffic and sustain the offer  promote toutrism, incluidinig hotels, haniidicrafts,
of local products and private, public services.  cultural evenzts anzd so forth
5.8    Impact of road works in the Rift Valley
Through Sekenke escarpment, the works carried out in 1994-96 and destroyed by the flood
of 1996 have already produced an environmental impact of Kinkungu River Road and no
furtlher- impacts will be exerted by the present project in that area. The reuse of the residual
embankments and of previous cuttings will reduce the cost and the environmental impact of
the road variant through Sekenke escarpment.
The construction of six bridges across Kinkungu River will not induce any additional
negative impact. The bridges will be supported by thin pillars, which will not obstruct the
water flow. Such solution will eliminate the embankments built by the previous project at the
six crossing points with the Kinkungu river and will allow stream waters to flow regularly in
their ordinary bed. The new earthworks will produce limited erosion along the variant
alignment, thanks to the geo-mechanical properties of the rock and the consequent, good
slope stability. Furthermore, the design retain and toe walls will curb erosion. To mitigate the
landscape disfiguration created by embankments and deep cuts along Kinkungu river gorge,
the project will incorporate an architectural design. The purpose is to "blend" the road with
the landscape composed by forest hills. The project will replant the disfigured surfaces, using
advanced road environmental techniques as illustrated in Fig. 14 to 17. Part 4.
Deforestation is a long-term tlhreat to Sekenke ecosystem. The forest covering the Rift
Valley on both sides of the selected alignment is reserved for conservation and catchment
protection purposes. A number of endangered tree- species grow in the neighborhood of
Kinkungu road variant, including: Pterocarpues spp. ("mninga"), Brachystegia spp.
("'mkola"), Dalbegia spp. ("mninga"), as well as the "rmiombo" tree formation in general.
After the opening of the road to service, the forest will be exposed to excessive cutting by
timber and charcoal dealers. To mitigate such impact in Sekenke, local authorities should
adopt conservation measures based on participatory forest management (see § 6.3).
Annex 8 - Part 2a                     Annex 8 - 27                        Technziplan



Singtda Shelut Road: Detailed Engineering Design  PFinal Report: Annex 8 - E1A, SIA & RIA
Part 2a
6.  FUTURE ROAD USE:
ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT & MITIGATION MEASURES
6.1 Traffic growth forecasts
The project will intensify traffic along the trunk road section as well as in the local
feeder road network. Traffic volumes are forecast to more or less double every ten
years during the project's economic lifecycle.
Table 6.1 Traffic projections on the upgraded road
Year          One-way ADT
1999              149
2010              376              + 152
2023              627               + 67
Through the feeder road network, traffic will penetrate lands hosting plants and
animals of greater value to the society if left intact. Transport development will exert
mixed effects on environmental receptors as air, soil, water and living organisms.
Once opened to farning and grazing, virgin lands may face depletion risks. Positive
and negative impacts will interfere with each other problematically and only the way
the problems are handled will strike their final balance.
Table 6.2 Overview of environtnental impact offuture road use
DIRECT IMPACTS
niegative
I    Hazards for livestock
II   Activation of disease, pest and weed transmission corridors
problernatic
III  Pollution (noise, vibration, dust, gases)
IV    Road safety (accident hazards due to traffic and speed increase)
INDIRECT IMPACTS
n egative
V    Deforestation, destruction of wildlife
problemnatic
VI    Increased demographic pressure, intensified land use
positive
VII   Development of tourism and recreation
VmII  Improved community and environmental services
Annex 8 - I'art 2a                 Annex 8 - 28                      Techniplan



Singida Shelui Road: Detailed Engineering Design    Final Report: Annex 8 - EIA, SIA & RIA
Part 2a
All road use impacts - either positive or negative, direct or indirect - will be long2-term ones,
unfolding over the whole economic life-cycle of the project.
6.2     Direct impacts of road use
The direct impacts of additional traffic on the environment will be either negative or
problematic. All of them are potentially long-term ones. In general, however, such impacts
will not represent a severe deterioration as compared with the present situationi.
.HAZARDS FOR Li.:,     [S.OCK
:.  '  I  ,I1 liAD                         J     8 5U 
Expected impacts                       Advised mitigation measures
Herds trek the stock route along the project road  Speed linits, guard -ails, signalinzg of cattle
Shelui to Singida and on to Dodoma, Arusha,  market antd  grazing areas will lhelp curbinlg
Dar es Salaam. Some stopovers as Tumuli,     accident risks. The collaboration  of traffic
Misigiri are cattle markets with many animals  police, cattle market staff and local communities
crossing the road.                           will be essential.
11..  AC1TVA\TIC)N OF rIR -NSMISSIOCN  CORRIDOuRS o OF DISEASES. PESTS. WEEDS
Expected impacts                       Advised mitigation measures
The international status of the road will enhance  Measures: enllaniced  healthi care in  urbani
this impact. Congestion in roadside villages may  ceniters, proper advertisinig, hygielne coiitrol
intensify  diseases  as  malaria,  dysentery, (water, etc.). Target groups: drivers, caterers
meningitis, measles, aids, or spark epidemics as Responsibilities:  health  services,  local
cholera, typhoid.4                          comnmnunities
|LM.-  NOISE. V\IBRATION   G \S ;E7r sioS N
Expected impacts                       Advised mitigation measuires
In dry weather, cars raise dust harming health. Speed limits anjd exhaust conitrols must be
and vegetation. Vibration and gas emissions will enfo;-ced, especially in towns. Hedges, trees must
increase the detriment for road-side houses, be planited along the road. Traffic police, forestiy
pedestrians, cyclists, car passengers.      staff, and road utsers nlust be mobilized
4Data on communicable diseases in the districts traversed by the road are shown in Appendix F.
Anlnex 8 - Part 2a           .Annex 8 - 29                                  Techzniplazi



Singida Shelui Road: Detailed Engineering Design   Final Report: Annex 8 - EIA, SIA & RIA
Part 2a
IV.   ROAD SAFETY HAZARDS
Expected impacts                     Advised enhancement measures
Accidents will be reduced by: (a) Rift Valley  Required meastures: speed limits, control of the
variant, (b) gradient/curvature correction, (c) use of lights at night, road signals properly
sealed surface, and: (d) better shoulders for installed and maintained, traffic educationi in
cyclists, pedestrians.5 Over-speeding induced by  local schools. Target groups include: drivers
better driving conditions may raise accidents. and students of primary and secondary schools.
Severance perception will be heightened on  Responsibilities will belong to traffic police,
small road embankment or through shallow cuts. schzool teachers, NGOs, assisted by the Ministry
Access to side streets could be difficult. 6  of Corn mnunicationis and Transport.
6.3 Negative or problematic impacts of future road use
While road upgrading brings about great benefits in terms of access to potential farmlands,
crop marketing opportunities and multiplier effects on regional rural revenues, natural
resources often bear the hidden costs of such development. To curb such costs and achieve
sustainable rural growth, environmental protection measures must be gradually phased in.
V.   DEFORESTATION, DESTRUCTION OF WILDLIFE
Expected impacts                       Advised mitigation measures
Bare lands line the road. Fuel wood cutting will  Experience from  road projects shows that
speed up deforestation in the feeder road basin.  surrounding areas undergo fast deforestation.
Sekenke Forest Reserve will be encroached   Forestry  Services  must  be  strengtlened,
upon. Hunting will increase in "Open Areas".  awareness campaigns laitched.
VI.   INCREASED   DEMOGRAPHTC PRESSURE AND UNSUSTAINABLE LAND USE
Expected impacts                      Advised en/hanceitment measures
In-migration will raise pressure on land. Ribbon  Town planniniig must be strengthened to prevent
villages along the road will boost land price  congestion just beyond the road reserve area.
rises. Farms will be bought by traders. Albeit Ruiral co-operatives and credit lines should be
consensual, such  transactions  will  create  assisted in order to sustain smallholcders and
landless people, pushing marginal farmers to  avoid excessive sale of farmland to commercial
seek land in remote places and spreading fanning     companies.  Agricultural  extension
extensive, environment-hostile fai-m practices.  netwvorks should also befortified.
6.4  Positive, indirect impacts of future road use
Among the transport-depending activitids, those ones which deserve greatest attention in
terms of supportive investments are tourism and public services.
5 Both pedestrians and cyclists use the road as important communnication and transportfacility. The benefits to
non-mnobolised road users are probably as great as they are to vehicle users, thanks to the sealed road surface,
the well engineered shoulders and the elitninatio,t of standing water. Road accidents are likely to increase after
improving the road conditions.
6RecaMnmnendations to ensiure safety in settlements crossed by the project road are presented in Part 4
Annex 8 -Part 2a                       Annex 8 - 30                        Techniplani



-  3 aSh ~  .oad:(  'led  c ei-ii{j in -       -         .'-   .-           r:/- .-   2
- MaIe,rdl .  ~ ~ ~ ~~  A.-A~~~: -  .   Y.                 v
56 -5                                                        .. .... ~ K
4..  .~~~~~~~~~~~..i<  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ .
.5~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.
*1*K?                                                       I-        n-
71                      ~~~~~~~~~-.1  44  4:'
Figure  .  Natual vegtationareas                                  . iu 
A~~~~~~"~T~ 
Woodlands  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~      ~~       ~   ~    '~~~h'-' t,.~~~y
Allgother area Nateral mix etueonatural andears co  eeain  ~d~c4~      ii,*  1      ~   J'k
bein  either  unders hae2 itualculti atio urfallowd froncopvgtation,rgm
Aninex 8 - Part 4 Formats-may 03                                                    -TechiItipla,i



Singida Shelui Road: Detailed Engineering Design         Final Report: Annex 8 - ELI, SIA & RL4
Part 4
Figure 7.  National parks, reserves and controUed'areas
g4 Z. _R.'
Z National Park                                Paved Roads
i    Game Reserve                             Unpaved Roads
Game Controlled areai
H.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Ifluence area of
Singida - Shelui rcad
,nilex 8 - Part 4 Fomiats-rriaj 03                                             Techlziplan



Singida Shelui Road: Detailed Engirieering Design        FinzRal Report: .4 Ann ex 8 - EL., SL4 & PdR
Part 4
Figure 8. Administrative set-up of the roadi influence area
.Sub-listrict Boundary
-   ALIGNr.ENT                               Road Influence Aren
SEKENKE
ESCARPMENT              I    I
- _   ~ZERO                3: .                                 .
[I:S;l.JGDAj POINT
N '
<7            <, tW--
<            ;~~~~X1APAtNIDAG,     INAGR1      r01zr !i'
a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
';2S K;n~/                            IA
X\ NAK      11) IK
49A =   fi,b/1,'RW  2 Ua
Arulex* S  -  Pan- 4. Formats-may  03.5e                                     itr.a iu t
MDA                          Kin1 K1 
93  M   f               29I.9inbab/Kin  n
4-1V       Inha-b./"                 ~,           3.z ehbI~
!7-T ~ ~ ~  ~   ~   ~   -7-~
- -  u~~mAL-~ "I
Annex S-Part 4 Formats-may 03                                                 T c yili



,lilgiU'I(  ;[ctIUI II XUUULt. LtJ tdItCU  * .II ,IC 11 JZ3ISII  L L/£L L   t. ,''t£/'Ut.   L - -I f)L-1  IA.
Part 4
Figure 9.  Settlement system of the road influence area
0 Settlement within 10 Km
of? road axis
ROAD        ||                           o.cad2I 
J ALIGNMENT                          . ..... .Sub-District boundary.
e 07N  SEKENXE
0^uZ   ESCARPMENT        .
____ZERO
IS;IDAX POL[NT              j
4-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
-'..  I
,3                   1,4,,,
'-c_  i. it  , ot-_ L
/- Cg4 'y>         :   - X    l'.   t                    _ 
Annex S - P Frt 4 Formats-may 03         Annex 3 - 93                        Techmtiplani



Sinigida Shclui Road: Detailed Engineening Design         Final Reporl: Anne 8lc  - EL48, Sl>-1 &S lgl
Part 4
Fio,ure 10. Archaelogical sites of the road influence arca
_  .  L=C;END                        | <1OtBOl | ~ARCHAEOLOGICAL
ROA
A 'LIGNM-NT...
' - SEKENKE                                A
\     ES'CARPMENT ', 
.  | -     ZERO   ..5
SI51NGIDA  poLNT              S¢-                         <
,Y.    .   )j 
'  >   tt''   ';;  '/ ''2  rl1 9  ':  ti  
t      /   O L1 1  b  j  e  i,  8  /  j b-;   yK   8  \
--~~~~~~~~~~~Y P,oNf
Am:vx 8 at4Frasma 3Tciil



Part 4
Figure 11.   Prehistoric rock art painting in the project influence area
n~~~~~~~~~~~~~
- -7
7 --
-k,
Rock art example from Singida Region.
The picture is taken from Iambi cave, which is about 35 km
from the project road in Nduguti Sub-District
Annex S - Parn 4 Formats-ma~' 03                                              Techn iplan
A



S_ t She'. 3ad:7 led E -erin- ign .,,_             -                - -      .:    8-F . A   . -P.
j_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~cga .  , 
-I                                         t1
1 -i<&; a-./                                      --.
(zr1 t  uti2brn"d':' 
SN  uO RRO*  PI
Annex 8 - Part 4 Formats-may 03                                                     Teclmn iplun



lFigture 13.  Rouate variants in rguguno urban area .             ~   ?    4       -I|tRhr9,                                         s     i.g
_                                        -' ,, t  - '  - '' '/ 1 - j > </ 1 X + _ > '5 < F, < _.mcL*0j
i  zXj7.G./G}IN, ^ t '- tt 
!   UU -A A.,,RU                                            ,,         ,w                    f_.-i 
.                                             (J|J8E  \/sP.IANfS  !t4  '  i t_v 4, } 1L:e~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N__t/-js -i. - T ]t \ t- 0-519{-0T.O; < \,~~~~~10~0 Fl
., ,  IgiUc;t4s? tle.Rt-]S^@ -\a'  i --  \t g  X   ;  '+   I  t   y             iS                   '   g      -   -\        'E'\ - l. '~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~l'~.Y_ 'Llt 1
L                                                                                               [3u  (.  l  j. .A;at:s .-,-.>  Se<s t S-< At~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~e
t-j>-,b41I(l-J(.iUtb ilf lss.|; , G-piS iWI^s0 F__1 </i<-7-                               J
E-A BS'fiNr- t\LIGMIdr-N'         ~                          -~*9>: 7~~,                                                              _V
Aninex -Part 4 FonTnats-imay 03                                                                                                                           -Techniipla



Z;mgida Shelui Koad: Uetaitea Ingineenng L)esign           tinal Repurt: Anrrer y - klA, SLM & AL4
Part 4
Fig,ure 14.   Soil protection with geomats
Existing cutting in Kingungu route
variant of Sekenke Escarpment
Diagram-of geomat application for
Slope protection and re-vegetation
OETAJLA
. 1
.ETL  F,
-               ,  &.R-:. YC .~~~~~~,   "
!~~~~~ -- --Nt 
. ~      ~        I   4     ;Q'to 
Annex S - Part 4 Fonnats-may 03                                                   Tech,izipla,i



.umg1Ga bneiui Koaa: uetallec Lngmeermg LJesign             Final Report: Annex 3 - EL4, SL4 & RLA
Part 4
Figure 15.  Soil reinforcement for long term application.
,   -  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Examples
Protection of slopes against erosion by rainfall and wind with geogrids and biomats
Ji       Before the intervention
During the intervention
5, _4Completed slope after ten years
Arnex S - Part 4 Formats-may 03
Tech n ipla n



Singida Shelui Road: Detailed Engineering Design   Final Report: Annlex 8 - EIA, SIA & RIA
Part 2a
;-   11  DE'. [ELPNrENti OF To-IR ISM  A\NDE) REC-'RE.. r-1)N
Expected impacts                      Advised enhancemtent measures
Governm7lent initiative is requiired to initiate
Tourism is now absent fiom Singida region.
The project may attract tourists to lakes Kindai,  toutris, especially in the cultural leritage
Singida and Kitangiri, Sekenke Escarpment,  e anded To covert         whole   'ut    o
Wembere Basin, historic Ushora and Mkaramo   aniodato       cilitie   ifzcze      t of
Forts, the pre-historic caves and rock paintings.  acco,nnodation  facilities  including  those
serving business people.
\I[1.[  I.lPRO% ED,CO.l\l-UNiT' AND EN\VIRONNIEN FAL SER% ICES
Expected impacts                      Advised enhanceinent mzeasur es
Improved transport will help the distribution of Regional investment budgets sliould target the
drugs. Patients will receive faster medical rehabilitatioln of water supply, rural and urbani
attention. Health workers will enjoy easier healtlh services and educatiolnal facilities, taking
access to work places. More doctors and nurses  advantage of lower- transport costs and better
may reach the central corridor of Tanzania.  accessibility to the road influenlce zone.
* * d:
Annex 8 - Part 2a                      Annex 8 - 31                        Techniplan



Singida Shelui Road: Detailed Engineering Design  Final Report: Annex 8 - EIA, SIA & RIA
Part 2a
Annex 8 - Part 2a                    Annex 8 - 32                      Techniplan



Singida Slelui Road: Detailed Engineering Design  Finial Report: Aniex 8- EJA, SIA & RIA
Part 2b
7. ENVIRONMENTAL ACTION PLAN (EAP)
7.1 Scope and phasing of thie EAP
7.1.1 Preview. The Action Plan set out in the present chapter is geared to implement the
measures required both to mitigate the negative and enhance the positive environmental impacts
of the project.' The Action Plan covers the road-works phase and the post-construction phase,
when the road is opened to public use. Thd environmental impact of road maintenance works is
considered under the latter phase.
7.1.2 Rationale of EAP. Prompt, coordinated actions and tight working schedules are needed to
offset the adverse impacts of the road project, or downsize them below the risk threshold at
which they would make the project unfeasible. Some advised solutions are nothing better than
good road maintenance practice. Others require that public authorities mobilize at national and
regional scale, with the participation of road users and local communities. Since road upgrading.
will yield not only negative, but also positive impacts, the advice is extended to encompass a
package of supportive measures, aimed at enhancing and multiplying the benefits generated by
the project.
7.1.3 Target areas. Environmental measures -.including both protection and  enhancement
measures - can be grouped in seven categories, each within its own time-frame, as follows: 2
i.   Road-related environmental engineering design (year 2001-2003)
ii.  Works management during the project implementation phase (2003-07)
iii.  Expropriation and resettlement (2003-04)
iv.   Traffic management after opening of the road to traffic in 2005
v.   Construction of ancillary or complementary infrastrUcture (2005 onward)
vi.   Ecosystem protection across the Road Influence Zone (2005onward)
vii.  Benefit enhancement measures (2005 onward).
The impacts of the project, both direct and indirect, may partially overlap on the short, medium
and long term 3. The first 3 categories of environmental mitigation and enhancement measures -
Engineering Design, Works Management and Expropriation/Resettlement concern direct, shot-
term impacts. The further 4 categories (Traffic Mantagentent, Ancillary Infrastructure,
Enivironmental Protection and Benefit Enhancemtient) will start after work completion, mostly
dealing with long-term, indirect impacts.
7.1.4  Benefit enhancement meastures. Thanks to the project, Singida Regional Government
will be able to improve health care, education facilities, water supply, power plants, rural
communications and other amenities. The institutions that rely on transport services can expand
the environmental opportunities generated by the project.
7.1.5 Plhases of the Action Plan. Altogether, the seven categories of measures proposed in §
7.1.3 will be spread in three Phases of the Action Plan cycle, namely: Phase I. Project Design
(2001-02), Phase II. Works Implementation (2003-04), and: Phase III. Environmental
Management of the Upgraded Road (or "Follow-Up Phase", 2004 onward). In 2001, the
engineering study has already designed the environmental measures of the project, which have
T 7hle environmental measuires are advised to mitigate the impacts of both road constructioni (see § 5) and road uise
(see § 7). The EAP deals with physical and humani impacts, except resettlement, dealt with in Par t 3 (RIA).
2 The enviro,z,nenital and social measures, as described in § 5 and 6, are incorpor-ated in the detailed eniginieer-ing
design (Stage I of the EAP).
3 See also the general schedtle outlined in § 1.
Aiinex 8 - Part 2b                  Annex 8 - 33                         Techniplan



Singida Sh1cIlli Roaid: Detailecl Engineerincg Desigcn  Final Report: AInnlex 8 - ElIA SIA & RIA
Part 2b
also been incorporated in the economic and financial analysis and in the tender documents. The
implementation steps will follow in cascade through three Phases, progressively involving the
contractor, the works supervisor, government authorities, road users and the local communities
at large.
Table 7. 1. Phasing of the Environmental Action Plan of Singida-Shelui road project
Phases                 Year                     Key responsibilities
01-02  03-04  04 i
I  Environmental design   o                   Consulting engineers under Tanroads
_1  Works implementation         o            Contractor, Tanroads, MoW and other line Ministries
III Road use & maintenance             ooo    Tanroads
Resettlement will take place in Phases II and III of the EAP (see Part 3 of the Report). The
following pages review the three phases EAP specifying, for each phase:
- the milestones and the intermediate implementation steps
- the legal framework and the agencies responsible for each step
- the costs to be covered by the project and other sources of finance.
7.1.6 Thematic approach. The Action Plan will address a number of physical and human
ecological themes, ranging from forest protection to HIV-AIDS prevention. The same theme
may be addressed in subsequent stages during the environmental management cycle. For
instance, the theme "bush fire prevention" will be addressed first by the Engineer, who will
design road-side fire screens to protect the forests, then by the Contractor, who will clear the
ground for planting the fire-screens, while himself adopting fire prevention measures. Later on,
the Environ,mental Authorities will brief the local communities on bush fire control. Finally, the
Village Grouips will actually mobilize themselves to plant the trees and maintain the fire-
barriers.
7.1.7 Project ambivalence. Road upgrading will spark both favorable and adverse effects:
- for instance, speed increase is both a time-saving factor and a hazard for safety
- again, population inflow may be viewed as an economic blessing but, at the same time, as a
source of congestion, pollution and threats for public health and wildlife
The final balance between environmental costs and benefits depends on how simultaneously the
former are mitigated, the second enhanced. In other words, the net outcome is yielded by the
way the whole process is steered by Govemment authorities and civil society at large. The
present report suggests methods to strike the balance on the positive side.
* -a  *
Annex 8 - Part 2b                    Annex 8 - 34                          Techn2iplan



Singida Shelui Road: Detailed Engineering Design        Finial Report: Annex 8 - EIA, SIA & RIA
Part 2b
7.2 The three Phases of EAP (2001 onward)
Phase I of EAP: Environmental Engineering Design (2001-02)
Concept design. Environmental mitigation and enhancement packages are part and parcel of
road engineering design. The Consultant has worked out in executive details all the measures of
the Environmental Action Plan, incorporating them        into the drawings, bills of quantities,
contract documents and other output of the engineering work.
The environmental mitigation/enhancement mieasures will be canTied out by the contractors, the
public authorities, the local communities and the road users during the further stages of the EAP
management cycle. The following table surrunarizes the main mitigation measures introduced in
the engineering design of the road. As to the enhancement of the positive impacts, see the Phase
3 schedule.
Table 7.2    Environmental measiures to be incorporated in the cletailed road design (2001-02)
'' f ' ' . ' ! ,,, . , -, . ,,I I.
N .%ILN DEFRl.lElQ, sL PI_ IPAC-I'S      ENc-,rrFEFPlqND OF oiT IitJA 1`CiN NlE.AfSLURES
_    I.                          .
Realign to avoid sensitive areas. Separate road and forest with green barriers.
i     Threats to forests, wildlife  Provide: (a) road crossings for wilcdliie by smoothing embankment slopcs at
Threas.toorest, wregular distances, (b) openings in r iver weirs, and: (c) large culvcrts in
swamplands
"Blend" the road design with the landscape. Avoid cuts, fills, pits in fine
ii    Landscape disfiguration    scenery. Stabilize cuts with walls and vegetated geo-mats, geo-cells and other
devices favoring the revegetation.
Design culverts and cross-drainage to keep hydraulic balance. Design borrow
...   .larm to soils and water   pit excavation and restoration, avoiding stagnation. Prevent soil erosion,
iii   H-larm to soils and water  sedimentation in drainage lines and cascade effect in drain outlets. Pave drain
outlet areas with stones, concrete.
iv    Hazard for livestock        Put signals at grazing area crossings and markets. Organize markets. Displace
stock-rouite from road reserve area
Design of road safety components and traffic police facilities. Create green
v     Impact on human ecology    barriers to reduce dust and exhaust gas diffusion. Introduce bus bays and
parking spaces.
Design of measures to protect the classified Physical Cultural Resources
vi    Impact on cultural heritage  (PCR) and prevent the destruction of the unknown ones which mighl be
encountered during the works implementation phase.
Participatory approach. Each mitigation measure adopted by the road's environmental design
and posted in Table 7.3-has been discussed with the local communities and national authorities,
including the National Environmental Management Council (NEMC), the Ministry of Tourism
& Natural Resources, Forestry Department, Ministry of Education and Culture and the national
Museum.
Annex 8 - Part 2b                         Annex 8 - 35                                Techntiplan



Singida Shelui Road: Detailed Engineering Design         Final Report: Annex 8 - EIA, SIA & RIA
Part 2b
Table 7.3    Design Measures to Mitigate the Detrimental Effects of Road Works and Road Use
|1.  Design Measures to Protect Fores6 and Game Resources
1. A Trlueats to nature in Sekenke Highland Ecosystem (Rift Valley)
Risks. The road will be realigned through 12 km of Sekenke Hilis along Kinkungu river valley, which hosts sensitive
ecosystems and a Forest Reserve. When the road is opened to service, traffic will scare the residual wildlife away to a
certain distance, especially during daytime. The forests of the river gorge will be more accessible to hunters and
timber-jacks.
Design mitigation measures. Sekenke road variant design relies on the following ecological assumptions:
Other streams funrow the Rift Valley not far from, and parallel to, Kinkungu river, providing valley corridors to the
wildlife migrating between the eastern plateau and the western Wembere plains. The variant will re-use the steep hill
cuts and the huge embankmcnts, up to 10 meter high, made by the 1994-96 road project: no further environmental
impact will be exerted by the present project in the area. The embankments will occupy 7.5 km out of 12. The rest of
the new route will run through cuts (4.6 kim) or on viaducts (0.2 km): as the viaducts hover above the river meanders,
wild animals will be able to wander from a road side to the other, with no major barrier (at night, noise will rarely
disturb them). Traffic will shift from the uphill road to the new route variant, freeing a vast tract of hilly, densely
forested land from slow, polluting traffic, bivouacs and other environment-hostile activities. The forests destroyed
along the old hill route can be replanted by the Forest Reserve workers. The new variant is a through-fare road,
running swiftly on high embankments lined by steep cuts. With no parking lots or feeder roads, cars and people will
not rove around into sensitive environment Artificial barriers will render difficult the access from the road to the
sensitive, surrounding woodlands Fire risks will be prevented by artificial green barriers between the road and the
natLral forests
1. B    Threats to nature in Wembere Lowland Ecosystem
Risks. After 12 km of Sekenke highlands and some 15 km of intermediate Shelui plateau, the final stretch of the road
crosses 10 km of seasonal swamps hosting wildlife. Wembere swampland is a fragile ecosystem, with a delicate
balance between the dry season and the flooding spell, compounded by the interaction between freshwater bodies and
salt outcrops in the bottom soil. T'he water salinity rate influences the food chain which supports variegated animal
communnities. The embankment may split the swamps in two halves, altering the salinity balance and impairing the
movements of terrestrial and aquatic animals. Such hazards are magnified by the fact that to avoid floods the
embankment will be raised a couple of meters above the existing one.
Design mitigation measures . In Wembere Lowlands, the road design envisages ample and frequent culverts, enabling
fish and other swampland species to move through the embankment. In 10 km of road there will be 25 culverts each
of them 1.9 m-wide, for an aggregate opening of 50 meters. Enough to allow free movement of aquatic and terrestrial
animals, as well as to equalize the salinity rates in the water bodies of the swampland.
I. C    Fire control to protect natural vegetation along the road
Risks. Bush fire is a risk along almost 1/4 of the road alignment, increasing in Sekenke Forest Reserve, where trees
have burnt away from a broad band along the existing route. In fact, the project road crosses a total of 24 line km of
thickets and dry forests, to be protected by barriers against fire (see Figures in Part 4)
Design mitigation measures. The design foresees to protect the road sub-section through Sekenke Forest with tree
plantations which will create suitable barriers against fire propagation. Cashew nut trees and other fire-resistant
species will be used, as advised by the Regional Forest Department (see Figures in Part 4).
I. D  Design measures to ease wildlife movements
Risks. The road embankment may hinder wild terrestrial animals moving in the road area. The weirs constructed
by the project across streamlined rivers may hamper fish movements up and down the stream.
Design mitigation measures. The design provide road crossings for terrestrial mammals by introducing smooth slopes
(1:3 or 1:4, three meter-wide) every other km. Design openings are foreseen in river weirs, as well as large size
culverts in swamps crossed by the road, in order to eliminate barriers to aquatic animals.
Annex 8 - Part 2b                          Annex 8 - 36                                Technziplan



Singida Shelui Road: Detailed Engineering Design          Finial Report: Anznzex 8 - EIA, SIA & RIA
Part2b
11. Dcsign measures to avoid landscapc disfiguration
11. A    Instability from road cuts and fills
Risks. Land take for road construction, cuttings and the embankment may create soil erosion problems.
Design mitigation measures . Special attention has been paid to rc-vegetation for erosion control. Thc design
includes prescriptions and related bill of quantities to store the topsoil for re-use on the slopes, vegetate the slopes
of the embankment and regenerate the fertile overlay after works conclusion. In critical places, retaining walls will
be built and covered with natural stones or geo-mats.
It. B.  Design measures to avoid landscape disfiguration by land take and earthworks
Risks. The embankment is monotonous landscape feature. Bridges and viaducts intrude the Kinkungu River Gorge
thiough the Rift Valley and Sekenke Forest Reserve. Borrow pits and quarries are landscape detractors.
Design mitigation measures. To avoid aesthetic harms to the scenic Central Plateau landscapes, an architectural
design has been adopted to "blend" the road with the landscape and the indigenous flora.. Cutting/filling has been
avoided wherever scenery would be spoiled. Roadside and cut slopes will be reclaimed and re-vegetated. Quarrics
and borrow pits will be located avoiding the sensitive landscapcs.
I 111. Design measures to avoid harm to soil and water bodies
111. A   Design measures to preserve surface and ground water balance and drainaec
Risks. Lakes, swamps and seasonal streams dot the road project area. Cuts, fills and waterworks may interfere with
natural drainage patterns, plugging or altering surface water flows. Risks may also stem from the impact of road
infrastructure upon groundwater flow patterns, especially where there is a shallow water table.
Design mitigationi measures. The problem of the road embankment splitting Wembere marshlands in two halves has
already been dealt with in § I.B, with a solution to preserve the water salinity balance, which varies from a season to
another and commands the food chain of the local ecosystem. The engineering design of the road and its strictures
has paid careful attention to prevent changes in the overall surface and ground water regime of the project area and
safeguard the overall hydrological balance. Provision has been made for adequate culverts and cross drainage,
designed to maintain the present hydrological equilibrium.
111. B  Design measures to preserve water stagnation
Risks. F-lazardous for human health, waler stagnation along the embankment is a current feattire of the existing road
conditions. Design of borrow pit excavation, exploitation and restoration system.
Design mitigation measures. The engineering measures will consist in a careful design of the road drainage system.
Due to the ligh surface run-off coefficient - which approaches the One value - water will accumulate at road side.
The drainage system in the immediate vicinity of the road has been designed to exclude any adverse impacts. Side-,
cross- and cutoff-drains in plain ground will be positioned for an even water distribution. Otherwise, if the positions
are badly chosen or the spacing is too great, localized flooding would occur: Run-off discharged away from the road
will not stagnate in the receiving area.
III.C    Design of functional borrow pits
Risks. The borrow pits (see § Table 7.4) represent a threat for health, due to water stagnation.
Design mitigation measures. The design foresees an excavation, exploitation and restoration system allowing most
borrow pits to be transformed, after use for road construction, into permanent or semi-permanent water points for tIse
by the population, livestock herds and wildlife. The selected pits will be excavated and "cultivated" according to
design, featuring tihe creation of hedged or fenced ring shoulders and a geomeLric bowl shape. The bottom of the pits
can be made impermeable, if necessary, utilizing geo-synthetic techiniques.
Ill. D  Soil erosion and sedimentation
Risks. Land take for road construction, cuttings and the embankment itself may create soil erosion problems. A
malfunctioning drainage system is the cause of erosion and sedimentation problems along the existing road.
Design mitigation meastires. To prevent erosion and sedimentation, drainage systems will be installed, avoiding
cascade effects. Receiving surfaces will be lined with stones or concrete. Ground clearance will be minimized.
Exposed soils will be replanted after works, allowing grass to grow on slopes tree growth, which may harm the
bank with the roots. Cut-off drainage will be installed. Culverts will prevent erosion in waLer courses. Adopted
design approachl: slope protection along Sekenmke ciut. To re-profiled cutting sections along Kinkungu River, (4.5
Annex 8 - Part 2b                           Annex 8 - 37                                  Techniplaii



Singida Shelui Road: Detailed Engineering Design        Finlal Report: Annex 8 - EIA, SIA & RIA
Part 2b
km) will be stabilized by a sequence of technical operations, namely:
o Re-profiling of slope cuttings all through the design section, while clearing unstable rocks and debris
o Geo-matting with synthetic filaments (dense polyethylene, polyamnide, polypropylene), as surface
reinforcement against rain-erosion and rills, while waiting for the vegetation to grow
o In filling of the geo-mat with vegetal terrain and application - all over the layer of geo-mats- of a metal net
nailed against the underlying rock, to prevent the protected surfaces from sliding down
o Rydro-seeding of the vegetal terrain using indigenous grasses and shrubs, reinforced by talea planting
o Construction of small stone walls at the basis of the slope all along the road cuttings.
The sequence will apply to 700 line meters and a height of 15 m in the cuts through Sekenke , covering 10,500 mi2.
The related cost, estimaLed at 750,000 U.S. dollars, is included in the environmental package (3% of total road cost).
Figuire 14 to 17 of Part 4 of this Annex show example and application diagrams.
IV. Design measures to reduce hazards for livestock
Risks. The project road runs parallel to a main stock route for about 50 km. Crowded livestock markets are held
regularly at Tumuli villages and other settlements crossed by the road. Grazing areas are frequent along the road.
The future Kinkungu River variant will be an advantageous shortcut for herd movements.
Design mitigation measures. The project will provide crossings (with smooth embankment slopes) and adequate
signals along major grazing areas and cattle markets (in Misigiri and Tumuli towns).
V. Design measures to safeguard the human environment
V.A     Road safety
Risks. The present road has a high accident rate at settlement crossings and through Sekenke Escarpment.
Design mitigation measures. The design will include signaling and facilities for traffic management in the towns
and at major junctions. Bumps and advertisements will discourage high speed through settled areas.
V.B     Micro-environmental impacts at village level
In the initial years, the road will convey up to 500 vehicles per day through the villages and urban settlements
mentioned in § 3. 1, rising to uil to 1300 vehicles according to 20 year forecasts. This will mean an initial two vehicles
per minute during the daylight hours in both directions. Albeit far from configuring congestion risks, the through
traffic, combined with local urban traffic, may disturb the daily lifestyle of the inhabitants of the traversed
settlements. A range of appropriate mitigation measures will be designed, ranging from hedged tree rows to bus bays,
guardrails and protected crossings.
I VI. Design measures to safeguard Physical Cultural Resources (PCR)
The Environmental Action Plan includes a section on the cultural property affected, such as rock paintings,. in
the project region, with a mitigation plan in accordance with the WB safeguard guidelines on this topic. The
plan elaborates on issues like chance findings of PCR, introducing clauses in the special conditions of contract
for works implementation and contract clauses for the PRC safeguard. In fact, road improvement projects are
likely to encounter and more or less inadvertently damage PCR. The plan also considers measures to unfold
tourism potential at the major PCR sites.
.* * *
Phase II of EAP: Environmental Action in the Work Implementation Stage (2002-04)
Scope of the mitigation measures. Earthworks, land takes, materials spoiling, plant operation,
haul traffic: the typical feats of the road construction process may have adverse effects, like soil
erosion, water pollution, encroachment into natural and human habitats. Part of the danger can
be offset by good construction practice, in line with the engineering design. The residual danger
can be prevented by the measures listed below.
Table 8.2  Advised mitigating measures in the Road Construction Stage (2002-04)
Annex 8 - Pait 2b                         Annex 8 - 38                                Techniplan



Singida Shelui Road: Detailed Engineering Design          Final Report: Annex 8 - EIA, SIA & RIA
Part 2b
SourCe t,1 en-.irr:nmicnLl rin,            .li,gjtine rricimure
I       Land take, earthworks               Proper timing of works. Topsoil stock piled for later use
ii       Borrow pits, quar-ries             Works to transform the pits in permanent water poilts
iii      Detours and haul roads             Minimize vegetation clearance. Restore sites after use
iv      Workers camps                       Carel'ul camp location, construction, management
v        Machines (noise, vibration, pollution)  Machine mufflers. Dust sprinkling. Suspend works in holidays
vi       Water and soil pollution           Recycle lubricants. Precautions to avoid accidental spills
vii     Site and detour hazards             Proper signaling. Carcful driving of haul trucks
viii    -Icalth hazards during works        Health examination of workers with treatment when needed
ix       Breeding habitat of disease vectors  Good landscaping, filling & drainage to avoid creating habitats
x       Damage to cultural heritage         Reporting to cultural heritage authorities (National Museum)
Responsibility of mitigation works: the Contractor, overseen by the Works Supervisor and an
environmental specialist (see § 8), will carry out the works. The Ministry of Land &          Human
Settlement Development will assess the costs of, and provide areas for, resettlement. The
Ministry of Health, the Forestry Department and other environmental authorities will inspect
and sanction the following components of the works implementation cycle:
i.   limitation of land takes to the minimum required
ii.   stockpiling of topsoil and cut vegetation for reinstatement after works completion
iii.   excavation, cultivation and finishing of borrow pits and quarries
iv.   drainage and erosion control, installation of sanitation, healtlh facilities in camps
v.    hazard control devices for any other impact on the physical and human environment.
Costs: the Contractor will bear the costs of mitigation works. Supervision costs will be born by
the Consultant in charge. Inspection       costs will be born by the responsible Environmental
Agencies. The contractor and the supervisor shall provide logistic means to the inspectors.
Table 7.4 Design Measures Mitigating the Detriments of Road Works & Road Use
1. Management of land take & carthworks
Water erosion and sedimentation from cuts and fills and other road works will be reduced 1rom not only design
expedients, btit also proper management, aimed at: (a) limiting earth moving to dry periods (b) protecting drainage
channels with berms, straw, fabric barriers, and: (c) installing sedimentation basins and re-vegetating erosion areas.
Potential loss of habitat - associated with vegetation clearance and soil erosion - can be minimized if the contractor
closely watches the clearing operations.
- 11. Borrow pits & quarries: excavation & exploitation methods
Borrow pits as landscape detractors. The project will use 32 pits and quarries, 27 of them already used on-and-off
for road maintenance, others abandoned before exhaustion (see Fig. 12). Major sites are listed below:
Site       Km from Singida      Site      Km from Singida
Manga               12           Ulemo            68
Msisi              17iMsigiri                     80
Igiguno            34           Kibigiri          *86
Kitashegi          56            Mseko            101
Kyengege           62           Malendi           104
Major quarry sites lie alongside the borrow pits in Iramba District, on the right hand side of the road (see Figure
18). Heaps of unused material abound along the road. The material is so close to the surface that it can be extracted
without degrading the landscape. The environment of the borrow pits and quarries is as follows:
Annex 8 - Part 2b                           Annex 8 - 39                                 Techntiplaiz



Singida Shelui Road: Detailed Engineering Design         Final Report: Annex 8 - EIA, SIA & RIA
Part 2b
Environment                Borrow pits and quarries
1. Farmlands                    7                40
2. Rangeland                     8               50
3. Savannah                     30              260
Total                 45              350
Two thirds of the pits and quairy lie in open savannah, with little vegetation losscs. The last two sites lie in the
ecologically sensitive Wembere swamps. The seven pits spotted in farming areas are mainly surrounded by fallow
or loosely cropped fields, where vegetal landscapes are already severely deteriorated. 4
Management of the borrow pit component during the work implementation phase. Gravel or stones quarried from
villagc lands will be purchased, negotiaLing the price with village authorities to avoid disputes. Currently, villagers
are paid small fees. The long-term impacts of quarry sites depend on how they are left after the resource is
extracted. All pits and quarries should be landscaped after work completion, avoiding steep or vertical pit sides.
Smooth slopes will encourage re-vegetation, prevent erosion and curb risks for animals. The topsoil will be
stockpiled for use in reinstating the pit.
Tur-ning borrow pits into water points. Stagnant pit water provides habitat to disease vectors. However, rainwater
can be retained in the pits for livestock, if demanded by village authorities. The new water points will be selected
during the works phase, at least 100 m from the road and 500 m from the villages. The pits will be excavated,
exploited and finished, upon work completion, as per engineering design. Local communities should volunteer
manpower for pit reclamation works. Trees species such as Albizia should be planted around the pits to improve the
visual impact. Specification clauses in the contract documents will make sure that the contractor excavates and
reinstates pits and quarries in a responsible manner to the satisfaction of the Local Council. The creation of
permanent watering points for livestock will be a major instrument for realigning the stock-route which runs close to
the project road, to prevent traftic accidents and avoid damage to the road's shoulders, drainage system and fire-
protecling barriers.
I 111. Construction & management of detours & haul roads
While opening service tracks, vegetation should be cleared as liltle as possible. Works will adhere to design, closely
supervised by the Resident Engineer. Any removed topsoil and vegetal matter shall be stockpiled and reinstated,
upon contract completion, to efface and re-vegetate the vestiges of camp sites, detours, haul roads. Indigenous
species will be chosen with the Forestry Departinent to enrich the vegetation cover. Natural drainage channels will
be reopened where they existed before.
I        IV. Camp construction & management standards
No camps should be installed in Sekenke Forest Reserve, where the previous project has proven highly destructive.
The construction of camps and the influx of laborers must be managed to avoid the disruption of local community
life. Camps attract job-seeks and trade mongers. The Contract Documents will impose to the contractor obligations
concerning:
- the location and management of the camps, in collaboration with local authorities
- fencing of the camps to make them self-contained
- catering services, health care and basic recreation facilities
- sanitation and waste disposal systems.
The contractor should enforce a code of conduct in the camp, encouraging respect for local people and their culture.
For wildlife protection, poaching must be prohibited and sanctioned under the terms of employment.
I V. Noise, vibration & air pollUtion control in road works phase  I
Dust, vibrations, exhaust fumes, unavoidable due to heavy-duty machinery operation, can be controlled by:
- restricting plant utilization to normal working days and maintaining plant and machines in good conditions
- exhaust silencers and sound barriers, with stationary plants and generators positioned far from the houses.
Dust is controlled by sprinkling water at sites close to houses. Exhaust fumes or bituminous vapors are reduced by
closing the plant down when not operated. Workers will use dust-proof fatigues and masks. Inspections will check
that site are operated only in working weekdays and environmental measures are adopted.
I       VI. Water & soil pollution control in the construction phase
4 rhe project will comnpensate thie holders of thefields occuipied by the pits.
Annex 8 - Part 2b                          Annex 8 - 40                                Techniplan



Singida Shelui Road: Detailed Erigineering Design         Final Report: Annzex 8 - EIA, SIA & RIA
Part 2b
Many road works may pollute water and soil, as a result of either construction methods or accidental spillage of
fuel, Libricants and chemicals. Proper management will curb risks. For instance, the bridges and culverts should be
constructed during the dry season, when river flow is minimum or nil. Moreover:
- local inhabitants must be timely informed about works in the rivers
- people should fetch water upstream of construction sites
- at river crossings, earthworks will allow people access to the streams as soon as the works are completed
- refueling of plant or transfer of materials should not take place near water courses
- precautions to avoid accidental spills must be undertaken
- in case of accidental spill of fuel or chemicals, all efforts must be made to offset pollution
- storehouses, workshops and vehicle parks should be equipped with anti-spillage devices
- used lubricants must be collected for safe disposal or recycling.
VII. Safety during construction  -
Risks. Constrmction sites are inherently dangerous places and the safety of the public, which may not be aware of
the hazards, must be assured, with focus on two critical areas: (a) the immediate vicinity of the construction plant,
and (b) the detours around the working sites.
A. Safety at ivorking places. The public, especially children, will not be allowed close to machinery. The
contractor will hold meetings to wam villagers about.the dangers.
B. Safety at detours. Detours will be carefully planned and drivers using unfamiliar detours assisted. The
contractor will install and maintain warnings to guide detour users and avoid collision with construction
vehicles between work sites and gravel pits.
VIII. Health standards during construction  l
Periodic health examination of workers with treatment when needed should be established to prevent epidemics in
the camp and possible transmission of communicable diseases from workers to local poptIlation and vice versa. A
fully staffed and equipped Health Care Centre should be established at each inain camp to provide health education,
preventive health care and primary treatment of ailments and infectious diseases. T'his facility should be available
not only to the workforce but also to local peoplc, if affected by the project. The main construction camp premises
and buildings can be beneficial to the local community after project completion. Provision should bc made to
encourage such transfer.
IX.    Control of breeding habitats for disease vectors during road construction
Assessment of vector ecology in work areas should enable to take steps where possible to prevent the emergence of
breeding habitats for mosquitoes and other disease vectors. For this purpose, a joint protocol to be subscribed by local
Hlealth Authorities and the Contractor(s) should be attached to the Contract Documents.
X.     Safeguard of cultural heritage during road construction
Tanzania is the home of some of the world's earliest and most famous hominid remains, but no such discovery has
been so far reported in the road project area.  By contrary, a number of pre-historic cave paintings has been
inventoried in thie area, even though not les than 15 km on both sites of the selected alignment. No source of
information refers to the likclihood of unknown archaeological or paleontological sites being jeopardized by the futlurc
road works. During the construction stage, Tanroads should engage the services of an archaeologist with good
knowledge of the project area, to advise on work management systems suitable to avoid damage to eventual
paleontological, prehistoric and historic PCR. Tanroads will ask the National Museum to provide an accurate list, wiLh
descriptions and illustrations, of the known paleontological, archaeological and historical relics already fotund in the
Wider Project Area. Tanroads will also ask the Ministry of Education & Culture - possibly in collaboration with the
Institute of Anthropology of the University of Dar es Salaam - to provide a repertory illustrating the contemporary
PCR, such as ethnic architecture, graveyards, sacred trees or groves and other features of particular value for the local
etinicities. Bothl lists will be attached to the Works Contiacts. A clause in the Contract will oblige the Contractor to
stop the works and report to the Works Supervisor in the event of castial finding of PCR similar to those illustrated in
the lists attached to the Contract. The Supervisor will inform Tanroads, which will advise the appropriate measures to
protect the PCR, saving them in situ or displacing them to nearby locations. In other words, the EMP will incorporate
a 'chance-finds' clause, requiring the Contractor to take certain steps in the event of encountering PCR. This will
require collaboration between the project, the Ministry of Education & Culture and the National Museum. Moreover,
if the highway works will result to can cut off access by rural residents to sacred sites or other PCR relevant to the
local communities, Tanroads will discuss the matter with their leaders to attain a satisfactory solutioni to stich problem.
*  *   *
Aninex 8 - Part 2b                          Annex c° - 41                                 Tech niplan



6inolda Nihelui Road: Detailecl engineermng Design        F'inal Report: Annex 8 - EJA, SIA & RIA
Part 2b
Phase m   of EAP, after the road is opened to service     (2004 onward)
Phase m of the Environmental Action Plan will mobilize five environmental impact
management processes, namely:
i.   Traffic Management
ii.  Developmenlt of Ancillary Infrastructure
iii. Ecosystem Protection in the Road Influence Zone
iv. Safeguard of Physical Cultural Resources in the Road Influence Zone
v.   Environmentally Sustainable Road Maintenance
vi. Health Protection Against Disease Vectors (HIV-AIDS and others)
vii. Benefit Enhancement Measures,
as reviewed in the following table
Table 7.5    IMPACT MITIGATION OR ENsiANCEMENT OF ROAD USE AND MAINTENANCE (2004 ONWARD)
1. Traffic Management
Traf'fic is expected to raise from the present 300 vehicles per day (two-ways) to 600 in 201. Risks will increase
proportionally, unless curbed by appropriate measures.
Traffic managemenst responsibilities
Risks                       Measures                    Responsibility
Accidents                    Safety management          MCT, MoW, Police
1-tazards for livestock     New markets, crossings       MCT, MOA
Noise, vibration, polLItion  Vehicle & speed checks      MCT, Traffic Police
Damage from overloading     Axle load control           MOW, Traffic Police
MCT    Ministry of Coin,ninicalions & Transport
Key   MOA    Ministry ofAgricilitriue
MOW    Ministry of Works
Safety management. Central Government duties will be shared with the corresponding services of Singida Regional
Authorities. The Ministry of Communications & Transport will check that speed-reducing bumps are advertised and
maintained in urban crossings. Traffic police will control speed, exhaust emission, axle load limnits, vehicle age and
efficiency. The Traffic Police, will deliver courses local schools on road traffic behavior.
Focus on urban areas. Across towns and villages, speed signs, rumble strips, intersection layout, channeling of flow,
access restrictions, Ibot paths, bus stops and crossing signs will be installed. Road markings, crash barriers and guard
rails are recomnended on certain bends and high embankments. Through shallow cuttings or small embankments in
ulban areas or villages, local amenity shall be maintained. The side slopes of earthworks will be smoothly shaped to
ease pedestrian access. Side drainage is designed to allow both vehicular and pedestrian access to side streets and
nearby properties. Pedestrian and cycling pathways are foreseen at bridge and culvert crossings.
Control of hazards for livestock. Safety measures will prevent hazards at cattle markcts and in grazing areas where.
In Tumuli and Misigiri villages, cross bars will prevent animals from entering the road.
Control of noise, vibration, air PolLItion. axle load. Checks of vehicle age, efficiency and axle load by Traffic Police
is essential anid must be reinforced by timely inspections form central traffic authorities. Controls are insufficient to
cope even with the present, low traffic rates.
I             IL. Development of Ancillary Infrastructure
Scope of action. As soon as the upgrading works are over, ancillary facilities should start being implemented as part
of the environmental and social mitigation mneasures required by the project. Ancillary road infrastructure will
feature, priority-wise: (a) Traffic stations and motor parks, (b) Livestock markets, (c) Feeder network development,
and: (d) amelioration of the stock route
Annex 8 - Part 2b                           Annex 8 - 42                                  Techniplan



Singida Shelui Road: Detailed Engineering Design          Final Report: Anntex 8 - EIA, SIA & RIA
Part 2b
Responsibilities and costs. Ancillary infrastructure falls within the jurisdiction of Singida Regional Government.
lnvestment funds should be fed by the regional budget, possibly assisted by credit line facilities. Operation and
maintenance costs should be recovered through user fees and community participation.
Summary of required ancillary facilities. The advised complementary infrastructure, to be set up in five years after
completion of the main project, is displayed in the following table.
Synopsis of required co plemenitary i frastricture
,Livestock     Feeder     Stock route     Cost
Location      Motor parks    markets     roads (km)      (km)         US $
1. Singida            .                         250           15         380,000
2. Tumuli              -                          ,           15          40,000
3. 1gLgtino      _                  -            80           10         150,000
4. Misigiri  .         .                         35            5          150,000
5. Slielui                          -            25            -          90,000
Total            42                        390           45         810,000
Traffic stations and motor parks. At least two bus bays should be constructed in every village or town traversed by
the Project Road. A truck parking station should be built at Singida, with fuel refilling facilities, cafe, toilets, tyre
maintenance, mechanical workshops and telecom facilities. Traffic stations and motor parks for the public should be
constructed or upgraded in five urban centers (Singida, Msisi, Iguguno, Misigiri, Sekenke). In the same centers, police
stations should be strengthiened to better cope with accident relief standards, including adequate telecommunication.
Livestock markets. In market hours, livestock invades the road premises at Misigiri and Tumuli. New market
facilities must be developed at least 500 meters clear of the Road Reserve Areas in the two centers.
Feeder road development. To spread the benefits of the project across the feeder transport basin, the district network
must be upgraded and expanded. The existing network spans a total length of 390 kin, about half of which in areas
where traffic expansion would not create ecological damage, because natural resources have already been depleted by
extensive farming and overgrazing. In such marginal environment, road expansion can stimulate cconomic growth and
even exert a beneficial influence on the ecology. In fact, upgraded district roads may facilitate the delivery of
extension services for sustainable farm practices, agro-forestry, reforestation and hunting control in the "Open Areas"
(see § 4). By contrary, the remaining half of the regional and district roads cuts across sensitive wetlands and forests.
This part of the Feeder network should not be developed unsless environmental impact assessment is undertaken.
111. Ecosystem Protection in the Road Influence Zone
Overview. AFter the upgraded road is opened to service, both direct and indirect impacts will beset wildlife arcas,
forests and fuel wood availability in the road's traffic basin. Risks at macro-environmental scale can hardly be
predicted at the present stage. A tentative conjecture is outlined below.
Long-term ecosystem risks and advised measutres (year 2003 onsward)
Risks                                Scheduled mitigation measures
i        Prevention of bush fire hazards           Creation of wind and fire scrcens
ii    Indiscriminate timber cutting, land clearing  Involve local leaders to stop illegal cutting
iii   Wildlife reduction                        Open Areas hunting management
iv    I'est and weed colTidors                  CheckpoinLs based on vector ecology survey
v      Demographic densification                Strengthening of town planning tasks
1. PREVENTION OF BUSH FIRE HAZARDS. The road crosses many vegetal landscapes, including 24 line km of dry
forests, to be shielded against fire (see § 4). In woodland areas, naked flames can lick the road and, apart from Forest
destruction, jeopardize the vehicles. Two remedies can prevent the risk: (a) empty corridors on both sides of the
road, at least 10 in wide; (b) green screens. The first option needs steady clearing and is uncomfortable to drivers, as
they see two narrow strips running along. The second option is better. The usual road-side green barrier is a row of
fire-resistant trees, also yielding edible fruits, fodder and wood. For multi-purpose fire breaking screens in semi-arid
areas like Singida, cashcw trees (Anacardiuoisi occidentale) arc good. They thrive on rain, runoff and shallow water
tables, providing a nice scenery and filtering traffic pollution. Their fruits are processed into juices. Cashew rows
allow crossfilg by animals. Fences should be forbidden along the road. Outside the forests, the routine clearing of
road shoulders is required, but fire barriers are unnecessaty across the grasslands or low, sparse bush. 3m-wide
grassless strips are advised alongside the road tirough cultivated lands.
11. FIGHT AGAINST ILLEGAL TIMBER cUrrING. &
111. PROTECTION OF WILDLIFE. Local leaders should be involved in repressing illegal tree cuts. The whole of the
road influence zone is subject to the "Open Areas" regime, whereby hunting is virtually uncontrolled and gamc is
Aniiex 8 - Part 2b                          Annex 8 - 43                                  Tech niplant



Singida Shelui Road: Detailed Engineering Design       Fitial Report: Annex 8 - EIA, SIA & RIA
Part 2b
dwindling or has altogether disappeared. Wildlife authorities should consider revising hunt control systems in such
areas, as a way to cope with easier access to residual game habitats when the upgraded road is opened to traffic.
IV. CONTROL OF DISEASE VECTORS AND CORRIDORS. With the increase of traffic flows, the likelihood of new
diseases being introduced by imrrmigrants and road users demands a close assessment.  Health checks and
vaccination facilities should be strengthened. Investigation of vector ecology should enable epidemnics to be
prevented. To control pest and weed transmission corridors, the competent authorities should strengthen plant and
animal sanitationi services anud related checkpoints.
V. CONTROL OF CONGESTION. District authorities should adjust planning rules to avoid densification of buildings
and commercial gervices just beyond the right of way of the upgraded road. The Ministry of Land & Human
Settlement Development should provide local planners with updated topographic maps of the road, enabling them to
control its impact on urban land use. Baseline data may be derived from the topographic maps at scale 1:2000
produced by the present project to cover the 100 m strip from the road centerline. Ideally, strip mapping should be
expandcd to provide the basis for cadastral mapping of the settlements impacted by higher traffic rates and
consequent urban congestion risks. On this basis, the existing urban master plans can be updated and new ones
created for the othler growth centers.
Responsibilities and costs of ecosystem protection. Ecosystem protection is the duty of the Environmental
Department of the Vice-President's Office. The Ministry of Natural Resources & Tourism and the Forestry
Department also share broad responsibilities, with. The environmental jurisdiction of Singida Regional Government
is ruled by its statute or delegated by Central Government. The costs of ecosystem protection after road completion
should be bom by the agencies in charge. However, an awareness campaign should be financed by the present
project, to promote wildlife protection, tree planting, bush-fire control and other ecological initiatives relying on
comnmunity participation. The campaign should be participated by the Local Govemments and NGOs of Singida
Region. Subventions are proposed for this purpose (see § 8).
| IV. Physical Cultural FHeritage (PCR) safeguard in the Road lnfluence Zone
Mitigation of neeative i-npacts. More intensive road use roads can expose PCR not only to direct damage. Easier,
uncontrolled access to PCR may increase thefts, acts of vandalism and other negative events. After works completion,
Tanroads will collaborate with the Ministry of Education & Culture, the National Museum and the local authorities to
protect the PCR in the near environs of the road, featuring: prehistoric and historic sites, cemeteries and family graves,
traditional trees or groves, churches, mosques, mission houses, vernacular architecture, etc. The PCR should be
carefliily inventoried by updating the baseline survey of the present EIA study. In particular, more information should
be gathered on the prchistoric cave sites. Tanroads should approach the National Museum to assist in this regard. A
desk study on the archives should also search for possible historic sites such as battlefields. Impacts and mitigation
measures should be debated with village councils and higher local authorities along the road corridor.
Opportunities for enhancine the positive impacts. It is recommended that the road project should stLpport a $50,000
program Ibr making an inventory of prehistoric and historic sites, and for promoting cultural tourism and eco-tourism.
The influx of touLrists usually exerts both negative and positive impacts on PCR sites. The measures advised in the
previous paragraph will ensure a proper management and protection of the sites. Is this stretch of road a natural
extension to an existing tourist circuit? Once more information is available on PCR safeguard and feedback is
obtained from the authorities responsible for cultural heritage, suclh a proposal will be formulated in detail. If in the
future the road becomes part of a tourist circuit, care should be taken not to inflict visual damage to the landscape,
such as hillside scars when quarrying for road maintenance material.
I        V. Environmentally Sustainable Road Maintenance
A dedicated "Maintenance Handbook" is recommended for Singida-Shelui road for Lhe following reasons:
i. some engineering solutions, as geo-mats on road cuts are not diffused in Tanzania (see Fig. 14 to 17)
ii. the viaducts on Kinkungu river need intensive maintenance due their technological characteristics
iii. file-shlields and the stock-route need mandatoly maintenance, coordinated with the Forestry and Livestock
Department
Road mailnenance staff is mobile, anid the hanidbook will help reducing the need to renovate the same written
instrilCtions whenever new maintenance engineer is appointed. As mentioned in § 8, the Handbook should be
prepared by the concerned Agencies, coordinated by the Environmental Department of the Vice President's Office. A
subvention can be budgeted for this puripose.
I Vl. Health protection against disease vectors, including HIV/ALDS control and mitigation costs
Available inforination. Tanzanian Authorities, NGOs, religious groups and individuals work to prevent HIV/AIDS
Anniex 8 - Part 2b                        Annex 8 - 44                               Techniplan



Singida Sheluli Road: Detailed Engineering Desi-ri        Final Repoirt: Atninex 8 - EIA, SIA & RIt
Part 2b
and provide care and support to the infected pcopie. According to UNDP's Dar es Salaam office dealing with
HIV/AIDS, no statistical records are available to compare the prevalence of the epidemics in the project region with
other regions in the Country. Singida town is however believed to havc a hiigh prevalence rate.
Risks. Road construction exposes the labourers and the general public to bronchial.and other pathological risks.
Moreover, the most serious health concern haunting local communities is AIDS-HIV. The disease can spread as a
result of the intIux of construction workers into areas.
Recommended mitieation measures. Provision of working figures and good camp management is required. First aid
facilities shall be installed in all camps. AIDS-HI-IV should be closely monitored under the responsibility of the
medical unit of the Contractor(s), which should proceed to regular checks of the health status of the workers.
Planned mitieation measures. Tanzanian Authorities, NGOs, religious groups and individuals, are involved in the
prevention, provision of care and support to people infected and affected with HIV/AIDS. The HIV/AIDS epidemic
in the project area has less infection rates that in the whole Country. Provision of working figures and good camp
management is required. First aid facilities shall be installed in all camps. AIDS-HIV should be closely monitored
under the responsibility of the medical unit of the Contractor(s), which should proceed to regular checks of the
health status of the workers.
Mitigation costs. A preliminary prevention and control of HIV/AIDS diffusion itf the road area requires the
participation of local NGOs, especially those involved in AIDS-HIV control. A sum of 30,000 US $ should be used
for this purpose.
VII. Benefit Enhancement Measures
Traffic increase wiil generate opportunities in Singida region.
Environmental opportunities include:
- strengthening of forestry offices and village nurseries, supported by the project
- improvement of water and sanitation services
- enhancement of research on, and protection of, natural resources and cultural heritage.
Social opportunities bear upon:
- the renovation of the struggle against poverty
- increase in land prices and related tax revenues
- upgraded educational and health services, especially in urban areas
- improvement of infrastructire (energy, water supply and others)
- job generation
- creation of a favorable business environment and new credit lines for SME
Higher land prices represent both an opportunity and a risk, as they may marginalize indigenous farmers. Even though
farming rights are exchanged consensually, in the long run the best land may end up in the hands of commercial
investors. Confined to marginal soils, smailholders would resort to extensive, destructive agriculture. Agricultural
extension servicemen should identify the endangered groups and assist them in offsetting any adverse consequence.
Infiastructure development opportunities. This includes power and water supply. At present, only a small fraction of
the urban population is connected to electricity lines and piped water. The road will facilitate the extension of energy
and water supply both in the urban areas and in the villages along thc alignment.
Road-related cuiltural development: (a) initiatives to counteract cultural losses . The President's Office and the
Ministry of Education and Culture are currently carrying on several programs to enable traditional values to survive
the destructive, yet inevitable, impact of modernization. A number of research and community participatory schemes
are being identified and implemented, sometimes on an experimental basis. It is recommended that such schemes be
intensified in' Singida Region, in connection with the-opening to service of the upgraded trunk road section. The
World Bank facilities for the preservation of ethnic culturcs could also be considered as a possible resource. (b)
Hiehlieht on archaeology heritage. To counteract at least part of the negative impacts on local culture, it is advised
to invest in protection and development-of historic and artistic heritage. Priority should be given to prehistoric art,
which has the potential of attracting international scholars, university students and tourists in general. It is proposed
to finance a complemenit of the WARA project described in (see § 2.2) of Appendix F and assist the Ministry of
Natural Resources' and Tourism in preparing guided excursions and organized circuit/tours covering the most
significant prehistoric sites (see § 11.2).
Annex 8 - Part 2b                           Annex 8 - 45                                  Tecltiziplan



Sin-ida ShCluli Road: Detailed Enlgineering Design  Filial Report: Aninex 8 - MJA, SIA & RIA
Part 2b
7.3  Proposed institutional framework of E.A.P
7.3.1 Existing framework. Ministries and Executive Agencies have produced many policy
documents, some comprehensive, others focused on specific matters.
General Environmental Policy documents include:
i.  Enivironmental Action Plan (1994)
ii. National Environmental Policy (1997) and:
iii. National Conservation Strategy for Sustainable Development (NCSSD), 1996
Sector Environmental Policies are embodied in the: (i) Forestry Policy of 1998, (ii) Water
Policy(2002), (iii) Energy Policy of 1992, (iv) National Land Policy of 1995. The present
project must comply with the legislation stemming from the general and sector environmental
policies. The Principal Legislation applicable to the ecological components of Singida-Shelui
road project is embodied in the following Acts of Parliament:
-   Protected Places and Areas Act (1969)
-   Forestry Act (1965 and subsequent amendments)
-   Water utilisation (Control and Regulation) Act, 1974 amended inl981.
-   Wildlife Conservation Act (1974) amnended in 1978 5
-   National Environment Management Council Act (1983)
Subsidiary Legislation also applies, including Decrees, Orders and regulatory decisions.
Appendix A provides detailed background data on the policy, legal and administrative
framework of the environmental and resettlement issues of the present project.
7.3.2 Proposed institutional mobilizationt for Singida-Shelui Enlvironmental Action Plan.
Under the legislation in force, the key players who can mobilize the resources and manage the
EAP of Singida-Shelui road project are:
i.  Tanroads: responsible for designing and implementing the environmental infrastructure,
in collaboration with other relevant Ministries and Executive Agencies.
ii.  the Enivironmental Department of the Vice President's Office (VPO): it coordinates the
Ministries and the Executive Agencies participating in the project. The VPO also co-
ordinates NGO participation to large-scale public works (see § 10.8)
iii.  the National Environmental Management Council (NEMC): it supervises the standards
adopted and the performance levels achieved. 6
7.3.3 EAP managemnen2t. The environmental institutions should manage the EAP according to
the procedure outlined below:
A  The Tanroads should appoint an Environmenital Task Manager to coordinate the
environmental components of Singida-Shelui road works. He will submit, to the Vice
President's Office and NEMC, an EAP Memorandiwn suggesting the ecological components
pertaining to Tanroads and those which fall under under the jurisdiction of other Agencies
B   The Vice President's Office will react to the input by Tanroads and prepare the working
schedule of all the involved Agencies - including the Ministry of Communications &
Transport, the Ministry of Home Affairs (Traffic Police), the Ministry of National
Resources & Tourism, the Ministry of Lands & Human Settlements Development, the
Ministry of Agriculture & Food Security, the Ministry of Water & Livestock Development,
Ministry of Energy and Minerals,, the President's Office -Regional Administration and
Local Government (mobilization of Regional and District Authorities) and so forth.
This Act also operates Wit/li the limitations and requiremients of the Convention on International Trade in
Endatngered Species (CITES) the National Parks ordinanice and related regulatiois.
6 The Natiollat EnzviroIllllental Council is responsiblefor the measures directed to control the impact of public wvorks
and maitigate their- negative consequenices. See details in Appendix A.
Aninex 8 - Part 2b                 Annex 8 - 46                         Techniplan



Singida Shelui Road: Detailed Engineering Design  Fiuial Report: Ainnex 8 - EIA, SIA & RIA
Part 2b
C The Ministries and Agencies will comment the schedule prepared by the Vice President's
Office, proposing adjustments where necessary.
D   The National Environmental Management Council will provide its advisory and evaluation
functions, focusing on the input transmitted by the Vice President's Office.
Figure 7.1 on next page shows the proposed EAP architecture.
7.3.4 Field organization of EAP. The role of the Regional and District Authorities in
environmental and resettlement matters are either regulated by their statutes or delegated by the
Central Government. The President's Office -Regional Administration and Local Governments
will inform Singida Regional Government about the EAP measures adopted at Central
Government level. Even though regional offices cuiTently lack the technical and financial
resources to enforce an environmental process, they have the administrative authority to inspect
the application of all measures. They also instruct the District Offices on how to participate to
the project and how to mobilize the concerned local communities. This encourages a
multi-disciplinary approach, that is cooperative and collaborative, as required in addressing
impact mitigation and resettlement issues.
7.3.5 Administrative schedule. The management process outlined in the previous paragraphs is
estimated to require three months for completion.
Table 7.6  EAP management schedule (2003-04)
EAP activities                       Months since August 2003 .
1   2   3   4   5   6
1.  Tanrioads: appointment of Environmental Desk Officerl
2.  Desk Officer: preparation of Project Environmental Memorandumi
3.  Vice President's Office: preparation of EAP schedule
4.   Vice President's Office: notice to Ministries and other Agencies  _
5.  Ministries, other Agencies: comments on Memorandum and Schedule
6.  Vice President's Office: notice to Ministry of Local Government & RA        -
7 Regional administration and Local Government: noticc to Singida
Regional Govemment
8.  Singida Regional Govemment: notice to Districts, NGOs, communities
9.  Operational start-up of Administrative framework operations
Densification of administrative procedures in the first part of the bar chart betokens the tight
time frame of the proposed administrative architecture.
7.3.6 Contractual compoinents of the environmental action plan. The environmental measures
incorporated in the detailed engineering design will be attached, along with their bill of
quantities, to the Works Contract. The Contractor shall take stock of the contents of the final
design version of the Environmental Impact Assessment Report of the project.
7.3.7 Proposed sutpervision system. An environmental expert should be appointed to assist
the Works Supervisor, in order to make sure that the Environmental Measures are effectively
complied with and timely adjusted whenever necessary. The expert will be familiar with the
scientific measurement of environmental impacts and remedies. He will work on a part-time
basis and may be selected, by the firm in charge of works supervision, from the roster of
national environmental experts. He will liaise with the relevant public agencies and will carry
out the training scheme associated to his assignment (see § 10.6.3).
7.3.8 EAP monitoring. Monitoring devices are needed to check if and to what extent the
impacts are mitigated, benefits enhanced and new problems addressed. The monitoring scheme
should be geared to ensure, inter alia, that:
- earthwork crews spare top soil for later use in re-vegetation
Aninex 8 - Part 2b                   Annex 8 - 47                          Techniplan



Singida Shelui Road: Detailed Engineering Design  PFinal Report: Annex 8 - EIA, SIA & RIA
Part 2b
- construction camps are well managed, avoiding environmental and social disruption
- water quality is preserved at bridge and culvert construction sites
- spill prevention methods are utilized for fuels, lubricants, solvents (leak inspection, etc.)
- trees and green barriers are planted along the road.
The competent Authority (Vice President's Office, see § 8) will monitor the EAP.
7.3.9 Enivironmental audit. It is recommended that audits verify the long-term effects of the
adopted measures. It is also advised that audits be carried out on the project as part of the
maintenance program. The audits will unveil the performance of mitigation measures, allowing
effective measures to be included in future projects. Based on the legislation in force, the
National Environmental Council is responsible for such audits (see § 10.2.1)..
7.3.10 Personnel and training. The Environmental Assistant of the Works Supervisor will
transfer his professional know-how to the regional and district-level administrative staff -
either through on-the-job activities or through shoilt formal courses at Singida regional
headquarters - in order to strengthen their performance in participating to the implementation of
the EAP. The project will earmark a sum for this purpose. The Environmental Assistant will
design and deliver the environmental training packages.
7.3.11 Constraints to be overcorne. A lack of local environmental policies and conmmitment at
regional level may impair. EAP implementation. At present, a systematic consideration of
environmental risks stemming from infrastructure project is still uncommon, especially at local
administrative level. Procedures for project screening and impact assessment are yet to be fully
institutionalized, despite the initiatives undertaken by the Vice President's Office and the
National Environmental Council. To achieve a solid implementation framework, special efforts
must be deployed by the administrative staff of Tanroads at central and local level.
7.3.12  Mainzteniance handbook. The preparation of a dedicated "Maintenance Handbook" is
recommnended for Singida-Shelui road, for the following reasons:
i.   some proposed engineering solutions, as geo-mats or geo-cells to protect the road
cuttings through Sekenke Escarpment are not diffused in Tanzania (see Fig. 14 to 17)
ii.  the viaducts across Kinkungu river need regular, intensive maintenance taking into
account their technological characteristics
iii.  fire-shields and the stock-route require mandatory maintenance, in collaboration with the
Forestry Department and the Livestock Department
As the staff in charge of road maintenance is highly mobile, the handbook will help reducing the
need to renovate the same written instructions all the times a new maintenance engineer is
appointed at regional or district level. As mentioned in § 9.4, the Handbook should be jointly
prepared by the various concerned Agencies, under the coordination of the Environmental
Department of the Vice President's Office. A subvention can be budgeted for this purpose.
7.3.13 Comnmunity participation to EAP. During the field mission, the Consultant has made
preliminary field checks to gauge the opinion of local leaders and comrnmunity members toward
the ecological and resettlement implications of Singida-Shelui Road Project. Consultations have
also been carried out with regional and district authorities and village groups. The response has
been largely positive at all levels, but the approach was inevitably general and somehow
abstract. In fact, the respondents usually enthused vis-a-vis the perspective of solving the major
transport problems of the region. The ecological and resettlement costs and implications were
inevitably overshadowed by the expected benefits. Therefore, a second passage is required, now
that the key environmental themes are analytically focused by the present report and detailed
questionnaires can be circulated to elicit response on the required administrative and
participatory conu-nitments. It is therefore suggested to carry out, during the final design stage, a
deeper field enquiry, to elicit comments and suggestions by local authorities, after the present
report - or a revised/improved version - is circulated among them. At the same time, a
Annex 8 - Part 21)                 Annex 8 - 48                        Techniplan



Singida Shelui Road: Detailed Engineering Design             Final Report: Annex 8 - EIA, SIA & RIA
Part 2b
simplified opinion poll could take place among the representatives of local NGOs and
significant rural and urban communities of the Road Influence Area.
8. ENVIRONMENTAL COSTS
8.1 Overall cost estimates
Environmental      mitigation   and   enhancement      measures     - including    remedial    works    and
investment to offset construction damages and post-construction impacts of road use - are
estimated at 1,130,000 US $, equal to 2,4%        of total project costs. Investment costs for ancillary
infrastructure and other follow-up interventions are not included in the project, as they will be
borme by the central and regional administrations, with the participatory effort of local tirban
and rural communities.
8.2  Cost of environmental mitigation and enlhancement measures
8.2.1   Cost of mitigation      measures. The remedial works required to cancel the ecological
damages made during road construction are tabulated below.
Table 8.1    Envir-onmnental impact mitigation costs,
inclludinzg remedial works and support to local inistitutions/coiznmutnities (in US $)
Item                         I    Unit    I Quantity    Unit Rate      Total Cost
Phases I & II. Mitigation of the impact of construction works (*)
1.1    Filling/leveling of quarries, pits, rubble mounds  m         270;000        2           540,000
1.2    Reforestation of 1.1 above                         Ha          30         1,200           36,000
1.3    Reforestation of camps, yard sites, detours, etc.  Ha          20         1,200           24,000
1.4    Disposal pits for solid, liquid waste              m          5,000         10            50,000
1.6    Vegetation cover of cutting slopes                 m         60,000         t             60,000
1.7    "To spoil" areas (reforestation with indigenous trees)  Ha     45          1200           40,000
1.8    Other work mitigation costs                    lump sum                                   50,000
Sutb-total I                                                               800,000
Phase Ill. Mitigation of the impact of road use & maintenance (only start-tip costs)
2.1    Tree planting in villages crossed by the road    seedling     4,000         5             20,000
2.2    Fire baiTiers in forest areas                    seedlinig    10,000         5            50,000
2.3    Entrance gates & signs, Sekenke/ Wembere Reserves       10,000                            10,000
2.4    Awareness campaign for forests & wildlife             lump sum                            20,000
2.5    Support to local environmental NGOs                   lump sum                            45,000
2.6    Support to locat Govemment environmental services     lump sum                            35,000
2.7    Health measures including HIV protection              lump sum                            50,000
Sub-total 2                                                                230,000
Grand Total                                                               1,030,000
() 77Te cost oftlie E,iviro,z,ietial Assistatit oftihe Works Supervisor will be born by tle Supeivisioni Co,it ract.
Key to table 8.1
Itemn.s 1.2, 1.3. Reforestation requires 400 plant seedlings per ha, to be supplied by local nurseries at 3 to 5 US$
per plant, including land preparation, seedling production, planting, manurig, pest control, first watering, fencing
against browsing animals, replacement if necessary (10%).
Item 1.5. Tree rows with screening plants at intervals of 10 m. Average cost: 5 US$ per plant. Activities are the
same as for item 1.21 (individual protection of plant, regular watering until full.growth, guardianship).
Iteml 2.1. Awareness campaign will be organized and delivered by the local branches of the Forestry Department in
collaboration with the Regional Engineer of the Ministuy of Works.
Anilex 8 - Part 2b                            Annex 8 - 49                                    Technziplanl



Singida Shelui Road: Detailed Engineering Design  Final Report: Anntex 8 - EIA, SIA & RIA
Part 2b
lIemtis 2.2, 2.3. Local Government and NGO services will be assisted to develop nurseries, diffuse energy-saving
ovens and multiply the effects of the environmental awareness campaign.
The total cost of the remedial works to be included in the Bill of Quantities and other contract
documents is estimated at 1,030,000 US$. As far as the mitigation of the impact of road use and
maintenance is concerned, only the costs of the first year (start-up costs) are considered. The
costs of ancillary infrastructure are not budgeted, as the project will not support them. Their cost
will be shared between the Central and the Regional Governments.
8.2.2 Cost of the enhancement measures. They will cover two major components, for a total
amount of 100,000 US $:
Measures to allay the environmental impacts of road use: an awareness campaign should be
financed to promote forest and wildlife protection, tree planting, control of firewood cutting and
other ecological measures. The campaign should be undertaken in collaboration with the Local
Governments and NGOs based in Singida. 50,000 US $ can be earmarked for this purpose.
CultUral heritage and tourism: The project should subsidize a cultural tourism program for the
prehistoric and historic sites mentioned in § 50,000, including:
o   completion of rock drawings inventory, as a follow-up of WARA Project: 15,000 US $
o   preparation of brochures and organization of cultural tourism circuits in the Road Influence
Area: US $ 20,000
o   preparation of brochures and organization of eco-tourism circuits in the Road Influence
Area: US $ 15,000
Annex 8 - Part 2b                    Annex 8 - 50                         Techniplan



Singida Shelui Road: Detailed Engineering Design  Final Report: Annex 8 - EIA, SIA & RIiA
Part 3
PART 3
RESETTLEMENT IMPACT ASSESSMENT (RIA)
&
RESETTLEMENT ACTION PLAN (RAP)
Anlex 8-Part3                     Annex 8 - 51                       Techniplan



Singida Shelui Road: Detailed Engineering Design  Final Report: Annex 8 - EIA, SIA & RIA
Part 3
9. RllESSETTLEMENT IMPACT ASSESSEMENT &
RESETTLEMENT ACTION PLAN
9.1 Project Description in Relation to Resettlement
The road influence area is characterized by four types of urban and rural settlements as
reviewed below:
i.   Remote Village Areas
ii.  Village Areas Crossed by the Road
iii.  Trade Centers
iv.  Urban Areas,
9.1.1 Remote Village Areas. The rural territory - which covers 96% of Singida Region - is
divided among 236 Administrative Village Areas (AVA). The AVA are the smallest telTitorial
units, at the bottom level of the administrative hierarchy.1 The Regional Govemment, with
foreign aid, is mapping their boundaries. The AVA have an average surface of 210 sq km with
3,600 inhabitants, two-thirds farmers, the rest semi-nomadic herdsmen, both segments sharing
common lineage affiliations. In remote areas, uninfluenced by road traffic,2 most hanlets have
traditional, nucleated layouts, with the homesteads built concentrically around the main meeting
place, where the house of the elected Village Chairman is frequently found. No regular street
grid separates the compounds. Hedges or palisades encompass the huts where the households,
usually more than one, reside. Land occupancy rights are still inspired by customary law and
household members take care of the tracks, the water supply and other communal facilities.
Isolated homesteads are rare in the countryside, save seasonal herdsmen camps, makeshift
farming shacks and a few compounds of medicine men. Specialized buildings - stores, temples,
offices - are uncormmon, except primary schools, located a mile or so from the nearest hamlet
and serving more than one AVA. As traditional hamlets lie far from the road, their land tenure
system will hardly be affected by the project.
9.1.2 Village Areas traversed by tlze project road. Singida -Shelui Road splits 10 AVA,
covering a total surface of 2,500 sq kin, with some 40,000 inhabitants.
General features. Unlike traditional hamlets , the villages crossed by the project road are modern
settlements, with a regular layout complying with the physical planning rules introduced by the
Government since the 1960s. Under such rules, the village streets must be reshaped into a
geometric grid on both sides of the trunk road, clear of the right of way. The elected Village
Chairman is responsible for rule abidance. He allocates square plots to those who intend to build
new houses. The old houses were realigned in the grid long time ago. The State owns the land
but the dwellers enjoy a free occupancy right, compensated if the plot is confiscated for public
utility. The built-up portions of the modern AVA are ribbon shaped, with house rows lining
both sides of the highway to exploit through-fare business opportunities. The Village Areas
crossed by the project road feature specialized buildings facing the road front, such as stores,
bars, small hotels, eating rooms and workshops. Vendor stalls and shacks are also frequent.
I Village Areas are grouped int Wards (KaLa), which in their turn are grouped in Districts (Wilaya). Larger villages
are divided itn adminiistrative quariers anid hamlets.
2 rhe region's trunk roads connlect Singida Town respectively with: Manyoni, Arusha and Nzega
Annex 8-Part3                      Annex 8 - 52                        Tech niplan



Singida Shelui Road: Detailed Engineering Design  Final Report: Annlex 8 - ElA, SlIA & RIA
Part 3
Along the road, village dwellers are ethnically mixed and economically diversified, with
immigrants from other regions. Extended families are rarer than in remote hamlets.
Upgraded Village Quarters. Along Singida-Shelui road section, the Regional Government has
participated to the development of some major villages, like Misigiri, Ulemo and Shelui
Nselembwe, designing grid-shaped quarters served by streets, wells, markets and other
amenities. The Local Government has built the urban infrastructure of these new quarters and
rents out the plots for Sh 4,500 yearly to those who intend to build houses, complying with the
prescribed rural-construction standards. Although Upgraded Village Quarters date back to the
1980s, half of them are still empty due to weak demand (or over-sized offer). The
underdevelopment is contributed by:
*  People prefer the plots granted free-of-charge by the Village Chairmen,
*  The Regional Government lacks funds to complete the infrastructure of the planned
quarters.
Among the Government-sponsored Upgraded Village Quarters, only one, in Shelui Nselembwe
Trade Center, is affected by the present road project (see below).
9.1.3 Trade Centers: they are a special category of settlements, founded by Arab merchants in
rural Tanzania more than a century ago. Such Centers enjoy a legally-defined urban status,
blending the authority of an elected Council with the customary trading prestige of the
descendants of the Arab forefathers, most coming from the Sultanate of Oman. Over the years,
the Trade Centers have attracted a host of incomers from Singida and other regions. Their
population is in the 2,000-5,000 range, mostly made up of traders-cum-farm. The migration
turnover is quite high. The District Town Planning Offices have re-designed the layout of the
Trade Centers, featuring rectangular plots of a standard size (m 15 by 10), rented by the
Regional Government at Sh 4,500 yearly to both the old residents and the newcomers.
Numerous traders rent two or rnore contiguous plots to have a multi-compartment house.
District Authorities build streets, wells, drains, latrines, markets, bus stops, postal services and
other amenities. There is a primary school in each Trading Center. Singida - Shelui road section
cuts across two Trading Centers, namely: Iguguno at km 22, Shelui -Nselembwe at km 86:.
9.1 .4 Singida Urban Area.. Singida Town rose as a Trade Center established in pre-colonial
times by an Arab merchant near the ruler's headquarters of a local ethnic group. In the colonial
period, the town became a major administrative center. Nowadays, Singida Urban Area covers a
District surface of 310 km2, with 150,000 inhabitants. The town core extends over 15 km2 with
95,000 residents. The remaining urban administrative area is, as a matter of fact, strewn with
small rural settlements. Singida - Shelui road cuts across 10 km of Urban District land,
northwestward from the present zero point until Singida Rural District border. Up to km 10, the
road cuts across typical countryside landscapes, with agro-pastoral villages, hamlets and sparse
homesteads. The project will slightly affect Singida town as the right of way is quite narrow in
Singida's urban outskirts - 15 m on each roadside, as prescribed by urban street regulations
few buildings encroach into the corTidor.
9.2    Potential Impacts
The upgrading of the road to bitumen standards requires the respect of the right of way, totaling
54.25 acres. Such right is 22.5 m on each side of the design centerline in the rulal areas, for a
total length of 99.427 km. For 10 km of road in Singida Urban District the right of way is 15 m
on both side of the centerline. The design route will cross 12 major towns and villages. In each
settlement the project will impact on current land use both within the right of way corridor and
outside. It requires the relocation and compensation of both residential buildings, business or
Annex 8-Part3                     Annex 8 - 53                       Tech niplaui



Singida Shelui Road: Detailed Engineering Design  Final Report: Annex 8 - EIA, SIA & RIA
Part 3
community service premises and farms. For this reason, some buildings belonging to the
Admninistrative Village Areas (AVA) intersected by the road must be demolished.
At Iguigiuno trading center: The road will be realigned. It will cross in the farrmlands and
residential areas. Some buildings will be demolished. The bypass around the town will not
physically affect the Center. However, the center will be  economically affected as local
business people will miss the new traffic flow and will be obliged either to resettle closer to the
new route, or to try a new chance elsewhere. It is now a matter of local policy whether the
project should assist this spontaneous relocation effort, even though precedents of this kind can
hardly be found in earlier environmental studies for road projects across the country. It is most
likely that the settlements will move towards the new road realignment as it is not far (about
lkm) from Iguguno trading center.
At Sheliui Nselembwe Trade Center: The project road will affect the Center physically but also
slightly in business-wise: in fact, a whole row of houses and commercial premises lining the
right side of the road, Tabora direction, encroaches into the right of way, but can be relocated in
the immediate vicinities, possibly without damaging the business opportunities. The
improvement of road may affect the business at Shelui trading center, as many vehicles may not
stop at Shelui due to good road condition.
The resettlement in the area will be contributed by road construction works including road
realignment, civil works, borrow pitting activities, camp siting and detours. Aong others, the
resettlement impacts resulting from this undertaking covers:
-    Displacing a total of 113 building structtires which accommodates 52 businesses, 61
residencies, 2 offices and one mosque. However, 9 building structures are under
construction.
-    Displacing the total farming area amount to 59.25acres..
Impact of the road project oin the farinlands. The impact on the farmlands along the road will
be limited. In fact:
-    no cultivation does encroach on the existing right of way
-    the realigned sections of the road will cross farmlands for a length of 5 km.
-    the selected borrow pits are located in thickets and other currently unfarmed areas
-    quarries lie far from farm plots
-    the new Sekenke route will run along Kinkungu river through steep, unfarmed hills.
Many fallow areas are suitable for contractors' work sites, detours and waste disposal. The
project road is likely to affect 59.25 acres of existing farmlands due to road realignments or
borrow pit use, as summarized below:
Table 9.1 : Suimmary of the impact of the project on localfarms
Areas                            Farmlands    Number of plots
_________________________________(acres)  ______________
Iguguno bypass                   54.25        34
Minor realignments               3.0          10
BoTrow pits                      2.0          2
Total                            59.2         46
Souirce: Consiltatnt's field survey, Auigust-September 2001 and
Tanroads field survey May 2003
Atinex 8-Part3                    Annex 8 - 54                       Techniplan



Singida Shelui Road: Detailed Engineering Design  Fijal Report: Annex 8 - EIA, SIA & RIA
Part 3
The displaced community in terms of losing their farmlands and houses will be compensated
and relocated accordingly.
9.3    Objectives
The main objective of this resettlement programe is to improve or at least to restore the social
and economic base of those to be relocated along Singida - Shelui road. In implementing this
resettlement programme Tanzania legislations and World Bank Operation Directives related to
resettlement have been followed
9.4    Socio-economic Study:
9.4.1 Land use azd land tenure system in the road area
(a) Land use. The land use patterns of Singida Region are as summarized below:
Table 9.2: Land teniure categories of Singida Region
Land use type                                      km2              %
I     [  Farmlands (mostly annual crops)            2,600           5.4
2        Fallow and open grazing & hunting land    32,000           66.1
3        Thicket                                   7,500            15.5
4        Forests of various densities              6,200            12.8
5        Built-up areas                             140             0.2
Total                                              48,440           100.0
Solurce: Consultant's estimates combining various statistical references and field checks
The Road Influence Area reflects, on a small scale, the broad land-use pattern of Singida
Region.
(b) Land tenure system. The land of Singida Region is a govemment property as applicable in
Tanzania. The local population is entitled to occupancy rights, as defined by the Land Act of
1999 and the related secondary legislation. The existing land ownership in rural village areas
along the project road is customary ownership and mnajority of the households in the urban area
and trading centers along the project road have the Land Title Deed.. Legally, the Land Tenure
System of Singida Region is articulated in five Territorial Sub-Systems, namely:
i. Village Areas: they comprise all rural territories except the Forest and Game Reserves
ii. Trade Centers: as part of urban land use, they include built-up areas and small outskirts
iii.  Urban Areas: they are three, engulfing the district town centers and their rural outski-ts
iv. Forest Reserve in Sekenke escarpment
v.  Game Reserve in Wembere lowlands
The use of farmlands, rangelands, forests and other natural resources is regulated within the
framework of the five Territorial Tenure Sub-Systems, whose features are profiled in the table
below and reviewed in the subsequent descriptions.
Annex 8-Part3                     Annex 8 - 55                       Technziplan



Singida Shelui Road: Detailed Engineering Design   Final Report: Annex 8 - EIA, SIA & RIA
Part 3
Table 9.3: Lanid tenutre sub-systems of Singida Region
Area
Sub-systems          No.    kM2        %     of Description
km      ~R egion's __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _
1.   Village Areas   236    47,050    95.60      Basic Territorial Units
2.   Trade Centers    5         25      0.01      Igugoe o, Shelui Nselesbwe and
3.   Urban Areas (1)  4       410       1.00      Singida Town and three other
District Townships
4.   Forest Reserves  1      1,800      3.65      Sekenke
5.   Game Reserves    1        60       0.12     Wembere
Total                          49,345  100.00     4 Districts (3 of them in the road
influence area)
(1) Including the rutral outskirts of the District Towns
The road influence area covers some 20,000 km2 within Singida Region, of which about 18,300
belong to Village Areas, 310 to Urban Areas, 5 to Trade Centers and 1,860 to Forest and Game
Reserves.
(c) Hunting regime. All rural territories except built-up areas and Forest and Game Reserves
have the status of "Open Lands", where the wild animals that are unprotected by the law can be
hunted freely. Hunters must pay to the Government the gazetted hunting fees.
9.4.2 Other Social Economiic Issutes: The population and other social issues were reviewed
as indicated in Appendix C, D, E, F and G of this Annex.
9.5    Legal Flraniework
9.5.1 Applicable rules. The Land Act and Village Land Act of 1999, Land Regulations of 2001
and the Government Standing Order on expropriation for public utility prescribe that the holders
of occupancy rights on the land estates pre-empted for the works must be compensated and
assisted to relocate their assets in the nearest suitable place. Most expropriation disputes in
similar projects are due to disagreements on the value at which the estate and its improvements
are to be compensated. The compulsory resettlement of constructions, farms and business
premises must ensure at least equal compensation values, both to the legal owners and to those
who have occupied the road reserve area disregarding the right of way. 3 According to the law,
the expropriated owner must be compensated with a price equal to the value that the "un-
exhausted improvements" (buildings, infrastructure, plantations, etc.) would fetch if sold on the
open market. 4The replacement value is defined as the cost of acquiring a similar estate and
putting up such improvements as those existing when evaluated. Allowance is made for age,
state of repair and economic obsolescence. According to Tanzania law, the compensation should
cover:
i)   Market value of the real property (i.e value of un-exhausted improvements and land).
ii)  Accommodation allowance (i.e market rent of the affected building per month multiplied
by 36 months).
3Equal also apply to illegal houses built inside the road reserve area.
4"Un-exhausted improvenients ", i.e., those notfitlly depreciated, mean any quality permanently attached to the land,
resultinigfiom capital or labor expenditure by the holder of a Right of Occupancy.
Annex 8-Part3                       Annex 8 - 56                         Techniplan



Singida Shelui Road: Detailed Engineering Design  Finial Report: Anntex 8 - EIA, SIA & RIA
Part 3
iii) Loss of profit allowance which is assessed by establishing Net Profit per month evidenced
by audit accounts multiplied by 36 months.
iv)  Disturbance allowance which is calculated by the value of the land by average percentage
rate of interest offered by commercial banks on 12 months fixed deposit at the tine of
loss of interest in land.
v)   Transport allowance which is actual cost of transporting 12 tons of luggage rail or road
(whichever is cheaper) within 20 km from the point of displacement.
9.5.2 .Real estate compensation rules. According to current applicable legislation in Tanzania,
the land has a value. The land owner with either a title deed or customary ownership has to be
compensated in cash for loosing the land for other development. The Government will simply
provide the resettled owner with alternative land plots of the same size in the nearest suitable
location for both residential and business purposes. The resettled individuals have to buy the
alternative plot for resettlemenit. Free plots are available close to the buildings and farms that
will -be removed from the road reserve area. The, District Council authorities, in collaboration
with Wards (Kata) authorities and village chairmen, will assist the resettlement of the displaced
owners as indicated in Appendix L. TANROADS in collaboration with the government valuer
has identified the holders of dislocated occupancy rights and estimated the value of such rights.
The District Council in collaboration with. the village government will provide plots to
accommodate the displaced owners. The Ministry of Finance through TANROADS will
liquidate the compensation sums using project funds.
9.5.3  Farmland compensation ruiles. Majority of the farmlands along Singida Shelui road
section belong to individuals. Some are State owned and are managed by village authorities
under the supervision of the Local Government. The allocation of individual property rights at
village level will be implemented as stipulated by the Land Act and Village Land Acts of 1999
which covers:
o  Farmers to enjoy individual occupancy rights allocated by Village Councils as well as
. customary land tenureship.
O Farmers be legally entitled to compensation for loss of crops, grazing land or forest.
o The government be liquidated by the project for the loss of rangelands in the bolTow pits.
9.5.4  Detours and campsite: Compensation should follow the guidelines stipulated in this
report..
9.5.5 Gap analysis. The Resettlement Impact Assessment (RIA) and the Resettlement Action
Plan RAP have been prepared to make it consistent with both Tanzanian law and WB OP 4.12.
A 'gap analysis' has been undertaken as required by OP 4.12, in order to measure the difference
between Tanzanian law and World Bank requirements, with special attention for farmland,
rangeland, forests and access to other basic resources. The analysis indicates when Tanzanian
law and the World Bank Operation Policy are not full in accord, the higher of the two standard
will apply. This approach fully meets the requirement of the lesser standard. On the
expropriation for public utility the World Bank provisions further emphasized that:
-  the squatters and the renters of properties and businesses must be compensated and assisted
for suitable relocation
- not only property but also business must be considered in compensation
-  the use of rangelands and forest lands are part of the economic asset base and must be
compensated in case of temporary or permanent interruption
-  farmers must be compensated not only for lost crops but also for the loss of occupancy
rights and they must be assisted to find an equal or better relocation site
- the value of crops and properties must be valuated on a market basis and not imposed by
bulletins attached to formal legal provisions
Annicx 8-Part3                    Annex 8 - 57                       Techniplan



Singida Shelui Road: Detailed Engineering Design  Final Report: Annex 8 - EIA, SIA & RIA
Part 3
- the use of borrow pits, quarries, camp sites and detour areas must not be negotiated between
the contractors and the village authorities but must be compensated on the basis of the
economic parameters defined by the Resettlement Action Plan
9.5.6 Clearance proceduire for RAP. All RAP procedures will be cleared with both the
Governlment of Tanzania and the World Bank.
9.6    Eligibility
The consultant carried out a 100 percent reconnaissance of impacts. This was been carried out in
August 2001. However, the consultant's' report was inadequate to effectively address the
resettlement issues in the project area. In May 2003, TANROADS officials and Government
valuer reviewed the resettlement reconnaissance and consultants report to address among others,
the comments raised by the World Bank. The reconnaissance has covered all structures and
farms whether legal or illegally existing. Most of the affected properties to be displaced are
located in the traditional land ownership. The project will compensate all constructions, both
permanent and temporally, put up squatters within the existing right of way. The compensation
has been detailed in terms of the same market value as a legal structure. The same resettlement
package will be offered to regular settlers and business people and squatters. The renters and
leases are eligible for assistance. The authorities will make sure that the rights of the person who
uses the building are compensated in accordance with the rules set out in both Tanzanian
legislation and World Bank Operation Directives.
The displaced person in the project area includes the communities owning the houses, farm
plots and businesses within the right of way. Two households and two farm plots are likely to be
affected by borrow pitting activities though are not within the right of way. Other properties
which will be considered for compensation are those which will be affected during the road
construction activities particularly those resulting from detours and camp siting. Currently it is
estimated that ten plots will be affected by detours. The actual relocation cost for the detours
will be undertaken during road construction and will be taken care by the contractor. However,
it is envisaged that the detours will be kept to mninimum.
The cut-off date for eligibility for relocation is May, 2003. The compensation will be
implemented within 6 months after the approval of the valuation report. Thereafter, the penalty
equivalent to the commercial bank rate for the fixed deposit account will be charged.
9.7    Valuationi procedure and compensation for losses
9.7.1  Survey method. The road project will impact upon properties and business activities,
both inside and outside the road reserve corridor. 5 After reviewing the land use patterns and
land tenure systems of the project region, the RIA study has assessed the expected impacts of
the project upon:
i.     Settlements, buildings and related business activities
ii.    Farmlands, rangelands an woodlands outside forest reserves
iii.   Forest reserves and game reserves
Given the relatively soft impact of the project on land resources and real estates, the survey has
adopted a 100% reconnaissance method, without the need to use any sampling technique.
5 The lanid utse patterns and settlements along the road and in its influence area are described in Part 1, § 4.
Annex 8-Part3                      Annex 8 - 58                       Techniplan



Singida Shelui Road: Detailed Engineering Design  Finial Report: Annlex 8 - ElIA, SIA & RIA
Part 3
9.7.2 Collaboration with local authorities and communities in RAP Preparation. The
Consultant has carried out a detailed field inventory of the resettlement needs generated by the
project. The inventory has involved the key local stakeholders, such as:
(a)  the Land Office of Singida Region
(b)  The three Town Planning Offices of Singida and Iramba Districts
(c)  ad-hoc Resettlement Committees set up by the targeted urban and rural communities.
Public consultation has been can-ied out at two levels. Firstly public consultation was
undertaken with stakeholders along the project cotTidor. The participants in the consultation
process had a strong conviction that paving the road will have a positive and profound impact
on their lives and livelihood, and they were genuinely grateful for this "overdue" development.
Negative impacts, like road safety, were cited.
The fieldwork has focused on the buildings, business premises and farms dislocated by the
project. The results of the participatory assessment work, including the minutes of the meetings
with local stakeholders, are displayed in Appendix P
9.7.3  Conmpensation criteria for butildings, businesses and farms to be relocated. The
property, businesses and farms to be relocated from the design right of way will be dealt with as
follows:
Legal constructions. The resettlement scheme will compensate the owners of constructions for
their losses and will provide alternative areas for relocation with equal opportunities.
Illegal structures.  The project will compensate all constructions, both permanent and
temporary, put up by squatters within the existing right of way. The compensation has been
detailed in terms of the same market value as legal structures. The same resettlement package
will be offered to regular settlers and business people and squatters.
Business Compensation. As far as commercial business is concerned, the project considers the
payment in terms of allowances for loss of profit for 36 months. People loosing temporary
business structures (e.g. vending stalls), will be assisted for suitable relocation. As to the
benefits entitled to those who rent a business space in a structure to be demolished, the emphasis
will-be not on compensation, but on restoring income and access to the asset base. Hence, in
case of those rentinig business, this means that the project will compensate the losses and
provide assistance to find another suitable business location.
Farms compensation: the existing farms will be displaced by road realignment, detours and
borrow pitting activities. The compensation will be implemented according to the rules
In undertaking valuation of prpoerties for compensation, the value of salvaged materials
have not been deducted from the valuation of affected premises.
9.7.4 Invento,y of resettlement needs. In August 2001, the Consultant inventorised buildings
presently occupying the perimeter of the future road reserve area, either confirmed or realigned.
The inventory was carried out jointly with the Local Authorities, including:
a. Singida Regional Lands Office, represented by the Senior Lands Officer and the Chief
Surveyor, who personally joined the consulting team for 20 full working days
b. The three Town Planning Officers of Singida Urban District (km I to 10 of the road),
Singida Rural District (km 10 to 40) and Iramba District (km 40 to 110), summoned by the
Regional Land Office
Aninex 8-Part3                     Annex 8 - 59                       Techniplan



Singida Shelui Road: Detailed Engineering Design  Final Report: Annex 8 - EIA, SIA & RIA
Part 3
c. The Divisions authorities of Kinyangiri, Kinampanda, Kisiriri, and Shelui
d. The Village Chairmen of the concerned settlements
However, in May 2003 Tanroads officials and a government valuer from Singida town council
in collaboration with above-mentioned stakeholders revisited the inventory of properties to be
resettled in favour of road construction.
Table 9.4: Settlements crossed by Singida -Shelui road
Settlement        Chainage Population Settlement Type
(km)     (2001)
1     Singida Towr 0         150,000   Urban core & suburban outskirts
Semi-traditional  Administrative  Village
2     Manga        13        2,500    Area (AVA)
Modern AVA with all houses realigned into
3     Msisi       18         3,000    agi   atr
,   a grid pattern
4     Ntondo      20         2,000     Modem AVA, 80 % of houses realigned
Trade Center designed by Singida Town
5     Iguguno (1) 32         5,500    Planning Office
6     Tumuli      40         3,800     Semi-traditional  AVA  with   regional
6 um4,800  livestock market
Semi-traditional AVA, 40 %  of houses
7     Kitusha     55         2,700   realigned
8     Kyengege    61         4,800     Modern AVA, 65% of houses realigned
Modem   AVA   with Urban Development
9     Ulemo       70         5,700    Qutarter
Modem   AVA   with Urban Development
10    Misigiri    74        5,300     Quarter
Shelui                           Trade Center designed by Iramba Town
Nselembwe    95         6,000    Planning Office
12    Malende     106       3,500      Modem AVA, half of the houses realigned
(1) Bypassed by the realignment, which will cut across the town'sfarmlands
Apart from Iguguno Town and Sekenke Escarpment, the design route will mostly follow the
present gravel road, so that for 88 km out of 109.427km the works will hardly disturb property
beyond the existing road reserve area. The need to meet design standards has just led to minor
adjustments of the horizontal geometry, with little if any dislocation of real estates. Minor
realignments will entail compensating just 3 ha of farmlands and no constructions.
TANROADS in collaboration with the Government Valuer undertook a detailed assessment of
resettlement need and valuation of properties to be displaced by road project implementation.
9.7.5 Assessment of buildings and busiltess value. The Consultant has assessed one by one all
the buildings that must be destroyed within the confirmed or realigned right of way of the
project road. The assessment has been carried out mobilizing the Land Office of Singida
Region, the Land Offices of Singida Urban, Singida Rural and Iramba Districts and the
communities of the 12 concerned towns and villages. During the assessment every individual to
be affected in terms of being relocated was required to form to declare the properties and
estimated values for compensation of the property (Appendix R- Typical form). The form is in
Swahili version to enable the DPs to fill easily. In the assessment of the buildings and business
value it was revealed that:
Annex 8-ParL3                     Annex 8 - 60                       Techniplan



Singida Shelui Road: Detailed Engineering Design  Fitial Report: Annlex 8 - EIA, SIA & RIA
Part 3
(a)    The towns and major villages are well planned on both sides of the road, with most
houses beyond the 45-meter right of way. Despite that, a few buildings - mainly shops, bars and
mills - exist within the present right of way of the road. As they do not comply with road
reserve legislation, the owners have not invested too much. The major settlements traversed by
the project road - among which Singida Urban, Msisi, Misigiri, Shelui Nselembwe - have
relatively high standard houses. Cement/sand blocks or burnt bricks are used for foundations
and walls as well as corrugated iron sheets for roofing. However, a few houses in major centers
and many houses in minor villages, like Manga Msisi or Iguguno are made of mud-anld-poles
for walls, grass thatching for roofs. Based on construction elements, the Land Offices of the
concerned Districts have classified the buildings to be demolished in tlhee categories,
attributing to each category an estimated value.
If the building is in good conditions, the compensation for loss of construction can be estimated
according to the standard established by the Ministry of Lands and Human Settlement
Development. The typical properties valuation analysis was undertaken as presented in
Appendix K.
Some of the building structures are makeshift constructions, with mud-brick walls, tin plates
and thatched roofs. All buildings in the 45 m right of way have been carefully inventoried and
mapped by the topographic survey at scale 1:2000 carried out for the present project. The
project will compensate the squatters for the removal of illegal constructions.
(b) Mole than half of the buildings to be demolished close to the road are presently used as
commercial, like shops, guesthouses, restaurants, kiosks, groceries and bars. Some buildings
host artisan services, as grain mills, garages and workshops. Places of worship are also found
near the road and a small mosque occupies the right of way in Shelui
9.7.6 Individual resettlement of buildings in the Village Areas (km 10 to 109.427km). Some
houses lie outside the plots designed by the Districts Town Planning Officers. Such houses form
rows parallel to the legal plots, but closer than. allowed to the road. This may be due to the
owner's eagerness to be closer to commercial traffic. Some Village Chairmen tolerate such
behavior. The field inventory of the buildings to be demolished in the two Rural Districts along
the road was carried out in August 2001 in collaboration with local government leadership
including village leaderships. The buildings and business to be affected are found in Manga,
Kitusha, Kyegenge, Ulemo, Misigiri and Malende villages (Appendix J)
Table 9.5: Buildings, businesses and farms to be resettled in the Village Area (excludinlg
Msisi, Iguigitno anid Shelui)
District               Buildings       Residential  Business      Farm
Singida Rural        3                            3
Iramba               14               8           10             3
Total                17               8           13             3
Souirce: Consultatit's field inzvestigations, August-September 2001 and Taniroads field
investigation May 2003
9.7.7 Resettlement of commtinity structures and Sensitive Properties. As far as the sensitive
properties are concerned, there is only one mosque at Shelui. The mosque serves about 30
people. The mosque lies in the project right of way, at 106km in Shelui Village Area. The
mosque is about 6m x 12 m, it is built in mud bricks. OP 4.12 has clear provision for restoring
access to community structures, including mosques. A plan for the resettlement of the mosque is
included in the RAP. The compensation and replacement package is included in individual
Anniex 8-Pat3                     Annex 8 - 61                       Techniplan



Singida Shelui Road: Detailed Engineering Design  Final Report: Annex 8 - EIA, SIA & RIA
Part 3
resettlement of buildings in the Village Areas, km 10 to 109.427 as indicated in Appendix J.
Special attention was undertaken and stakeholders were consulted to explain the issue of
relocating the mosque. A study team held a detailed discussion with stakeholders of the mosque
which includes imams, sheikhs, worshipers and mosque sponsors. There was a mutual
agreement for the relocation of the mosque as presented in Appendix (R). However, during
evaluation this amount was elevated to ease the relocation of this property.
9.7.8 Collective resettlement of Msisi Village (km 22). Msisi represents an outstanding case.
Located 20 km away from Singida, it is a compact village, with an urban grid traced according
to the guidelines of the District Town Planning Office. Unfortunately, the house rows on both
sides of the road lie within less than 25 m off the centerline and occupy a higher ground than the
road. A total of 39 buildings must be displaced, as the centerline follows the existing route
iiside Msisi village. These buildings accommodate 14 businesses and 33 residences. The
detailed inventory of the buildings to be demolished is shown in Appendix J with the names of
the owners, the description of the buildings and their value, as estimated by the Government
Valuer.
It was agreed that all the buildings would be shifted to other areas, with compensation paid by
the government through the project fund.
9.7.9 Resettlement of buildings in Singida Urban District (kin 0 to 10). Within the outskirts of
Singida Town, from the zero point of the road until the border with Singida Rural District at km
10, a total of four buildings lie within less than 15 m of the design centerline. This is in contrast
with the building regulations in the area.
Table 9.6: Buildings in the right of way, Singida Urban District (kzn 1-10)
Use of the buildings to be dislocated
Residential            | Commercial |      Total
0                        4               4
9.7.10  Collective resettlement of Shelui Nselembwe Trade Center (km 92). Within the Trade
Center, a total of 35 building structures located on the right side of the road (Tab6ra border
direction) lie within less than 25 m of the design centerline. The buildings accommodates 26
businesses and 3 residencies. The houses  built outside the urban plots designed by the Town
Planning Officer of Iramba District in the 1980s - are located parallel to the legal plots but
closer than allowed to the road. The aim of the owners was to establish their business as close to
traffic as possible. The encroachment of the right of way was tolerated by District Authorities.
The detailed inventory of 35 building structures to be demolished in Shelui Nselembwe are
shown in Appendix J (This excludes mosque).
The buildings date from the last 15 years or less, all of them are made with cement blocks and
have roofs of corTugated iron sheets. All the buildings will be rebuilt in a new estate close to the
same side of the road. The District authorities will not license for the same activities the owners
of the houses which will be in the road's frontline after the demolition of the present row of
business premises. This will help the resettled business owners to promptly re-establish their
commercial services.
Annex S-Part3                     Annex 8 - 62                       Techniplan



Singida Shelui Road: Detailed Engineering Design  Final Report: Annlex 8 - EIA, SIA & RIA
Part 3
9.7.11  Resettlement of agricuIltural activities and BuiIlding resuIlting from Igugunlo Bypass
(km 32)
(a) Overview. The upgraded road will bypass Iguguno town. Figure 13 in Part 4 illustrates the
present road and the bypass alignment through Iguguno urban area. The road crosses 5km of
farmlands. Due to the local 3-year rotation system, 1/3 of the farmlands are under actual
cropping in any given year on either side of the road. The staple crops along the existing
alignment includes sorghum,, maize, bush millet, sunflower, groundnuts and other crops.
In general, the plots are cultivated in the main rainy season. Only 10% of the farms, those which
lie in favorable drainage positions, are cultivated two seasons a year.
(b) Compensation criteria of agricuIltural resources. According to World Bank's OP 4.12, the
project is responsible to ensure that any farmer dispossessed of his land is given access to
cultivate alternative land of equal or better quality and is compensated for relocation costs. He
will also be paid for the loss of the crops destroyed by the road works. Compensation will be
based on the actual market values of the crop, regardless of the nominal values prescribed by the
legislation in force. Such values are very low, as they date back to 10 years ago. The
compensation rates will not be left to the contractor and farmer to negotiate individually. The
present study has endeavoured to determine them fairly and consistently for the whole project
area. The individuals have been recognised as loosing not only their crop, but also their access
to land. This is all part of their asset base. In order to restore their income stream, therefore,
their entitlement package reflects all their assets as indicated in Appendix J.
(c) Resettlemenzt of farmlands and building at Igugiunio bypass (km 32-39). To build the 5.2
km bypass around Iguguno Town, the project will expropriate 54.25 acres of farmland
overlapping with the road reserve area of the realigned route. The inventory of the dislocated
farms is indicated in Appendix J, with the compensation cost estimates, covering the value of
farmlands. A total of 34 farm plots and 18 buildings will be resettled.
9.7.12 Impact of borrow pits, quarries, detours and camp sites on the farmlands. The
upgrading of the project road will require the use of a relatively large amount of gravel materials
and crushed stones. Suitable gravel materials are available in 22 identified borrow pits,
identified by the Soils and Materials study. The total surface of the borrow pits extends over 109
acres. Only one borrow pit located at Kitusha is likely to affect buildings and farm plots. The
borrow pits will affects two acres in two farm plots and two houses. Other borrow pits are not
located in the farmland area. The other borrow pits are owned by the government and are
therefore individuals not eligible for compensation. However, Tanroads has to compensate for
loss of farmlands to be affected by detours and campsites. The borrow pits recommended to
obtain materials for subgrade and Base Coulse are shown below:
Annex 8-Par3                       Annex 8 - 63                         Technziplaii



Singida Shelui Road: Detailed Engineering Design  Final Report: Annex 8 - EIA, SIA & RIA
Part 3
Table 9.7: Proposed borrow pits
N.   Borrow Pit      Chainage Offset      Quantity        Acres
Code      Series (kni)    m    side  (m3)
a    b        C      d         r    f     g               h
I   NBP 1     1      0+750     25   L     56.000         6
2    NBP 2    2      2+500     15   L     48.000          5
3    NBP 3    6      15+100    5    L     66.500          7
4    BP 7     7      20+200    2    R     15.000          2
5    NBP 5    10     25+500    2    L     150.000         15
6    NBP 7     12    29+200    4    L     45.000          5
7    NBP 10   14     33+300    15   L     23.000          2
8   NBP 11    15     34+000    5    L     56.000         6
9    NBP 13   17     37+700    5    L     37.000         4
10  BP 12     18     44+300    5    L    40.000          4
11  NBP 14    19     44+600    5    R     60.000         6
12  BP 17 B   21     59+000    5    L    45.000          5
13  NBP 16    22     61+600    25   L     75.000         8
14  NBP 17    23     63+600    5    R     40.000         4
15  BP 18     25     71+150    5    L     21.000         2
16  NBP 19    26     72+000    1    R     20.000         2
17  NBP 20    27     73+600    4    L     30.000         3
18  NBP 22    29     81+000    5    L     68.000         7
19  NBP 24    31     86+200    8    L     20.000         2
20   BP 23    32     86+500    2    R     18.000          2
21  NBP 25    33     86+600    2    L     60.000          6
22   BP 25    35     104+000   4    R     54.000          6
Total estimated volume of materials       1.047.500       109
Compensationz criteria for borrow pits, stone quiarries, detours and camp sites. The prevalent
procedure where contractors pay a fixed sum to Village Committees and leave them to negotiate
with individual farmers is not acceptable on the given rationale that land is owned by the
Central Government. World Bank's OP 4.12 states that the project must compensate the people
who permanently or temporarily loose access to land, regardless of whether they own it, due to
borrow pits, quaiTies, camps and detours. Such people must be receiving an acceptable
resettlement package, similarly to the people directly in the path of other physical works.
According to the Mining Act 1998, the proprietor for mining building materials has to apply for
the licence before undertaking mining activities. In this case Tanroads, will apply for a licence
for mininig building materials. It is estimated that Tsh 5,000.000.00 will suffice for acquiring a
mining licence. As the borrow pits and quarries are not located to the farmlands (except one at
Kitusha village), Tanroads will pay a fee established under the local government authorities.In
average the District authorities charges a fee of Tsh 300.00 per m3 extracted materials. It is
estimated that, a lumpsum of Tsh 20,000,000.00 will be used to pay fees to the district
authorities for extracting building materials. Some percentage of this fee will be left to the
village government for other development sin respective village.
For the borrow pit located at Kitusha, the two plots to be affected will be compensated in terms
of losing their buildings and farm plots as indicated in Appendix J.
It is assumed that the detours will not be longer than 1.5km and not more than 5 detours. The
width of detours would approximately be 10m. It is therefore estimated that additional 30 acres
Aninex 8-Part3                    Annex 8 - 64                       Techniplan



Singida Shelui Road: Detailed Engineering Design  Fi,ial Report: Annex 8 - EIA, SIA & RIA
Part 3
are expected to be pre-empted for quarries, detours and campsites, with very minor, scattered
impact on local farmlands. However, the detours and campsites will affect 10 farm plots of
about 3 acres. The farmland owner will be compensated accordingly. The valuation will be
undertaken later before construction of detours and campsites. However, it should be undertaken
immediately after identifying detours and sites for camping. The compensation of lands/farms
for detours and campsite will be enacted as stipulated in the Land Act. Currently the estimated
amount for compensation is earmarked as indicated in the overall cost for relocation (Table 9.9)
9.7.13 Rangelands and forests. Rangelands of generally low stock-carrying capacity stretch
along about a total of 50 km on both sides of the design route. While expropriated farmlands are
compensated under the legislation in vigor, rangelands are not. In fact, they are not supposed to
be under anybody's right of occupancy according to the existing legislation. Nevertheless, a
compensation can be paid, through village authorities, to the stock-raising communities
currently exploiting he grazing areas..
Compensation criteria of rangelands and forests. The use of rangelands and forests is entitled
for compensation, even if no provision in such direction exists under Tanzanian law. OP 4.12
emphasises that affected people have a right to restore their use of land and access to assets
regardless of whether they legally own that land. Access to pasture, medicinal plants, firewood,
game etc. is all part of an individual's asset base and hence any project affecting such base needs
to compensate for it. The solution does not simply consist in the payment of nominal cash
sums. The plan, has rather tried to restore, to the extent possible, access to assets with the
ultimate aim of restoring income and improving living standards. The earmarked sum should be
Sh 500,000.00 in line with World Bank guidelines on these matters
9.7.14 Relocation of Utilities.
Consultation witlh Tanzania Electric Supply Corporation (TANESCO), Water Authorities in
Singida town as well as Tanzania Telecommunication Company Limited (TTCL) have been
held and agree on the arrangement for relocation of utilities. A total length of 16km of service
line comprising 320 poles of electric power line will be relocated. Minor water pipes servicing
residential houses along 4km in Singida town and 100m at Shelui will be relocated. Telephone
line for about 2km along Singida - Shelui road project will also be relocated. The cost for
relocating these utilities has been indicated in the overall cost of relocation. (Table 9.9).
9.8 - Resettlemnent Measures
9.8.1 Affected owners. The owners of the houses, businesses and farms pre-empted for road
construction purposes in collaboration with the local authorities and community leaders have
preliminarily identified sites for relocation. The people to be resettled will receive timely notice
and will be paid the full amounts related to:
-  the value of the buildings and other unexhausted physical developments, including the
graves whenever they are attached to the homesteads according to local customary law
-  transport allowances for persons and goods to the resettlement sites
-  the value of the lost business income for the period required to re-start it elsewhere
-  the value of the crops and the cost of re-establishing the lost farm area nearby
-  Transport allowance
9.8.2  Integration with host population
The consultations were conducted between the consultant and local community regarding the
relocation. The entire relocated communities prefer to be relocated entirely within the existing
community in their original villages.
Annex 8-Part3                      Annex 8 - 65                       Tech niplan



Singida Shelui Road: Detailed Engineering Design  Final Report: Annex 8 - EIA, SIA & RIA
Part 3
9.9    Site Selection, Site Preparation, Relocation and Social Services
All resettlement is local thus relocation is unlikely to cause major ressettlement impacts. The
local communities involved in relocation are willing to be relocated in the nearest place. The
meeting with the consultants, TANROADS officials, Government Valuer, local government
officials including village government and the affected community were held and agree on the
site to be relocated. Majority of the people to be displaced are willing to be relocated in their
original village.
The village chairmen will allocate new plots to the isolated building owners and farmers inside
the same villages, offering equal chance to exploit traffic-related business. The Town Planning
Officers of Singida Rural and Iramba Districts will draft the urban resettlement plans for the
collective relocation of the buildings of respectively Msisi Village and Shelui Nselembwe Trade
Center. The Agricultural Extension Officer in collaboration with village authorities of Singida
Rural and Iramba Districts will prepare plan for the farming community dislocated along
IgugLno bypass. Both the urban and the agricultural resettlement plans will be drafted and the
land made available before the houses are demolished and the farmlands destroyed.
Even though free plots are available in road-side villages, the relocation process may become a
sensitive issue. In similar projects, expropriation disputes stem from disagreements on the value
at which the estate and its improvements are to be compensated. As the government has
undertaken detailed property valuation and compensation implementation schedule, it will
improve the public perception of the project and reducing local resistance. To avoid
mismanagement of compensation money, the relocation scheme should be countersigned before
payment, enabling the displaced person to reconstruct his property as soon as he receives the
money.
The people to be displaced were involved in the identification of the new sites for resettlement
since they have ample area/land for shifting. In rare cases where affected ones do not have
enough lands, the village government will allocate the area after the consent of displaced
people. The cost for obtaining that land is Tsh 500 which is paid to the village government.
The local government and central government revenues will be used for provision of social
services like water supply and electricity. These services will be provided to all communities
regardless of affected community. The DPs will be given plots which are more better off than
they are now. There should be a thorough consultation between the local governments, DPs,
Local NGOs (World Vision) and Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Committee to decide on
the allocation of plots
The displaced people (DPs) will btuilt their own houses according to the design which can be
accommodated with the funds provided as compensation. The local govemment will survey
plots, service the plots by provision of infrastructures like water supply, street roads and other
utilities.
9.10   Community Participation
Community Participation on RAP Imttplenmenztationz
During the preparation of the resettlement plan, the affected persons will be systematically
informed and consulted about their options and rights. For such purpose regular meetings will
be hold between Tanroads' officials and communities. The meetings shall be prepared and
maintained with the participation of formal and informal leaders. Local NGOs (World Vision)
will be contracted in order to ensure viable community participation and proper communication
between affected persons and Tanroads officials. During such meetings the concerned DPs will
Annex 8-Part3                     Annex 8 - 66                        Techniplazz



Sinyida Sheluli Road: Detailed Engineering Design  Final Report: Annlex 8 - EIA, SIA & RIA
Part 3
be entitled to identify suitable plots and to reject any plot unacceptable to them. As soon as the
RAP is cleared and finalised, Tanroads will formally disclose it to the affected people. For this
purpose, Tanroads' Regional Manager will organize 12 final sessions, one in each of the
Administrative Village Areas crossed by the road. The sessions will be chaired by the RAP
specialist of Tanru-oads and attended by representatives of the higher territorial hierarchies
(Districts and Sub-Districts). Adequate display materials will be utilized. During RAP
implementation an M&E Committee will be established at regional level, with the participation
of DPs (either directly or represented by local NGOs) and representatives from the Departments
of Lands, Agriculture, Livestock, Forestry and Social Affairs.
9.11   Grievance and Appeals Channels:
The RAP will make available to all concerned people including the appeal structures at various
levels, specifying the responsible parties and their response time. Before starting, with the
grievance sequence and where appropriate (i.e. in case of complaints of minor entity), aggrieved
parties will take their complaints to cornmunity or traditional meetings for dispute resolution.
Local NGO will be contracted and involved to hear complaints and attempt to effect a resolution
before they enter the administrative appeals hierarchy. The appeals line will feature the
following sequence:
i.     Community or traditional meetings (with the presence of contracted NGOs)
ii.    Sub-District Authority
iii.   District Council (Land Officer and Agricultural Officer)
iv.    Tanroads
v.     District Court
In case of no resolution before entering the administrative appeal line, the response time of the
administrative authorities (points ii. to iv. above) shall not exceed two weeks. If the grievance is
accepted, the authorities shall compensate the travel expenses of the grievant at a rate to be
defined by the Tanroads at the beginning of the resettlement and compensation process. No
further appeals mechanism is advised beyond the local administrative level to avoid excessive*
costs for the grievant.
9.12   Implementation schedule
Displaced households and farmers will receive timely notice respectively to harvest the fields
and salvage the frames, iron sheets or glasses from the buildings. Contractor Clauses will ensure
that notices are readily served and discomfort is allayed. As discussed above Village chairmen
will allocate new plots to the isolated building owners and farmers inside the same villages,
offering equal chance to exploit traffic-related business. The Town Planning Officers of Singida
Rural and Iramba Districts will draft the urban resettlement plans for the collective relocation of
the buildings of respectively Msisi Village and Shelui Nselembwe Trade Center. The
Agricultural Extension Officer in collaboration with village authorities of Singida Rural District
will prepar-e plan for the farming community dislocated along Iguguno bypass. Both the urban
and the agricultural resettlement plans will be drafted and the land made available before the
houses are demolished and the farmlands destroyed.
The RAP will span a half year from the date on which the project is officially underway through
the following administrative and fieldwork schedule. The rehabilitation of any stretch of the
road cannot begin until all land has been foimally acquired and resettlement completed and
DPs relocated in location satisfactory to them.
Annex 8-Part3                      Annex 8 - 67                       Techniplan



Singida Shelui Road: Detailed Engineering Design  Final Report: Annex 8 - EIA, SIA & RIA
Part 3
Table 9.8: Dislocation and resettlemiient schecldule (2003-04)
Framework operations                                Quarters since start-up date
1   2    3   4    5   6
1       TANROADS: preparation of maps and report   0
Transmnission of maps and report to Ministry of
2     Lands  and   Human   Settlement  Development, o
conmments
Location of alternative settlement by urban and
rural authorities                                      _
4        Ministry  of   Finance:   mobilization  of              o   o
compensation funds
5       Local Government: payment of compensation                    0   0
money
6       Local Government: distribution of alternative
Plots
7        Start-up of physical resettlement operations                     0
8       Monitoring and Evaluation                   0   0   0    0   0    e
4After the six-month life of the resettlement operation, the monitoring and evaluation
operation will continue on annual basis (as suggested by Op 4.12) supplemented by a mid term
review and hence for a reasonable period after all resettlement and related development
activities have been completed
Bar-charted operations need to be intensified towards the end of the period.
9.13   Costs and Budget
9.13.1 Overview. The individual resettlement cost has four main cost components,
corresponding to:
o  The value of the building and ancillary structures or improvements to be destroyed
within the right of way
o  The value of the business activities interrupted by the project
o  The value of land/farms to be affected by the project
o  The relocation costs, including transport and accommodation allowance.
A. Value of the buildings: Government Valuer in collaboration with District and Village
authorities and the concerned house owners, has estimated the value of the buildings to be
demolished. The estimates comply national legislation on the compensation and World
Bank Operational Directives.
B. Compensation of business activities interrupted by the proiect: if a building is used for
commercial purposes, the daily turnover have been estimated in order to compensate its loss
for a given period, in addition to the compensation for the building structure and the transfer
to other suitable premises. Taking into account existing laws and regulations a profit of 36
months has been calculated for business compensation..
C. Compensation for land/farms - The land/farmlands to be affected by realignment, detours,
borrow pits and quarries will be compensated according to the Land Act 1999
Annex 8-Part3                     Annex 8 - 68                       Techniplan



Singida Shelui Road: Detailed Engineering Design  Final Report: AInnex 8 - EIA, SIA & RIA
Part 3
D. Relocation costs: It include transport and the provision of a land plot similar to the previous
one. Transport costs will be minimal, as all families and businesses will be relocated in the
same village or urban center. Transport costs can be compensated as stipulated in Land Act
1999.
9.13.2 Overall costs. The overall relocation costs is estimated at TSh. 516,542,000.00
equivalent to US$ 516, 600.00. The components for this relocation are categorized as follows:
-    Compensation and resettlement of 113 buildings in the design right of way for a cost of
TSh.128, 250,000.00 a sum adequate for the typology of buildings to be relocated (under
the National legislation and WB rules for "full replacement cost");
-    Compensation 3 acres farmlands to be affected by detour and camp sites at a cost of Tsh
1,500,000.00
-    Compensation for range lands at a cost of Tsh 500,000.00
-    License for mining building materials at a cost of Tshs. 5,000,000.00
-    Fee to the local government for building materials at a cost of Tsh 20,000,000.00
-    Monitoring and evaluation of RAP at a cost of Tshs 7,500,000.00
-    Relocating of utilities at a cost of Tsh 320,000,000.00
Electricity  - 170,000,000.00
Water Supply - 100,000,000.00
Telephone poles - 50,000,000.00
-    Contingency (7%) at a cost of Tsh.33,792,500.00
Table 9.9: Summlary budget of resettlement components of the project (in 'ranzaniiani Sh.)
Component                       Resettlement costs
Buildings, business and farrmlands                      128,250,000.00
Detours                                                   1,500,000.00
Rangelands                                                 500,000.00
Relocation of public utilities                          320,000,000.00
Mining License                                            5,000,000.00
Fee to the local government for                          20,000,000.00
building materials
Workshops, meetings and M&E:                              2,500,000.00
- Funds for Local NGOs efforts                           2,500,000.00
- Funds for external monitoring                           2,500,000.00
Sub-total                       482,750,000.00
Inflation and contingency factor (7%)                    33,792,500.00
GRAND TOTAL                            516,542,500.00
Annex 8-Parn3                    Annex 8 - 69                       Techniplan



Singida Shelui Road: Detailed Engineering Design  Final Report: Annex 8 - EIA, SIA & RIA
Part 3
9.13.3    Financial   schedule   of RAP. The proposed financial schedule of the
project's resettlement component is tabulated below. The funds will to be made
available by the project. The contribution of the government will be in terms of the
contiibution of the government to the project.
Table 9:10 Sulnv7nary butdget of resettlement components of the project (in Tanzanian
Sh.)
Resettlenen  Source       Monthly cash flow (from project official start-up date)
Component      t costs  offunds |       l      2   l    3    l     4     |   5       6
1000 Sh
Compensation
for buildings,  128,250.00  Project  128,250
businesses
and farms
Detours        1,500.00   Project                                  1,500
Rangelands      500.00    Project                                  500
UtRlition     320,000.00  Project  160,000              80,000              80,000
Licence        5,000.00             5,000
Fee for
Building       20,000.00             5,000     5,000               5,000             5,000
Materials
Workshops,
meetings and   2,500.00   Project    300        300      800       300       400      400
M&E:
- Funds for
Local NGOs     2.500.00   Project    300        300      800       300       400      400
efforts
- Funds for
external       2.500.00   Project    300        300      800       300       400      400
monitoring
Sub-total 482,750.00           299,150.    5,900   82,400     7,900     81,200  6,200
Inflation and
contingency    33,792.50  Project    5632       5632     5632      5632      5632    5632
factor (7%)
TOTAL          516,542             304,782     11,532   88,032    13,532    86,832  11,832
9. 14 RAP Institutional Framework and Organizational Responsibilities
This section provides (see Table..below ) a list of all agencies and institutions involved in each
step of the resettlement process (preparation, appeals, implementation and monitoring). The
experience of the majority of the actors involved seems to adequate to the tasks to be canried out
and therefore no particular capacity building measures are required.
As soon as the RAP is cleared and finalised, Tanroads will formally disclose it to the affected
people. For this purpose, Tanroads will organize 10 sessions, one in each of the Administrative
Village Areas crossed by the road. The sessions will be chaired by the RAP specialist of
Anniex 8-Part3                    Annex 8 - 70                       Techniplan



Singida Shelui Road: Detailed Engineering Design  Final Report: Anitex 8 - EIA, SIA & RIA
Part 3
Tanroads and attended by representatives of the higher territorial hierarchies (Districts and
Division/Wards). Adequate display materials will be utilized.
TANROADS will provide to the Ministry of Land and Human Settlement Development: (a) the
topographic maps at scale 1:2000 of the design road reserve area, and: (b) a report on the
buildings and farming plots which presently exist within the design right of way. TANROADS
will also prepare the list of the occupants dispossessed by the project, specifying their rights of
occupancy and the assessed value. The Local Government (i.e District Councils) will dispatch
the dislocation notices to the concerned households and farmers.
Ministry of finance through Tanroads will disburse the compensation funds to the district
council to pay the communities eligible for compensation.. After the effect of the compensation
and resettlement the communities will be given two months for resettlement. TANROADS will
then author-ize the Contractor to start demolition works.
In the project area it was found that the effective NGO in the area is World Vision. This NGO
will assist in raising public awareness on resettlement and facilitate local community
participation in RAP implementation, conflict resolution etc
Anilex S-Part3                    Annex 8 - 71                       Techniplan



Singida Shelui Road: Detailed Engineering Design            Final Report: Annex 8 - EIA, SIA & RIA
Part 3
Table 9.11 RAP Institiutional Framework and Orga,tizati nal Responsibilities
Steps              Agencies involved                          Activities to be carried out
Provide the Ministry of Land and Human Settlement Development with:
a. Topographic maps at scale 1:2000 of the design road reserve area
Tanroads            b.  Report on buildings and farming plots existing within the right of
way
c.  Valuation report approval
Ministry of Land and Human  Approval of the valuation report
SettlemenL Development
Concerned admninistrations:  Identify, allocate and make available the alternative plots as follows:
Identify and allocate alternative plots for building ownwers, farmers
RAP Preparation         Village Chairmen       inside the villages and businessmen within Singida Rural and Iramba
Districts
Town Planning Officers of  Draft urban resettlement plans for the collective relocation of the buildings
Singida Rural and Iramba Districts of Msisi village and Shelui- Nselembre Trade Center
Agricultural extension Officers of Prepare the resettlement plan for the farming community dislocated along
SingidaRural extnsio Iramba Dicrs o Iguguno bypass, boiTow pits, detour and camp sites and minor
Singida Rural and Iramba Districts realignments
Ministry of Land and Human  Dispatch the dislocation notices to the concerned households,
Settlement Development    businessmen and farmers
Organize and maintain regular and final meetings during RAP preparation
TANROADS
Hear complaints of a DPs and attempt to effect a resolution during
Local NGOs           community or traditional meetings before the complaints enter the
administrative appeals hierarchy.
Wards Authority        Receive and give solution to grievances before
Gfievance and   Dsrc    oni Ln       fie   n
appeals      District Council (Land Officer and Receive and give solution to grievances before
appeals      ~~Agricultural Officer)
Regional Engineer of     Receive and give solution to grievances before
TANROADS
District Court        Receive and give solution to grievances before
Concerned administrations  Deliver to the dislocated persons the agreed compensation sums and the
new land plots
Local Government        Built urban infrastructures for the new plots
TANROADS              Authorize the Contractor to start demolition works
RAP                                        RAP implementation and organization of meetings with coiiununities and
Implementation           TANROADS              affected people
Formal and Informal Village  Participation to the RAP implementation meetings
Leaders
Ensure viable community participation and proper communication
Local NGOs           between affected persons and Tanroads officials
M& E Committees composed of   (a) Identify problem cases ensuring they are dealt with
Monitoring and       :Departments of Lands,
Evaluation (during  Agriculture, Livestock, Forestry  (b) Contribute to the database forming part of the overall evaluation of the
the 6 months      and Social Affairs, Tanroads'  resettlement program
period of RAP     Regional Office (as Secretary)  ( E
implementation                                 (c) Ensure proper partcipation of DPs m the RAP process.
and beyond)             Local NGOs            Ensure proper participation of DPs
External monitoring      Perform independent monitoring and evaluation tasks
Annex 8-Part3                             Annex 8 - 72                                Techniplan



Singida Shelui Road: Detailed Engineering Design  Finial Report: Annex 8 - EIA, SIA & RIA
Part 3
9.15 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) of RAP (including Post-resettlement
Monitoring).
The institutional structure responsible for overseeing the implementation of the Resettlement
Master Plan should include skills for regular internal monitoring of the compensation and
relocation procedures. Such monitoring will serve two functions: (a) identify problem cases
ensuring they are dealt with, and: (b) contribute to the database forming part of the overall
evaluation of the resettlement program (c) ensure proper participation of DPs in the RAP
process. Besides internal monitoring, there will be provision for regular external M&E by a
neutral qualified party such as a university department. The M&E lines of responsibility will
involve the regional authorities. A M&E Comnmittee will be established at regional level; with
the participation of DPs (either directly or represented by local NGOs) and representatives from
the Departments of Lands, Agriculture, Livestock, Forestry and Social Affairs. Representative
from Tanroads Regional Manager act as Secretary of the Committee. The Committee shall
review the RAP-related work.. It will meet at least three times over the six-month plan
performance period, upon summoned by the Regional Manager of Tanroads. After the six-
month life of the resettlement operation, the monitoring and evaluation operation will continue
on annual basis (as suggested by Op 4.12) supplemented by a mid term review and hence for a
reasonable period after all resettlement and related development activities have been completed.
The M&E activities of the institutional structure will be supplemented by a independent
qualified party such as a university department.
Aninex 8-Part3                    Annex 8 - 73                        Techniplan



Singida Shelui Road: Detailed Engineering Design      Final Report: Annex 8 - EIA, SIA & RIA
Part 4
PART 4
FIGURES
Annex 8 - Part 4-cover-may 03         Annex 8 - 74                            TechnipldA



Singida Shelui Road: Detailed Engineering Design  Fiuial Report: Antiex 8 - EIA, SIA & RMI
Part 4
List of Figures
Figure 1.  Tanzania's trunk corridors
Figure 2.  Air view of the project area
Figure 3.  Land cover and land use along the road
Figure 4.  Landscapes traversed by the project area
Figure 5.  Land use and in the road influence area
Figure 6.  Natural vegetation areas
Figure 7.  National parks, reserves and controlled areas
Figure 8.  Administrative set-up of the road influence area
Figure 9.  Settlement system of the road influence area
Figure 10. Archaelogical sites of the road influence area
Figure 11. Prehistoric artpainting
Figure 12. Identified borrow pits and quarries
Figure 13. Route variants in Iguguno urban area
Figure 14. Soil protection with geomats
Figure 15. Soil reinforcement for long term application
Figure 16. Slope erosion control with geomat
Figure 17. Slope erosion control with geocells
Figure 18. Borrow pits
Annex .8 - Part 4-cover-may 03   Annex 8 - 75                      TeclhnipldiT



rLJrt 4
Figure 1.  Tanzania's trunk corridors
RW                  1CDAKENYA
BU     RUL                 I        X              /Tavea
ngu ~  j'~ana
1}  ' -    8            46^\  ~  u I o  /,
MzAM.                       / /               - k 
1;    45                  r   5an1          n   a '(E-4L
.. ~  Ohi                ) 5l,,   t         '  rMsse
AnexS- ar  Fr ats-may 03                           Techi,   ipa
-\;>4a B  k e x  r~~~~~~~~~1  X   X 0~ha
<   is      Wakanbao WJ
Membe  s i  SJef  sf  g    -    0 r(g
V V 9w, t;.,7 ,~~4Ma
1\~~~ ~ rbr1biBy,>s
L   -ml               OZ2AliBQUE
Anne:x S - Part 4 Formats-may 03
Techziiilat-



Singida Shelui Road: Detailed Engineering Design            Final Report: Annex S - EL4, SIA & RLA
Part 4
Figure 2.   Air view of the project area
Airphoto of Sekenke Escarpment showing the existing road (chainage 82+250 to 88+040)
Aerophotograrnmetric Map produced by interpretation of the photo above
Annex S - Part 4 Fonnnts-may 03                                                    Teclhiziplhiz



l'anrt 4
________________~~~~                                                                           ~ ~~~~~~~~ ,,  -  .'z   4
Figure 3.  Land cover and land use along the road
0              E
z              a C
E                                                  -
0  0  0  0   0                                              _ ) 
(.2                                                           '.    £11 
*     ..      A ,, ! . .                                .1.EXp '-t, ;
0 0          oo 0000                              oo 8ooooooo
8   °   t    O   8   °   8   o    o   8   8       g   8   ° 0  0          8§o     °0 
+   +   +    4-  +   +   +*  +    +   +   +   +   +   +   +   +   +   +   +   +    +   +   +
o    O  ,p  In   0    n  0   In   0   O   0   LO  0 o n   0 o n   0 o n   0   In   0   In  0
E   E                                                                         C       ,
-            E   E   E    E   E   E   E   E   E E     E   E   E   E   E    E   E   2   E   E
x    zi!      x               _X~~~~ -  -  -          -it E-E      E
KEY:                           BUSHLAND
GRASSLAND                                         PUztdv Lvmttered Cpard         WODLD
Eli]      WoWd$ OrcEIand                                            k|                      JSnd  WoM Edm T  nD
- mrland wdfi, Sctermd Cmpropl,  CULTIVATED LAND
L..xJ                                                     Liii]    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Opariodln
Mb*d CopppIng                           Woodland wm%.       roufmrCd
Annex 8 - Part 4 Formats-may 03                                                                        TechniplJalfn



Ew-]~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1
iy:
.~~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~          ~     ~    ~    ~   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ -t -. :  -br
Figure 4.  Landscapes traversed by the project area                        ;,
-. ~ ~ ~ 1I  C     
Contour Linie                                                      *V.'T
Stream
Swvamp                                 ~j
Scattered Vegetation6
Dense Vegetation                                          *         '' ' 
________ Trunk Road
Local Road
Annuex S - Part 4 Formnats-may 03                                                          Tc:ili



A ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~  ~   ~  ~  ~  ~  ~  ~  ~  ~  ~  ~  ' -,  -. 
.1 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5
-~~~~~~~~  . - ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IM-
Figuare 9   Laind use aud in the road influence area6                                                                      Pr
KEY                       G~~~~~~~~~CRAS_SLAND 
Singida-Sliclui Roaid
BUSHLAND
lauahtwd rfti Gcallrd C,op6,nd  WOODLAND                                                   .
CULTIVATED LANqDE]                            pn"
WiLuGd Cmppp!ng  Mr       Wamknd ~~~wih 8ceAerod Crup~PW
Annex B - Part 4 Formlats-inay 03                                                                                            'Techniiplqnti-



Singida Shelui Road: Detailed Engineering Design                  Fintal Report: AnizL-x 8 - EL4, SL4 & R.L
Part 4
Figyure 16.    Slope erosion control with geomat
Under construction                  Completed slope                 Completed slope
after one year                  after two years
Geomats may be used on slopes to
improve   resistance  to  erosion
caused by the impact of rain drops
and   ris, acting  as  superficial
reinforcement while waiting f6r lie
*                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~vegetation to grow. In certain cases
A                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~geomnats may be used as protection
Tagainst erosion for the bariks of
- -'-   canals and small river coiurses: their
use is basicallylimited to protect the
pat of bank- that is normally dry
adtheresore only affected by the
aton of rain water or rills
Annea 8 - Part 4 Formats-may 03                                                            Tec/n iplan



Singida Shelui Road: Detailed Engmneering Design             Final Report: Annlex 8 - EL4, SIA & R14
Part 4
Figure 17.    Slope erosion control with geocells
g2'~~~~~~~~~~_
r
t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
N-a AA, t~T
Top left and rig,-ht: geocells during the installation phase
Below: completed slope afterone year
The function of the geocells is to hold soil or other loose material il place. Once
Filled up eitb material, geocells prevent the topsoil from slidng down the slope
nex 5 - Part 4 Forrnats-inay 03                                                    Tech2niplaiZ



Singida Shelui Road: Detailed Engineering Design             Final Report: Annex S - EM, SIA & ]U4
Part 4
Figure 18.    Borrow pits
Land degradation and visual impairments caused by the abandoned
Borrow pits. Picture taken at Sekenke escarpment
Abandoned borrow pits used as rainwater catchment ponds near Shelui
Annex 8 - Parl 4 Fonnats-may 03                                         -           -
-                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Techiiiplai



Singida Shelui Road: Detailed Engineering Design       Final Report: Annex 8: EIA, SIA & RIA
List of Appenidices
.  Annex 8: EIA, SIA & RIA
APPENDICES
Aniiex 8 APPENDICES List-flay 03         Appendices-i                          Techniplan



Singida Shelui Road: Detailed Engineering Design  Fi,ial Report: Annex 8 - AppendidL A
Annex 8: EIA, SIA & RIA
APPENDIX    A
POLICY, LEGAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE FRAMEWORK
1. Tanizania's' transport sector policy
2. Environmental policy framework
3. Legal framework of environmental matters
4. Administrative framework of environmental management
5. Legal and administrative framework of dislocation and resettlement
Annex 8 APPENDIX A policy-may 03  Appendix A - 1                 Techlniplan



Singida Shelui Road: Detailed Engineering Design  Final Report: Annex 8 - Appendix A
Annex 8: EIA, SIA & RIA
APPENDIX A
POLICY, LEGAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE FRAMEWORK
1. TANZANIA's TRANSPORT SECTOR POLICY
Covering an area of 883,749 km2 with 32 million inhabitanits (36 per km2), Tanzania is the
largest and less densely populated country in East Africa. Per capita GDP ranks fourth in
the regioni. The economy is dominated by smallholder agriculture, which employs 80% of
the manpower, contributes 55% of GDP and earns 75% of foreign exchange. Staple food
crops include naize, millet, sorghum, rice, cassava. Cash crops are represented by coffee,
tea, tobacco, cotton, cashewnuts, sisal. The Government encourages local and foreign
private investment in export agriculture.
The transport sector is a foreign exchange earner, serving land-locked Burundi, Rwanda,
Zambia and eastern Congo with rail and road. Singida-Shelui road is an important link in
this respect. The network inherited from the colonial period served the export areas of that
time, neglecting potential resources and remote regions. In 1986 the Government launched
the Economic Recovery Programnme (ERP), relying on  market forces to achieve a
sustainable balance of payments. The agricultural sector responded favourably, but a study
made by the Market Development Bureau concluded that the country's rural development
was impaired by high crop collection costs away from major routes. In 1987, the
Government called a Transport Sector Donors Conference to launch a Draft National
Transport Policy (NTP), focused on rehabilitation priorities and related institutional
changes. The policy was artculated in three major projects, namely:
- Integrated Roads Project (IRP)
-  Port Modernisation Project 1 (PMP)
-  Railway Restructuring Project (RRP).
IRP is a 10-year programme launched in 1990 to restore the road network. Its 1l Phase
focused on trunk corridors linking production areas with the main markets and on district
roads in high potential agricultural areas. At present (year 2000) a new "10-Year Road
Development Project" is being debveloped.
The Government's road sector policy is focused on maintenance, rehabilitation and
upgrading, rather than new investment. Priority is given to arteries serving land-locked
countries, as well as roads linking agricultural, touristic and mining areas with ports and
consumer markets. Singida-Shelui Road ranks as a high-priority section under both
categories of options.
2. ENVIRONMENTAL        POLICY FRAMEIWORK
Environmental policies have been formulated by Parliament Commnittees, Ministries and
various Executive Agencies. They have produced a series of official documents, of which
some have a comprehensive scope of application, while others are focused on specific
environmental matters or sectors. The major general policy documents concern:
-  the Environmental Action Plan, worked out in 1983, repeatedly updated afterwards
Aaaex 8 Al'PENDIX A policy-may 03  Appendix A - 3                 Techniplai



Singida Shelui Road: Detailed Engineering Design  Fiinal Report: APnnlex 8 - Appendix A
-  the National Environmental Policy, formulated in 1995, and:
-  the Conservation Strategy for Sustainable Development (NCSSD), updated in 1995.
Environmental Action Plan. prepared with the assistance of United Nations agencies,
including UJNDP, UNEP and FAO, the Plan encompasses all development sectors, with
focus on conservation and sustainable development
National lnviron,izental Policy : a consultation meeting was held in Dar es Salaam, in 1994.
the adopted policy mentions Environmental Impact Assessment as a priority instrument for
policy implementation. Subsequently, a comprehensive paper was issued on nature
protection, safeguard of the resource basis of economic development, stlruggle against
desertification, waste disposal and pollution control in urban areas
National Conservationi Strategy for Sustainable Development (NCSSD): it provides a
framework for National Environmental Management initiatives, integrating conservation
and sustainable development. The strategy is geared to:  -
-  assist the nation in achieving development with conservation
-  define priorities and prepare strategies for nature protection
-  review policies and legislation, to make them more effective and enforceable
-  increase public awareness on environmental conservation
-  prepare education, information and extension packages.
-  promote environmental research and adoption of sound technologies
-  generate Lhe ability and commitment to implement the strategies
-  encourage multi-sector participation.
NCSSD seeks to involve public agencies, local communities, NGOs and the private sector.
Sectoral environmental policies are incorporated in the following documents:
-  Forestry Policy (1991)
-  Water Policy (1991)
-  National Land Policy (1995)
-  Energy Policy (1992)
I. Forestry Policy. The main objective of the policy is the need of an increasing land under
forestr-y cover. The policy looks at the whole process to be managed by the Governmenlt. For
the policy to be successful it should focus on grass-root participation of forest . resource
management. All efforts to centralise forest management shotild be avoided. The present
direction is towards small governance therefore all management activities should be left to
the people.
11. Water Policy, 1991. The policy is very comprelhenisive and worked ouL using an
inter-sector approach. The policy recommends that water resources shall be conserved and
use of pesticides and fertilisers shall avoid water pollttion. Strategies have, so far, been
prepared and action plans have been drawn to implement the policy.
111. National Land Policy (1995). The policy has proposed the formation of an Inter
Ministerial Co-ordination Committee for Consultation on issues of granting of mining
claims, huntinig licences, timber harvesting licences, water rights and other leases. The
issuing of such permits or leases and claims normally conflicts with other land uses. Ai-eas
of conflicts between agricultural land use and other multiple land uses need some scientific
research and appropriate resolutions may be found by a multidisciplinary team. The policy
directs, protection of forest and games reserve areas or seasonal migration routes of wildlife.
Annex 8 API'ENDIX A policy-may 03  Appendix A - 4                  Techiniplant



Singida Shelui Road: Detailed Engineering Design  Final Report: Annex 8 - Appendix A
IV. Energy Policy, 1992. Depletion of forest land is mainly because of wood for fuel
requirement in the business sector and the rural population. The policy look into ways to
help the common man get simple ways of obtaining energy for household use without
compromising with the environment.
3.    LEGAL FRAMEWORK OF ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS
The present project must comply with the country's national environmental legislation. The
Parliament has enacted various pieces of environmental legislation, including an
Environmental Protectioni Bill.
3.1 Le2islation relevant for road projects
The following pieces of legislation that address the quality of the environment can be
applied to Singida-Shelui road upgrading project.
I. Nationial Enivironiment Management Colincil Act (1983). The Act replaced the earlier,
fragmented approach to environmental issues. The Council (NEMC) makes provision for
pollution control and the co-ordination of national environment management. NEMC has
mainly advisory and evaluation functions, geared to:
-  evaluate the existing or proposed policies and Government pollution control activities,
-  verify that measures protecting natural resources have adequate environmental effects
-  specify standards, norms and criteria for quality of the environment,
-  formulate proposals for legislation in the area of environmental issues, and:
-  recommend their implementation by the Government.
Thus NEMC advises the Government on all environmental matters in the country. Section 7
of the Act stipulates the duties of the Director General, who is the Chief Executive of
NEMC and isresponsible for considering means and initiating steps to protect the
enviromnent and prevent, control, abate or rmitigate pollution. The Council's Parent Ministry
is the Ministry of Tourism, Natural Resources and Environment. Fifteen members can be
appointLed by the Minister from different Ministries and other organisations dealing with
matters affecting the environment. Three other members can be appointed by the Minister
from amongst knowledgeable and expert persons. The high authority given to the Council is
emphasised by the presidential nomination of both the Council's Chairman and Director
General. All Ministries, Local Authorities, National Bodies and many other organisations in
the country rely on information, capacities and authority of the NEMC. The existence of this
Councildoes not relieve other Government agencies of their duties, regulated by laws, to
prevent environmental damage. NEMC does not transfer any such responsibilities.
II. Wildlife Conservationz Act (1974), amended in 1978. It was enacted to encourage the
conservation of both wildlife and vegetation species as directed by the Minister (section
15). The Act makes provision for game protection in Game Reserves and Game Controlled
Ar-eas. Vegetation may not be wilfully damaged without approval by the Ministry of
Tourism, Natural Resources and Environment. Any road re-routing must be approved by
Director of Wildlife in Dar Es Salaam. Human activity is strictly forbidden in Game
Reserves and travellers must be informed by signing that they are entering a designated area.
Contravention of the Act can result in serious penalties, including jail terms. The Act
operates with the limitations and requirements of the Convention on International Trade in
Endangered Species (CITES), the National Parks Ordinance and related regulations.
Ill. Forest Ordinance (1957) & Forests Chapter 389 of the Law (Principal Legislationi),
Suipplement 57, part V. This deals with the protection of forests and forest products in Forest
Reserves and the restrictions and prohibitions in Forest Reserves. These Management Plans
Annex 8 APPENDIX A policy-may 03  Appendix A - 5                  Techniplani



Singida Shelui Road: Detailed Engineering Design  Final Report: Annex 8 - Appendix A
are administered under the Forests Ordinance (1957). Any contravention of the restrictions
and prohibition is considered an offence under this ordinance and subject to enforcement.
However, this is rarely implemented.
IV. Protected Places and Areas Act, 1969. Enacted to provide a process and mechanism to
protect specific lands as necessary at the discretion of the Minister. The Act provides for
imprisonment and fines for persons unlawfully trespassing on protected lands.
V. Water utilisation (Control and Reglilation) Act, 1974, amended in 1981. Enacted to
control and protect water resources. The legislation defines water as all water flowing over
the surface of the ground or contained or flowing in or from a spring or stream or natural
lake, swamp or in or beneath a water course. The Act puts in place a regime of water rights
to govern access to water use. Pollution control norms are embodied in water rights. Apart
from incorporating pollution control in water rights, the Act goes a step further to put in
place a regime in consent for the discharge of effluent. Under section 15 A(I) of the Act, no
person may discharge effluent from any commercial, industrial or other trade waste systems
into receiving waters without a consent duly granted by a Water officer. The Act also
contains two schedules which sets standards for receiving waters and effluent. Additional
instruments that have some influence over environmental management issues other than
legislation include the following policy and management plan documents.
a. Environmental impact asscssment (EIA)
There is no provision, in the legislation in force, to make EIA mandatory for development
projects in Tanzania. The Ministry of Works has taken initiative to develop EIA guidelines
and check lists for the road sector and other infrastructure. Environmental Impact
Assessment (EIA) regulations conceming development projects are currently regulated by
the terms 6f reference of the various projects.
3.3 Enforcement of environmental laws
Legal sanctions against environmental violations frequently fail to be applied. As a
consequence, part of the environmental legislation is still ineffective. A revision of the main
laws and their enforcement mechanisms is needed to build safe infrastructLire and achieve
sustainable development.
4.   ADMINISTRATIVE FRAMEWORK
OF ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT
Different institutions are responsible for enforcing the environmental legislation. The focus
of administrative authority in environmental matters and related technical standards falls
within the area of jurisdiction of the Division of Environment of the Vice-President's
Office. This Division was first set up in 1992, under the Ministry of Tourism, Natural
Resources and Environment. The Director of Environment has the authority to demand an
Environmental Impact Assessment. For the present environmental data are routed via the
primary Ministry of Works, responsible for disseminating material to other Ministries and
obtain their input. The involvement of the Vice-Presidents Office encourages a
multi-disciplinary, collaborative approach to the environmental assessment. Ministry
interfaces may involve the Ministries of: Communications & Transport. Agriculture Water,
Annex 8 APPENDIX A policy-may 03  Appendix A - 6                    Techi,ipla,z



Singida Shelui Road: Detailed Engineering Design  Final Report: Annzex 8 - Appendix A
Energy & Minerals. Lands, Housing & Urban Development. Other Ministries based on the
nature of the project. Co-ordination of such a complex adrministrative framework may results
in gaps and duplication of roles and efforts, due to:
- still insufficient environmental policies at central and local government level
-   understatement of environmental risks in the planning processes
-  lack of solid assessment procedures, despite initiative taken by the NEMC
-  inadequate provision for data collection and analysis
-   weak law enforcement (see § 3.2)
-   horizontal fragmentation of responsibility, causing overlap or omission of effort
5. LEGAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE Fr.MEWORK
OF DISLOCATION AND RESETTLEMENT
5.1 Land Tenure System
The existing ownership system relies on legislation enacted more than 30 years ago. The law
vests all land in the President and grants occupancy rights to individuals, legal persons and
territorial communities. The President holds the land trust for all citizens and can acquire
land for public use and benefit, for instance, to resettle people from densely to scarcely
populated areas, settle refugees and so forth. Under such provisions, people from
overpopulated areas like Moshi and Ukerewe have been able to move without much
difficulty and settle in high-potential, low-demography agricultural districts like Ifakara,
Kilosa, Rufiji. The President can also obtain land for Government use and national projects.
5.2 Compensation Rules
Under the Government Standing Order on expropriation for public utility, the holder of a
Right of Occupancy is guaranteed free enjoyment of the land and is entitled to compensation
if dispossessed by Government for public purposes. In most cases, owners agree to leave
their land to the Government. With the same frequency, they are not happy with the amount
and delay of the compensation. A number of property items, especially improvements, are
often omitted or underrated. The expropriation value should match the price that
improvements can fetch if sold on the open market. In normal circumstances, such price is
lower than the replacement value, but higher than the initial construction cost of the
improvement. Replacement value - defined as the cost of putting up a structure equivalent
to the evaluated one - makes allowance for age, state of repair, economic obsolescence.
Compensation must include:
(i)  the replacement value of un-exhausted improvements
(ii)  disturbance and transport allowance
(iv)  loss of income
(v)  cost of acquiring or getting equivalent land
(vi)        any other immediate costs or capital expenditure incurred to develop the land.
1 Un-exhlausted improvements means any quality permanently attached to the land and directly
resulting fronm the expenditure of capital or labour by a person holding a Right of Occupancy.
Annex 8 APPENDIX A policy-may 03  Appendix A - 7                    Technziplan



Singida Shelui Road: Detailed Engineering Design   Final Report: Annex 8 - Appendix B
Annex 8: EIA, SIA & RIA
APPENDIX B
ENVIRONMENTAL PROFILE OF THE ROAD PROJECT AREA
Annex 8 APPENDIX B area profile-may 03  Appendix B - 1                Techniplan



Sin gida Slhelni Road: Detailed Engineering Design   Final Report: Annex 8 - Appendix B
Annex 8 APPENDIX B area profile-may 03  Appendix B - 2                   Techniplan



Sin gida Shelui Road: Detailed Engineering Design  Final Report: Annex 8 - Appendix B
Annex 8: EIA, SIA & RIA
APPENDIX B
ENVIRONMENTAL PROFILE OF THE PROJECT AREA
The area covered by the Project Influence Area is 49,341 km2, equal to 5.6% of Tanzania
mainland. The area hosts 1.1 million inhabitants, or 3.3% of Tanzania's mainland
population. The demographic density is 22 persons per km2, against a national density of 36.
Urban dwellers are 160,000, of which 130,000 concentrated in the regional head quarters,
Singida town.
Climate
Singida-Shelui road lies in the semi-arid central zone of Tanzania, receiving erratic short
rains, with widespread drought periods. Total rainfall ranges from 500 mm to -800 min per
annum. There are two well-defined seasons: the long dry season April-November and the
short rainy season December-March, sometimes into April. The average monthly
temperature varies between 220C - 350C.
Topography, Geology, Soils.
The project road traverses terrain varying from 900 m to 1500m above sea level. Between
Singida and Misigiri (junction to Kiomboi), the land is fairly flat with some undulating
terrain. Between Misigiri and Shelui, the road traverses escarpment at Sekenke (rift valley
crossing). From Shelui to the Tabora region border, there are swamps. The underlying
lithology consists of granites, migmatites and associated acid gneiss for the section starting
from Singida to Shelui. The rest of the project road is underlain by quartenary sediments.
The soils found in the area are characteristic of the parent material and other topographical
or historical features. The' road traverses granite - gneiss origin soils, sand or sand loamy
with imperfect or poor drainage soils. Between Singida and Shelui the soil, is reddish
brown, brown or greyish brown. The Western part of the road, between Shelui and Tabora
region border is domninated by tropical black clays commonly known as black cotton soils or
Mbuga clays as termed in Tanzania. These clays contain a high percentage of
montmorillonite and undergo expansion and contraction cycles as I the soil go through wet
and dry seasons. Although these soils support traffic loads when dry, they expand when wet
and loose almost all supporting power which can cause considerable failure in the road
structure, this soil must be Reinforcedduring the design stage.
Urban and rural landscapes traversed by the road
Singida-Shelui road section belongs to the Central Corridor of Tanzania's trunk artery
network, which starts at Dar Es Salaam and links the towns of Morogoro, Dodoma,
Manyoni, Singida, Nzega and Mwanza (to the north) or Lusahunga (to the West), serving
Rwanda, Burundi, SW Uganda and eastern Congo (see Figure 1 in Part 4 of the present
Annex)).The road crosses Singida and Iramba districts and Iguguno, Kizaga, Misigiri, Shelui
See details on population in Appendix B.
Annex 8 APPENDLX B area profile-may 03  Appendix B - 3             Techniplan



Singida Shelui Road: Detailed Engineering Design  Final Report: Annex 8 - Appendix B
towns. 2 The altitude ranges 900 to 1500 m through flat or rolling country from Singida to
Misigiri (km 75), then through Sekenke Escarpment (Rift Valley crossing) and the low-lying
Wembere swamps until the border with Tabora Region (kmr 110).
Geology and soils
The lithology underlying the existing alignment consists of granites, rnigmatites and
associated acid gneiss. Soils reflect the parent material and other genetic features. The road
traverses granite-gneiss origin soils, sand or sand loamy with imperfect or poor drainage
soils. The soil, is reddish brown, brown or greyish brown. Between Shelui and Tabora
border tropical black clays prevail, known as black cotton soils (or Mbuga clays in local
terrninology). Having a high degree of montmorillonite, they undergo expansion and
contraction cycles respectively through the wet and dry seasons. When dry, these soils
support traffic, but expand and melt when wet, causing failure in the road structure. Soil
reinforcement should be considered during the design stage.
Hydrology
The project road two rivers (Msisi, Iguguno) and a major swamp, located in Wembere basin
at Singida-Tabora border, 800m across, covered with grasses. Near Sekenke escarpment
there is Kitangiri lake, 40 km on the right side of the road. The lake is sutTounded by
fishermen's settlements. Clay and mud fish are the dominant species. Close to Singida town
there are the salt lakes of Singida (16 km2) and Kindai (7 km2). To the north-west lies
Kisingiri Lake (140 km2).
Vegetation
The vegetation types feature wooded grassland and woodland, bush formations and thickets.
The road traverses the lower part of Sekenke Forest at the Rift Valley escarpment. Regional
authorities have applied to Central Government to declare it a National Forest Reserve. It is
a natural, dense forest, hosting small mammals. The Reserve covers 34,200 ha, mainly of
miomnbo woodland with pockets of African blackwood (Dalbergia melanoxylon) locally
called "mpingo". Other species in the forest include Pterocapus angolensis ("mninga"),
Brachystegia speciformis ("mtundu"), Brachystegia microphylla ("mahegheya"), Afzelia spp
("mkola").
Wildlife, Game Reserves, Fisheries
Wild maimmals. They are found in Sekenke Forest and Wembere basin, including impala,
antelopes, baboons, monkeys, hares and, to a lesser extent, buffaloes. Professional hunting is
going on in the Wembere basin and Manyoni Open Areas, south of Singida District. Road
upgrading is likely to increase hunting and further reduce the open hunting areas.
Bircls. There is a large variety of birds in the study area. Flamingos abund around lakes
Singidani and Kindai, near Singida town. Parrots, fiches, eagles, vultures, are found in the
forests and Wembere basin. This basin has an international recognition for being the
breeding area of birds flying between Europe and Africa.
Hunting in Open Areas. The project road traverses wildlife territories officially designated
as "Open Areas", where hunting is partially controlled by local authorities. Open Areas have
been decreasing continually due to sprawling villages and farms.
2 Tle road seives inidirectly Kiomboi town (Iraniba district headquarters) from Misigiri, 21 km away.
Annex 8 APPENDIX B area profile-may 03  Appendix B - 4             Techniplatz



Singida Shelui Road: Detailed Engineering Design   Final Report: Annex 8 - Append(ix B
Bee-keeping takes place in the woodlands using traditional species. Normally the beehive is
located on tall trees with nectar producing flowers.
Fisheries. The fishing industry concentrates in Kitangiri lake, 40 km away from Shelui on
the Rift Valley ridge. Road upgrading is expected to enhance the fish market. The most
common fish species are Tilapia spp and Scalaria spp (mud-fish). Yearly fish production in
the project area is estimated at 7000 tonlyear.
Cultivation
Farms and fallow lands cover slightly more than half the project area, and are concentrated
in its eastern part, while in the west, across the Rift Valley, there is little cultivation.
Agriculture is subsistence-oriented, with cereals, sweet potatoes and cassava as the staple
food crops. Cash crops include tobacco, sunflower, cotton. Potential farm expansion areas
are just 20%. A dry climate and low soil fertility are limiting factors of rural development.
Uncultivated lands are covered by wooded grassland or bush and thickets. The wooded grass
land is found in the western part of Singida region (Iramba district), but the grasses do not
become tall because of premature grazing. Sekenke Escarpment, Misigiri to Shelui, is
covered by wooded land (miombo). From the escarpment to Tabora border, the project area
has pockets of bush land and thickets, where Acacia is the dominant tree species. Wembere
crossing is rich in shrubs and swamps grasses.
Animal husbandry
Singida region hosts about 7 % of the national cattle stock and 6 % of sheep and goats. The
whole area is subject to overgrazing, with severe erosion problems. The existing road is the
main stock corridor from Bariadi, Tabora, Shinyanga, Singida to Arusha and Dodoma
markets. The absence of stock routes accelerates the deterioration of the road and
jeopardizes safety. Frequent, huge livestock herds cross the road at Misigiri and other
centres. The proposed road should have provisions for livestock crossing and movements.
Mining
Apart from sand and stone quarrying for construction purposes, no official mine exists in the
study area. There is an abandoned gold mine located 2 km from the project road, along the
district road to Kiomboi. The mine used to attract a considerable number of smallholder
miners.
Annex 8 APPENDIX B area profile-may 03  Appendix B - 5               Techniiplaiz



Singida-SIheluti Road: Detailed Enginieerinig Design  Final Report: Annex 8 - Appendix C
Annex 8: EIA, SIA & RIA
APPENDIX C
BASELINE SOCIO-ECONOMRC DATA
1. Population
2. Agriculture
3. Standards of living
Annex 8 APPENDIX C socioec-may 03  Appendix C - 1                    Techniplan



Sin gida-Shtelui Road: Detailed Engineering Design .  Final Report: Annlex 8 - Appendix C
;Anhiex 8: ElA, SI.- & RIA  '
- .;... .BASELINE S00-EC ONOMIC DATA
The total area covered by the Project Influence Area, or National Traffic Basin of the project
road, is 8,340 krm2 and hosts 0.5 million inhabitants, or 1.5 %  of Tanzania mainland
population. The density is 64 persons per kin2, a relatively high figure, due to the inclusion,
within the road influence area, of the urban population of Singida (almost 150,000 people
including 24,000 people in the suburbs) and other towns as Iguguno, Misigiri and Kiomboi.
Altogether, the urban segmnet of the road influence area is estimated to range beteen 160
and 180 thousand people according to the various projections based on the 1988 National
Population Census.
Regionalpoptulation. Singida Region hosted 1.1 million inhabitants in June 2000, according
to the Consultant's estimate, based on projections of the demographic series tabulated
below.
Table .] Population of singida Region accorcling to official figures
Districts                         Population                        Annual rate
1967         1978       1988      1996 estimate  1967-78  1978-88
1. Singida Urban         -         55,892      80,987      99,000        -       3,7
2. Singida Rural      193,819      213,732    285,092      339,000      0.9      2.9
3. Iramba             183,964      242,003    290,260      353,000      2.5      1.8
4. Manyoni             80,157      120,403     135,475     164,000      2.2      2,8
Singida Region     457,940      614,030     791,814     962,000       2.7     2.5
Tanzania Mainland  111,958,6 54  17,036,499  22,533,758  28,396,247    3.2      2.8
Sources: a) Population Census: 1967, 1978 and 1988. B) Official administrativefigutresfor 1996
.The road influence area covers Singida Urban District totally and most of Singida Rural and
Iramba istricts. The inter-census population growth rate declined from 2.7% in 1967-78 to
2.5% in 1978-88. Iramba District had the highest rate of 2.5 % compared to 2.2 in Manyoni
and 0.9 in Singida Rural. The region's fertility rate raised between 1967-88 from 7.5 percent
1967, 8.7 % in 1978 and 7.0 % in 1989. Likewise the average household size increased from
4.1 % in 1967 to 5.3 % in 1988, while the death rate (CDR) for the region somehow
stabilized at 10 %. The national average death rate was 13.5 % in .1988.
Table B.2  Deinogrp hic indicators of Singida Region (1967 -88)
Demographic rates
Year           Population                                           Average
Annual growth  Fertility   Death
1967            457.940         3.2         7.5          -            4.1
1978            614.030         2.7         8.7        10.3           4.6
1988           791.814         2.5          7.0        10.6           -.3
Tanzania (1988)    22.533.758       2.8         6.7         13.5          5.3
Souirce: Compiled by Planning Commission 1996
Annex 8 AIlI'ENDIX C socioec-may 03  Appendix. C - 3                       Techi iplai



Singida-Shelui Road: Detailed Engineering Design         Final Report: Annzex 8 - Appendix C
Demographic structuire. Population is young: 46 % are under 15 years while the active
group 15 to 64, the core labour force, is 49 %.
Table   B.3  Population structutre and dependence ratio, 1978-1988
District     Year                           Age Groups                          Dependence
District  Year  ____________                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ratio
0-4        5-14       15-44       45-64     65 & over
Singida Urban  1978       9491       14.710     24,169      5,445       2.076       88.73
j   1988      13,436     22,562     34,753       7,790      2,977        91.61
Singida Rural    1978     36 137      61,522     78,493      27,102      10,56B      102.58
}   1988      50,227     83 309     107,339     29,499      14,477       108.09
1978      43,373     69,940      82,411      32,343     13,993       110.94
lramba       j3988        47,709      86,932     103,854     34,112      17,472      110.25
Manyoni          1978      17,570     25.405     39,670      13,995      5,625        85.26
1   1988     22,859      37.083     31,962      16,023      7,426        99.08
Total            1978     106,571     165,577      653       78,885      37,261      100.29
H1988       134,222     229,896    297,908      97,427      41252       105.46
Source:  Popuilation Census: 1978 and 1988
Males outnumber females in the age group under 15 years, while females 15-64 are more
numerous than males. The group aged 65 and over exceeds 5% except in Singida Urban
where it is less than 4 %. The dependence ratio is a higher in Singida and Iramba than in
other districts, meaning that a large number of people are being supported by few workers in
the active group.
Table B.4 sex and age groups 1988 (in % )
District          Sex          0 - 14       15 - 64     65 and over      Total
Males          42.2          54.1          3.7           100
1. Singida Urban     Females        41.6          54.9           3.5          100
Total         41.9          54.5           3.6           100
Males          49.4         45.3           5.3           100
2. Singida Rural     Females        44.5          50.7           4.8           100
Total         47.0          48.0           5.0           100
{    Males         48.9          45.0           6.1          100
3. Iramba        [   Females        44.5          50.0           5.5           100
Total         46.7     l    47.5           5.8           100
Males             45.7          48.9           5.4           100
4. Manyoni       [   Females        42.9          51.5           5.6           100
Total         44.3          50.2           5.5           100
Males          47.8          46.8          5.4           100
Total      |   Females        43.8          51.0           5.2           100
M & F          45.8          48.9          5.3           100
Source: 1988 Population Census. Regional Profile Singida
Populationt denisity. Population density in Singida (19.5) is below the national average
(30.1). Within the Region, density is lowest in Manyoni district
Table B.5. Population density, 1978 -1996
Annex 8 APl'ENDIX C socioec-may 03      Appendix C - 4                           Techniplan



Sin gida-Shlelui Road: Detailed Engineering Design       Final Report: Annex 8 - Appenidix C
Dist.ic.      Land                Population                    Population Density
area      1978        1988       1996        1978      1988      1996
Singida Urban      657      55.890      80.990     99.000.      85.       123        151
Singida Rural     12.160    213.730    285.090     399.000      18         23        28
Iramba            7.900     242.000    290.260     353.000      31         37        45
Manyoni           28.620    102.400    135.480     164.000       4         5          6
Singida Region    49.340    614.040     791.80     962.000       12        16        20
Mainland         942.780  17.036.500   22.533.760  28.396.250    18        24        30
Souirce: Planning Commission analysis 1996.
Table B.6   Population. of the ruiral Divisions or Sub-Districts
inclutded in the road influence area
Tarafa           District       Km2                 Population             Density
(hab/km2)
.             .   ~~~~~~1988-    2000
1.  Ndago             Iramba           850          9,000          12,600         14.8
2.  Shelui             Iramba          825          18,100        25,300.         30.6
3.  Kinampanda         Iramba          340          12,000         16,800         49.4
4.  Kinyangiri         Iramba          600          10,500         14,700         24.5
5.  Kisiriri           Iramba          610           9,400         13,200         21.6
6.  Nduguti            Iramba          520           7,000         9,800           18.8
7.  Singida Urban   Singida Urban      660          99,000        150,000          242
8.  Singida Rural   Singida Rural     1650          160,000       224,000          136
9.  Ilongero        Singida Rural     1010          21,000         29,400         29.1
10. Mgori           Singida Rural     590           12,900         18,000         30.5
11. Mungaa          Singida Rural      645          12,900         18,000         27.9
Total                   8,300         371,800       531,000          64.1
Source. Censuis data for 1988 and Consultant's projections for tlle year 2000
Ethnic groups There are     ten major ethno-linguistic groups in Singida Region, namely:
Nyiraniba, Nyauiru, Kimbu, Gogo, Isanzu, Taturu, Sukuma, Mangati, Barbaig and Hadzebe.
The latter two are of Nilotic or Nilo-Hamitic descent, probably having migrated into the
.region from Northern Africa or the Nile Valley through South Sudan or Ethiopia and
Somaliland, while the other eight tribes are of Bantu -origin from Ethiopia, Lake Victoria,
Congo, Southern Africa and Upare mountains. However there are few mixtures of
Nyamwezi and Luo from neighbouring regions like Tabora, Shinyanga and Mara and some
Asians and Arabs especially in towns.
2.. AGRIACULTURtE.
Estiniates
Annex 8 APPENDIX C sociocc-may 03      Appendix C - 5                          Tech niplant



Singida-ShIeliui Road: Detailed Enigineering Design       Final Report: Annex 8 - Appendix C
Agriculture employs almost 80% of the regional manpower and contributes just 60% of
GDP. This poor productivity indicator reflects extensive farming practices leading to the
progresive depletion of the resource basis. The bulk of local crops is grown in soils
overlying granite and falling into soil classes 1 and 2. Here and there, patches of ground
overlain by non-laterized red earths (typical of class 3) are favoured on account of greater
fertility. However, the dry climate and average low soil fertility constrain agricultural
development in this part of Tanzania. The table below shows the most recent statistics about
agricultural production in Singida.
Table B.3 Overall agricultuiral produiction of Singicla Region (1995)
Indicators       Maize       Sorghum      Bulrush      Paddy       Cassava    Swcet potato
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ m ille t   _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
Hectares             65,762       89,141       36,326       2,477       7,079        6,534
Tonnes               151,746      141,661      43,591       9,905       35,395       30,663
Ton/ha                2.30         1.59         1.20        4.00         5.00         4.70
Indicators      Sunflower     Cotton      Tobacco      G/nuts    Finger millet   Onion
Hectares              14,921       5,620       1,080        8,351       3,198        4,627
Tonnes                13,427       2,765       1,188        8,351       2,585        18,473
Ton/ha                0.90         0.49         1.10         1.00        0.81         3.99
The regional agricultural production is subsistence-oriented, as shown by the following
figuries.
TableB.4. Produiction of food crops in tons by District, 1995/96
Crop           Singida     Iramba      Manyoni    Singida rural   Total         %
uirban
I  Sorghum           4,350       63,074       27,902      59,694       155,020      34.66
2  B. millet         3,744        15,846       8,321       20,958      20,958        10.93
3  Maize             3,681       86,187       33,400       51,126      51,126        38.99
4  Wheat               -           614           -          490          490         0.25
5  Paddy               12          988         6,456        660          660         1.81
6  Beans               83         3,536        573         1,114        1,114        1.19
7  Cow-peas            41          483         1,360        506          506         0.53
8  Cassava            525         9,200        3,150       5,075        5,075        4.01
9  Sweet potatoes    2,005        13,915       2,300       15,915       15,915       7.63
Total          14,441      193,843       83,462      155,538     447,284        100
Table B.5 Prodcliction of cash crops in tonnes bu District 1995/96
Crop          Singida    tramba       Manioni    Singida rural    Total         %
urban
I  Cotton            18         1,456        478           750         2,702         5.90
2  Sunnower          288        14,650       1,020        7,656        23,614       51.60
3  G/niuts           72         2,433         618         1,370        4,493    1    9.80
4  Onions            114        6,060         174         3,591        9,939        21.70
5  Tobacco            -           -           979           -           979          2.20
6  Chick peas        51          99            3           130    i     283          0.60
7  Finger millet     30          969          82          1,536    I   2,617         5.70
8  Wheat              -          614           -           490         1,104         2.40
9  Dates              2          18            7            13          40           0.10    I
Total          575        26,299       3,361        15,536       45,771         100
3.       STANDARDS OF LXVING
Annex 8 APPENDIX C socioec-may 03       Appendix C - 6                           Techniplat



Singida-Shielui Road: Detailed Enginieering Design        Final Report: Annex 8 - Appendir C
Altogether, the socio-economic indicators of Singida region are considerably below        the
average of Tanzania, even      though   they do compare unfavorably       with those of the
neighboring regions, as shown by the following table.
Table B.6   Sin gida's Socio-Economic Indicators conpared with neighbori g Regions
.   .        .-:               '; -         a      ; &         ; s'Cs.         Cs.
.IndcatorS.'.               ., .,
InI
1.  Rcgional GDP(Sh billion 1994)          83.0     52.0    50. 1   92,.0    57.9    110.4   55.0
2.  Per Capita Income (Sh 1994)           62,140   55,640  43,750   64,500  39,600  50,750  44,980
3.  Population Growth Rate 1988            2.8      2.5      2.9     2.7     2.4      2.9     2.4
4.  Population Density per km2              26       16      50      21       30      35      14
5.  Population Access to Clean Water, 94   50.5     42.8    53.6    48.2     64.0    28.2    38.8
6.  Thousand People per Hospital           150      132     121      83      248     222      148
7.  Number of People per Dispcnsary       10,000   6,140    7,890   6,650   6,770    9,610   9,250
8.  Primary School Net Enrolment Rate      54.2     45.7    58.9    62.5     48.1    59.5    52.7
9.  Illiteracy Rate, 1992                   16      25.6    12.3     13.8    17.7    31.9     12.2
Registered vehicles based in the towns of the project area are about 900, most of them used
for commercial transport purposes.
Annex 8 APP'ENDIX C socioec-may 03      Appendix C - 7                           Techniiplai



Singida-ShIeluti Road: Detailed Engineering Design    Final Report: Annex 8 - Appendix C
Annex 8 APPENDIX C socioec-may 03    Appendix C - 8                        Tech niplan



Singida-Shelui Road Detailed Engineering Design                Final Report: Annex 8 - Appendix D
Annex 8: EIA, SIA & RIA
APPENDIX D
AGRO-ECONOMIC AREAS OF SINGIDA REGION
Annex 8 APPENDIX D agroec-may 03        Appendix D - 1                             Techniplant



Singida-Sheltii Road Detailed Engineering Design        Final Report: Annex 8 - Appendix E
Annex 8: EIA, SIA & RIA
APPENDIX E
WATER RESOURCES OF THE PROJECT AREA
The project area belongs to a semi-arid region. While surface water is available in the rainy
season, groundwater is mainly used during the dry season. There are very few perennial
watercoLirses along the 110 km    stretch of Singida-Shelui road and water is a scarce
commodity in all road-side settlements.
For domestic use, the main sources are hand-dug waterholes shallow wells and boreholes.
Rainwater harvesting from ground catchment serves mainly for livestock and construction.
Some wells are fitted with hand pumps, wind mill-operated pumps. Water distribution pipes
installed in some settlements are mostly dry. For example, in Mgongo village - where a
water tank put up in 1974 was fed by a. spring in Sekenke escarpment via a 75 mm pipe
running parallel to Singida-Shelui road - villagers have reverted to ground water. Notably,
good water sources for domestic use are water falls in Sekenke escarpment. These have
however not been exploited as yet. The water sources that can be relied upon during the dry
season for domestic and construction use along Singida-Shelui road are listed below.
Table E. I Dry season water sources along the pro ect road
Roadside location and
km                          Water Source                               remarks
98-105   Shallow wells, dug waterholes, tube wells               Either side of the road
-     Kindai Lake                                             Within Singida township
3     Singidani Lake                                          RHS 400
30    Iguguno River
41     Boreholes                                               Either side
60     Ground and rain water reservoirs, windmill borehole, waterholes  RHS - Kyengege 20-100m
66     River Ulemo                                             2.3. km RHS
87     River Kibigiri                                          Kibigiri village
Need intake works and
83-110   Wembere and Sungura Watembo falls, Sekenke area        piping to fetching site
Source: field suirvey
Analyzed water samples from selected sources along the road were found to be polluted.
Therefore, untreated water is unsuitable for drinking. Turbidity of most water samples is
high.
Table E.2  Laboratory analysis of water samples from  sources along Singicla -Shelui road.
Parameters
Water source location      Tlubidity -     Hardnies  S0a             F      status
s (Mq/I)  (Ig/I  (g/)   (In gil)
I   Shelui river                  3       7.6    240      0      2.1     9.3    faccal
2   Hand pump well, Shelui        9       7.8    143     32.2     1.5    6.3    faecal
3   Borehole windnill, Kyengege   3       7.6    148     38.4     1.6    6.4    faccal
4   Hland-pump well, Iguguno      3       8.0    345     62.0    2.1     8.8    faecal
5   Iguguno River                 36      8.0    272     28.1     1.4    8.4     faecal
6   Water hole , Shelui          167      7.6    334     24.1    2.04    3.2    faccal
7   Sekenke/Kibigiri river       132      7.4     90     37.6    2.0     5.9     faecal
Source: Previous stucdies
Annex 8 APPENDIX E water-may 03        Appendix E - 3                        Techniplan



Singida-Shellti Road Detailed Engineering Design  Final Report: Annex 8 - Appendix E
The quality of water in all sources with respect pH was found to be good, with a pH between
7.4 and 8.0 as shown in Table 7. Fluoride content in water samples from all the sources is in
the range that can cause health effects. Except for the Shelui water holes the rest are
unacceptable judging by general WHO standards.  However, by Tanzania temporary
standards, only the Shelui River sources and the Iguguno well and river sources are
unacceptable. In respect of nitrate content, water from all sources is of acceptable quality.
The sulphate content is also good for domestic water use. However, in respect of hardness,
most water samples were found to be between moderately soft and very hard as shown in
Table 7. The water from the water hole in Shelui, with a hardness of 334 mg/I, is very hard,
implying that it can have effects on taste, cause severe scaling and can impair lathering.
Turbidity of water from Iguguno River, the water hole at Shelui and river water from
Kibigiri River is high enough to be able to cause secondary health effects, apart from its
muddy appearance. However, currently the water is used after purification with alum. This
means it can reliably be used in the same way in future.
Annex 8 APPENDIX E water-may 03    Appendix E - 4                   Techniplan



Singicda-Sheliui Road: Detailed Engineering Design  Final Report: Annex 8 - Appendix F
Annex 8: EPIA, SIA & RIA
APPENDIX F
HEALTH DATA OF THE PROJECT AREA
Annex 8 APPENDIX F health-may 03  Appendix F - 1                      Techniplan



Singida-Sheliui Road: Detailed Engineering Design    Final Report: Antnex 8 - Appendir F
Annex, 8: E LA, SLV  R IA
; ,. , , ;- fl - 2APPENDIX F.               ;:Wt 
i, 1 -  !-;i; t;HEALT;H DATA OF- 'lTE -PROJECT  REA:,,
Singida Region is characterized by the diffusion of diseases which can be aggravated by the
demographic flows associated with transport development. The following tables shows
statistical data concerning:
-   communicable diseases, and:
-   diseases sensitive to traffic conditions, especially eye and lung diseases which can
be aggravated by dust and air pollution.
The displayed health situation data regard the districts traversed by the project road..
Table F. 1 Communicable diseases in Sin,gida and Iramba districts, 1996
L'i l;n          K L.r: I          Irj inI, 1
Malaria                    19,168           88,034            172,013
2        DianThoea                   3,997           29,854            12,550
3        Meningitis                   7                25                107
.4       Wonn infestation            1638             8161              2262
Table F.2   Selected communicable diseases in Singida region, 1997
--.is,, . ease  , : . ::. ..>  '_'_I_'_,_"_ _ '_ '_;_ -",_ ':  D istrict"
. ,- '. '+ .;,~  Disease .  :.  -  ;   .  . . , . Urban  ': -  .  '  'Rural  Iramnba
1    Malaria                     238478             57497             1938
2    Dianhoea                     7676               15098             380
3    Cholera                       3                  167
4    Meningitis                     1                 24               31
5    Bilharzia                     0                 788                0
6    Worm infestation             2953               5080              243
7    Typhoid                      1242                50               0
Table F.3   Cases of Cholera in districts of Singida region, January-Auguist 1998
- Month          . .     Urban'             . ural            Iramba
January                           81                  30                 0
February                          185                18                 0
March                             139                35                 25
April                              6                  13                39
May                                0                  0                 24
June                               0                  0                  0
July                               1                  0                  0
August                             0                  3                  0
Additional data on communicable diseases are presented in Tables 13 through 15 in respect
of Singida urban area and its suburbs, Iguguno, Misigiri, Msisi, Manga and Shelui. The data
are on Aids/mHV infections, eye diseases and upper respiratory track infection (URTI) for the
period between 1996 and 1998.
Annex 8 APPENDIX F health-may 03   Appendix F - 3                        Techntiplan



Sin gida-Slzelui Road: Detailed Engineerinig Design  Fiiial Report: Annex 8 - Appendix F
Table F.4 Recorcled cases of Aids along Sin gida-Shelui road, 1996-99
Township_________________           Period
Township                  1996               1997           1998
l   Singida urban                 28                 28             78
2   Iguguno                        3                  5              10
3   Misigiri                       2                  4              6
4   Msisi                          0                  0              2
5   Manga                          0                  2              1
6   Shelui                         5                  7             15
Table F.5   Recorded e e diseases along Singida-Shelui road, 1996-99
T'ownship                                Period             1998
1996              1997           1998
I   Singida urban                 2250              2809           3111
2   Iguguno                        1200              1350           1765
3   Misigiri                       125               75             165
4   Msisi                           12                15             13
5   Manga                           10                5              12
6   Shelui                          7                 18             30
Table F.6   Recorded cases of URTI along Singida-Shelui Roadfor 1996-98
Township                                 Period
1996            1997             1998
1   Singida urban                 906             1100            1201
2   Iguguno                       351             825              775
3   Misigiri                      277             327              451
4   Msisi                          23              45              60
5   Manga                          11              16              45
6   Shelui                         10              25              30
Most eye diseases referred to in Table 14 are caused by air pollution common in Singida, in
part from traffic blown dust and other particulates of vehicular origin. Due to water dearth in
most of the project area, personal hygiene is poor, exacerbating eye diseases, occasionally
leading to blindness. Upper respiratory track infections (URTI) are also mainly due to dust
and other particulates inhaled by victims. Diarrhea stems from unsafe food preparation
practices and unhygienic food handlers. In respect of AIDS/ HIV infections, data reflect the
role of the townships listed as stopovers for haulage trucks bound for as far as Burundi and
Rwanda. 1998 AIDS data for Singida urban show that almost 86% of Aids cases were
females.
While the document recognises the impact that road development will have in terms
of the potential for the spread of HIV/AIDS, the analysis is lacking in three main
areas.
H1V/AIDS impact is not consistently recognised in all the sections dealing with
health impacts. For example, while it is mentioned in table 7.5 (section v), it is
missing in the earlier similar section 6.2 (pg. 22) on direct impact of road use on
disease, vectors etc. It needs to be reflected consistently throughout the document in
all relevant sections.
The document needs to expand on what the project will do with regard to preventing
and controlling the spread of HIV/AIDS. Currently there is only brief mention that
the project will have some activities but these need to be detailed, budgeted and lines
of responsibility for implementation shown.
The emphasis on HIV/AIDS awareness needs to be given more importance as part of
project activities.
Annex 8 APPENDIX F health-may 03  Appendix F - 4                        Technziplaz



Singida-Shelui Road: Detailed Engineeriug Design  zFinal Report: Annex 8 - AppendLi G
Annex 8: EIA, SIA & RIAi
APPENDIX     C; -:-G;S-           ;
ARCHAEOLOGY HERITAGE AND ROADDEVELOPMENT.
Annex 8 APPENDIX G archeol-may 03  Appendix G - 1                   Techniplani



Singida-Shelui Roacd: Detailedl Engineering Design         Finial Report: Annex 8 - Appendix G
Annex 8: EIA, SIA & RIA
APPENDIX G
CULTURAL HERITAGE AND ROAD DEVELOPMENT
The cultural heritage of Singida Region, particularly the Physical Cultural Resources (PCR)
may be affected by road works. The most significant known PRC are represented by rock
paintings.
1. PREHISTORIC ROCK PAINTINGS IN SING]IDA REGGION
In Singida region, the Govemment Authorities responsible for cultural heritage have
inventoried more than 50 rock painting sites and other prehistoric remnants, including the so
called Drmm caves. Some of the known sites, as those of Kiomboi, lie quite close to the
project road, even though not so near as to be exposed to the hazards of road works. In fact,
none of the classified sites is menaced by the road upgrading worlcs envisaged by the present
project. However, it is possible that road works may stumble, while in progress, over yet
urnknown paleontological, prehistoric or historica
The list of the sites discovered so far is tabulated below and displayed in Figure 11 of Part 4
of the main text of the present Annex.
T'able G.1.    Prehistoric art heritage sites in Singida region
Site          District       Locality                        Description
I  Busi-Lake        Singida   Busi-Lake           Rock art
2  Didimas          Singida   Didimas              Rock art
3  Gyezi            Iramba    Gyezi                Later Stone Age Site
4  Ilisia Hill (Elisia) Singida  Ilisia Hill       Rock art: Several rock shelters with paintings
5   flongero        Singida   Ilongero             Rock art
6  Irisia           Singida   Irisia               Rock art
7  Isa.izu  Singida  Isanzu   Rock art: several rock shelters with paintings. Later
7  Isanzu           Singida   Isanzu               Stone Age artifacts found in some of the shelters
"Drum caves" at Kilili Hill near Nduguti and at
8  lambi            Singida   lambi                Samanja. Rock Paintings in sites near Mgunza stream
and at Ndala and Kinyakuni North of Ngombe River
9   Haka            Iramba    Iramba plateau       Rock art and Later Stone Age remains
10 Kalili           Iramba     Kaiili              Site with Later Stone Age and Iron Age remains
II Kilima Wangu     framba     Kilima Wangu        Cave with Later Stone Age artifact and recent drums
12 Kilimali I and It  Iramba   Kilima              Sites with pottery and grinding stones, probably recent
13 Kimangwe         Iramba     Kimangwe            Later Stone Age Sites
14 Kiomboi          Iramba     Kiomboi             Later Stone Age Sites,
I,II,I1I,IV,V   _______
15 Kiomboi I1,III,V  Iramba    Kiomboi             Sites with roulette decorated pottery probably recent.
16 Kinasungi        Iramba     Iramba plateau      Rock Art.
17 Kipoma           kramba     Kipoma              Site with iron slag and grinding stones probably recent.
18 Kirondatal       Iramba    Iramba plateau       Rock Art.
19 Kipyungu         Iramba    Isanzu               Rock Art: a rock shelter with paintings.
20  Kirumi           Singida   Kirumi              Rock Art
Annex 8 Al'PENDIX G archeol-may 03      Appendix G - 3                           Techniplan



Sinzgida-Sheliui Road: Detailed Engilneering Design        Final Report: Annex 8 - Appenidix G
Rock Art: Two rock shelters with paintings and Later
Stone Age artifacts and pottery
22 Kititimu         Singida    Kititimu            Rock Art.
23 KituIlu          Singida~   Kitulu              Rock art: Several shelters, paintings and Later Stone
23  Kiculu  Singid~~i  Kitulu         remains
24  Kunguru H-lill  Singida    Kunguru Hill        Rock art: Several rock shelters withi paintings
25 Lulu Lampempele  Iramba     Lulu Lulampempele   Rock shelters with paintings, Later Stone Age remains
26 Mila (Maaita)    [ramba     Mila                Later Stone Age remains
27  Manga           Iramba     Manga               Rock Art: Rock shclter with paintings
28 Mgimu             Singida   15 km east of Mgori  Rock paintings
29 Mponde           Singida    Mponde              Rock Art: - Several rock shelters with paintings
30 Msensemo          Iramba   Iramba Plateau       Rock Art
3  .Msuguo  Singida  Msuguo   Rock Art: Paintings at Mpondo (South of Msuguo) and
3i Msuguo           Singida    Msuguo              Manyeghi (East of Msuguo)
32 Mukirimphiri     framba    lsanzut              Rock Art: Rock shelter with paintings
33  Makukunu        Iramba    !sanzu               Rock Art: Rock shelter with paintings
34 Muligi           tramba     Muligi              Two localities with Later Stone Age artifacts.
35  Muligi Rock      Iramba    Plateau             Shelter with seven drums.
36 Mwahohu          Iramba    Isanzu               Rock Art: Rock shelter with paintings
37 Ngala            Iramba     Ngala               Rock art
38 Ngongosoro       Singida    West of Isuna       Drmin caves
39 Pamnpala Kimnugalu  Iramba  Pampala Kimugalu    Later Stone Age Site
40 Taru Hill         Singida   Ikungi              Rock Art
41 LUsungi           Iramba    Usungi              Later Stone Age settlement site.
42  Vila Mkono       Singida   North of Pambara    Rock Art.
Soutrce: National Muiseuw, Dares Salaanm, 2000
Figure 11 in Part 4 of the main text shows an example of rock painting from the road
influence area. The surface has several layers overlapping. The latest figures belong to the
"Late Hunters". Two large human figures in the middle of the panel are "Early Gatherers".
Below them animal figures from the "Early Hunters" can be seen.
2. WORLD ARCHIVES. OF. ROCK ART (WARA)
Singida rock paintings have been classified and introduced in the World Archives of Rock
Art thanks to a cultural heritage cooperation project financed by the Tanzanian and Italian
Governments in 1996-97. The following paragraphs provide background information on the
Archives.
The origins of art can be traced through the signs and figures left by pre-literate peoples on
the surfaces of rocks and caves throughout the world. For 40,000 years, humans have sought
means of artistic communication. Their legacy can be understood through these creative
manifestations.
Rock art is a visual narrative of our earliest common cultural heritage. From early hunters
and gatherers to evolved hunters, agriculturalists, metal workers and proto-literate
populations, rock paintings and engravings not only depict scenes of daily life, beliefs and
preoccupations at different stages of development; they also reveal individual and societal
needs as well as conceptual and communicative motivations. Insight into fundamental
human processes, such as knowledge, culture, art, imagination and religion can be sought
and gained through the study of rock art.
There are about 700,000 known sites of rock paintings and engravings, throughout the world,
with an estimated 20 million images and signs on record. Moreover, there are over 100,000
extant prehistoric art objects: figurines, plaquettes, engraved bones, decorated horns and
Annex 8 Al'PENDIX G archeol-may 03      Appendix G - 4                           Tecihniplacn



,)ingiaa-.)letut i<oaa: uetaitea P-ngmieeriLig Lesign  Pinal Keport: Annex d - Appendix (;
antlers. Gathered from sites spread all over the world, they are displayed in museums,
galleries and collections. Considering the limitation of the explored areas, the total number
of rock art images that still survive in the world may well be much higher. At present over
99% of the prehistoric art is in fact rock art.
Major sites of rock art are found in over 120 countries and constitute an immense patrimony,
not yet extensively inventoried. Only small parts and areas of rock art have been thoroughly
studied. A rediscovery of primordial messages and themes is essential for cultural and
historical awareness. Rock art constitutes the bulk of evidence of the cultural and intellectual
history of humankind before the advent of written comnmunication.
In is imperative that this essential source of information is understood and preserved.
Research, documentation and conservation should progress with a world view; knowledge of
the value and meaning of this heritage should become accessible to a wider audience.
An evaluation of this patrimony is necessary for cultural purposes, but also for a constant
updating of the state of the art, for the uses of administrations, governments and international
organisations, agencies dealing with conservation and preservation and for institutions
developing the cultural use of the archaeological and artistic patrimony.
This immense heritage is vulnerable. Every day bits and pieces of rock surfaces are falling
apart. Development projects, the expansion of roads, housing and agriculture can hardly be
stopped. But rock art should be documented and recorded before it is destroyed to assure that
its testimony will remain for future generations.
Annex 8 APPENDIX G archeol-may 03  Appendix G - 5                    Techniplan



Singida-Shelui Road: Detailed Engineering Design  Final Report: Annex 8 - Appendix If
Annex 8: EIA, SIA & RIA
APPENDIX H
WORLD BANK GUIDELINES ON INVOLUNTARY RESETTLEMENT
Document 1. General Directive
Document 2. Policy and Procedures
Document 3. Definitions
Annex 8 APPENDIX H wb guide-03  Appendix H - 1                    Techliiplan



Singida-Shelui Road: Detailed Engineering Design  Final Report: Annex 8 - Appendix H
Annex 8: EIA, SIA & RIA
APPENDIX H
WORLD BANK GUIDELINES ON INVOLUNTARY RESETTLE!% iW IT
Document 1. General Directive'
Introduction
1. This directive describes Bankl policy and procedures on involuntary resettlement,
as well as the conditions that borrowers are expected to meet in operations involving
involuntary resettlement.2 Planning and financing resettlement components or free-
standing projects are an integral part of preparation for projects that cause
involuntary displacement. Any operation that involves land acquisition or is screened
as a Category A or B project for environmental assessment purposes3 should be
reviewed for potential resettlement requirements early in the project cycle (par. 20).
2. Development projects that displace people involuntarily4 generally give rise to
severe economic, social, and environmental problems: production systems are
dismantled; productive assets and income sources are lost; people are relocated to
environments where their productive skills may be less applicable and the
competition for resources greater; community structures and social networks are
weakened; kin groups are dispersed; and cultural identity, traditional authority, and
the
potential for mutual help are diminished. Involuntary resettlement may cause severe
long-term hardship, impoverishment, and environmental damage unless appropriate
measures are carefully planned and carried out.5
Policy Objectives
3. The objective of the Bank's resettlement policy is to ensure that the population
displaced by a project receives benefits from it. Involuntary resettlement is an
integral part of project design and should be dealt with from the earliest stages of
project preparation (par. 28), taking into account the following policy considerations:
(a) Involuntary resettlement should be avoided or minimized where feasible,
exploring all viable alternative project designs. For example, realignment of roads or
reductions in dam height may significantly reduce resettlement needs.
(b) Where displacement is unavoidable, resettlement plans should be developed. All
involuntary resettlement should be conceived and executed as development
programs, with resettlers provided sufficient investment and opportunities to share in
project benefits. Displaced persons should be (i) compensated for their losses at full
replacement cost prior to the actual move; (ii) assisted with the move and supported
during the transition period in the resettlement site; and (iii) assisted in their efforts
Notes are edited at the end of each Doctinlent
Annex 8 APPENDIX H wb guide-03  Appendix H - 3                Techniplan



Singida-Shelui Road: Detailed Engineering Design  Finial Report: Annex 8 - Appendidr H
to improve their foirmer living standards, income earning capacity and production
levels, or at least to restore them. Attention should be paid to the needs of the poorest
groups to be resettled.
(c) Community participation in planning and implementing resettlement should be
encouraged. Appropriate patterns of social organization should be set up, and social
and cultural institutions of resettlers and their hosts 6 should be supported and used
to the greatest extent possible.
(d) Resettlers should be integrated socially and economically into.host communities
so that adverse impacts on host communities are minimized. The best way of
achieving this integration is for resettlement to be planned in areas benefiting from
the project and in consultation with future hosts.
(e) Land, housing, infrastructure, and other compensation should be provided to the
adversely affected population, indigenous groups,7 ethnic minorities, and pastoralists
who may have usufruct or 'customary rights to the land or other resources taken for
the project. The absence of legal title to land by such groups should not be a bar to
compensation.
Resettlement Planning
4. Where large-scale8 population displacement is unavoidable, a detailed
resettlement plan, tirhetable, and budget are required. Resettlement plans should be
built around a development strategy and package aimed at improving or at least
restoring the econornic base for those relocated. Experience indicates that cash
compensation alone is normally inadequate. Voluntary
settlement may form part of a resettlement plan, provided measures to address the
special circumstances of involuntary resettlers are included. Preference should be
given to land-based resettlement strategies for people dislocated from agricultural
settings. If suitable land is unavailable, nonland-based strategies built around
opportunities for employment or self-employment may be used.
Plan Content
5. The content and level of detail' of resettlement. plans, which will vary with
circumstances, especially the magnitude of resettlement, should normally include a
statement of objectives and policies, an executive summary, and provision for the
following:-
(a) organizational responsibilities (par. 6);
(b) community participation and integration with host populations (paras. 7-10);
(c) socioeconomic survey (par.. 1);
(d) legal framework (par. 12);
(e) alternative sites and selection (par. 13);
(f) valuation of and compensation for lost assets (paras. 14-16);
(g) land tenure, acquisition, and transfer (par. 17);
(h) access to training, employment, and credit (par. 18);
(i) shelter, infrastructure, and social services (par. 19);
(j) environmental protection and management (par. 20); and
(k) implementation schedule, monitoring, and evaluation (paras. 21-22).
Cost estimates should be prepared for these activities, and they should be budgeted
and scheduled in coordination with the physical works of the main investment
project.
Annex 8 API'END[X H wb guide-03  Appendix H - 4                 Techliiplai



Sinigida-Shelui Road: Detailed Engineering Design  Final Report: Annex 8 - Appendir 11
Organizational Responsibilities
6. The responsibility for resettlement rests with the borrower. The organizational
framework for managing resettlement must be developed during preparation and
adequate resources provided to the responsible institutions. The organization
responsible for resettlement should be strengthened when entities executing
infrastructure or other sector- specific projects lack the experience
and outlook needed to design and implement resettlement. One alternative is to
create a special resettlement unit within the project entity: this can facilitate the
involvement of other line agencies. Another alternative is to entrust resettlement to
the regional or town administration that knows the population and area, can mobilize
local expertise, speaks the resettlers' language, and will ultimately be responsible for
the integration of resettlers into the host population and area. There also may be
considerable scope for involving nongovernmental organizations (NGOs) in
planning, implementing, and monitoring resettlement.9
Community Participation and Integration with Host Population
7. Most displaced people prefer to move as part of a preexisting community,
neighborhood, or kinship group. The acceptability of a resettlement plan can be
increased and the disruption caused by resettlement can be cushioned by moving
people in groups, reducing dispersion, sustaining existing patterns of group
organization, and retaining access to cultural propertylO (temples, pilgrimage
centers, etc.), if necessary, through the relocation of the property.
8. The involvement of involuntary resettlers and hosts in planning prior to the move
is critical. Initial resistance to the idea of involuntary resettlement is to be expected.
To obtain cooperation, participation, and feedback, the affected hosts and resettlers
need to be systematically inforned and consulted during preparation of the
resettlement plan about their options and rights. They should also be able to choose
from a number of acceptable resettlement alternatives. These steps can be taken
directly or through formal and informal leaders and representatives. Experience has
shown that local NGOs can often provide valuable assistance and ensure viable
community participation. Moreover, institutionalized arrangements, such as regular
meetings between project officials and communities, should be provided for
resettlers and hosts to communicate their concerns about the resettlement program to
project staff throughout planning and implementation. 11 Particular attention must be
given to ensure that vulnerable groups such as indigenous people, ethnic minorities,
the landless, and women are represented adequately in such arrangements.
9. The plan should address and mitigate resettlement's impact on host populations.
Host communities and local governments should be informed and consulted. Any
payment due the hosts for land or other assets provided to resettlers should be
promptly rendered. Conflicts between hosts and resettlers may develop as increased
demands are placed on land, water, forests, services, etc., or if the resettlers are
provided services and housing superior to that of the hosts. Conditions and services
in host communities should improve, or at least not deteriorate. Providing improved
education, water, health, and production services to both groups fosters a better
Annex 8 APPENDIX H wb guide-03  Appendix H - 5                 Techi iplan



Singida-Shelui Road: Detailed Engineering Design  Final Report: Annex 8 - Appeidixr i
social climate for their integration. In the long run, the extra investment will help
prevent conflicts and secure the project's aims.
10. Successful resettlement requires a timely transfer of responsibility from
settlement agencies to the settlers themselves. Otherwise, a dependency relationship
may arise, and agency resources may become tied up in a limited number of
continually supervised schemes. Local leadership must be encouraged to assume
responsibility for environmental management and infrastructure maintenance.
Socioeconomic Survey
11. Resettlement plans should be based on recent information about the scale and
impact of resettlement on the displaced population. In addition to describing standard
household characteristics, socioeconomic surveys should describe (a) the magnitude
of displacement; (b) information on the full resource base of the affected population,
including income derived from informal sector and nonfarm activities, and from
common property; (c) the extent to which groups will experience total or partial loss
of assets; (d) public infrastructure and social services that will be affected; (e) formal
and informal institutions (such as community organizations, ritual groups, etc.) that
can assist with designing and implementing the resettlement programs; and (f)
attitudes on resettlement options. Socioeconomic surveys, recording the names of
affected families, should be conducted as early as possible to prevent inflows of
population ineligible for compensation.
Legal Framework
12. A clear understanding of the legal issues involved in resettlement is needed to
design a feasible resettlement plan. An analysis should be made to determine the
nature of the legal framework for the resettlement envisaged, including (a) the scope
of the power of eminent domain, the nature of compensation associated with it, both
in terms of the valuation methodology and the timing of payment; (b) the legal and
administrative procedures applicable, including the appeals process and the normal
time-frame for such procedures; (c) land titling and registration procedures; and (d)
laws and regulations relating to the agencies responsible for implementing
resettlement and those related to land compensation, consolidation, land use,
environment, water
use, and social welfare.
Alternative Sites and Selection
13. The identification of several possible relocation sites and the demarcation of
selected sites is a critical step for both rural and urban resettlement. For land-based
resettlement, the new site's productive potential and locational advantages should be
at least equivalent to those of the old site. The Bank encourages "land for land"
approaches, providing replacement land at least equivalent to the lost land. For rural
settlers, irrigation, land reclamation, tree crop. development, intensification of
production, and other innovations often can provide adequate production potential on
limited amounts of land to resettle agriculturalists, even in countries with high
population densities. In selecting sites, attention must be paid to the availability of
sources of off-farm  income (fishing, gathering forest products, seasonal wage
Annex 8 APPENDIX H wb guide-03  Appendix H - 6                   7ech niplant



Sinlgidla-Shzelui Road: Detailed Engineering Design  Final Report: Annex 8 - Appendix H
employment) to complement farm income. For urban resettlers, the new site should
ensure comparable access to employment, infrastructure, services, and production
opportunities. For both rural and urban resettlement, the borrower needs to (a)
develop institutional and technical arrangements for identifying and preparing
relocation sites, e.g., pooling together small plots, wasteland reclamation, land
leveling, and terracing; (b) draw up timetables and budgets for site preparation and
transfer; (c) make legal arrangements for transferring titles to resettlers; and (d)
consider, when necessary, a temporary freeze on land transactions within the
relocation area to prevent land speculation. Though the Bank does not disburse
against land acquisition, it can finance land improvement to accommodate resettlers.
Valuation of and Compensation for Lost Assets
14. Valuation of lost assets should be made at their replacement cost. Compensation
is facilitated by (a) paying special attention to the adequacy of the legal arrangements
concerning land title, registration, and site occupation; (b) publicizing among people
to be displaced the laws and regulations on valuation and compensation; (c)
establishing criteria for determining the resettlement eligibility of affected
households, e.g., households that have only partially lost their assets but are no
longer economically viable should be entitled to full resettlement; and (d) developing
mechanisms to prevent illegal encroachers and squatters, including an influx of
nonresidents entering to take advantage of such benefits, from participating in the
compensation arTangements, by an early recording of the numbers and names of
affected populations entitled to compensation/rehabilitation.
15. Some types of loss, such as access to (a) public services; (b) customers and
suppliers; and (c) fishing, grazing, or forest areas, cannot easily be evaluated or
compensated for in monetary terms. Attempts must therefore be made to establish
access to equivalent and culturally acceptable resources and earning opportunities.
16. Vulnerable groups at particular risk are indigenous people, the landless and
semilandless, and households headed by females who, though displaced, may not be
protected through national land compensation legislation. The resettlement plan must
include land allocation or culturally acceptable alternative income-earning strategies
to protect the livelihood of these people.
Land Tenure, Acquisition, and Transfer
17. Resettlement plans should review the main land tenure and transfer systems,
including common property and nontitle-based usufruct systems governed by locally
recognized land allocation mechanisms. The objective is to treat customary and
formal rights as equally as possible in devising compensation rulcs and procedures.
The plan should address the issues raised by the different tenure systems found in a
project area, including (a) the compensation eligibility of land-dependent
populations; (b) the valuation procedures applicable to different tenure types; and (c)
the grievance procedures available for disputes over land acquisition. Plans should
contain provisions for conducting land surveys and regularizing land tenure in the
earliest stages of project development. Planning should also anticipate the
approximate time needed to acquire and transfer land.
Annex 8 APPENDIX H wb guide-03  Appendix H - 7                 Techniplan



Singida-Sheliii Road Detailed Enigineering Design  Final Report: Anniex 8 - Appenidix H
Access to Training, Employment, and Credit
18. Normally, general economic growth cannot be relied upon to protect fhe welfare
of the project-affected population. Thus, alternative employment strategies are
needed for nonagricultural displaced people, or where the land that can be made
available is not sufficient to accommodate all the displaced farmers. The resettlement
plan should, where feasible, exploit new economic activities made possible by the
main investment requiring the displacement. Vocational training, employment
counseling, transportation to jobs, employment in the main investment project or in
resettlement activities, establishment of industries, incentives for firms to locate in
the area, credit and extension for small businesses or reservoir aquaculture, and
preference in public sector employment should all be considered where appropriate.
Shelter, Infrastructure, and Social Services
19. To ensure the economic and social, viability of the relocated communities,
adequate resources should be allocated to provide shelter, infrastructure (e.g., water
supply, feeder roads), and social services (e.g., schools,. health care centers).12 Site
development, engineering, and architectural designs should be prepared for shelter,
infrastructure, and social services. Since community or self-built houses are often
better accepted and more tailored to the resettlers' needs than contractor-built
housing, provision of a building site with suitable infrastructure, model plans,
building materials, technical assistance, and "construction allowances" (for income
foregone while resettlers build their houses) is an option communities should be
offered. Planning for shelter, infrastructure, and- services should take into account
population growth.
Environmental Protection and Management
20. The screening process for an environmental assessment (EA) normally classifies
projects involving involuntary resettlement as Category A.13 The EA of the main
investment requiring the resettlement should thus cover the potential environmental
impacts of the resettlement. The resettlement plan must be developed in coordination
with the EA and define the boundaries of the relocation area, and calculate
incremental population density per land unit. In agricultural projects (involving, for
example, relocation to the catchment sulTounding a reservoir, or to a downstr-eam
command area), if the incoming resettled population is large in relation to the host
population, such environmental issues as deforestation, overgrazing, soil erosion,
sanitation, and pollution are likely to become serious and plans should either include
appropriate mitigating measures, including training of oustees, or else should allow
for alternative sites to be selected. Urban resettlement raises other density-related
issues (e.g., transportation capacity, access to potable water, sanitation systems,
health facilities, etc.). Constructive environmental management, provided through
the EA's mitigation plan,14 may provide good opportunities and benefits to resettlers
and host populations alike (e.g., project-financed compensatory afforestation not
only replaces the forests submerged by reservoirs but also offers gainful
employment). If the consequences on the environment are unacceptable, alternative
sites must be found.
Aninex 8 APPENDIX H wb guide-03  Appendix H - 8                  Technziplan



Singida-Shelti Road. Detailed Engineering Design  Final Report: Annex 8 - Appendix H
Implementation Schedule, Monitoring, and Evaluation
21. The timing of resettlement should be coordinated with the implementation of the
main investment component of the project requiring the resettlement. All
resettlement plans should include an implementation schedule for each activity
covering initial baseline and preparation, actual relocation, and post-relocation
economic and social activities. The plan should include a target date when the
expected benefits to resettlers and hosts would be achieved.
22. Arrangements for monitoring implementation of resettlement and evaluating its
impact should be developed by the borrower during project preparation and used
during supervision.15 Monitoring provides both a warning system for project
managers and a channel for the resettlers to make known their needs and their
reactions to resettlement execution. Monitoring and evaluation units should be
adequately funded and staffed by specialists in resettlement. In-house monitoring by
the implementing agency may need to be supplemented by independent monitors to
ensure complete and objective information. Annual and midterm reviews are
desirable for large-scale resettlement. The borrower should be required to continue
impact evaluation for a reasonable period after all resettlement and related
development activities have been completed. The borrower should also be required
to inform the Bank about the findings.
Bank Role and Project Options
23. The Bank supports borrowers' efforts through (a) assistance in designing and
assessing resettlement policy, strategies, laws, regulations, and specific plans; (b)
financing technical assistance to strengthen the capacity of agencies responsible for
resettlement; and (c) direct financing of the investment costs of resettlement. The
Bank may sometimes finance resettlement even though it has not financed the main
investment that made displacement and resettlement necessary (par. 26).
24. The task manager (TM) should inform the borrower of the Bank's resettlement
policy. Starting early in the project cycle, the TM with the support of Bank
operational, research, and legal staff should assess government policies, experiences,
institutions, and the legal framework covering resettlement. In particular, the TM
needs to ensure that involuntary resettlement is avoided or minimized, that laws and
regulations concerning displaced people provide compensation sufficient to replace
all lost assets, and that displaced persons are assisted to improve, or at least restore,
their former living standards, income earning capacity, and production levels.
25. The adequacy of the resettlement plan should be reviewed by appropriate social,
technical, and legal experts. Resettlement specialists should visit the possible
resettlement sites and review their suitability. In the case of large-scale relocation,
such experts should be included in independent technical or environmental review
boards. 16
26. Bank financing of resettlement can be provided as follows: (a) As a component
of the main investment project causing displacement and requiring resettlement. (b)
Anilex 8 APPENDIX H wb guide-03  Appendix H - 9               Techniplan



Singida-Shelui Road: Detailed Engineeri)lg Design  Finzal Report: Ainnex 8 - Appendix H
If large enough, as a free-standing resettlement project with appropriate cross-
conditionalities, processed and implemented in parallel with the investment project
that causes the displacement. The latter approach may better focus country and Bank
attention on the effective resolution of resettlement issues. (c) As a sector investment
loan. Where the specific resettlement needs of each subproject are not known in
advance, the borrower would need to agree to resettlement policies, planning
principles, institutional arrangements, and design criteria that meet Bank policy and
requirements as a condition of the loan. An estimate should be provided of total
population to be displaced and overall resettlement costs, as well as an evaluation of
proposed resettlement sites. Subprojects in sector investment loans should be
screened by the implementing agency to ensure consistency with this directive, and
approved individually by the Bank. For countries with a series of operations
requiring resettlement, efforts to improve the policy, institutional, and legal
framework for resettlement should form part of the Bank's ongoing country and
sector dialogue with the government. These efforts should be appropriately reflected
in economic and sector work and in country strategy papers and briefs.
Processing and Documentation
27. The Regional Vice President (RVP) should be kept informed of major
resettlement issues, and his guidance sought where necessary. The Regional
Environment Division (RED), the Legal Department (LEG), and settlement
specialists in Sector Policy and Research (PRS) should be consulted or included as
necessary in peer reviews on involuntary resettlement issues throughout the project
cycle.
Identification
28. The possibility of involuntary resettlement should be determined as early as
possible and described in all project documents. The TM should (a) briefly
summarize in the Initial Executive Project Summary (Initial EPS)17 the magnitude,
strategy, and timing of the resettlement; (b) inform  borrowers of the Bank's
resettlement policy; (c) review past borrower experience with similar operations; (d)
invite agencies responsible for resettlement to discuss their policies, plans, and
institutional, consultative, and legal arrangements for resettlement; and (e) where
appropriate, ensure that technical assistance is provided early to borTowers. Such
assistance should include the use of project preparation facility (PPF) resoUirces18 for
planning resettlement and building institutional capacity.
Preparation
29. During project preparation, the feasibility of resettlement must be established, a
strategy agreed upon, the resettlement plan drafted, and budget estimates prepared.19
The full costs of resettlement should be identified and included in the total cost of the
main investment project, regardless of financing source. The costs of resettlement
should also be treated as a charge against the economic benefits of the investment
project that causes the relocation. Any net benefits to resettlers (as compared to the
"without project" circumstances) should be added to the benefit stream of the main
investment. While the resettlement component or free-standing project need not be
economically viable on its own, it should be the least- cost approach consistent with
the policies laid out above.
Annex 8 APPENDIX H wb guide-03  Appendix H - 10                  Techniplan



Singida-Shelnii Road: Detailed Engineer-ing Design  Final Report: Annex 8 - Appendix H
Appraisal and Negotiation
30. Submission to the Bank of a time-bound resettlement plan and budget that
conforms to Bank policy is a condition of appraisal for projects involving
resettlement, except for sector investment loans as discussed in par. 26. All final
EPSs should confirm that this requirement has been met. The appraisal mission
should ascertain (a) the extent that involuntary resettlement and human hardship will
be minimized and whether borrowers can manage the process; (b) the adequacy of
the plan, including the timetable and budget for resettlement and compensation; (c)
the soundness of the economic and financial analysis; (d) the availability and
adequacy of sites and funding for all resettlement activities; (e) the feasibility of the
implementation arrangements; and (f) the extent of involvement of beneficiaries. At
negotiations, the borrower and the Bank should agree on the resettlement plan. The
resettlement plan and the borrower's obligation to carry it out should be reflected in
the legal documents. Other necessary resettlement-related actions must be
covenanted. The Staff Appraisal Report and the Memorandum and Recommendation
of the President should summarize the plan and state that it meets Bank policy
requirements.
Implementation and Supervision
31. Resettlement components should be supervised throughout implementation.20
Supervision that is sporadic or left until late in implementation invariably jeopardizes
the success of resettlement. Bank supervision missions should be staffed with the
requisite social, economic, and technical expertise. Annual reviews of large-scale
resettlement and in-depth Bank reviews of midterm progress are highly desirable.
These reviews should be planned from the outset to allow the Bank and the borrower
to make necessary adjustments in project implementation. Complete recovery from
resettlement can be protracted and can often make it necessary to continue Bank
supervision until well after populations have been relocated, sometimes even after a
project has been closed.
Ex Post Evaluation
32. The project completion report2l submitted to the Operations Evaluation
Department should evaluate resettlement and its impact on the standards of living of
the resettlers and the host population.
1. "Bank" includes IDA, and "loans" includes credits.
2. See also Involuntary Resettlement in Development Projects, World Bank
Technical Paper No. 80 (Washington, D.C.: The World Bank, 1988).
3. OD 4.00, Annex A, Environmental Assessment, par. 18.
4. Such projects may include construction or establishment of (a) dams, (b) new
towns or ports, (c) housing and urban infrastructure, (d) mines, (e) large industrial
plants, (f) railways or highways, (g) irrigation canals, and (h) national parks or
protected areas. Refugees from natural disasters, war, or civil strife are also
Annex 8 APPENDIX H wb guide-03  Appendix H - 1                Techniplan



Singida-Shelui Road: Detailed Engineering Design  Fitial Report: Aninex 8 - Appendix H
involuntary resettlers, but they are not discussed in this directive (see OP/BP/GP
8.50, Emergency Recovery Assistance).
5. OD 4.00, Annex A, Environmental Assessment,. par. 2, and Annex A3.
*6. Host communities are those receiving resettlers.
7. See OD 4.20, Indigenous Peoples.
8. Where only a few people (e.g., less than 100-200 individuals) are to be relocated,
appropriate compensation for assets, logistical support for moving, and a relocation
grant may be the only need. However, the principles on which compensation is to be
based are the same as for larger groups.
9. See GP 14.70, Involving Non-Governmental Organizations in Bank-Supported
Activities.
10. See OPN 11.03, Management of Cultural Property in Bank-Financed Projects, to
be reissued as OP/BP 4.11, Cultural Property.
11. Disputes of varying kinds may arise in the process of implementation of the
agreed resettlement plan. These conflicts could take the form
of appeals related to the compensation payable to affected persons, conflicts between
the displaced persons and the host population, appeals
to the agency charged with the implementation of the resettlement with regard to
services promised, etc. It is therefore important to devise
schemes for conflict resolution for all resettlement plans. Such schemes should, as
far as possible, take into account existing procedures for
settling disputes in the country or area concerned.
12. Health care services, particularly for pregnant women, infants, and the elderly,
may be important during and after relocation to prevent increases in morbidity and
mortality due to malnutrition, the stress of being uprooted, and the usually increased
risk of water-borne diseases.
13. See OD 4.00, Annex A, Environmental Assessment, and Annex B,
Environmental Policy for Dam   and Reservoir . Projects. The environmental
implications of involuntary resettlement will be further discussed under para 6.0,
"Special Issues in Environmental Assessment," in Environmental Assessment
Sourcebook, (Washington, D.C.: The World Bank, to be issued).
14. See Annex Al, par. 2, in OD 4.00, Annex A, Environmental Assessment.
15. See OD 10.70, Project Monitoring and Evaluation.
16. See OD 4.00, Annex B, Environmental Policy for Dam and Reservoir Projects.
17. See OP/BP 10.00, Investment Lending: Identification to Board Presentation.
18. See OP/BP 8.10, Project Preparation Facility.
19. Detailed guidelines for preparing and appraising resettlement plans are provided
in Involuntary Resettlement in Development Projects, World Bank Technical Paper
No. 80, Annex 1 (Washington, D.C.: The World Bank, 1988). Pro forma cost tables
and guidelines for economic and
financial analysis are provided in Annex-2.
20. See OD 13.05, Project Supervision, particularly par. 44-47.
2-1. See OP/BP/ 13.55, Implementation Completion Reporting.
Annex 8 APPENDIX H wb guide-03  Appendix H - 12               Techntiplan



Singida-Sheliui Road: Detailed Engineering Design  Final Report: Annex 8 - Appendix H
Document 2. Policy and Procedures (      OP.mii G  4.12)
I. Policy Objectives
1. Involuntary resettlement may cause severe long-tern hardship, impoverishment
and environmental damage unless measures are planned and carried out. (1) The
overall objectives of the Bank's policy on involuntary resettlement are the following:
(a) Involuntary resettlement should be avoided where feasible, or minimized,
exploring viable alternative project designs.(2, 3)
(b) Where involuntary resettlement is unavoidable, resettlement activities should be
conceived and executed as sustainable development programs, providing investment
resources to give the persons displaced by the project the opportunity to share in
project benefits. Displaced persons (4) should have opportunity to participate in
planning/implementing resettlement programs.
(c) Displaced persons should be assisted in their efforts to improve their livelihoods
and standards of living or at least to restore them, in real terms, to pre-displacement
levels or to levels prevailing prior to beginning of project implementation, whichever
is higher.
II. Impacts Covered
2. This policy covers direct economic and social impacts (6) under Bank-assisted
investment projects (7, 8) caused by:
(a) the involuntary (9) taking of land and other assets resulting in:
-  relocation or loss of shelter;
-  loss of assets or access to assets (10); or
-  loss of income sources or means of livelihood, whether or not the affected
persons must move to another location; or
(b) the involuntary restriction of access (11) to legally designated parks and
protected areas results in adverse impacts on the  livelihoods of the displaced
persons.
3. This policy applies whether or not the Bank is financing the component of the
project causing involuntary resettlement. It also covers resettlement resulting from
complementary activities that are not part of the Bank-assisted investment project,
but are necessary to achieve its objectives as set forth in the project documents, and
are carried out concurrently with, or immediately in anticipation or as a result of, the
Bank-assisted project. The policy applies to all displaced persons regardless
of the total numbers affected or the severity of impact.
4. Clarifications on application and scope of this policy should be addressed to:
Resettlement Committee (see BP 4.12, par. 7).
III. Required Measures
5. To address the impacts covered under par. 2 (a) of this policy, the borrower
prepares a resettlement plan or a resettlement policy framework (see Section VI) that
includes measures to ensure that the displaced persons are:
(a) informed about their options and rights pertaining to resettlement;
Annex 8 APPENDIX H wb guide-03  Appendix H - 13                  Tech,niplan



Singida-Shelui Road: Detailed Engineerinig Design  Final Report: Annex 8 - Appendix H
(b) consulted on, offered choices among, and provided with technically and
economically feasible resettlement alternatives;
(c) provided prompt compensation at full replacement cost 12 for losses of assets 13
attributable directly to the project;
(d) where relocation is necessary, provided assistance (such as moving allowances)
during relocation;
(e) where relocation is necessary, provided with residential housing, or housing
sites, or, as required, agricultural sites for which a combination of productive
potential, location advantages and other factors is at least equivalent to the the old
site;
(f) after displacement, offered support (such as short-term jobs, subsistence support
or salary maintenance) for a reasonable transition period, as appropriate; and
(g) provided with development assistance in addition to compensation measures
described in 5 (c), such as land preparation, credit facilities, training, or job
opportunities. The objective of such assistance is to improve or at least to restore, in
real terms, their livelihoods and standards of living, to pre-displacement levels or to
levels prevailing prior to beginning of project implementation, whichever is higher.
6. In projects involving restriction of access to legally designated parks and
protected areas, the nature of restrictions, as well as the type of measures necessary
to mitigate adverse impacts, is agreed with the displaced persons during project
implementation. In such cases, the borrower prepares a process framework
acceptable to the Bank, describing participatory processes by which:
(a) specific components of the project will be prepared and implemented;
(b) the criteria for eligibility of displaced persons will be determined;14
(c) measures to assist the displaced persons in their efforts to improve or restore, in
real terms, to pre-displacement levels, their livelihoods while maintaining the
sustainability of the park or protected area will be identified; and
(d) potential conflicts will be resolved. The process' framework also includes a
description of the arrangements for implementing and monitoring the process.
7. To achieve the objectives of this policy, particular attention is paid to the needs of
vulnerable groups among those displaced: especially those below the poverty line,
the elderly, women and children, indigenous groupsl5 and ethnic minorities.
8. The implementation of resettlement activities is linked to the implementation of
the investment component of the project to ensure that displacement or restriction of
access does not occur before necessary measures for resettlement are in place. For
impacts covered in par. 2 (a) of this policy, these measures include provision of
compensation, and other assistance required for relocation, prior to displacement,
and preparation and provision of resettlement sites with adequate facilities, where
required. In particular, taking of land and other assets does not take place until
compensation  is paid and, where applicable, resettlement sites and 'moving
allowances are provided to the displaced persons. For impacts covered in para 2 (b)
of this  policy, the measures to assist the displaced persons are implemented in
accordance with the action plan of the project (see Section VI, para 29).
9. Land-based resettlement options should be offered to displaced persons whose
livelihoods are land based. These options may include resettlement on public land, or
on private land acquired or purchased for resettlement. Whenever replacement land
Annex 8 APPENDLX H wb guide-03  Appendix H - 14                  Techltiplaii



Singicla-SIhelui Road: Detailed Engineerinig Design  Filial Report: Annex 8 - Appenidix H
is offered, resettlers are provided with land for which a combination of productive
potential, location advantages and other factors is equivalent to the old site. If land is
not available, land is not the preferred option of displaced persons, or provision of
land would adversely affect the sustainability of the park or protected area, non land-
based options built around opportunities for employment or self-employment should
be provided in addition to cash compensation for land and other assets lost.
10. Bank experience has shown that the payment of cash compensation for lost
assets may be appropriate where livelihoods are land based but the land taken for the
project is a small fractionl6 of the affected asset and the residual is economically
viable; where active markets for land, housing and labor exist, displaced persons use
such markets, and there is sufficient  supply of land and housing; or where
livelihoods are not land based. Cash compensation levels should be sufficient to
replace the lost land and other assets at full replacement cost in local markets.
I 1. For impacts covered under par. 2 (a) of this policy, the Bank also requires that:
(a) Displaced persons and their communities, and any "host" communities receiving
them, are provided timely and relevant information, consulted on resettlement
options, and offered opportunities to participate in planning, implementing and
monitoring resettlement. Appropriate and accessible grievance mechanisms are made
available to these groups.
(b) In new resettlement sites or host communities, infrastructure and public services
are provided as necessary to improve, restore or maintain accessibility and levels of
service for the displaced persons. Alternative or similar resources are provided to
compensate for the loss of access to community resources (such as fishing areas,
grazing areas, fuel or fodder).
(c) Patterns of community organization appropriate to the new circumstances are
based on choices made by the displaced persons. To the extent possible, the existing
social and cultural institutions of resettlers and any host communities are preserved
and resettlers' preferences with respect to relocating in pre-existing communities and
groups are honored.
rV. Eligibility for Benefits (17)
12. Upon identification of resettlement in a project, the borrower carries out a census
to identify the persons who will be affected by the project (see the Annex, par. 6.a).
The borrower also develops a procedure, satisfactory to the Bank, for establishing
the criteria by which displaced persons will be deemed eligible for compensation and
other resettlement assistance. The procedure includes provisions for consultations
with affected persons and communities, local authorities, and,  as appropriate,
nongovernmental organizations (NGOs), and it specifies grievance mechanisms.
13. Criteria for Eligibility. Displaced persons in the following two groups are
entitled to compensation for loss of land or other assets taken for project purposes:
(a) those who have forrmal legal rights to land or other assets (including customary
and traditional rights recognized under the laws of the country); and
(b) those who do not have formal legal rights to land or other assets at the time the
census begins but have a claim to such legal rights, provided that such claims are
recognized by the laws of the country or become recognized through a process
identified in the resettlement plan (see Annex, par. 7.e).18 The absence of legal title
Annex 8 APPENDIX H wb guide-03  Appendix H - 15                Techn iplan



Siagicda-Slhelnti Road: Detailed Engineering Desigtn  Final Report: Annex 8 - Appendix H
to land or other assets is not, in itself, a bar to compensation for lost assets or other
resettlement assistance. Displaced persons in these two groups are also entitled to
compensation for loss of other assets such as structures and crops, and to other
resettlement assistance.
14. A third group of displaced persons-those who are occupying land in violation of
the laws of the country and who do not fall within the category described in par. 13
above-is not entitled to compensation for loss of land under this policy. However,
they are entitled to resettlement assistance in lieu of compensation for land, as
necessary, to achieve the objectives set out in this policy, if they occupy the project
area prior to a cut-off date established by the BorTower and acceptable to the
Bank.19 All such displaced persons are entitled to compensation for loss of assets
other than land, in particular, structures and crops. Persons who encroach the area
after the above "cut-off" date -are not entitled to compensation or other forms of
assistance.
V. Resettlement Planning,JImplementation and Monitoring
15. To achieve the objectives of this policy, different planning instruments are used,
depending on the type of project:
a) a resettlement plan or abbreviated resettlement plan is required for all operations
which entail involuntary resettlement unless otherwise specified (see par. 23 and the
Annex);
b) a resettlement policy framework is required for projects with subprojects which
cannot be identified prior to appraisal, unless otherwise specified (see paras. 24-28
and the Annex);
c) a process framework is prepared for projects in parks and protected areas where
measures to identify and engage affected groups is part of the project itself (see para
29).
16. The borrower is responsible for preparing, implementing and monitoring a
resettlement plan, a resettlement policy framework or a process framework (the
"resettlement instruments"), as appropriate, that conform  to this policy. These
instruments present a strategy for achieving the objectives of the policy and cover all
aspects of the proposed resettlement.
17. Resettlement planning includes early screening, scoping of key issues, the choice
of resettlement instrument and the information required to prepare the resettlement
component or sub-component. The scope and level of detail of the resettlement
instruments vary with the magnitude and complexity of resettlement. In preparing the
resettlement component, the bolTower draws on appropriate social, technical, and
legal expertise and on relevant community-based organizations and NGOs.20 The
borrower informs potentially displaced persons at an early stage about the
resettlement aspects of the project and takes their views into account in project
design.
18. The costs of resettlement activities are included in the total costs of the project.
The costs of resettlement, like the costs of other project activities, are treated as a
charge against the economnic benefits of the project; and any net benefits to resettlers
(as compared to the "without-project" circumstances) are added to the benefits
Annex 8 APPENDIX H wb guide-03  Appendix H - 16                  Techniplan



Sinzgida-Slhelui Road: Detailed Engineering Design  Final Report: Aninex 8 - Appendix H
stream of the project. Resettlement or free-standing resettlement projects need not be
economically viable on their own, but they should be cost-effective.
19. The borrower ensures that the resettlement instrument is fully consistent with the
Project Implementation Plan.
20. As a condition of appraisal of investment projects, the borrower provides the
Bank with a draft resettlement instrument which conforms to this policy, and makes
it available at a place accessible to displaced persons and local NGOs, in a form and
language that are understandable to themn. Once the Bank accepts this instrument as
providing an adequate basis for project appraisal, the Bank makes it available to the
public through its InfoShop. After the borrower approves and the Bank agrees to the
final resettlement instrument, the Bank and the borrower disclose it again in the same
manner.
21. Key elements of the resettlement instrument and the borrower's duties to carry it
out and keep the Bank informed of implementation progress, are reflected in the
legal agreements of the project. (21)
22. The borrower is responsible for monitoring and evaluating the activities set forth
in the resettlement instruments. Before project completion, an assessment is made by
the borrower, to determine whether the objectives of the resettlement instrument
have been realized. This assessment is based on baseline conditions, resettlement
objectives, and performance indicators described in the project documents. Follow
up measures, if necessary, are discussed between the Bank and the borrower, and
serve as the basis for continued Bank supervision, as deemed appropriate by the
Bank.
VI. Resettlement Instruments
Resettlement Plan
23. A draft resettlement plan which conforms to this policy is a condition of
appraisal (see Annex, Part I) for investment projects that are not sector investment
loans, financial intermediary loans, or projects involving restriction of access to
legally designated parks and protected areas. However, where impacts on the entire
displaced people are minor,22 an abbreviated resettlement plan may be agreed with
the borrower (see Annex, Part II). All other provisions set forth in par. 20 above
apply.
Resettlement Policy Framework
24. For sector investment loans that may involve involuntary resettlement, the Bank
requires that the project implementing agency screen subprojects to be financed by
the Bank to ensure their consistency with this OP. For these loans, the borrower
submits, prior to appraisal, a resettlement policy framework that is consistent with
this policy (see Annex, Part fIE).23 The framework also estimates, to the extent
feasible, the total population to be displaced and the overall resettlement costs.
Annex 8 APPENDIX H wb guide-03  Appendix H - 17                Techniplan



Singida-Shelti Road: Detailed Engineering Designi  Fintal Report: Annex 8 - Appenidix H
25. For financial intermediary loans, the Bank requires that the financial
intermediary (FI) screen subprojects to be financed  by the Bank to ensure their
consistency with this OP. For these loans, the Bank requires that before appraisal the
bolTower or the Fl submit to the Bank a resettlement policy framework consistent
with this- policy (see Annex, Part III). In addition, the framework includes an
assessment of the institutional capacity and procedures of each of the FIs that will be
responsible for subproject financing. In cases where, in the assessment of the Bank,
no resettlement is envisaged in the subprojects to be  financed by the Fl, a
resettlement policy framework is not required. Instead, the legal agreements would
specify the obligation  of the FIs to obtain from the potential sub-borrowers a
resettlement plan consistent with this policy if a subproject gives uise  to
resettlement. The resettlement plan is provided to the Bank as' a condition of
approval of the sub-loan.
26. For a Bank-assisted project with multiple subprojects24 that is not a sector
investment or financial intermediary loan, the Bank requires that a draft resettlement
plan conforming to this policy be submitted to the Bank before appraisal of the
project unless, because of the nature and design of the project or of a specific
subproject or subprojects, (a) the zone of impact of  subprojects cannot be
determined, or (b) the zone of impact is known but precise siting alignments cannot
be determined. In
such cases, the borrower submits a resettlement policy framework consistent with
this policy prior to appraisal (see Annex, Part En). For other subprojects that do not
fall within the above criteria, a resettlement plan is required prior to appraisal.
27. Under sector investment or financial intermediary loans, or projects with
multiple subprojects that meet the criteria listed in par. 26, for each subproject that
may involve resettlement, the Bank requires that a satisfactory resettlement plan or
an abbreviated resettlement plan that is consistent with the provisions of the policy
framework be submitted to the Bank for approval before the subproject is accepted
for Bank financing.
28. For projects described in paras. 24-26- above, the Bank may agree, in writing,
that sub-project resettlement plans can be approved by the project implementing
agency or a responsible government agency or financial intermediary without prior
Bank review, if that agency has demonstrated adequate institutional capacity to
review resettlement plans and ensure their consistency with this policy. Any such
delegation, and appropriate remedies for the entity's approval of resettlement plans
found not to be in compliance with Bank policy, are-reflected in the project legal
documents. In all such cases, implementation of the resettlement plans is subject to
ex-post review by the Bank.
Process Framework
29. For projects involving restriction of access in accordance with par. 2 (b) of this
policy, the borrower provides the Bank  with a draft process framework as a
condition of appraisal. In addition, during project implementation and prior to
enforcement of the restriction, the borTower prepares a plan of action, acceptable to
the Bank, describing the specific measures to be undertaken to assist the displaced
Aninex 8 APPENDIX H wb gLide-03  Appendix H - 18                Techlziplani



Singidia-Slheltui Road: Detailed Engineeritng Design  Final Report: Annex 8 - Appendix H
persons and arrangements for their implementation. The plan of action could take
the form of a natural resources management plan prepared for the project.
Vll. Assistance to the Borrower
30. To achieve these policy objectives, the Bank may support borrowers by
providing:
(a) assistance to assess and strengthen resettlement policies, strategies, legal
frameworks, and specific plans at a country, regional, or sector level;
(b) financing of technical assistance to strengthen the agencies responsible for
resettlement;
(c) financing of technical assistance for developing resettlement policies, strategies,
and specific plans, and for implementation,  monitoring and evaluation of
resettlement activities; and
(d) financing the investment costs of resettlement.
31. The Bank may finance either a component of the main investment project
causing displacement and requiring resettlement, or a free-standing resettlement
project with appropriate cross-conditionalities, processed and implemented in
parallel with the investment project that causes the displacement. The Bank may
finance resettlement even though it is not financing the main investment that makes
resettlement necessary.
32. The Bank does not disburse against cash compensation and other resettlement
assistance paid in cash, or against the cost of land (including compensation for land
acquisition). However, it may finance the cost of land improvement associated with
resettlement activities. The Bank does not prepare or implement country or project
specific resettlement policies, resettlement plans, or resettlement policy frameworks,
nor does it retain consultants for such purposes.
Draft OP 4.12 Notes
I Bank experience indicates that involuntary resettlement under development
projects, if unmitigated, often gives rise to severe economic, social and
environmental risks: production systems are dismantled; people are impoverished
when productive assets or income sources  are lost; people are relocated to
environments where their productive skills may be less applicable and the
competition for resources greater; community institutions and social networks are
weakened; kin groups are dispersed; and cultural identity, traditional authority and
the potential for mutual help are diminished.
2 In devising approaches to resettlement in Bank-assisted projects, other Bank
policies should be taken into account, as relevant. These  policies include
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01), Natural Habitats (OP 4.04), Safeguarding
Cultural Property in Bank-Assisted Projects (OP 4.11), and Indigenous Peoples (OD
4.20).
3 In financing projects, the Bank satisfies itself that the borrower has explored all
viable alternative project designs to avoid involuntary resettlement and, when it
cannot be avoided, to minimize the scale and impacts of resettlement (for example,
Annex 8 APPENDLX H wb guide-03  Appendix H - 19                Techntiplaii



Singida-Shelui Road: Detailed Engineering Design  Final Report: Annex 8 - Appendix H
realignment of roads or reduction in dam height may reduce resettlement needs).
Such designs should also be consistent with other Bank policies.
4 The term "displaced persons" refers to persons who are affected in any of the ways
described in para 2 of this OP.
5 Displaced persons under para 2 (b) should be assisted in their efforts to improve or
restore their livelihoods in a manner that maintains the sustainability of the
respective parks and protected areas.
6 Where there are adverse indirect social or economic impacts, it is good practice for
the borrower to undertake a social assessment and implement measures to minimize
and mitigate adverse social impacts, particularly upon poor and vulnerable groups.
7 "Bank" includes IDA, "loans" includes credits, guarantees. and grants, and
"projects" includes projects under adaptable program  lending;  learning and
innovation loans; PPFs and IDFs, if they include investment activities; projects and
components funded under the Global Environment Facility; and projects under
grants or loans provided by other donors but managed by the Bank.
8 This policy does not apply to restrictions of access to natural resources tinder
community-based projects provided that an assessment satisfactory to the Bank
establishes that the community decision making process is adequate, and includes
measures to mitigate adverse impacts on the vulnerable members of the community.
This policy also does not cover refugees from natural disasters, war or civil strife
(see OP/BP 8.50, Emergency Recovery Assistance).
9 For purposes of this policy "involuntary" means without the displaced person's
informed consent or power of choice, or where that consent or choice is being
exercised in the absence of reasonable alternative options.
10 This policy does not apply to restrictions of access to natural resources regulated
on a national or regional level to promote their sustainability.
11 Persons physically relocated out of parks and protected areas are covered under
para 2 (a). Restriction of access covers restrictions on the use of resources imposed
on people living outside the park, or on those who continue living inside the park
during and after project implementation.
12 "Replacement cost" is the method of valuation of assets which helps determine
the amount sufficient to replace lost assets and cover transaction costs. In applying
this method of valuation, depreciation of structures and assets should not be taken
into account (for a detailed definition of replacement cost, see the Annex, Footnote
1). For losses that cannot easily be valued or compensated in monetary terms (e.g.
access to public services, customers and suppliers; or to fishing, grazing or forest
areas), attempts are made to establish access to equivalent and culturally acceptable
resources and earning opportunities. Where domestic law does not meet the standard
of compensation at full replacement cost, compensation under domestic law is
supplemented by additional measures necessary to meet the replacement cost
Annex 5 Al'PENDIX H wb guide-03  Appendix H - 20               Techntiplan



Singida-Shelui Road: Detailed Engineering Design  Final Report: Antnex 8 - Appendix H
standard. Such additional assistance is distinct from resettlement assistance to be
provided under other clauses of para 5.
13 If the residual of the asset being taken is not economically viable, compensation
and other resettlement assistance are provided as if the entire asset had been taken.
14 The participatory process may result in excluding from assistance persons
engaged in illegal use of natural resources. Legality alone,  however, is not a
sufficient criterion for excluding persons from assistance under the policy. For
example, there may be cases where illegal use of natural resources, based upon
traditional practices, could serve as the basis for providing assistance.
15 See OD 4.20, Indigenous Peoples.
16 As a general principle, this applies if the land taken constitutes less than 20% of
the total productive area.
17 Par.. 12-14 do not apply to impacts covered under par. 2 (b) of this policy. The
eligibility criteria for displaced persons under 2 (b) are covered under the process
framework (see par.. 6 and 29).
18 Such rights could be derived from adverse possession, from continued possession
of public lands without government action for eviction (that is, with the implicit
leave of the government), or from customary and traditional law and usage, etc.
19 Normally, this cut-off date is the date the census begins. The cut-off date could
also be the date the project area was delineated, prior to the census, provided that
there has been an effective public dissemination of information on the area
delineated, and systematic and  continuous dissemination subsequent to the
delineation to prevent further population influx.
20 For projects that are highly risky or contentious, or that involve significant and
complex resettlement activities, the borrower should normally engage an advisory
panel of independent, internationally recognized resettlement specialists to advise on
all aspects of the project relevant to the resettlement activities. The size, role, and
frequency of meeting depend on the complexity of the resettlement. If independent
technical advisory panels are established under OP 4.01, Environmental Assessment,
the resettlement panel may form part of the environmental panel of experts.
21 Key elements include the following, as necessary: (a) a definition of displaced
persons; (b) objectives of the resettlement instrument; (c) linkage with the
implementation schedule of the investment component of the project; (d) monitoring
arrangements.
22 Impacts are considered "minor" if the affected people are not physically
displaced and less than 10% of their productive assets are lost.
23 An exception to this requirement may be made in highly unusual circumstances
(such as emergency recovery operations) with the approval of Bank Management
Annex 8 APPENDIX H wb guide-03  Appendix H - 21                Techniplan



Sin gida-Shelti Road: Detailed Engineering Design  Fi,ial Report: Annex 8 - Appendix H
(see BP 4.12, par. 8). In such cases, the Management's approval stipulates a timetable
and budget for developing the resettlement plan.
24 For purpose of this paragraph the term "subprojects" includes components and
sub-components.
Document 3. Definitions-
1. "Bank" includes IDA, and "loans" includes credits.
2. See also Involuntary Resettlement in Development Projects, World Bank
Technical Paper No. 80 (Washington, D.C.: The World  Bank, 1988).
3. OD 4.00, Annex A, Environmental Assessment, para. 18.
4. Such projects may include construction or establishment of (a) dams, (b) new
towns or ports, (c) housing and urban infrastructure,  (d) mines, (e) large industrial
plants, (f) railways or highways, (g) irrigation canals, and (h) national parks or
protected areas. Refugees   from natural disasters, war, or civil strife are also
involuntary resettlers, but they are not discussed in this directive (see OP/BP/GP
8.50,  Emergency Recovery Assistance).
5. OD 4.00, Annex A, Environmental Assessment, para. 2, and Annex A3.
6. Host communities are those receiving resettlers.
7. See OD 4.20, Indigenous Peoples.
8. Where only a few people (e.g., less than 100-200 individuals) are to be relocated,
appropriate compensation for assets, logistical support for moving, and a relocation
grant may be the only requirements. However, the principles on which compensation
is to be based are the same as for larger groups.
9. See GP 14.70, Involving Nongovernmental Organizations in Bank-Supported
Activities.
10. See OPN 11.03, Management of Cultural Property in Bank-Financed Projects, to
be reissued as OP/BP 4. 11, Cultural Property.
11. Disputes of varying kinds may arise in the process of implementation of the
agreed resettlement plan. These conflicts could take the form of appeals related to
the compensation payable to affected persons, conflicts between the displaced
persons and the host population, appeals to the agency charged with the
implementation of the resettlement with regard to services promised, etc. It is
therefore important to devise schemes for conflict resolution for all resettlement
plans. Such schemes should, as far as possible, take into account existing procedures
for settling disputes in the country or area concerned.
12. Health care services, particularly for pregnant women, infants, and the elderly,
may be important during and after relocation to prevent increases in morbidity and
mortality due to malnutrition, the stress of being uprooted, and the usually increased
risk of water-borne diseases.
13. See OD 4.00, Annex A, Environmental Assessment, and Annex B,
Environmental Policy for Dam   and Reservoir Projects. The   environmental
implications of involuntary resettlement will be further discussed under para 6.0,
"Special Issues in Environmental  Assessment," in Environmental Assessment
Sourcebook,.(Washington, D.C.: The World Bank, to be issued).
14. See Annex Al, para. 2, in OD 4.00, Annex A, Environmental Assessment.
15. See OD 10.70, Project Monitoring and Evaluation.
16. See OD 4.00, Annex B, Environmental Policy for Dam and Reservoir Projects.
Annex 8 API'ENDIX 1-1 wb guide-03  Appendix H - 22             Tech ziplain



Sinigida-Shieliti Road: Detailed Engineet-ring Design  Final Report: Annex 8 - Appendix H
17. See OP/BP 10.00, Investment Lending: Identification to Board Presentation.
18. See OP/BP 8.10, Project Preparation Facility.
19. Detailed guidelines for preparing and appraising resettlement plans are provided
in Involuntary Resettlement in Development Projects, World Bank Technical Paper
No. 80, Annex 1 (Washington, D.C.: The World Bank, 1988). Pro forma cost tables
and guidelines for economic and financial analysis are provided in Annex 2.
20. See OD 13.05, Project Supervision, particularly paras. 44-47.
21. See OP/BP/ 13.55, Implementation Completion Reporting.
Annex 8 APPENDIX H wb guide-03  Appendix H - 23               Techniplan



Singida-Shelui Road: Detailed Engineerinig Design      Final Report: Annlex 8 - Appendix I
Annex 8: EIA,-SIA & RIA
APPENDIX I
TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR EIA AND RIA
Anniex 8 APPENDIX I tor-nmay 03   Appendix I - 1                       Tech22iplan



Singida-Shzelui Road: Detailed Engineering Design_  Final Report: Annex 8 - Appendix I
Annex 8: EIA, SIA & RIA
APPENDIX I
TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR ERA AND RIA
For an easier understanding of the tasks required by the ToR for the study of the Environment
Impact Assessment (ETA) and Resettlement Impact Assessment (RIA), we have highlighted the
points of the general Terms of Reference (see Annex 1) which are relevant to this Study.
Page 2: I11 Scope of Consulting Services: Point 7.
The consultants shall review all the documentation prepared by RITES/M-KONSULT
JV in 1996 and perforin  all engineering work, economic studies, field investigations
and  related work, cleemed to be required to attain the objectives in Section 1] hereof
An Environmental .Impact Assessment (EIA) and Resettlement Impact Assessment (RIA)
shall also be carried out in accordance with requiirements  of the Financing Agency as
part for the feasibility study.
Page 3: Economic Analysis: Points d) and e), page 4.
d)      environmental costs and benefits of the proposed improvements, including but
not limited to surface and groun7d water drainage, soil erosion, air pollution
and possible also be considered;
e)      the resettlement costs and benefits of the proposed improvements;
Page 5: Detailed Engineering: Point 14, a).
a)      detailed engineering design, preparation of estimate of quantities, plans,
dcrawings and bidding documnents for the project suitable for international
competitive  bidding, soils and  materials report; environmental and
resettlement impact studly and clesigns for mitigative measures.
Annex 8 APPENDIX I tor-may 03  Appendix I - 3                    Techniplant



Sin gida-Shelui Road Detailed Engineering Design       Final Report: Anintex 8 - Appendir J
Annex 8: EIA, SIA & RIA
APPENDIX J:-
INDIVIDUAL COMPENSATION
Annex 8 APPENDIX E water-may 03     Appendix J - 1                    Techniplant



APPENDIX J:                 INDIVIDUAL COMPENSATION
S/N          OWNER NAME               Description of Building/Farm                    Use                 J TOTAL VALUE (Tsh)
i   Issa Shabani Senge -      Tembe flat roof, mud bricks       Business                                         566,750.00
Mangwanjuki, Box 236 Singida
Urban
IHamisi Ramadhani Lissu -   IMud bricks roofed with corrugated iron  Business                                   381,750.0~
Mangwanjuki - Singida Urban  Isheet (C. 1. S))                  I
3Seleman Mrisho Hamisi,       Mudbricks roofed with C.t. S      Business                                          381,750.0
Mangwanjuki, Box 236 Singida                                    u
Urbani
|Mangwanjuki, Box 236 Singida|
iSingida Rural District--
SjSalum Kintiku Kifura (Manga  Mud bricks with Tembe flat roof  Buies581,438.0C
Ivillage)                                      T.U
6|Mohamed Nkungu Ngaida       Mud bricks with C.I.S              Business                       ,               1,065,000.01
l(Manga)                                                     -r      Ss                                        1,6,00
-     711brahim Hamisi Simba(Manga)  JMud Bricks with C. I. S         Business                              J         1,062.150.0C
8 Mohamed Bakari Lissu-       Mud bricks with grass thatched    jBusiness                                         128,650.0
|Mnung'unatMsisi - Singida Rural
9 Hemed Salehe Khaltan-       Main Building -Mud bncks with C. I. S  Residential                                1,423,700.06
Mnung'una/Msisi    P. 0. Box
Singida Rural
Out building - Mud brick with tembe flat Residential
_____   ____ _____ _____ _____ _____ roof
10[Hamisi Ramadhani Isango Mbiaji Mud bricks with C.l.S         1Business
|Msisi -Singida Rural-
11 Idd Athuman Limu-  P. 0. Box Mud bricks with C. I. S          Residential and business              j        3,736,100.00
.  537 Singida Rural
12 Rashid Shabani Dude         Mud bricks with C. i. S           Residential                                      465,350.00
(Mnung'una), P. 0. Box 537
Singida Rural
13 Mohamed Haji Ndegu - Msisi  Main building - Mud bricks with C. I. S  Residential                               595,000.00
Singida Rural               ;
Outbuilding - Mud bricks with tembe flat Residential                     j
|    14jHemed Salehe Khalfani - Msisi  Mud bricks with tembe flat roof  [Business                                      793,700.00
|___|A, Singida Rural                                                  I .
15 Fatuma Abdi Ismail, Msisi, P. O. Mud bricks with C. I. S      Residential and Business                       2,883,110.00
Box 13 Singida Rural       |Trees
16 Joseph Lingula Sima, Msisi, P.  Mud bricks with C. I. S       |Residential                                     956,200.00
0. Box 537 Singida Rural
17|Sima Mpura Yohana, Msisi, P.  Mud bricks with C. I. S         Residential                                      934,000.00
0. Box973 Singida Rural
1 Clement Mpura Sima, Msisi, P.  Mud bricks with C. I. S         Residential and business                       1,628,800.00]
l. Box 537 Singida Rural    IeI
19 Ramadhani Mkuki Kibuley, Msisi, Mud bricks with tembe flat roof  |Residential                                  412,650.00
P. 0. Box 537 Singida Rural  |
20jSima Lengula Joseph, Msisi, P. Mud bricks with C. I. S        jResidential                                   1,484,000.00]
0. Box 537 Singida Rural                                      I _                                    j    _     _    _
21jMariamlbomaMakiya,Msisi,P. MudbrickswithC.I.S                1j045s000001
j.Box 537 Singida Rural    jjjj



APPENDIX J:                  INDIVIDUAL COMPENSATION
StN           OWNER NAME               Descriptlon of Building/Farm                    Use                    TOTAL VALUE (Tsh)
22 Sungita Swalehe Patiu, Msisi, P. Mud bricks with C. I. S        Residential and business (shop)                 1,646,850.00
[0. Box 537 Singida Rural
23 Muna ikhala Swalehe, Msisi, P. Mud bricks with C. 1. S          Residential                                      789,000.00
O. Box 537 Singida Rural    [                                                            .
24 Idd Athuman Limu, Msisi, P. 0. Main bilding- Mud bricks with C. i. S  Residential, Business (Shop and Village  4,406,300.00
Box 537 Singida Rural                                           Executive Officer's Office))
Outbuilding-Mud bricks with Tembe flat |Residential
I _____  ____________________________   roof It_                                                      __I
25[Kindwa Shabani Abdailah, Msisi, Mud bricks with C. I. S         Residential                                      869,400.00
P0. Box 537 Singida Rural                                     .     .
26[CCM OIl Ice, Msisi, Singida Rural Mud bricks with C. I. S      OHice                                 {          863,50000
27 Gwandi Abeid Ismail, Msisi, P.  Main bilding-Mud bricks with C. 1. S  Residential and business                  1,401,800.00
0. Box 537 Singida Rural
. Out buildinq - Mud bricks with C. I. S  Residential
28|Gwandi Ismail Abeid, Msisi, P.  Mud bricks with C. I. S         Residential                                      648,850.00
0. Box 537 Singida Rural
29 Abrahaman Seleman Nsuza     Mud bricks with C. 1. S             Residential                                      903,320.00
Kinota, Msisi, P. 0. Box 537
[Singida Rural
30 Joseph Mdaa Senge, Msisi, P.  Mud bricks with C. I. S            esidential                                      851,000.00
0. Box 537 Singida Rural
Trees                             I_
31 Yusufu Musa Hussein, Msisi, P. Mud bricks with C. I. S         |Residential and Business                       2,854,400.00
0. Box 13 Singida Rural
T reesI                             __ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _  _ _ _ _  _ _
3 Makala Mikael Ukende, Msisi, P. Mud bricks with Tembe flat roof  IResidential                                     721,200.00
0. Box 537 Singida Rural    |
33 Feruzi Athuman Kitongo, Msisi, Main building - Mud bricks with C. I. S  Residential                              738,000.00
|P. 0. Box 13 Singida Rural                                    I                                       l1
P. 0. Box 13 Singida Rural   Out building - Mud bricks with tembe flat Residential
_         _   _    _   _        _    lroo f  I                                                   _               _
34 Omary Ally Mahumbi, Msisi, P.  Main building -Mud bricks with Tembe  Residential                                 554,750.00
0. Box 537 Singida Rural    flat roof
Out building - Mud bricks with tembe flat Residential
Trees
35[Mwanahamisi Salum Juma      jMud bricks with tembe flat roof   jResidential                            j         409,020.00
Msisi, P. 0. Box 537 Singida  |                                |                                       I
[R ural                     j _ _  _ _  _ _ _  _ _  _ _  _ _ _   _  _ _  _ _  _ _  _ _  _ _  _ _  _ _



APPENDIX J:                 INDIVIDUAL COMPENSATION
S/N          OWNER NAME               Description of Building/Farm                    Use                   TOTAL VALUE (Tsh)
36 Msandai Shabani Rajabu      Mud bricks with C. I. S           Business                                         655,770.00
Hidaya, Msisi, P. 0. Box 537
Singida Rural
37 Fatuma Shabani Kanka, Msisi  Mud bricks with C. i. S          Residential                                      911,520.00
P. 0. Box 537 Singida Rural
38 Jumanne Ibrahimu Nguruko,  jMud bricks with C. I. S           Busines                                        2,5 5.000.00
Msisi  P. 0. Box 537 Singida
i   Rurali
L IHamisi Rashid Susika, Msisi  Mud bricks with C. 5. S          Residential                                      584,000.00]
P. O. Box 537 Singida Rural
|Trees                           .II
40 Tatu Mohamed Yusufu, Msisi  Mud bricks with Tembe flat roof   Residential                                      574,800.00
i P. 0. Box 537 Singida Rural
Iramba District                                                                                                          i
41 Mariam Issa Muhitwa, Iguguno, Main building -Mud bricks with Tembe  Residential                                939,400.00
Iguguno, Box Kiomboi       |Out building - Mud bricks with tembe flat |Residential
42 Athuman Amasi Abrahaman,   |Main Building - Mud bricks with tembe  Residential                      1        1,072,600.00
fguguno, Box 138 Kiomboi    Out buildings -Mud bricks with tembe flat Residential
Kiomboi                     Farm
43 Ayoub Rashid Mbinde, Iguguno, Mud briks with tembe flat roof  Residential                                      537,750.001
Iguguno, Box Kiomboi                                          I
44 Ramadhani Juma Kitinku,     Mud bricks with tembe flat roof   Residential                                      614,700.00
_    _  __ _Iguguno, Box Kiomboi
4 Rashid Ally Kingu- iguguno,  Main building -Mud bricks with C. I, S  Residential                              1,036,000.00
Iguguno, Box Kiomboi        Out Building - Mud bricks with tembe flat Residential
Farm
46 Haji Irunda Liguda - Iguguno,  Farm                                                                            130,000.00
Iguguno, Box Kiomboi
-   47 Daniel Amos Majii - Iguguno,  Farm                                                                             125,000.0
_ Iguguno, Box Kiomboi
48 Hamisi Juma Maguli- Iguguno,  Main building -Mud bicks with tembe flat Residential                             798,160.00
Iguguno, Box Kiomboi        Out building - Mud bricks with tembe flat Residential
Farm
Tree
49 Ramadhani Juma Maguli -     Main Building - Mud bricks with tembe  Residential                               1,155,740.00
Iguguno, Box Kiomboi        Out building - Mud bricks with tembe flat Residential
|                    |~~~~~Farm
Trees
50IGyumi Iddi Msukuma - Iguguno, Main building-Mud bricks with C.l.S  Residential                                 605,000.00
Ilguguno, Box Kiomboi      'Out building - Mud bricks with tembe flat Residential
I                    I~~~         ~~~Farm 
51 {Jumanne Kiswetya Gyumy-   |Fam                               T                                                415,000.00
|Iguguno, Box Kiomboi         _                                j                                     [
- .  52jRamadhani Tinda Kimera    Main building-Mud bricks with C. I. S  TResidential                                900,980.00
Iguguno, Box Kiomboi       jOut building - Mud bricks with tembe flat Residential
I ____  I _______________________  IT rees                           i                                      i                   I
53|Miraji Abdallah Mwanga -    Farm                                                                    r        1,072,500.00
|Iguguno, Box Kiomboi      |Trees 
54Daudi Yohana Majuh - Ntondo  Main building-Mud bncks with tembe flat Residential                     .         729,600_00 |
j Iguguno, Box Kiomboi      jOut building - Mud bricks with tembe flat Residential
i                    i~~~         ~~~Farm 
55|Mimbi Ramadhani -           Farm                                                                               210,000.00
6guguno, Box Kiomboi                                                                                 I i _  I
56fHamisi Hasani Mzirombo -    Farm                              j                                     T           52,500.00
Iguguno, Box Kiomboi   l     _                                I _
Mkuki Athumani Nyuha -      Farm                              1                                                105,000.00
i____ lIguguno, Box Kiomboi        i_                                                                      i  i____          _ I
58 Mwangu Hassani Iguguno      Farm                              j                                                105,000.00
|      |Iguguno, Box Kiomboi                                                                                .                    I



APPENDIX J:                  INDIVIDUAL COMPENSATION
S/N          OWNER NAME                Description of Building/Farm                    Use                   TOTAL VALUE (Tsh)
59 Hosein Mwangu - Iguguno     Farm                                                                      |          105,000.00
i   Iguguno, Box Kiomboi                  .                                                            1_                   I
60 Majengo Jumanne Abrrahaman- Farm                                                                                 105,000.00
i        Iguguno, Box Kiomboi      J                                                                                              I__
61 Mkoma Nzugu Magunduka-      |Farm                                                                              1,137,000.00j
Iguguno, Box Kiomboi                                                         . _
62jMwile Mkilili Kimela - Iguguno  Farm                                                                             105 000.00
lIguguno, Box Kiomboi       I                                                                                              I
63 Mpuni Maria Makala - Iguguno  Farm                                                                               105,000.00
Iguguno, Box Kiomboi                                                                                               5
64 Evarin Mkoma Matiti- Mwandu-  Farm                                                                               105,000.00
Iguguno, Box Kiomboi
65 Jotrey Japhet Muswaga -     F                                  j                                      j           52,500.00
Igugurno, Box Kiomboi
66 John Benjamini Kenyatta -    Farm                              I                                                  52,500.00
Iguguno, Box Kiomboi
67 Yusufu Salumu Ngui- Iguguno,  Farm                                                                    j           52,500.00
Iguguno, Box Kiomboi        I                                  j                                      J _
68 Ibrahim Abdallah Nangu -    Farm                                                                                  52,500.00
Iguguno, Box Kiomboi                                                                                  1
69 Mwasiti Lisuu Senge - Mwandu- Farm                                                                               157,500.00
i   |guguno, Box Kiomboi        I 
70r Shabani Mwanga Miraji -    Farm                                                                                  52,500.00j
Iguguno, Box Kiomboi        I                                                                                . _
771 IYusuphu Mrisho Shabani -  |Farm                                                                                 52,500.00]
jL      | Iguguno, Box Kiomboi      j                                                                         |            . _
72|Mrisho Chitete Jumanne -    [Farm                                                                     j           52,500.001
Iguguno, Box Kiomboi        J _                                I _
[   73|0mari Mkoko Shabani - Iguguno Farm                            1                                       j         131,250.001
Iguguno, Box Kiomboi         _                                 I _                                      _
.    74 Ibrahim Ramadhani Mtinda -  Farm                              T                                       F           52,500.001
_ Iguguno, Box Kiomboi
75 Saliboko Mkumbo Mgiga -         Farm                                                                      |           52,500.001
Iguguno, Box Kiomboi       .                                   1 i                                     i5                  I
76|Mohamed Mwanga Majengo -    |Farm                                                                     |157,500.00
|Iguguno, Box Kiomboi       I 
77jJacobo Benjamini Ambarangu - jFarm                                                                                5 j  52,500.00
Iguguno, Box Kiomboi       . j                                 I                                      i                    I
780Hongoa Ramadhani Mohamed - Farm                                                                                   52,500.00
Iguguno, Box Kiomboi        [              .
-   791 Philipo Makala Kiligo, Kitusha  Main building -Mud bricks with tembe flat| Residential                i        1,073,900.00
P. 0. Box Kinampanda - Iramba roof
Out building- Mud brcks with tembe llat Residential
rootf
Trees                                                                     I
Farm
80|Makala Numba, Kitusha  P. 0. Mud bricks with Tembe flat roof  jResidential                                       455,000.00
Box Kinampanda- Iramba                                                                                j
_Farm
81 Agnes Gabriel Nzuzu, Kyengege Mud bricks with C. I. S          jBusiness (Sho and canteen)            j        1,653,450.00
P. O. Box 520 Kinampanda,        b          .                           (Shop
Iramba                      ]                                  j J                                                         i
82 Dena Ayoub Mduawu,          Mud bricks with C. . S             jResidential                                    1,316,900.00
Kyengege, P. 0. Box 520
Kinampanda-Iramba
j  83jCharles Samson Msembe,     jMud bricks with C. I. S           jBusiness (Shop)                        j881,850.00j
Kyengege   P. O. Box 520    ||.j
|Kinampanda, Iramba|.                          
84jMtali Jumanne Hamisi, Ulemo  Burnt bricks wit C. T. Residential and business(shop)                             3,742,575.00
P. 0. Box 537 95, Kiomboi-
lramba



APPENDIX J:                  INDIVIDUAL COMPENSATION
S/N          OWNER NAME           J    Description of Building/Farm  |                 Use                   TOTAL VALUE (Tsh)
85 Mtali Jumanne Hamisi, Ulemo,  Burnt bricks with C. I. S        ]Business (Bar and Guest house)                 4,408,724.00
P. 0. Box 95 Kiomboi-Iramba  Tre
_ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   ~~~ITrees                        j  _    _    _     _    _     _    _         _    _    _
868Nicodemus Noel Nkungutu,     Farm                                                                     [86,250.00
Ulemo, P. 0. Box 95 Kiomboi-
lrambal
87Mashaka Lyanga Kalembo,    Mud bricks with C. 1. S            Business (shop)                                1,436,800.00
Ulemo   P. O. Box 171 Kiomboi9
_         _Iramba            Trees
88[Gideoni Lyanga Shila, Ulemo  Mud bricks with C. 1.S            Business (shop& Canteen))                       1,134,560.00
P. 0. Box 152 Kiomboi-lramba  |                                                                                     5
|Trees '__
89 Samuel Cheyo, Ulemo     P. 0. [Burnt bricks with C. 1. S       Business (kiosk)                       ]-       1,188,750.00
iBox 95 Kiomboi-lramba
90 Medson Jackson Jeremia      Mud bricks with C. I. S            Residential                                     1,308,780.00
Kitundu, Misigiri P. 0. Box 126
Kiomboi-lramba
Khalfani Petro Kilimba, Misigiri iMud bricks with tembe flat root  Residential                                 1   5,560.00
0P. . Box 126 Kiomboi-Iramba                                                                                     0
ITrees
92 iSawasawa Mosque - Shelui -  Mud bricks with C. 1. S           Mosque                                          1,756,700.00
Kiornboi                    17
9 Shabani Juma Kuluvi,         Mud brcks with C. 1. S             Business (Kiosk)                                1,185,375.00
|Nselembwe- Shelui    u      CI
947Rithion Juma Msangi(Major) Box Cement blocks with C. I. S               (Business                              1,597,935.00
10 Shelui -Kiomboi                                             I
9    t Lawrence Robert Makigi  Cement blocks with C. I. S        1 Business (Guest House & shop)                  3,031,695.00
(London Guest House) Shelui -|
Kiomboi
9    Kisena Kaii Nungula, Shelui -  Cement blocks with C. 1. S    jResidential (                                  1,141,950.00
|Kiomboi                                                                                               I
971 Rihion Juma Msangi(Major) B 1 h   j t block with C. I. S      Business (Shop & Canteen))                      3,414,495.00
f 1i0 Shelui -Kiomboi                                            _                                      _   _   __     _
90 Sultan Mohamed Seleman, Box Cement block with C. 1. S          Business (shop)                        1        1,305,705.001
154 Shelui -Kiomboi
99Khalfani Ahmed Shamisi,Box  tCemen block with C. I. S           jBusiness (shop)                                   10,80000
1154 Shelui -Kiomboij;                                                    
1020BoAshaAubni, Box 154 Shelui -  Mud bricks with C. I. S        (Business (Canteen)                              1,680,255.00
|       01|Khaltani Ahmed Shamisi, Box  jCement blocks with C. I. S     Business (Shop)                        |        1,345,755.00
154 Shelui -Kiomboi                                                     (                             [        2   3  5
| 102 Athuman Abdulrahaman Msangi, Cement block with C.1. S          |Business (Canteen)                    |        1,205,535.GO|
|   BOX 26 Shelui -Kiomboi                                                                                j    
103 Jumanne Juma Msangi, Box 10 [Burnt bricks withC I.S            [Business (Canteen)                             2,541,375.00 
|   Shelui -Kiomboi                                                                                       Ii
j 104jKhalfan Ahmed Shamisi Box 154jCement blocks with C. I. S       jBusiness (shop)                       j        2,693,575.00 
|   Shelui -Kiomboi      
105Abdu Jumanne Nkupa, Box 340    Mud bricks with C. 1. S          Business (Shop)                                 2,575,775.GO
-   Shelui -Kiomboi                                                                                       jj
1 06jKhalfani Ahmed Shamisi, Box  jCement blocks wioth C. I. S     Business (Grocery)                              1,265,375.00
*______ 1154 Shelui -Kiomboi



APPENDIX J:                 INDIVIDUAL COMPENSATION
S/N          OWNER NAME               Description of Building/Farm                    Use                 ITOTAL VALUE (Tsh)
107 Hamisi Juma Nduja, Box 11   Cement block with C. I. S         Business (shop)                                2,573,375.00
Shelui -Kiomboi             [
|      Anna Edward Senkene, Box 45  Cement blocks with C. I. S        Business (Grocery)                             1,368,975.00
______ (Shelui -Kiomboi            [ _                                             .                       I                    i
n109Andrew Mzee Sianga, Box 82  Cement blocks with C. I. S        Business (Shop)                                2,511,775.00
______ 1Shelui -Kiomboi                                                                .
110 Hassan Hamisi Kiyungi, Box 340 Cement blocks (constructionis is on the                                         128,385.00
| Shelui -Kiomboi           rentre stage)                     I
| Kassim Yusuph Iddi, Box 11  Cement blocks (Construction is on                                    1           66,735.00
j_____ [Shelui -Kiomboi            [foundation stage)
112[Athuman tddi Mwiru, Box 340  [Cement blocks(construction is on                                                  66,735.00
______ [Shelui -Kiomboi            |foundation stage)
13[Athuman Abdutrahaman Msangi, cement blocks (Construction is on
Box 26 Shelui -Kiomboi      foundation stage)                                                        |         201,483.00
114 Asha Ajubi Salum, Box 45 Shelui Cement blocks with C. I. S    Business Grocery                      1        1,304,715.00
j-Kiomboi                                                                                   ..        |
115 Hellena John Minia, Box 45  Cement block with C. I. S        Business (Shop)                                1,305,375.00
Shetui -Kiomboi                            .           .                               .            J _
11 6 Hamisi Juma Nduja, Box 11  Cement blocks with C. t. S        Business (Shop)                                1,196,310.00
[       Shelui -Kiomboi            I
117 Mwizarubi, Box Shelui -Kiomboi Cement blocks with C. t. S     Unoccupied                                     1,153,875.00i
11       gai Jared Kiula, Box 45 Shelui Cement blocks(constructionis is on the109,0.00
-Kiomboi                    rentre stage)
1   Mariam Awadh Mohamed, Box   Cement blocks (Construction is on                                                  105,795.00
j340 Shelui -Kiomboi        foundation stage)                  |  ,        .                          _                  Jl
Mariam Awadh Mohamed, Box   Cement blocks with C. I. S         Residential and Business (Kiosk)               1,014,150.00
-   45 Shelui -Kiomboi|.                                          |        .     
121 IHawa Ramadhani Mchungu, Box Cement blocks with C. I. S       [Business                                      1,082,730.00
138 Shelui -Kiomboi                                       .   [.                                     _                   I
122IChiku Mohamed Masanja, Box  Cement blocks with C. I. S        jBusiness (Grocery)                   1        2,500,095.001
31 Shelui -Kiomboi   l                                        [      .                          .
123 Lulua Ally Majid, Box 10 Shelui- Cement blocks with C. t. S   (Business                    ,        j        1,858,080.00
Kiomboi                     I ._._                                                                               __I     i
*  124 Fatuma Juma Hassani Matoto,  Cement blocks with C. I. S   .   [Residential                          1         1,012,715.00
[      |Box 10 Shelui -Kiomboi     |                                . [                                                          i
125jJumanne Hamisi MtaIli, Box 10  Cement blocks (Construction is on                                                8 69,271.00
Shelui -Kiomboi             foundation stage) .               [                                                          li
1l26jSaid Yahya Matoto, Box 10  ]Cement blocks with C. I. S       |Business                             |        1,005,375.00|
i____ j |Shelui -Kiomboi           J   .                      .         I
1 27 jAbdalla Ally Makusudi, Box 10  Cement blocks (construction is on                                              67,995.00
. Shelui -Kiomboi           foundation stage)
128] Doto Shauri Kinyara, Malendi, P. jMud bricks with tembe flat roof  Residential                                452,250.00'
°. Box 40 Shelui Kiomboi         r      .                     |                                       _      _     _
j_____  j_____________________                                jTotal                                 |    128,250,000.00



Sinigida-Slzelui Road Detailed Engineering Design      Final Report: Annex 8 - Appendix K
Annex 8: EIA, SIA & RIA
APPENDIX K
PROPERTIES VALUATION ANALYSES
Annex 8 APPENDIX E water-may 03    Appendix K - 1                     Techniplan



APPENDIX K - PROPERITIES VALUATION ANALYSIS
S/N      OWNER NAME                 SKETCH PLAN                    VALUATION ANALYSIS                                                                             TOTAL VALUE (Tsh)
1 Issa Shabani Senge -
Mangwanjuki, Box 236
Singida Urban                                         (i) Buildings
Area: 7m X 3 m =21 m2
3.Om
Multiply by rate per m2  15,000.00
Current replacement cost 315,000.00
7.Om                 Less depreciation 75%  236,250.00
Current market value  38,750.00
Sub total buildings                                                                                        . .     38,750.00
(ii) Crops/Trees                                                                                     _
Type                                  No of crops     Rate (Shs      % age growth   Total
Jacaranda                                           3        5,000.00           25%          3,750.00
Sub total crops Tshs                           .                                                                    3,750.00
'ili) Land value                     Area (Acre)      Rate(Tsh/acre)                Total
Area multiply by Rate                             0.25     100,000.00                        25,000.00
Sub total                                                                                                          25,000.00
'iv) Allowances                      Amount           %              Months         Total             _
(a) Disturbance allowance                    25,000.00           5% -                         1,250.00
(b) Accomodating allowances                   3,000.00 -                          36        108,000.00 oo
(c) Loss of profit allowance                 10,000.00C-                          36        360,000.00
(d) Transportation allowance                 30,000.00C-                                     30,000.00
Sub total                                                                                                         499,250.00
GRAND TOTAL                                                                                                       566,750.00



2 Hamisi Ramadhani
Lissu - Mangwanjuki -
Singida Urban                                      (i) Buildings
Area: 2.9m X 3m = 7.5Cm2
3.Om     Multiply by rate per m2  20,000.00
Current replacement cost 150,000.00
2.5m                 Less depreciation 75%  112,500.00        _                          .
Current market value  37,500.00                                                   _
Sub total buildings                                                                                            37,500.00
(ii) Crops/Trees                                                                      . .
Type                                No of crops     Rate (Shs      % age growth   Total
Sub total crops Tshs                      .
(ii) Land value                     Area (acre)     Rate(Tsh/acre)                Total
Area multiply by Rate                           0.25     100,000.00                       25,000.00
Multiply by rate/acre  100,000.00  .  . ..                                                         __
Sub total                              . .                                                                     25,000.00
(iv) Allowances                     Amount          %              Months         Total                                 I
(a) Disturbance allowance                  25,000.00           5% .                        1,250.00                  ..
(b) Accomodating allowances                 3,000.00 -                         36        100,000.00
(c) Loss o1 profit allowance                5,000.00 -                         36        180,000.00
(d) Transportation allowance               30,000.00 -_30,000.00
Sub total                                    .                                              .                  319,250.00
=  _GRAND TOTAL                                                                                               381,750.00



3 Idd Athuman Limu-
P. 0. Box 537 Singida                                                                   1
Rural                                               (i) Buildings
M/bIdg = 11.5m X4.8m = 55.20m2 @100% =55.20m2
O/bidg = 3.6mX 3 m =10.8rn2 @ 50%=5.4m2
total area: 60.60m2
4.80M      Multiply by rate per m2  35,000.00
Current replacement cost 2,121,000.00
11 .5M                Less depreciation 40%  848,400.00
Current market value  1,272,600.00
Sub total buildings                ,                                                                           1,272,600.00
(ii) Crops/Trees                                                                            .
Type                                 No of crops     Rate (Shs     % age growth    Total
Mango trees                                        4       16,000.00          100%        64,000.00
3M        Mango Trees                                        4       16,000.00           50%        32,000.00
Gravilea                                           1        5,000.00          100%         5,000.00
Gravilea                                           4        5,000.00           50%         10,000.00
3.6M                     Shade trees                                        1        5,000.00          100%          5,000.00
Sub total crops Tshs         .                                                                                  116,000.00
(iii) Land value                    Area(Acre)       Rate(Tsh/acre)                Total
Area multiply by Rate                            1.50     100,000.00                      150,000.00
Multiply byrate/acre  100,000.00                                   _                         ,
.____          ______________________________   Sub  total                                                                                                     150,000.00
(iv) Allowances                     Amount           %             Months          Total
(a) Disturbance allowance                  150,000.00           5% -                        7,500.00
0                    ~~~~~~~~~(b) Accomodating allowances         30,000.00 -                         36       1,080,000.00  _________
(c) Loss o1 profit allowance                30,000.00 -.                        36       1,080,000.00
(d) Transportation allowance                30,000.00 -                             .      30,000.00
.  Sub total                                                          .       .                               2,197,500.00
.[GRAND TOTAL                                                               .                                   3,736,100.00



4 Rashid Shabani Dude
(Mnung'una), P. 0. Box
537 Singida Rural                                    (i) Buildings
Area: 5.9m x 3.0m = 17.70m2          .
3.0 M   Multiply by rate per m2  20,000.00
Current replacement cost 354,000.00                   _
15.90M                Less depreciation 60%  212,400.00                                                                                           I
Current market value  141,600.00
Sub total buildings                                                                                                141.600.00
(li) CropslTrees                      _                _              _
T  e                                  No of crops     Rate (Shs      % age growth    Total
atnhoroo tree                                       1        5,000.00           50%           2,500.00
Christmas Tree                                      1        5,000.00           25%           1,250.00
Gravilea                                            1        5,000.00          100%           5,000.00
Sub total crops Tshs                                _                   .    ._.___8,750.00
(i) Land value                       Area(Acre)       Rate(Tshvacre)  _      _        Total
Area multiply by Rate                             1.00     100,000.00                       100,000.00
Multiply by rate/acre  100,000.00
Sub total                                              .____._100,000.00
(iv) Allowances                      Amount           %              Months         Total
(a) Disturbance allowance                   100,000.00           5% -                         5,000.00
(b) Accomodating allowances                   5,000.00 -                          36        180,000.00
(c) Loss ot profit allowance
(d) Transportation allowance                 30,000.00 -                                     30,000.00
Sub total                                      .                                                                   215,000.00
GRAND TOTAL                                                                                                       465,350.00



5 Daniel Amos Majii -
Iguguno, Iramba                                      (i) Buildings
Area:
Multiply by rate per M2
Current replacement cost
Less depreciation
Current market value
Sub total buildings
(ii) Crops/Trees
Type
Gravilea trees                       No of crops     Rate (Shs      % age growth   Total
_ _ _ _ __4  - O5,000.00  100%          20,000.00
Sub total crops Tshs                 _                                                                           20,000.00
(iii) Land value
Area multiply by Rate                Area(Acre)      Rate(Tshtacre)                Total
Multiply by rate/acre  100,000.00                1.00     100,000.00                       100,000.00
Sub total                                                                                                       100,000.00
(iv) Allowances                      Amount                        Months          Total
(a) Disturbance allowance                  100,000.00           5% -                        5,000.00
(b) Accomodating allowances
(c) Loss of profit allowance
(d) Transportation allowance
Sub total                                                      .                   _                              5,000.00
IGRAND TOTAL                                                                                                    125,000.00



Singida-SIhelui Road Detailed Engineering Design      Final Report: Annex 8 - Appendix L
Annex 8: EIA, SIA & RIA
APPENDIX L
CONFIRMATION OF PLOT ALLOCATION
Annex 8 APPENDIX E water-may 03    Appendix L - 1                   Techniplan



PRESIDENT'S OFFICE
REGIONAL ADMINISTRATION AND LOCAL GOVERNMENT
SINGIDA REGION:                        IRAMBA DISTRICT COUNCIL,
P.O. BOX 155,
KIOMBOI.
Ref. No.DED/IRA/C.40/1.VOLII/16            .07 MAY, 2003
CHEF EXECUTIVE TANROADS,
P.O. BOX 11364,
DAR ES SALAAM.
Sir,
RE: RE SETTLEMENT OF PEOPLE WHO WILL BE AFFECTED - SINGIDA
SHELUI ROAD CONSTRUCTIR
The above heading refer. The Iramba District council is willing to allocate
plots / farms for those people who will be displaced by road construction along
the following villages, Igugugno, Tumuli, Kitusha, Kyengege, Ulemo, Misigiri,
Nselembwe (Shelui) and Malendi.
The District council understand the importance of this road to the District
and the Nation as aewhble.
We are ready to effect the re location of the people once TANROAD
informs the Council prior to the road construction.
\
'Regards,
For DISTRICT EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR
cc. Regional Administrative Secretary,.
P.O. BOX 5,
SINGIDA. - Att. Regional Land Officer.



Singida-Shelui Road: Detailed Engineering Design     Final Report: Annex 8 - Appendix AM
Annex 8: EIA, SIA & RIA
APPENDIX M
NEMC REPORTING GUFDELFNES
Aninex 8 APPENDIX K-may 03      Appendix M - 1                        Techniplan



Singida-Sheliui Road: Detailed En,gineering Design  Fiinal Report: Antex 8 - Appendix M
Annex 8: EIA, SIA & RIA
. .               APPENDIX M
REPORT WRITING GUIDELINES AND. REQUIREMENTS
The present Appendix presents the reporting guidelines prescribed by the National
Environmental Management Council (NEMC) for the environmental impact assessment
studies.
1.     Introduction
These guidelines provide a report format and indicate the aspects to be covered in the
preliminary and full or comprehensive impact assessment reports prepared by.developers or
proponents. The aim of this report format can be summarized as to:
- Produce easily administered reports.
- Create a uniform, flexible set of requirements for Environmental Impact Statements
(EISs).
- Accommodate the variability of proposals and creativity of consultants.
1.2    Report requirements for preliminary assessment
The objective of preliminary assessment is to show whether the development will have
significant impact. The report must show whether it is necessary to conduct a full impact
assessment or if the identified impacts can be mitigated to the extent that they are reduced to
insignificant levels. The preliminary assessment report must provide summary statements of
,no impact' based on the identified environmental characteristics'. Where the preliminary
assessment indicates that the development will have no impacts on the environment, it is
essential for the consultant and the proponent to indicate their own commitment to such
statements, in such a way they take responsibility for the finding of no significant impacts. If
the preliminary assessment reveals obvious impacts, these may be presented in a table to
assist reviewers and decision-makers. Where it is found necessary to provide additional
(specialist) information to justify the presence or absence of impacts, this can be done in
attachment(s). The elements for inclusion in initial Assessment report would be: Name or
title of Proponent, Location Main Conclusion, backed with reasons for the particular finding.
Consultant(s) name including, qualification/ relevant experience, contact address/phone/fax/
E-mail No.)
1.3    Report requirements for impact assessment
The initial assessment can indicate the possibility of significant impacts, Where this has been
revealed, then a full Impact Assessment has to be calTied out. The impact assessment report
EIS is intended to be used by all the interested and affected parties: (a) the developer or
proponent, (b) the proponent's consultants, (c) the affected public, (d) the authority that
determines the adequacy of the report (i.e. Review Authority). Typical elements of an EIA
report include:
-   A non-teclnical executive summary.
- A description of the proposed activity, its purposes and rationale including raw
materials.
-   A description of the local environment (site description) and baseline conditions
including socio-economic, biophysical and cultural aspects.
-   Identifications, prediction and assessment of potential impacts from environmental,
social, economic and cultural perspective for different phases of developments.
Aniex 8 Al'PENDLX K-may 03      Appendix M - 3                      Techniplai



Singida-Slielii Road: Detailed Enginteerin<g Design  Final Report: Annex 8 - Appendix M
-  Analysis of those Impacts as they relate to human health.
-  Consideration of alternatives and mitigation measures including commitment to
mitigation.
-  Environmental management plan, monitoring and auditing program.
-  How public consultation in respect to the undertaking was implemented
-  Any other necessary information to assess the proposed activity
-  Conclusions and recommendations
4. Structure of EIA report:
4.1 Cover Page. Must display information and referencing, such as:
-  Title of proposed project (development)
-  Location of proposed development
-  Proponents
-  Lead Consultant(s) (EIA Coordinators) Contact Address and phone No. Report
designation (main or draft) Decision Making Authority
-  Date of Submission.
4.2 Non-technical Executive Summary. It provides a concise overview of the report,
highlighting the major findings and recommendations. Since the summary may be the only
document to be read by higher authorities, it can be produced as a "Stand alone" document.
The executive summary will have a Swahili version, if the report is written in English.
4.3 Contents Page. It assists the reader to locate specific sections and should contain the
following:
o List of major sections of the report.
 List of Tables.
o List of figures (including maps)
o List of appendices
o Page numbers of the report.
Ffor complex reports, it is advisable to have separate contents list for each chapter.
4.4 Introduction Section. It provides background to the proposal, showing how the report is
structured. It also states whether the assessment is preliminary or full EIA. Contents:
- Background Information
- Including justification for the EIA
- Outline of the proposal: objectives, location, activities, timing, development lifespan
-  An outline of the structure of the report.
The outline of the structure of the report should show how it is organized in terms and
location of different chapters, TOR, Summary, Conclusions and recommendations.
4.5 Terms of Reference (TOR). They provide guidelines for undertaking the EIA according
to agreements made in the scoping stage. As TOR vary from one development proposal to
another, it is difficult to stipulate standard requirements for them. Where .additional
information not required by TOR is found to be necessary for inclusion, the consultants have
to take legal responsibility for such information. Typical TOR must indicate inter-alia the
following:
(i)  description of the proposed undertaking and analysis of the need/reason for
undertaking;
(ii) the objective of the undertaking;
(iii) other options for carrying out the undertaking;
(iv) alternatives to the undertaking;
(v)  a description of the present environment that would be affected, directly, or indirectly;
Annex 8 APPENDIX K-may 03      Appendix M - 4                      Techniplan



Singicla-Shelui Road: Detailed Engineering Design  Final Report: Annex 8 - Appendix M
(vi) description of the future environment, and its condition if the undertaking did not
occur;
(vii) the impacts that may be caused the environment by the undertaking;
(viii) proposed measures to prevent or mitigate all adverse impacts;
(ix) an evaluation of opportunities and constraints to. the environment of the undertaking;
(x)  environmental management plan, covering construction, operation, decommissioning
(xi) proposals for a programme of public information
4.6 Approach to the Study. It provides a description of the approach adopted in the study, as
the methodology used in the scoping exercise, the ETA study, the involvement of
stakeholders, etc.
4.7  Assumptions and limitations. The objective is to indicate the circumstances and
limitations under which the study was carried out and their possible implications to the
overall assessment. The presentation of limitations and assumptions should not be allowed to
be reason for producing generalized or tentative reports. A good scoping process would avert
the possibility of these limitations, since they would be incorporated in the planning stage.
Items to be included:
-  At what planning stage the report was produced and decisions that may have been taken
-  Availability of baseline information
-  Financial Constraints
-  Time Constraints
-   Confidentiality Constraints
-  The implications for the study, of the limitations and constraints identified.
4.8 Administrative, Legal and Policy Requirements. The objective is to show compliance
with existing policies, laws and administrative conditions. Details on the legislation may be
included as Annex. Specifically, the section should include:
* Indication of the relevant legislation and planning and administrative procedures
followed
* Indication of how compliance has been achieved with respect to other legislative
provisions.
4.9 Project Proposal Section. It gives a general idea of what the project proposal will entail,
focusing on details linked to anticipated impacts. The use of diagrams, maps or photos of the
project or similar projects elsewhere may assist to clarify processes or actions. Many
elements can be considered under this section. A few of them would include:
Nature of development.
Surface area to be covered
Area of land to be influenced by the project e.g., by noise, emissions or visual impacts,
Density and layout
Architectural character
Phasing of development (Construction, Operation, maintenance and decommissioning).
Volumes and concentrations of effluent.
Removal and disposal of waste,
Support Services
Personnel, and
Location maps/lay-out plans.
4.10 Affected Environment. It gives a brief description of the environment affected by the
development, including biophysical, socio-economic, cultural, historical and even political
factors. According to reviewed EISs, the temptation is to include everything on the
environment, including those factors which have minimal chance of being affected by the
development. The advice here is that only those environmental factors necessary to
Annex 8 APPENDIX K-may 03      Appendix M - 5                       Techntiplant



Sin gida-Shelni Road: Detailed Engineering Design  Final Report: Annex 8 - Appendix M
understand the impact of the development, should be considered. The inclusion of
encyclopedic details can make the report readable. In order to facilitate an analysis of
potential impacts, it is important to show the linkages between various environmental
elements and their relationship. This would assist the determination of secondary and
indirect impacts. Other current and proposed projects in the area have to be taken into
account in order to predict cumulative or synergistic impacts.
An example of elements to be included in this section, would therefore be of the following
type:
-  Location (e.g., regional Context, physical Constraints, Land tenure, surrounding land
uses, direction and distance to neighboring towns, local infra-structure etc).
-  Boundaries (of the development and of the environmental effects).
-  Biophysical environment (climate, soil, geology, hydrology, topography, flora and
fauna).
-  Socio-economic environment (e.g. demography, local government administration, water
and power supply etc).
-  Cultural, historic environment (e.g. sites of architectural ad cultural interest, visual
impact)
-  Interested and affected parties.
-   Other aspects of particular significance or value.
-  Reference to specialist reports which may have been prepared.
4.11 Assessment Section. The objective is to make a synthesis and analysis of information
relevant to the environmental impacts of a proposal. Two important elements are
considered under this section, namely: an outline of methodology used and the
systematic assessment of impacts.
4.12 Methodology. It outlines the methods used to identify, assess and evaluate impacts.
4.13 Public participation. It gives a synopsis of who were contacted, when, where and what
was said. Information on dissemination points (such as public libraries, notice boards and
other information centres) for information relating to the project has to be given under this
section.
4.14 Assessment of impacts. It includes, for each identified impact:
-  Statement of impact or effect.
-  Brief description of the impact or effect.
-   Group(s) affected, including land owner(s).
-  Statement of Criteria for determining significance (could include magnitude, geographic
extent, duration, frequency, risk or uncertainly, size of group affected).
-  Significance of or effect without mitigation.
-   Suggested measures for mitigation or optimization.
-   Significance of impact with mitigation or optimization measures.
On describing impacts, it is important to refer to specialist reports, if information was
derived from there. Additionally, the description of impacts should be able to state whether
they are:
-  Positive or negative
-  Direct, indirect or secondary.
-   Short term or long term.
-  Reversible or irreversible.
-  Remain Static or vary with time.
-  Will be felt locally/
-   Regionally or nationally.
-  Are they controversial.
Annex 8 APPENDIX K-may 03      Appendix M - 6                       Technziplan



Sin gida-Shelui Road: Detailed Engineering Desigin  Final Report: Annex 8 - Appendix M
Where impact mitigation is not feasible or cost effective this should be indicated.
Compensatory measures, including trade-offs or measures to enhance the positive effects of
the project, should be explored. As the most important part of the EIS, Assessment must be
presented in a form allowing quick reference and comparison. Use of tables, also to appear in
the executive sunmnary, to present major impacts for each alternative, is recommended. It is
also important to inform on residual effects in terms of quantities and types of materials,
after identification of mitigation measures. With residual impacts, a consideration of
cumulative and synergistic impacts where there are other development projects, has to be
included.
4.15 Mitigation. This section will show how the proponent is committed to implementing the
mitigation measures proposed against the identified impacts. Responsibility for carrying out
monitoring by other independent institutions or firms has to be shown under this section as
well.
4.16 Evaluation of alternatives. In order to weigh the available information and to determine
which alternative is in the best interest of the community at large, an evaluation has to be
carried out. Under this section, the following elements should be considered and included:
*  Method of evaluation. It can rely on expert opinion or other techniques as panel
evaluation
* cost-benefit analysis,
X Comparison of alternatives
n Recommendations
4.17 Incomplete or unavailable information.. This section is essential. It should provide an
insight of the adequacy or scarcity of information which could have been essential for the
assessment. e.g., uncertainty about the effect of new technology. Specific issues to be
included are:
* Identification of gaps in knowledge or unavailable information.
* Reasons for inadequacy or incompleteness of information.
* Implications for the decision making process
4.18 Conclusions and Recommendations The objective is to highlight key conclusions and
present recommendations arisingfrom the whole study. Some of the elements that should be
included in this section are:
* A brief discussion of the key issues,
* Indication of the major positive and negative impacts; and the mitigation measures
* Statement of any serious risk associated with the project in general.
* Identification of any management and monitoring needs.
* Additional recommendations.
4.19 Definitions of Technical Terms. The objective is to assist interested but
non-specialist readers. A glossary of terms, with their explanations in simple
language should be provided.
4.20 List of Preparers. The objective is to identify the contributor to the report, providing
detail for each contributor.
* Name and qualifications
* Current Position and the contribution to the study
4.21 References. The objective of this section is to identify and record the written material
used in the study. This section is important because some of the material used as background
information may be in unpublished form; and yet it may be necessary that these are available
during the review process.
Annex 8 APPENDIX K-may 03      Appendix M - 7                       Tech niplan



Sin gida-Sieliui Road: Detailed Engineering Design  Final Report: Annex 8 - Appendidx M
4.22 Personal communications. Information obtained through personal communications
should also be recorded under this section or separately. This type of information could come
from both interested parties or specialists.
4.23 Appendices. Appendices provide support to the recommendations of the main report
and contribute towards its overall quality. Examples of documents that may be provided as
appendices are:
- Detailed planning proposal,
- Policy guidelines,
- Outline of scoping and public involvement process,
- Technical reports prepared in conjunction with the proposed development,
It should be noted that the objectives of these appendices are among others, to streamline the
process of decision making on the report. It is therefore not advised to include irrelevant
information that would only delay the process of decision-making. Only essential
information has to be included. The list of organizations and persons consulted can also be
presented as an appendix.
Annex 8 APPENDIX K-may 03      Appendix M - 8                      Techniplan



Sinlgida-Slheltii Road: Detailed Enginteerinig Design   Final Report: Annex 8 - Appendix N
Annex 8: EIA, SIA & RIA
APPENDIX N
PHOTOGRAPHIC ALBUM
Am=8 APPENDIX L Album-Co,er-03      Appendix N - 1                       Tech,iiplai



I



Singida-Shelui Road: Detailed Engineering Design           Final Report: Annex 8 - AppendixN
Fig. 2. Singida Urban Area
-8 APPENDIX L Albm I               Appendix N - 3                        Techniplan



I



Singida-Shelui Road: Detailed Engineering Design             Final Report: Annex 8 - AppendiiN
-,~~ ~ _     *          --   -.        
*~~~~~~~~~r 1 ~ ~ ..                       -.                     :
A'~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
A&L                    ~~~-A-
Fig. 3.  Building to be demolished in Msisi
X - s-t
r1~~~~~~~~~ -
Al.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.
Fig. 4. Commercial building in Msisi village
A.=, S APPENDIX L Album I              Appendix N - 4                          Techniplan



I



Singida-Shelui Road: Detailed Engineering Design       Fitial Report: Annex 8 - Append&iN
g              p:   e    d                               I
Fig. 5. School in Iguguno Trade Center
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4                   *--4' *x 
< ~     ~     ~     h     _ L2's5               f.t,_
-~~; k-_-d1 K-Sg
Fig. 6. Iguguno by pass: newv bridge site
Annex 8 APPENDIX L Album I          Appendix N - 5                     Techniplan



A



Singida-Shelui Road: Detailed Engineering Design          Final Report: Annex 8 - AppendixN
~~~~~~~~.                             --   ;   ;- -'"' 
Fig. 7. Village Building to be demolished (Shack, stall)
I~  ~~          .._{>'_ic -,                           _tf       <       <
Fig. 8. Idem
Anns 8 APPENDIX L Alblm I             Appendix N - 6                        Techniplan



I



Singida-Sheluti Road: Detailed Engineering Design      Final Report: Annex 8 - AppendirN
-,      -_- J-                                                          -C-;'
it   $'-'.1;.   *                                                              r'.
Fig. 9. Farm along Iguguno by pass
1M A''''--mS                       I
Fig. 10. Idem
Annex 8 APPENDIX L Album I          Appendix N - 7                      Techniplan



I



Singida-Shelui Road: Detailed Engineering Design            Final Report: Annex 8 - AppeendixN
- K-4-v:-_.- c{>1>. -4k
4<
Fig. 11. Meeting of Iguguno Stakeholders
t''_-t'~~ - 1 z --, i 
iu                                 -     -. ~      .   I
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~      -   '-.~   .                ,
.,                           .           .   .'              --  - .    
Fig. 12. Charcoal dealers along the road
Annex 8 APPENDIX L Album I             Appendix N - 8                         Techniplan






Singida-Shelui Road: Detailed Engineering Design       Final Report: Annex 8 - AppendirN
IL                                                                 Z
-ii
u2j                          -                - I  
_6        M                      r     - iEb                       z      w
I~~~~~~~~~L ._..        D.ftJ. ;T                                    0
Fig. 13. Kiomboi District: Office of the Town Planner
L              V~~~~~~cI
.    J\' X-
Fig. 14. Planned layout of Shelui Nselembwe Trade Center, designed in 1988
n8 APPENDIX L Albm               Appendix N - 9                      Techniplan






Singida-Shelui Road: Detailed Engineering Design                 Final Report: Annex 8 - AppendixN
Fig. 15. Market place of Kiomboi District Headquarter upper reaches of Kinkungu
IJ~~~~~~~~~~~-
Fig. 16. River used by wild animals to cross Sekenke escarpment
An,e. 8 APPENDIX L Album I                Appendix N - 10                           Techniplan



I
I
i
I
I
I
j
I



Singida-Shehli Road: Detailed Engineering Design     Final Report: Annex 8 - AppendixN
Fig. 17. Traders along the project road near Misigiri
l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ F18 
Fig. 18. Building to be demolished in Ulimo village area
Annc.x 8 APPENDIX L Album I       Appendix N - I I                   Techniplan



I



Singida-Shleliui Road: Detailed Engineering Design           Final Report: Annex 8 - AppendirVN
-7,f t-v -
L I:~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
' !'
r -                         - , -.. ;:. , il
Fig. 19. Selected borrow pit in unformed land near Misigiri
Aon- 8 APPENDIX L Album I              Appendix N - 12                          Techniplan



I



Singida-Shelti Road: Detailed Engineering Design              Final Report: Annex 8 - AppendivN
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
-  'I                        ,          o         .~- 
Fig. 21. House to be demolished in Kironda village area
^-  -      kVwr -' -e               _   L    \'Ze       
Fig. 22. Pond between the bridges of the new Kinkungu river route
An8c., S APPENDIX L Album I             Appendix N - 13                          Techniplan






Singida-Sheluti Road: Detailed Engineering Design             Final Report. A nnex 8 - AppendivN
S~~~~~~,7~ _                                       ViX iS$,._                       ,
4~~~~~~~~
Fig. 23. Proposed Sekenke Forest Reserve
Fig. 24. Burnt forest along the project road in Sekenke Escarpment
Annc., 8 APPENDIX L Album I             Appendix N - 14                          Techniplan



I



Singida-Slieluti Road: Detailed Engineering Design            Final Report: Annex 8 - AppendivN
Fig. 25. Burnt forest along the project road in Sekenke Escarpment
*      1'                                  v               0:               -
Fig. 26. Houses encroaching road reserve in Misisigi
Anncx 8 APPENDIX L Album I              Appendix N - 1 5                         Tech niplan



a



Singida-Shelui Road: Detailed Engineering Design                Final Report: Annex 8 - Appendi&N
- ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~!-
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S                                *%_.l
Fig. 27. Charcoal maker along the road in Sekenke Escarpment
l                                        ~    ~~~~~~~~~~~~I  i
, - 
'I
_                ~      
Fig. 28. End of the project road at Tabora Region border in Wembere lowlands
Annex: 8 APPENDIX L Album I              Appendix N - 16                           Techniplan



b                                                                                                                                                                                                  V~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



Singida-Shelui Road: Detailed Engineering Design             Final Report: Annex 8 - AppendiYcN
I~. S
Kt.41
--            -             --- -X                       =           i
Fig. 29. Beer house to be demolished
-A
Fig. 30. Shelui plain sight from the escarpment
Anncx S APPENDIX L Album I             Appendix N - 17                          Techniplan



I



Singida-Slhelui Road: Detailed Engineering Design                 Final Report: Annex 8 - AppendbcN
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A
1,~~~~~~~~~~~~~
t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I A,<A;''
Fig. 31. Bee hives on burnt tree along Sekenke road
4                                                                                     '
4''  ~    -
_4
Fig. 32. A Trunk accident on Sekenke road obliges vehicles to negotiate alternative track through the mountains
Anne. 8 APPENDIX L Alb.. I                Appendix N - 18                            Techniplan



I



Singida-Shelzui Road: Detailed Engineering Design             Final Report: Annex 8 - AppendivN
Fig. 33. Building encroaching the Shelui Trade Center
~~~~~~~~~~~~~711
Fig. 34. Building encroaching the Shelui Trade Center
8 APPENDIX L Album I                Appendix N - 19                          Techniplan



I



Singida-Sheluii Road: Detailed Engineering Design             Final Report: Annex 8 - AppendixN
A~~
F*r                                                      ~   '4 
Fig. 35. Building encroaching the Shelui Trade Center
i <~~~
Lt~~~~$
Fig. 36. Building encroaching the Shelui Trade Center
Anne 8 APPENDIX L Album I               Appendix N - 20                          Tech2niplan



I



Singida-Shelui Road: Detailed Engineering Design              Final Report: Annex 8 - AppendivN
Fig. 37. Meeting with Stakeholders in Shelui Nselembwe Trade Center
t, ,,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~f
Al
=                          C
Fig. 38. Traditional "Clinic" between Shelui and Wembere Plain
A   8c., S APPENDIX L Album I           Appendix N - 21                          Techniplan



I



Singida-Shelui Road: Detailed Engineering Design              Final Report: Annex 8 - AppendidvN
|;                           ~~~~~~~~~~~10
Fig. 39. Mosque in the right of way of village
xX~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4 :,                       .
Fig. 40. Chicken dealer along the road
A..x 8 APPENDIX L Album I               Appendix N - 22                          Techniplan



I



Singida-ShelZui Road: Detailed Engineering Design           Final Report: Annex 8 -
AppendixN
Fig. 41. Charcoal dealer along the road
M.- 8 APPENDIX LAlb Im                  Appendix N - 25                          Techniplan



9



Singida-Shelui Road: Detailed Engineering Design   Final Report: Annlex 8 - Appendir 0
Annex 8: EIA, SIA & RIA
APPENDIX 0
CONTRACTOR'S CLAUSE FOR
THE SAFEGUARD OF PHYSICAL CULTURAL RESOURCES (PCR)
Contents
1. Purpose of the Clause
2. Scope of the PCR Clause
3. Proposed clause to be incorporated in the Special Specifications of the
Works Contract
Attached:
Typical impacts of road projects on Physical Cultural Resources (PCR)
(section 1 and 4)
A PDXM ro, 6..w uPRC-.ny03  Appendix 0 - 1              Techntiplan



Singicda-Shelui Road: Detailed Engineering Design  Finial Report: Annex 8 - Appendix 0
Annex 8: EIA, SIA & RIA
APPENDIX 0
CONTRACTOR'S CLAUSE FOR
THE SAFEGUARD OF PHYSICAL CU]LIILRL RESOURCES (PCR)
1. Purpose of the PRC Clause
The present Appendix presents the 'chance-finds' clause that should be incorporated in the
Works Contract to ensure the protection of PCR, not only those which are already known
and classified, but also those which are yet unknown and could unpredictably be found and
inadvertently damaged during the earthworks.
2. Scope of PCR Clause
The Contractor will be responsible for protecting and preserving in their integrity the PCR
identified by Tanroads in the road works sites and their immediate vicinities. The Contractor
will also ensure the protection or relocation of the known PCR affected by the road works, in
compliance with Tanroads instructions.
The Contractor will be responsible for reporting to the Works Supervisor on the existence of
any Physical Cultural Resource (PRC) encountered in the road construction areas, including:
- the design right of way
- the borrow pits and quarries
- the camp sites and detours
- any other site affected by the immediate physical consequences of the road works
The PCR items are defined as constructions, dwellings, trees, relics, articfacts, paintings and
other features, the typology of which is the described in the two Lists of PCR attached to the
present Works Contract.
In the event of casual finding, during the road works, of PCR similar to those illustrated in
the two attached Lists, the Contractor will stop the works and report to the Works
Supervisor. The Supervisor will instruct the Contractor in writing with appropriate measures
to protect the PCR. The Contractor will comply with such instructions and implement them
keeping an accurate written record of the activities carried out and costs incurred.
Anwx 8 APPENDIX M Mon,r-ctor ciu.s PRC-.lay 03  Appendix 0 - 3     Techiziplan



Singida-Shielui Road: Detailed Enginieering Design    Final Report: Annex 8 - Appendix 0
3. Proposed clause to be incorporated in
the Special Specifications of the Works Contract
Article 1. Definition of prehistoric and historic cultural heritage items. The cultural heritage
items are defined in the attached document prepared by the Ministry of Education and
Culture for the area concerned by the road works and attached to the present Contract.
Article 2. Actions to be undertaken in case of cultural heritage findings. During the Contract
performance period, the Contractor, upon casual finding, through excavation or other works
operation, of prehistoric or historic relics in the areas affected by the road works, shall
immediately inform the Works Supervisor about the occurrence and deploy his best efforts
and dispositions efforts to ensure the integrity of the finding pending decisions to be taken by
the cultural heritage authorities
Article 3. Instructions to the working teams of the Contractor. The Contractor shall brief the
site staff responsible for the road works about the features of the possible cultural items that
can be found in the road work areas and about the duty of registering the finding in the
works journal and preserving them until instructions are provided by the Works Supervisor.
Article 4. Works suspension and related compensation. If the preservation of the cultural
finding requires the temporary suspension of the works in the location of the finding, the
event shall be recorded in the works journal with all the details and justifications that are
necessary to prove the entitlement and the amount of the related compensation.
Article 5. Property of the finding. All cultural heritage item casually detected during the
excavations or other works operations is the property of the Government of Tanzania.
In case of endorsement by the project authorities, the present Clause will be incorporated in
the Special Specification of the Works Contract.
Amex.8APPENDLXMco-wrmctorc .u,PRC-mayo3  Appendix 0 - 4               7echniplaui



Singicda-ShIelui Road: Detailed Engitneering Design       Final Report: Annex 8 - Appendix 0
TYPElCAL IHPACTS OF ROAD PROJECTS
ON PHYSIACL CULTURAL RESOUCTES QPCR)
There are various types of road project. To avoid confusion in the terminology used, the categories proposed by the
Latin America and Caribbean Region of the World Bank are adopted here: (i) Maintenance; (ii) Rehabilitation; (iii)
Improvement; (iv) Upgrading; (v) New construction. These categories are defined in Section 4 of this Annex.
1. ImportantIssues
  The greatest threat to PCR arises from not identifying them in the first place.
a  Although road improvements, upgrading and new constructon are most likely to directly
encounter PCR, rnaintenance and rehabilitation projects may also have impacts through
activities such as quarrying, establishment of work camps, use of construction equipment,
the increased volume of traffic, and improvement of access to PCR.
o Roads are often among the most historic areas of a country, especially major trade routes,
some of which go back several centuries. PCR are frequently to be found in the vicinity of
major roads.
o  For the above reason, road-widening activities, associated with road improvement and road
upgrading, may be more likely to encounter PCR than the construction of new roads.
o Road-widening in urban areas rich in cultural heritage requires particular attention, as the
construction works may have direct negative impacts on PCR, and the increased traffic
volume will often have long-term impacts on historic buildings in the vicinity. Increasingly,
historic urban centers are being bypassed in preference to road-widening.
° As many roads connect or pass through old-established population centers, the EA team
must be alert to not only to obvious PCR such as buildings and monuments, but also to
living-culture PCR, such as a sacred trees and graves, as well as archaeological material.
a In some cases, the existing road may itself be classified as cultural heritage. In such cases,
the EA team must report upon the likely negative impacts on the existing road, including
associatedcfeatures such as historic bridges.
3 Improved access resulting from road projects can have both positive and negative impacts
on PCR. If controlled, the increased human traffic can provide significant income-
generation potential for the local community. If uncontrolled, it can lead to both theft and
inadvertent damage, and the unacceptable exposure of sacred sites.
o Discovery of PCR during EA investigations can contribute to an expansion of the national
cultural heritage inventory, and can . provide income-generating opportunities for the
community, for example through tourism development.
A,,mx 8 APPENDIX M conwtaor cluusc PRC-wtwy 03  Appendix 0 - 5              7Techniplan



Singida-Sheltii Road: Detailed Engineering Design     Finial Report: Annlex 8 - Appendix 0
Activity or Feature                           Impact
Expropriation of land by        (i) There may be direct destruction or damage to PCR,
establishment of new road corridor,  especially unidentified natural PCR and buried
road realignment or widening,   material;
diversions, work camps and access  (ii) Positive impacts may also occur, through the
roads                           discovery of hitherto unknown sites or artifacts.
New road alignment crossing     A major road cufting through an area rich in PCP
through PCR such as a heritage   creates a barrier which can:
area or cultural landscape .    (i) Interlere with the management andfunctioning of the
area;
(ii) Create a negative visual impact by detracting from
the landscape or blocking the viewi.
Use of explosives               Vibration can result in damage to buildings, and cause
landslides in cliffs and escarpments which may expose,
damage or destroy buried material and features such
as cave dwellings.
Quarrying                       Quarrying can damage the aesthetic quality of the
landscape, and damaqe or destroy buried PCR.
VV'aste disposal                 Indiscriminate dumping of waste material may cover, or
damage, natural and built PCR,
New road alignments, and major  New road alignments, and major cut andfill zones
cut and fill zones in landscape of  which are out of characterwith the terrain, can damage
aesthetic value                 the aesthetic value of the landscape, leading to
negative visua I impacts.
Deforestation along, or adjacent tb,  Unnecessary or excessive deforestation modifies the
road corridor                   landscape ancl can have negative visual impacts.
Vibration, air and soil pollution by  This can cause damage to both built and natural PCR,
the use of construction equipment  andto movable artifacts such as manuscripts and
yes,tments.
Soil corhpaction by heavy    .  Soil compaction can damage buried material,
construction equipment          especiallVarchaeological sites incorporating chambers.
Accidents                        Construction accidents, especially involving heamvy
equipment in an urban cultural heritage area, can
.   directly damage PCR
Aniinex 8 APPENDIX M caitractor clause PRC-n-ay 03  Appendix 0 - 6     Techtniplant



Singida-Shelui Road: Detailed Engineeritng Design     Final Report: Annex 8 - Appendix 0
Activity or Feature                           Impact
Construction of features such  Interrupting access to cultural sites can lead to
as access roads, diversions,  inconvenience and danger for the community, and socio-
camps                       cultural problems.
Establishment of work camps  The workforce may gain unregulated access to PCR sites,
resulting in accidental damage, vandalism, or the looting of
movable artifacts.
Resettlement:               Resettlement of residents displaced by the road project can
lead to negative impa cts on PCR:
(i) The relocation of communities away from cultural sites
can lead to abandonment of the sites, resulting in negative
impacts.
(ii) Land-clearing, excavation and changes in the water table
of the new settlement area can have direct and indirect
negative impacts on PCR.
Amex8 APPENDIX M cunr-ior claus PRC-may 03  Appendix 0 - 7             Techniplan



Sinzgida-Shelli Road: Detailed Engineering Design     Final Report: Annex 8 - Appendix 0
Activity or Feature                           Impact
Poor drainage for run-off  This can cause erosion of the adjoining land, which can lead
from roa d surfa ce       to exposure of da mage to PC R such as graves an d
archaeological resources;
Poor drainage, or         (i) This can result in gulley erosion, resulting in damage to
inappropriate construction of  PCR;
drains, for water from     (ii) WVith no drainage, a raised road plafform can behave like a
adjoining land             dam, changing the water table, and causing negative impact
on natural, buried and built PCR:
Steep and unstable         Collapse of embankments can lead to exposure and damage
embankment cuts            to.natural PCR such as caves, buried and built PCR.
Traffic vibration and air  These cause direct damage to both natural and built PCR.
pollution:
Traffic noise pollution    Noise pollutio6n can interfere with the use and enjoyment of
PCR such as tourist destinations, historic buildings, religious
establishments and cemeteries.
Increased traffic volume   Where the existing road, or a ssociated features such as
historic bridges, arethemselves regarded as PCR, increased
vehicular traffic may damage or endanger the building or road
fabric
An.ex 8 APPEND[X M cotractor clause PRC-inayO3  Appendix 0 - 8         Tech niplan



Sinigida-Shlelii Road: Detailed Engineering Design    Final Report: Annex 8 - Appentdix 0
Activity or Feature                           Impact
Rehabilitated, improved,  (i) Improved but regulated access to PCR can lead to
upgraded or new road       increased human traffic, resulting in positive impacts: tourism-
providing easier access to  related income-generating activities, and wider academic
cultural sites             scholarship.
(ii)Imnproved but unregulated access to PCR can lead to
in creased human traffic, resulting in damage and deterioration
of both natural and built sites, and unacceptable exposure of
sacred sites. It can also result in looting of movable artifacts
(including breakage off sections of immovable monuments),
and can lead to the desecration of religious sites.
(iii) In the case of road upgrading or new construction, The
increased traffic volume, or new alignment, may cut off ready
access to PCR, which may in turn result in inconvenience,
loss of livelihood or danger for the local community, and
ultimately in reduced maintenance and conservation of the
PC R concerned.
Increased traffic volume   An increased volume of traffic can (and is often expected to)
lead to induced development along th e highway and along its
tributary roads. This can lead to unregulated access to PCR
and a loss of control of POR bythe local community.
Loss of land expropriated for  Through increased pressure on land and fuelwood, land-
new or improved road       clearing for new road construction can leadto further land-
clearing in adjacent or nearly areas, leading in turn to
cutivation and deforestation, and subsequent damageto PCR
such as archaeoloqical sites and sacred groves.
Ann= 8 APPENDIX M coitractor cluue PRC-may 03  Appendix 0 - 9          Techniplan



Singida-Shelui Road: Detailed Engineering Design   Final Report: Annex 8 - Appendix 0
4. Categories of Road Project'
(i) Road Maintenance Proj ects
R.outine or peniodic works to maintain the road in working condition. All of the work
is done on the existing platform.
- Routine works, patching potholes, clearing drains; or
-  Periodic works such as resurfacing, linemarking, bridge maintenance.
(ii) Road Relhabilitation Projects
Bringing existing deteriorated roads to previous/original condition. ill of the workis
done on the existing platform/right of way. No additional land acquisiti on is needed.
-    rimproving drainage/sl opes/embankm ents/other structures
- Strengthening pavements
- Complete resurfacinig
- Recuperating civil works
(iii) Road lImprovemenit Proj ects
Irnproving road specifications. Most of the work is done on the existing platform or
nght of way. Additional land acquisition may be needed.
-   Widening lands and shoulders.
- Adding extra lanes in steep inclines
-  Improving curves
- Strengthening bridges
(iv) Road Upgirading Proj ects
Changing road category (eg seasonal to all-weather, secondary to primary, or from
gravel to paved). Land acquishon is needed in most cases.
- Adding new lanes (2 to 4, 4 to 6, etc)
-  Changing road surface (such as from gravel to paved)
- -VVidening intersections
(v) Newv Road Constructioni Proj ects
New projects built on a new alignment. Major land acquisition is needed.
- New ro ads
- Bypasses
-  Realignments (changing in route)
I Tak en from Quintero, J., April, 1997, OGwdelinesfor Environmenital Screening of Road Po]jecfs, The
WorldBank, Latin America and Caribbean Re gon.
Anne., S APPENDIX NI -ni-ractor clxxs PRC-mx yO3  Appendix 0 - 10  Techiniplai



Singida Shelui Road- Detailed Engineering                   Final Report: Annex 8 - Appendix p
Design
Annex 8: EIA, SIA & RIA
APPENDIX P
M[INTES OF MEETING WITH VILLAGERS
Annex 8 APPENDIX i-Cover-may 03          Appendix p - 0                          Technziplan



Singida-Shelui Road:. Detailed Engineering Design  Fin al Report -Annex 8- AppendUI J-JRAP 2
U~a P-I4 '-A L-L LA
vc-D  lS/2 1
R S #& ZR b5L   A7/ - F 
j.,, A s     t     Z{         ;   .
>gyy  /~(P~P~  L~a\-  kU- C~  V ,8&2t  -   A v7sr
4 &, >18M- l~~~LI Akf-syhhi5amzft
Z.. Z FY  A  >_v @   ht-Wa, 6F-2R sA
.,~ ~ ~~~I J,tfA         4
' , ' AL,' A-St AA ..~& -. m 'a'.
t4j,41 ya s  A2rv_<F         A 
;~~ VIJJLVI           I6Z2
S B:L4  1                 tflbk ThT'>us8\s 
i/zR -:,,  I*7j'
6'0J4



Singida-Shelui Road: Detailed Engineering Design         Final Report- Annex 8-Appendix J-RAP 31[
....... Y .a  . .  .  Ip 1c\ C, nj 0
Pjbl k7tK~.-~ A-r2p .  ~
Wa    \         u I P               ' Cr
43 c/L.STh -            - M
RT  el           -                             j_u
V&  I  E)+t{ ThE EA  O      - .* 
19' PA       Cr Pxxr-        -
L9 L-TB4
S.!.  C  J22tIO       -    -
8 4  1 }<J  2. C" 
-        ~ p -  -C c,  6. F
2,.  (}P-*ELs   L      .4  -.  iea     ;     ~



Voad: D)etrtiled Efngineer ing Design         FilalRepotlt- Anniex 8-AppelIdLv J-RAP 3
* k   rY - -rt k otk-,      -     C-
664c ~~t7 r't _4;   4,i_     4~ W-LA- Ze tC1_fi-r v''
AK& 5 t bA 9 o 2\  o Sh  [ \ 'L c  4 o  @1 >J~  ~A AJ  9 A
7*   C.r-4-)                                         _
t G %BX wi s; ot \ 5tsz <  sik"  l -'6\_r
(D~~~~~~~~~~ I     6_             r_\>Q \t- C b LLt,
t q\\ W"'u LE ' ' t A-X
. ,vX 95utC , 401 J
r cJ ~     ~      
g                   b.sl  S 
~~~~~~~~~~~~- ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ .-
J   -'7         -               A   \N ; L >   s;t t
IE;~~ ____________
E 2Qrsa0;-s eJCJJZ*-ao-<
|1~,tr  \         .;-    <   ;<               5 I. D5-
n "% K- a    jW '..



Annex 8: EIA, SIA & RI[A
APPENDhIX Q
LIST OF PEOPLE CONSULTED



LIST OF THE PEOPLE CONSULTED
I. Ms Halima Kasungu - Regional Commissioner, Singida Region
2. Mr. Said T. Mwambungu - District Commissioner- Singida District
3. Mr. Boniphace Mgongolwa - Regional Administrative Secretary- Singida
Region
4. Ms.Zainabu Kondo - District Commissiner - Iramba District
5. Mr. Sadim Ignas Sirima - Executive Director, Singida Town Council
6. Mr. Charles Mwagowa - District Executive Director - Singida Rural Distric
7. Mr. Mpangalala - Head of Land, Natural Resources and Environment
Department, Singida Rural District Council
8. Mr. Muduma - Acting District Executive Director, Iramba District
9. Mr. Richard Fumbuka - Regional Land Officer, Singida Regional
Administrative Secretariat
10. Mr. Naftali Mmari - Coordinator - World Vision
1. Mr. Sultan Hilary - Regional Manager - Tanzania Electric Supply Company
12. Mr Feruzi Athuman - Chairman - CCM Msisi
13. Mr Abdalla Mwanja - Secretary - CCM Msisi
14. Mr. Iddi Athuman - Village Executive Officer- Msisi
15. Mr. Seleman Daudi - Acting Village Chairman - Shelui
16. Mr. Daud Majengo - Village Executive Officer, Shelui
17. Mr. Ally Ramadhani - Chairman - Village Social Services Committee -
Shelui
18. Mr. Daud Madulu - Member - Village Govemment - Shelui
19. Ester Kerario - Director EIA -NEMC
20. Technical Review Committee (EIA) -NEMC



Singida-Shzelui Road: Detailed Engineering Design      Final Report: Annex 8 - AppendixR
Annex 8: EIA, SIA,& RIA
APPENNDIX R
PROPERTIES DECLARATION FORM (FORM 70)
A=. 8 APPENDIX R-Proprpes Dccltioohli om  Appendix R - 1               Techniplant



FomU Ya Ardhi Na. 70
JAMHURI YA MUUNGANO WA TANZANIA
SHERIA YA ARDHI 1999
(Na.4 ya 19991
OMBI LA MKAZI WA ARDHI KULIPWA FIDIA
(Chini ya Kanuni ya 8 ya Kanuni za Fidia ya Ardhl, 20011
1. Majiina kamili (Jina la Ukoo kwanza)
*/A    J/R-,tg P,g)       wf A _    ASl/Cr / '-I_
I)    Jinsia ............ .......,.....,..... ..., .. .. . . . . . ..  ,n
ii)    Umri .........:.,.,,... ..........,,,,,;
2.  Anwani: ......... ..x .. ........ .. /... ..                        ....
3. Umeoa/umeolewa. Ndlyo/Hapana
4. Watoto wanaoishi pamoia na wewe
..... ..... .... ..... .... ... . . . . . ........... .. .............. ..........  *.....I....................I..............
. . . . . .. .. .. .. .. .   .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   . . . . . . . . . . . . I . . .
5. Mahala ilipo ardhi Inayohusika na fidia:
Kijiji ..  .. .A              .     .......  .... ....................
Wilaya.f,,,,.. /I  ,,,   ,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,, ,,,,.,,,,,,,,, ,.b* ..
A4taa/Barabara:.........  ..                               - -.................................... ..............
6. Taarifa nyingine:
Kumbukumbu za Hati ya Kumiliki Ardhl:
. ................................ .................. ....................... ...... ...... 
7  Ukubwa wa eneo                  .  . .............. .S   .
s. Matumizi va sasa ya ardhl .  /-C.S7,/4 ...................... ...................:,
9. Maslahl ullyonavo katika ardhi inayohusika na fidia:
Hakimiliki Ndo/Hapana
Hakirniliki ya KImila N'Kro/Hapana
MkazI ... Pgt'o/Hapana



Hakimiliki Isiyo asili (derivative right)
Kiasi kinachodaiwa  Shs  .......      ........ ...Of
10. Madai mnengineyo:
a) Maendelezo/Uboreshaji usiohamishika katika ardhi
Tshs . 
b) Ardhi ya malisto va mifugo                                                 IR 
T s h s   .  t..   .......   ...   .......   ....  . - .   ..... ........I....... . .......  ......... ...........  ....... < i
Jina                      ..............a. . . .  1 XL
Saini/alama Va Dole gu b  .....  ..  .......   ... ! P    ..



