THE UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
~RP1 68
MINISTRY OF WORKS
TANZANIA NATIONAL ROADS AGENCY - TANROADS
Review and Update of Feasibility Study and Detailed Design of
Singida-Shelui Road Section
Phase II
Detailed Engineering Design     - .  .
FINAL REPORT         -
~.  ~   Or ~) uiJCr GRiTF3J  cig ?-
Annex 8                       -
ENVINRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMVENT (EIA),
SOCIAL IMPA CT ASSESSMVENT (SIA) &
RESETTLEMENT A CTION PLAN(RAP)
ENVINR ONMENTAL IMPA CT A SSESSMENT (EIA),
SOCIAL IMPACTASSESSMENT (SIA)&
RESETTLEMENTA CTION PLAN (RAP)
AS AMMENDED BY TANROADS
TECHNIPLAN
Rome and Dar es Salaam, May 2003
FILE COPY



I



Singida Shelui Road: Detailed Engineering Design  Final Report: Annex 8 - EIA, SIA & RIA
Part 3
PART 3
RESETTLEMENT IMPACT ASSESSMENT (RIA)
&
RESETTLEMENT ACTION PLAN (RAP)
Annex 8-Part3                    Annex 8 - 51                       Techniplan



Singida Shelui Road: Detailed Engineering Design  Final Report: Annex 8 - EIA, SIA & RIA
Part 3
9. RESSETTLEMENT IMPACT ASSESSEMENT &
RESETTLEMENT ACTION PLAN
9.1 Project Description in Relation to Resettlement
The road influence area is characterized by four types of urban and rural settlements as
reviewed below:
i.   Remote Village Areas
ii.  Village Areas Crossed by the Road
iii. Trade Centers
iv.  Urban Areas,
9.1.1 Remote Village Areas. The rural territory - which covers 96% of Singida Region - is
divided among 236 Administrative Village Areas (A VA). The AVA are the smallest territorial
units, at the bottom level of the administrative hierarchy.' The Regional Government, with
foreign aid, is mapping their boundaries. The AVA have an average surface of 210 sq km with
3,600 inhabitants, two-thirds farmers, the rest semi-nomadic herdsmen, both segments sharing
common lineage affiliations. In remote areas, uninfluenced by road traffic,2 most hamlets have
traditional, nucleated layouts, with the homesteads built concentrically around the main meeting
place, where the house of the elected Village Chairman is frequently found. No regular street
grid separates the compounds. Hedges or palisades encompass the huts where the households,
usually more than one, reside. Land occupancy rights are still inspired by customary law and
household members take care of the tracks, the water supply and other communal facilities.
Isolated homesteads are rare in the countryside, save seasonal herdsmen camps, makeshift
farmring shacks and a few compounds of medicine men. Specialized buildings - stores, temples,
offices - are uncommon, except primary schools, located a mile or so from the nearest hamlet
and serving more than one AVA. As traditional hamlets lie far from the road, their land tenure
system will hardly be affected by the project.
9.1.2 Village Areas traversed by the project road. Singida -Shelui Road splits 10 AVA,
covering a total surface of 2,500 sq km, with some 40,000 inhabitants.
General features. Unlike traditional hamlets , the villages crossed by the project road are modem
settlements, with a regular layout complying with the physical planning rules introduced by the
Govemment since the 1960s. Under such rules, the village streets must be reshaped into a
geometric grid on both sides of the trunk road, clear of the right of way. The elected Village
Chairman is responsible for rule abidance. He allocates square plots to those who intend to build
new houses. The old houses were realigned in the grid long time ago. The State owns the land
but the dwellers enjoy a free occupancy right, compensated if the plot is confiscated for public
utility. The built-up portions of the modem AVA are ribbon shaped, with house rows lining
both sides of the highway to exploit through-fare business opportunities. The Village Areas
crossed by the project road feature specialized buildings facing the road front, such as stores,
bars, small hotels, eating rooms and workshops. Vendor stalls and shacks are also frequent.
Village Areas are grouped in Wards (Kata), which in their turn are grouped in Districts (Wilaya) Larger villages
are divided in administrative quarters and hamlets
2 The region's trunk roads connect Singida Town respectively with Manyoni. Arusha and Nzega
Annex 8-Parn3                      Annex 8 - 52                        Techniplan



Singida Shelui Road: Detailed Engineenng Design  Final Report: Annex 8 - EIA, SIA & RIA
Part 3
Along the road, village dwellers are ethnically mixed and economically diversified, with
immigrants from other regions. Extended families are rarer than in remote hamlets.
Upgraded Village Quarters. Along Singida-Shelui road section, the Regional Government has
participated to the development of some major villages, like Misigiri, Ulemo and Shelui
Nselembwe, designing grid-shaped quarters served by streets, wells, markets and other
amenities. The Local Government has built the urban infrastructure of these new quarters and
rents out the plots for Sh 4,500 yearly to those who intend to build houses, complying with the
prescribed rural-construction standards. Although Upgraded Village Quarters date back to the
1980s, half of them are still empty due to weak demand (or over-sized offer). The
underdevelopment is contributed by:
*  People prefer the plots granted free-of-charge by the Village Chairmen,
* The Regional Government lacks funds to complete the infrastructure of the planned
quarters.
Among the Government-sponsored Upgraded Village Quarters, only one, in Shelui Nselembwe
Trade Center, is affected by the present road project (see below).
9.1.3 Trade Centers: they are a special category of settlements, founded by Arab merchants in
rural Tanzania more than a century ago. Such Centers enjoy a legally-defined urban status,
blending the authority of an elected Council with the customary trading prestige of the
descendants of the Arab forefathers, most coming from the Sultanate of Oman. Over the years,
the Trade Centers have attracted a host of incomers from Singida and other regions. Their
population is in the 2,000-5,000 range, mostly made up of traders-cum-farm. The migration
turnover is quite high. The District Town Planning Offices have re-designed the layout of the
Trade Centers, featuring rectangular plots of a standard size (m 15 by 10), rented by the
Regional Government at Sh 4,500 yearly to both the old residents and the newcomers.
Numerous traders rent two or mhore contiguous plots to have a multi-compartment house.
District Authorities build streets, wells, drains, latrines, markets, bus stops, postal services and
other amenities. There is a primary school in each Trading Center. Singida - Shelui road section
cuts across two Trading Centers, namely: Iguguno at km 22, Shelui -Nselembwe at km 86,
9.1 .4 Singida Urban Area. Singida Town rose as a Trade Center established in pre-colonial
times by an Arab merchant near the ruler's headquarters of a local ethnic group. In the colonial
period, the town became a major administrative center. Nowadays, Singida Urban Area covers a
District surface of 310 km2, with 150,000 inhabitants. The town core extends over 15 km2 with
95,000 residents. The remaining urban administrative area is, as a matter of fact, strewn with
small rural settlements. Singida - Shelui road cuts across 10 kn of Urban District land,
northwestward from the present zero point until Singida Rural District border. Up to km 10, the
road cuts across typical countryside landscapes, with agro-pastoral villages, hamnlets and sparse
homesteads. The project will slightly affect Singida town as the right of way is quite narrow in
Singida's urban outskirts - 15 m on each roadside, as prescribed by urban street regulations -
few buildings encroach into the corridor.
9.2    Potential Impacts
The upgrading of the road to bitumen standards requires the respect of the right of way, totaling
54.25 acres. Such right is 22.5 m on each side of the design centerline in the rural areas, for a
total length of 99.427 km. For 10 km of road in Singida Urban District the right of way is 15 m
on both side of the centerline. The design route will cross 12 major towns and villages. In each
settlement the project will impact on current land use both within the right of way corridor and
outside. It requires the relocation and compensation of both residential buildings, business or
Annex 8-Part3                     Annex 8 - 53                        Techniplan



Singida Shelui Road: Detailed Engineering Design  Final Report: Annex 8 - EIA, SIA & RIA
Part 3
community service premises and farms. For this reason, some buildings belonging to the
Administrative Village Areas (AVA) intersected by the road must be demolished.
At Iguguno trading center: The road will be realigned. It will cross in the farmlands and
residential areas. Some buildings will be demolished. The bypass around the town will not
physically affect the Center. However, the center will be economically affected as local
business people will miss the new traffic flow and will be obliged either to resettle closer to the
new route, or to try a new chance elsewhere. It is now a matter of local policy whether the
project should assist this spontaneous relocation effort, even though precedents of this kind can
hardly be found in earlier environmental studies for road projects across the country. It is most
likely that the settlements will move towards the new road realignment as it is not far (about
lkm) from Iguguno trading center.
At Shelui Nselembwe Trade Center: The project road will affect the Center physically but also
slightly in business-wise: in fact, a whole row of houses and commercial premises lining the
right side of the road, Tabora direction, encroaches into the right of way, but can be relocated in
the immediate vicinities, possibly without 'damaging the business opportunities. The
improvement of road may affect the business at Shelui trading center, as many vehicles may not
stop at Shelui due to good road condition.
The resettlement in the area will be contributed by road construction works including road
realignment, civil works, borrow pitting activities, camp siting and detours. Aong others, the
resettlement impacts resulting from this undertaking covers:
-    Displacing a total of 113 building structures which accommodates 52 businesses, 61
residencies, 2 offices and one mosque. However, 9 building structures are under
construction.
-    Displacing the total farming area amount to 59.25acres..
Impact of the road project on the farmlands. The impact on the farmlands along the road will
be limited. In fact:
-    no cultivation does encroach on the existing right of way
-    the realigned sections of the road will cross farmlands for a length of 5 km.
-    the selected borrow pits are located in thickets and other currently unfarmed areas
-    quarries lie far from farm plots
-    the new Sekenke route will run along Kinkungu river through steep, unfarmed hills.
Many fallow areas are suitable for contractors' work sites, detours and waste disposal. The
project road is likely to affect 59.25 acres of existing farmlands due to road realignments or
borrow pit use, as summarized below:
Table 9.1: Summary of the impact of the project on localfarms
Areas                            Famreands    Number of plots
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ (a c re s)_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
Iguguno bypass                   54.25        34
Minor realignments               3.0          10
Borrow pits                      2.0          2
Total                            59.2         46
Source: Consultant's field survey, August-September 2001 and
Tanroadsfield survey May 2003
Annex 8-Part3                     Annex 8 - 54                       Techniplan



Singida Shelui Road- Detailed Engineering Design  Final Report: Annex 8 - EIA, SIA & RIA
Part 3
The displaced community in terms of losing their farmlands and houses will be compensated
and relocated accordingly.
9.3    Objectives
The main objective of this resettlement programe is to improve or at least to restore the social
and economic base of those to be relocated along Singida - Shelui road. In implementing this
resettlement programme Tanzania legislations and World Bank Operation Directives related to
resettlement have been followed
9.4    Socio-economic Study:
9.4.1 Land use and land tenure system in the road area
(a) Land use. The land use patterns of Singida Region are as summarized below:
Table 9.2: Land tenure categories of Singida Region
Land use type                                     km2              %
I     |  Farmlands (mostly annual crops)           2,600           5.4
2        Fallow and open grazing & hunting land   32,000           66.1
3        Thicket                                  7,500            15.5
4     Forests of various densities              6,200            12.8
_        Built-up areas                             140            0.2
Total                                             48,440           100.0
Source: Consultant's estimates combining various statistical references andfield checks
The Road Influence Area reflects, on a small scale, the broad land-use pattern of Singida
Region.
(b) Land tenure system. The land of Singida Region is a government property as applicable in
Tanzania. The local population is entitled to occupancy rights, as defined by the Land Act of
1999 and the related secondary legislation. The existing land ownership in rural village areas
along the project road is customary ownership and majority of the households in the urban area
and trading centers along the project road have the Land Title Deed.. Legally, the Land Tenure
System of Singida kegion is articulated in five Territorial Sub-Systems, namely:
i. Village Areas: they comprise all rural territories except the Forest and Game Reserves
ii. Trade Centers: as part of urban land use, they include built-up areas and small outskirts
iii. Urban Areas: they are three, engulfing the district town centers and their rural outskirts
iv. Forest Reserve in Sekenke escarpment
v. Game Reserve in Wembere lowlands
The use of farmlands, rangelands, forests and other natural resources is regulated within the
framework of the five Territorial Tenure Sub-Systems, whose features are profiled in the table
below and reviewed in the subsequent descriptions.
Annex 8-Part3                     Annex 8 - 55                       Techniplan



Singida Shelui Road: Detailed Engineering Design  Final Report: Annex 8 - EIA, SIA & RIA
Part 3
Table 9.3: Land tenure sub-systems of Singida Region
Area
Sub-systems          No.              %     of Description
kM2       Region's
1.  Village Areas    236   47,050    95.60      Basic Territorial Units
2.  Trade Centers    5         25      0.01     Iguguno, Shelui Nselembwe and
I__ _ _   others
3.   Urban Areas (1)  4       410      1.00     Singida Town and three other
District Townships
4.   Forest Reserves  1     1,800      3.65      Sekenke
5.   Game Reserves   1        60       0.12     Wembere
Total                         49,345  100.00    4 Districts (3 of them in the road
_____ _____ _____ _____ ___   _ _____ _  ___ ___ I influence  area)
(1) Including the rural outskirts of the District Towns
The road influence area covers some 20,000 km2 within Singida Region, of which about 18,300
belong to Village Areas, 310 to Urban Areas, 5 to Trade Centers and 1,860 to Forest and Game
Reserves.
(c) Hunting regime. All rural territories except built-up areas and Forest and Game Reserves
have the status of "Open Lands", where the wild animals that are unprotected by the law can be
hunted freely. Hunters must pay to the Government the gazetted hunting fees.
9.4.2  Other Social Economic Issues: The population and other social issues were reviewed
as indicated in-Appendix C, D, E, F and G of this Annex.
9.5    Legal Framework
9.5.1 Applicable rules. The Land Act and Village Land Act of 1999, Land Regulations of 2001
and the Government Standing Order on expropriation for public utility prescribe that the holders
of occupancy rights on the land estates pre-empted for the works must be compensated and
assisted to relocate their assets in the nearest suitable place. Most expropriation disputes in
similar projects are due to disagreements on the value at which the estate and its improvements
are to be compensated. The compulsory resettlement of constructions, farms and business
premises must ensure at least equal compensation values, both to the legal owners and to those
who have occupied the road reserve area disregarding the right of way. ' According to the law,
the expropriated owner must be compensated with a price equal to the value that the "un-
exhausted improvements" (buildings, infrastructure, plantations, etc.) would fetch if sold on the
open market. 4 The replacement value is defined as the cost of acquiring a similar estate and
putting up such improvements as those existing when evaluated. Allowance is made for age,
state of repair and economic obsolescence. According to Tanzania law, the compensation should
cover:
i)   Market value of the real property (i.e value of un-exhausted improvements and land).
ii)  Accommodation allowance (i.e market rent of the affected building per month multiplied
by 36 months).
3Equal also apply to illegal houses built inside the road reserve area
4"Un-exhausted improvements", i e, those notffully depreciated, meani any quality pennanently attached to the land,
resulting from capital or labor expenditure by the holder of a Right of Occupancy
Annex 8-Part3                      Annex 8 - 56                        Techniplan



Singida Shelui Road: Detailed Engineering Design  Final Report: Annex 8 - EIA, SIA & RIA
Part 3
iii)  Loss of profit allowance which is assessed by establishing Net Profit per month evidenced
by audit accounts multiplied by 36 months.
iv)  Disturbance allowance which is calculated by the value of the land by average percentage
rate of interest offered by commercial banks on 12 months fixed deposit at the time of
loss of interest in land.
v)   Transport allowance which is actual cost of transporting 12 tons of luggage rail or road
(whichever is cheaper) within 20 km from the point of displacement.
9.5.2 Real estate compensation rules. According to current applicable legislation in Tanzania,
the land has a value. The land owner with either a title deed or customary ownership has to be
compensated in cash for loosing the land for other development. The Government will simply
provide the resettled owner with alternative land plots of the same size in the nearest suitable
location for both residential and business purposes. The resettled individuals have to buy the
alternative plot for resettlement. Free plots are available close to the buildings and farms that
will be removed from the road reserve area. The District Council authorities, in collaboration
with Wards (Kata) authorities and village chairmen, will assist the resettlement of the displaced
owners as indicated in Appendix L. TANROADS in collaboration with the government valuer
has identified the holders of dislocated occupancy rights and estimated the value of such rights.
The District Council in collaboration with the village government will provide plots to
accommodate the displaced owners. The Ministry of Finance through TANROADS will
liquidate the compensation sums using project funds.
9.5.3  Farmland compensation rules. Majority of the farmlands along Singida Shelui road
section belong to individuals. Some are State owned and are managed by village authorities
under the supervision of the Local Government. The allocation of individual property rights at
village level will be implemented as stipulated by the Land Act and Village Land Acts of 1999
which covers:
o Farmers to enjoy individual occupancy rights allocated by Village Councils as well as
customary land tenureship.
o Farmers be legally entitled to compensation for loss of crops, grazing land or forest.
O  The govemment be liquidated by the project for the loss of rangelands in the borrow pits.
9.5.4 Detours and campsite: Compensation should follow the guidelines stipulated in this
report..
9.5.5 Gap analysis. The Resettlement Impact Assessment (RIA) and the Resettlement Action
Plan RAP have been prepared to make it consistent with both Tanzanian law and WB OP 4.12.
A 'gap analysis' has been undertaken as required by OP 4.12, in order to measure the difference
between Tanzanian law and World Bank requirements, with special attention for farmland,
rangeland, forests and access to other basic resources. The analysis indicates when Tanzanian
law and the World Bank Operation Policy are not full in accord, the higher of the two standard
will apply. This approach fully meets the requirement of the lesser standard. On the
expropriation for public utility the World Bank provisions further emphasized that:
-  the squatters and the renters of properties and businesses must be compensated and assisted
for suitable relocation
-  not only property but also business must be considered in compensation
-  the use of rangelands and forest lands are part of the economic asset base and must be
compensated in case of temporary or permanent interruption
-  farmers must be compensated not only for lost crops but also for the loss of occupancy
rights and they must be assisted to find an equal or better relocation site
-  the value of crops and properties must be valuated on a market basis and not imposed by
bulletins attached to formal legal provisions
Annex 8-Part3 .                   Annex 8 - 57                       Techniplan



Srngida Shelui Road: Detailed Engineering Design  Final Report: Annex 8 - EIA, SIA & RIA
Part 3
-  the use of borrow pits, quarries, camp sites and detour areas must not be negotiated between
the contractors and the village authorities but must be compensated on the basis of the
economic parameters defined by the Resettlement Action Plan
9.5.6 Clearance procedure for RAP. All RAP procedures will be cleared with both the
Government of Tanzania and the World Bank.
9.6    Eligibility
The consultant carried out a 100 percent reconnaissance of impacts. This was been carried out in
August 2001. However, the consultant's report was inadequate to effectively address the
resettlement issues in the project area. In May 2003, TANROADS officials and Government
valuer reviewed the resettlement reconnaissance and consultants report to address among others,
the comments raised by the World Bank. The reconnaissance has covered all structures and
farms whether legal or illegally existing. Most of the affected properties to be displaced are
located in the traditional land ownership. The project will compensate all constructions, both
permanent and temporally, put up squatters within the existing right of way. The compensation
has been detailed in terms of the same market value as a legal structure. The same resettlement
package will be offered to regular settlers and business people and squatters. The renters and
leases are eligible for assistance. The authorities will make sure that the rights of the person who
uses the building are compensated in accordance with the rules set out in both Tanzanian
legislation and World Bank Operation Directives.
The displaced person in the project area includes the communities owning the houses, farm
plots and businesses within the right of way. Two households and two farm plots are likely to be
affected by borrow pitting activities though are not within the right of way. Other properties
which will be considered for compensation are those which will be affected during the road
construction activities particularly those resulting from detours and camp siting. Currently it is
estimated that ten plots will be affected by detours. The actual relocation cost for the detours
will be undertaken during road construction and will be taken care by the contractor. However,
it is envisaged that the detours will be kept to minimum.
The cut-off date for eligibility for relocation is May, 2003. The compensation will be
implemented within 6 months after the approval of the valuation report. Thereafter, the penalty
equivalent to the commercial bank rate for the fixed deposit account will be charged.
9.7    Valuation procedure and compensation for losses
9.7.1 Survey method. The road project will impact upon properties and business activities,
both inside and outside the road reserve corridor. 5 After reviewing the land use patterns and
land tenure systems of the project region, the RIA study has assessed the expected impacts of
the project upon:
i.     Settlements, buildings and related business activities
ii.    Farmlands, rangelands an woodlands outside forest reserves
iii.   Forest reserves and game reserves
Given the relatively soft impact of the project on land resources and real estates, the survey has
adopted a 100% reconnaissance method, without the need to use any sampling technique.
5 The land use patterns and settlements along the road and in its influence area are described in Part 1, § 4.
Annex 8-Part3                     Annex 8 - 58                       Techniplan



Singida Shelui Road: Detailed Engineering Design .  Final Report: Annex 8 - EIA, SIA & RIA
Part 3
9.7.2 Collaboration with local authorities and communities in RAP Preparation. The
Consultant has carried out a detailed field inventory of the resettlement needs generated by the
project. The inventory has involved the key local stakeholders, such as:
(a)  the Land Office of Singida Region
(b)  The three Town Planning Offices of Singida and Iramba Districts
(c)  ad-hoc Resettlement Committees set up by the targeted urban and rural communities.
Public consultation has been carried out at two levels. Firstly public consultation was
undertaken with stakeholders along the project corridor. The participants in the consultation
process had a strong conviction that paving the road will have a positive and profound impact
on their lives and livelihood, and they were genuinely grateful for this "overdue" development.
Negative impacts, like road safety, were cited.
The fieldwork has focused on the buildings, business premises and farms dislocated by the
project. The results of the participatory assessment work, including the minutes of the meetings
with local stakeholders, are displayed in Appendix P
9.7.3 Compensation criteria for buildings, businesses and farms to be relocated. The
property, businesses and farms to be relocated from the design right of way will be dealt with as
follows:
Legal constructions. The resettlement scheme will compensate the owners of constructions for
their losses and will provide alternative areas for relocation with equal opportunities.
Illegal structures.  The project will compensate all constructions, both permanent and
temporary, put up by squatters within the existing right of way. The compensation has been
detailed in_terms of the same market value as legal structures. The same resettlement package
will be offered to regular settlers and business people and squatters.
Business Compensation. As far as commercial business is concemed, the project considers the
payment in terms of allowances for loss of profit for 36 months. People loosing temporary
business structures (e.g. vending stalls), will be assisted for suitable relocation. As to the
benefits entitled to those who rent a business space in a structure to be demolished, the emphasis
will be not on compensation, but on restoring income and access to the asset base. Hence, in
case of those renting business, this means that the project will compensate the losses and
provide assistance to find another suitable business location.
Farms compensation: the existing farms will be displaced by road realignment, detours and
borrow pitting activities. The compensation will be implemented according to the rules
In undertaking valuation of prpoerties for compensation, the value of salvaged materials
have not been deducted from the valuation of affected premises.
9.7.4 Inventory of resettlement needs. In August 2001, the Consultant inventorised buildings
presently occupying the perimeter of the future road reserve area, either confirmed or realigned.
The inventory was carried out jointly with the Local Authorities, including:
a. Singida Regional Lands Office, represented by the Senior Lands Officer and the Chief
Surveyor, who personally joined the consulting team for 20 full working days
b. The three Town Planninz Officers of Singida Urban District (km I to 10 of the road),
Singida Rural District (km 10 to 40) and Iramba District (km 40 to 110), summnoned by the
Regional Land Office
Annex 8-Part3                     Annex 8 - 59                       Techniplan



Singida Shelui Road: Detailed Engineering Design  Final Report: Annex 8 - EIA, SIA & RIA
Part 3
c. The Divisions authorities of Kinyangiri, Kinampanda, Kisiriri, and Shelui
d. The Village Chairmen of the concerned settlements
However, in May 2003 Tanroads officials and a government valuer from Singida town council
in collaboration with above-mentioned stakeholders revisited the inventory of properties to be
resettled in favour of road construction.
Table 9.4: Settlements crossed by Singida -Shelui road
Settlement        Chainage Population Settlement Type
-      ~~(kmn)   (2001)
1     Singida Towr 0        150,000   Urban core & suburban outskirts
2     Manga        13        2,500     Semi-traditional  Administrative  Village
Area (AVA)
3     Msisi       18         3,000     Modern AVA with all houses realigned into
3  Mssi 1300 a grid pattem
4     Ntondo      20         2,000     Modem AVA, 80 % of houses realigned
5     Iguguno (1) 32         5,500     Trade Center designed by Singida Town
5  Iguguno (1) 32  5,500    Planning Office
6     Tumuli      40         3,800     Semi-traditional  AVA  with   regional
6  Tumuli  40      3,800    ~~livestock market
7     Kitusha     55         2,700     Semi-traditional AVA, 40 %  of houses
7  Kitusha  55     2,700    ~~realigned
8     Kyengege    61        4,800      Modern AVA, 65% of houses realigned
9     Ulemo       70         5,700     Modern AVA    with Urban Development
Ulemo  70      5,700   ~Quarter
10    Misigiri    74        5,300      Modem   AVA   with Urban Development
Quarter
I I   Shelui      95        6,000      Trade Center designed by Iramba Town
Nselembwe    9                   Planning Office
12    Malende     106       3,500      Modern AVA, half of the houses realigned
(1) Bypassed by the realignment, which will cut across the town's farrnlands
Apart from Iguguno Town and Sekenke Escarpment, the design route will mostly follow the
present gravel road, so that for 88 km out of 109.427km the works will hardly disturb property
beyond the existing road reserve area. The need to meet design standards has just led to minor
adjustments of the horizontal geometry, with little if any dislocation of real estates. Minor
realignments will entail compensating just 3 ha of farmlands and no constructions.
TANROADS in collaboration with the Government Valuer undertook a detailed assessment of
resettlement need and valuation of properties to be displaced by road project implementation.
9.7.5 Assessment of buildings and business value. The Consultant has assessed one by one all
the buildings that must be destroyed within the confirmed or realigned right of way of the
project road. The assessment has been carried out mobilizing the Land Office of Singida
Region, the Land Offices of Singida Urban, Singida Rural and Iramba Districts and the
communities of the 12 concerned towns and villages. During the assessment every individual to
be affected in terms of being relocated was required to form to declare the properties and
estimated values for compensation of the property (Appendix R- Typical form). The form is in
Swahili version to enable the DPs to fill easily. In the assessment of the buildings and business
value it was revealed that:
Annex 8-Part3                     Annex 8 - 60                       Techniplan



Singida Shelui Road: Detailed Engineering Design  Final Report: Annex 8 - EIA, SIA & RIA
Part 3
(a)    The towns and major villages are well planned on both sides of the road, with most
houses beyond the 45-meter right of way. Despite that, a few buildings - mainly shops, bars and
mills - exist within the present right of way of the road. As they do not comply with road
reserve legislation, the owners have not invested too much. The major settlements traversed by
the project road - among which Singida Urban, Msisi, Misigiri, Shelui Nselembwe - have
relatively high standard houses. Cement/sand blocks or burnt bricks are used for foundations
and walls as well as corrugated iron sheets for roofing. However, a few houses in major centers
and many houses in minor villages, like Manga Msisi or Iguguno are made of mud-and-poles
for walls, grass thatching for roofs. Based on construction elements, the Land Offices of the
concerned Districts have classified the buildings to be demolished in three categories,
attributing to each category an estimated value.
If the building is in good conditions, the compensation for loss of construction can be estimated
according to the standard established by the Ministry of Lands and Human Settlement
Development. The typical properties valuation analysis was undertaken as presented in
Appendix K.
Some of the building structures are makeshift constructions, with mud-brick walls, tin plates
and thatched roofs. All buildings in the 45 m right of way have been carefully inventoried and
mapped by the topographic survey at scale 1:2000 carried out for the present project. The
project will compensate the squatters for the removal of illegal constructions.
(b) More than half of the buildings to be demolished close to the road are presently used as
commercial, like shops, guesthouses, restaurants, kiosks, groceries and bars. Some buildings
host artisan services, as grain mills, garages and workshops. Places of worship are also found
near the road and a small mosque occupies the right of way in Shelui
9.7.6 Individual resettlement of buildings in the Village Areas (km 10 to 109.427km). Some
houses lie outside the plots designed by the Districts Town Planning Officers. Such houses form
rows parallel to the legal plots, but closer than. allowed to the road. This may be due to the
owner's eagerness to be closer to commercial traffic. Some Village Chairmen tolerate such
behavior. The field inventoly of the buildings to be demolished in the two Rural Districts along
the road was carried out in August 2001 in collaboration with local government leadership
including village leaderships. The buildings and business to be affected are found in Manga,
Kitusha, Kyegenge, Ulemo, Misigiri and Malende villages (Appendix J)
Table 9.5: Buildings, businesses and farms to be resettled in the Village Area (excluding
Msisi, Iguguno ahd Shelui)
District               Buildin s        Residential  Business      Farm
Singida Rural        3                -            3
Iramba                14              8            10            3
Total                 17              8            13            3
Source: Consultant's field investigations, August-September 2001 and Tanroads field
investigation May 2003
9.7.7 Resettlement of community structures and Sensitive Properties. As far as the sensitive
properties are concerned, there is only one mosque at Shelui. The mosque serves about 30
people. The mosque lies in the project right of way, at 106km in Shelui Village Area. The
mosque is about 6m x 12 m, it is built in mud bricks. OP 4.12 has clear provision for restoring
access to community structures, including mosques. A plan for the resettlement of the mosque is
included in the RAP. The compensation and replacement package is included in individual
Annex 8-Part3                      Annex 8 - 61                       Techniplan



Singida Shelui Road: Detailed Engineering Design  Final Report: Annex 8 - EIA, SIA & RIA
Part 3
resettlement of buildings in the Village Areas, km 10 to 109.427 as indicated in Appendix J.
Special attention was undertaken and stakeholders were consulted to explain the issue of
relocating the mosque. A study team held a detailed discussion with stakeholders of the mosque
which includes imams, sheikhs, worshipers and mosque sponsors. There was a mutual
agreement for the relocation of the mosque as presented in Appendix (R). However, during
evaluation this amount was elevated to ease the relocation of this property.
9.7.8 Collective resettlement of Msisi Village (km 22). Msisi represents an outstanding case.
Located 20 km away from Singida, it is a compact village, with an urban grid traced according
to the guidelines of the District Town Planning Office. Unfortunately, the house rows on both
sides of the road lie within less than 25 m off the centerline and occupy a higher ground than the
road. A total of 39 buildings must be displaced, as the centerline follows the existing route
inside Msisi village. These buildings accommodate 14 businesses and 33 residences. The
detailed inventory of the buildings to be demolished is shown in Appendix J with the names of
the owners, the description of the buildings and their value, as estimated by the Government
Valuer.
It was agreed that all the buildings would be shifted to other areas, with compensation paid by
the government through the project fund.
9.7.9 Resettlement of buildings in Singida Urban District (km 0 to 10). Within the outskirts of
Singida Town, from the zero point of the road until the border with Singida Rural District at km
10, a total of four buildings lie within less than 15 m of the design centerline. This is in contrast
with the building regulations in the area.
Table 9.6: Buildings in the right of way, Singida Urban District (km 1-10)
Use of the buildings to be dislocated
Residential            | Commercial        Total
0                        4               4
9.7.10 Collective resettlement of Shelui Nselembwe Trade Center (km 92). Within the Trade
Center, a total of 35 building structures located on the right side of the road (Tabora border
direction) lie within less than 25 m of the design centerline. The buildings accommodates 26
businesses and 3 residencies. The houses  built outside the urban plots designed by the Town
Planning Officer of Iramba District in the 1980s - are located parallel to the legal plots but
closer than allowed to the road. The aim of the owners was to establish their business as close to
traffic as possible. The encroachment of the right of way was tolerated by District Authorities.
The detailed inventory of 35 building structures to be demolished in Shelui Nselembwe are
shown in Appendix J (This excludes mosque).
The buildings date from the last 15 years or less, all of them are made with cement blocks and
have roofs of corrugated iron sheets. All the buildings will be rebuilt in a new estate close to the
same side of the road. The District authorities will not license for the same activities the owners
of the houses which will be in the road's frontline after the demolition of the present row of
business premises. This will help the resettled business owners to promptly re-establish their
commercial services.
Annex 8-Part3                     Annex 8 - 62                       Techniplan



Singida Shelui Road- Detailed Engineering Design  Final Report: Annex 8 - EIA, SIA & RIA
Part 3
9.7.11 Resettlement of agricultural activities and Building resulting from Iguguno Bypass
(km 32)
(a) Overview. The upgraded road will bypass Iguguno town. Figure 13 in Part 4 illustrates the
present road and the bypass alignment through Iguguno urban area. The road crosses 5km of
farmlands. Due to the local 3-year rotation system, 1/3 of the farmlands are under actual
cropping in any given year on either side of the road. The staple crops along the existing
alignment includes sorghum,, maize, bush millet, sunflower, groundnuts and other crops.
In general, the plots are cultivated in the main rainy season. Only 10% of the farms, those which
lie in favorable drainage positions, are cultivated two seasons a year.
(b) Compensation criteria of agricultural resources. According to World Bank's OP 4.12, the
project is responsible to ensure that any farmer dispossessed of his land is given access to
cultivate alternative land of equal or better quality and is compensated for relocation costs. He
will also be paid for the loss of the crops destroyed by the road works. Compensation will be
based on the actual market values of the crop, regardless of the nominal values prescribed by the
legislation in force. Such values are very low, as they date back to 10 years ago. The
compensation rates will not be left to the contractor and farmer to negotiate indiyidually. The
present study has endeavoured to determine them fairly and consistently for the whole project
area. The individuals have been recognised as loosing not only their crop, but also their access
to land. This is all part of their asset base. In order to restore their income stream, therefore,
their entitlement package reflects all their assets as indicated in Appendix J.
(c) Resettlement offarmlands and building at Iguguno bypass (km 32-39). To build the 5.2
km bypass around Iguguno Town, the project will expropriate 54.25 acres of farmland
overlapping with the road reserve area of the realigned route. The inventory of the dislocated
farms is indicated in Appendix J, with the compensation cost estimates, covering the value of
farmlands. A total of 34 farm plots and 18 buildings will be resettled.
9.7.12 Impact of borrow pits, quarries, detours and camp sites on the farmlands. The
upgrading of the project road will require the use of a relatively large amount of gravel materials
and crushed stones. Suitable gravel materials are available in 22 identified borrow pits,
identified by the Soils and Materials study. The total surface of the borrow pits extends over 109
acres. Only one borrow pit located at Kitusha is likely to affect buildings and farm plots. The
borrow pits will affects two acres in two farm plots and two houses. Other borrow pits are not
located in the farmland area. The other borrow pits are owned by the government and are
therefore individuals not eligible for compensation. However, Tanroads has to compensate for
loss of farmlands to be affected by detours and campsites. The borrow pits recommended to
obtain materials for subgrade and Base Course are shown below:
Annex 8.Part3                     Annex 8 - 63                       Techniplan



Singida Shelut Road Detailed Engineering Design  Final Report: Annex 8 - EIA, SIA & RIA
Part 3
Table 9.7: Proposed borrow pits
Borrow Pit      Chainage Offset      Quantity
N.                   (km      -                          Acres
Code      Series (ki)     m    side  (m3)
a    b        C      d        r    f     g               h
I   NBP 1     1      0+750    25   L     56.000          6
2   NBP 2     2      2+500    15    L    48.000          5
3   NBP 3     6      15+100   5     L    66.500          7
4    BP7      7      20+200   2     R    15.000          2
5   NBP 5     10     25+500   2     L    150.000         15
6   NBP 7     12     29+200   4     L    45.000          5
7    NBP 10   14     33+300   15    L    23.000          2
8   NBP 11    15     34+000   5     L    56.000          6
9   NBP 13    17     37+700   5     L    37.000          4
10  BP 12     18     44+300   5    L     40.000          4
11  NBP 14    19     44+600   5    R     60.000          6
12  BP 17 B   21     59+000   5    L     45.000          5
13  NBP 16    22     61+600   25   L     75.000          8
14  NBP 17    23     63+600   5    R     40.000          4
15  BP 18     25     71+150   5    L     21.000          2
16  NBP 19    26     72+000   1    R     20.000          2
17  NBP 20    27     73+600   4    L     30.000          3
18  NBP 22    29     81+000   5    L     68.000          7
19  NBP 24    31     86+200   8    L     20.000          2
20   BP 23    32     86+500   2     R    18.000          2
21   NBP 25   33     86+600   2     L    60.000          6
22  BP 25     35     104+000  4     R    54.000          6
Total estimated volume of materials       1.047.500      109
Compensation criteria for borrow pits, stone quarries, detours and camp sites. The prevalent
procedure where contractors pay a fixed sum to Village Committees and leave them to negotiate
with individual farmers is not acceptable on the given rationale that land is owned by the
Central Government. World Bank's OP 4.12 states that the project must compensate the people
who permanently or temporarily loose access to land, regardless of whether they own it, due to
borrow pits, quarries, camps and detours. Such people must be receiving an acceptable
resettlement package, similarly to the people directly in the path of other physical works.
According to the Mining Act 1998, the proprietor for mining building materials has to apply for
the licence before undertaking mining activities. In this case Tanroads, will apply for a licence
for mining building materials. It is estimated that Tsh 5,000.000.00 will suffice for acquiring a
mining licence. As the borrow pits and quarries are not located to the farmlands (except one at
Kitusha village), Tanroads will pay a fee established under the local government authorities.In
average the District authorities charges a fee of Tsh 300.00 per m3 extracted materials. It is
estimated that, a lumpsum of Tsh 20,000,000.00 will be used to pay fees to the district
authorities for extracting building materials. Some percentage of this fee will be left to the
village government for other development sin respective village.
For the borrow pit located at Kitusha, the two plots to be affected will be compensated in terms
of losing their buildings and farm plots as indicated in Appendix J.
It is assumed that the detours will not be longer than 1.5km and not more than 5 detours. The
width of detours would approximately be lOm. It is therefore estimated that additional 30 acres
Annex 8-Part3                    Annex 8 - 64                       Techniplan



Singida Shelui Road: Detailed Engineering Design  Final Report: Annex 8 - EIA, SIA & RIA
Part 3
are expected to be pre-empted for quarries, detours and campsites, with very minor, scattered
impact on local farmlands. However, the detours and campsites will affect 10 farm plots of
about 3 acres. The fartland owner will be compensated accordingly. The valuation will be
undertaken later before construction of detours and campsites. However, it should be undertaken
immediately after identifying detours and sites for camping. The compensation of lands/farms
for detours and campsite will be enacted as stipulated in the Land Act. Currently the estimated
amount for compensation is earmarked as indicated in the overall cost for relocation (Table 9.9)
9.7.13 Rangelands and forests. Rangelands of generally low stock-carrying capacity stretch
along about a total of 50 km on both sides of the design route. While expropriated farmlands are
compensated under the legislation in vigor, rangelands are not. In fact, they are not supposed to
be under anybody's right of occupancy according to the existing legislation. Nevertheless, a
compensation can be paid, through village authorities, to the stock-raising communities
currently exploiting he grazing areas..
Compensation criteria of rangelands and forests. The use of rangelands and forests is entitled
for compensation, even if no provision in such direction exists under Tanzanian law. OP 4.12
emphasises that affected people have a right to restore their use of land and access to assets
regardless of whether they legally own that land. Access to pasture, medicinal plants, firewood,
game etc. is all part of an individual's asset base and hence any project affecting such base needs
to compensate for it. The solution does not simply consist in the payment of nominal cash
sums. The plan, has rather tried to restore, to the extent possible, access to assets with the
ultimate aim of restoring income and improving living standards. The earmnarked sum should be
Sh 500,000.00 in line with World Bank guidelines on these matters
9.7.14 Relocation of Utilities.
Consultation with Tanzania Electric Supply Corporation (TANESCO), Water Authorities in
Singida town as well as Tanzania Telecommunication Company Limited (TTCL) have been
held and agree on the arrangement for relocation of utilities. A total length of 16km of service
line comprising 320 poles of electric power line will be relocated. Minor water pipes servicing
residential houses along 4km in Singida town and 100m at Shelui will be relocated. Telephone
line for about 2km along Singida - Shelui road project will also be relocated. The cost for
relocating these utilities has been indicated in the overall cost of relocation. (Table 9.9).
9.8 - Resettlement Measures
9.8.1 Affected owners. The owners of the houses, businesses and farms pre-empted for road
construction purposes in collaboration with the local authorities and community leaders have
preliminarily identified sites for relocation. The people to be resettled will receive timely notice
and will be paid the full amounts related to:
-  the value of the buildings and other unexhausted physical developments, including the
graves whenever they are attached to the homesteads according to local customary law
-  transport allowances for persons and goods to the resettlement sites
-  the value of the lost business income for the period required to re-start it elsewhere
-  the value of the crops and the cost of re-establishing the lost farm area nearby
-  Transport allowance
9.8.2 Integration with host population
The consultations were conducted between the consultant and local community regarding the
relocation. The entire relocated communities prefer to be relocated entirely within the existing
community in their original villages.
Annex 8-Part3                     Annex 8 - 65                        Techniplan



Singida Shelui Road: Detailed Engineenng Design  Final Report: Annex 8- EIA, SIA & RIA
Part 3
9.9    Site Selection, Site Preparation, Relocation and Social Services
All resettlement is local thus relocation is unlikely to cause major ressettlement impacts. The
local communities involved in relocation are willing to be relocated in the nearest place. The
meeting with the consultants, TANROADS officials, Government Valuer, local government
officials including village government and the affected community were held and agree on the
site to be relocated. Majority of the people to be displaced are willing to be relocated in their
original village.
The village chairmen will allocate new plots to the isolated building owners and farmers inside
the same villages, offering equal chance to exploit traffic-related business. The Town Planning
Officers of Singida Rural and Iramba Districts will draft the urban resettlement plans for the
collective relocation of the buildings of respectively Msisi Village and Shelui Nselembwe Trade
Center. The Agricultural Extension Officer in collaboration with village authorities of Singida
Rural and Iramba Districts will prepare plan for the farming community dislocated along
Iguguno bypass. Both the urban and the agricultural resettlement plans will be drafted and the
land made available before the houses are demolished and the farmlands destroyed.
Even though free plots are available in road-side villages, the relocation process may become a
sensitive issue. In similar projects, expropriation disputes stem from disagreements on the value
at which the estate and its improvements are to be compensated. As the government has
undertaken detailed property valuation and compensation implementation schedule, it will
improve the public perception of the project and reducing local resistance. To avoid
mismanagement of compensation money, the relocation scheme should be countersigned before
payment, enabling the displaced person to reconstruct his property as soon as he receives the
money.
The people tQbe displaced were involved in the identification of the new sites for resettlement
since they have ample area/land for shifting. In rare cases where affected ones do not have
enough lands, the village government will allocate the area after the consent of displaced
people. The cost for obtaining that land is Tsh 500 which is paid to the village government.
The local government and central government revenues will be used for provision of social
services like water supply and electricity. These services will be provided to all communities
regardless of affected community. The DPs will be given plots which are more better off than
they are now. There should be a thorough consultation between the local governments, DPs,
Local NGOs (World Vision) and Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Committee to decide on
the allocation of plots
The displaced people (DPs) will built their own houses according to the design which can be
accommodated with the funds provided as compensation. The local government will survey
plots, service the plots by provision of infrastructures like water supply, street roads and other
utilities.
9.10   Community Participation
Community Participation on RAP Implementation
During the preparation of the resettlement plan, the affected persons will be systematically
informed and consulted about their options and rights. For such purpose regular meetings will
be hold between Tanroads' officials and communities. The meetings shall be prepared and
maintained with the participation of formal and informal leaders. Local NGOs (World Vision)
will be contracted in order to ensure viable community participation and proper communication
between affected persons and Tanroads officials. During such meetings the concerned DPs will
Annex 8-Part3                     Annex 8 - 66                       Techniplan



Singida Shelui Road: Detailed Engineering Design  Final Report: Annex 8 - EIA, SIA & RIA
Part 3
be entitled to identify suitable plots and to reject any plot unacceptable to them. As soon as the
RAP is cleared and finalised, Tanroads will formally disclose it to the affected people. For this
purpose, Tanroads' Regional Manager will organize 12 final sessions, one in each of the
Administrative Village Areas crossed by the road. The sessions will be chaired by the RAP
specialist of Tanroads and attended by representatives of the higher territorial hierarchies
(Districts and Sub-Districts). Adequate display materials will be utilized. During RAP
implementation an M&E Committee will be established at regional level, with the participation
of DPs (either directly or represented by local NGOs) and representatives from the Departments
of Lands, Agriculture, Livestock, Forestry and Social Affairs.
9.11   Grievance and Appeals Channels:
The RAP will make available to all concerned people including the appeal structures at various
levels, specifying the responsible parties and their response time. Before starting, with the
grievance sequence and where appropriate (i.e. in case of complaints of minor entity), aggrieved
parties will take their complaints to community or traditional meetings for dispute resolution.
Local NGO will be contracted and involved to hear complaints and attempt to effect a resolution
before they enter the administrative appeals hierarchy. The appeals line will feature the
following sequence:
i.     Community or traditional meetings (with the presence of contracted NGOs)
ii.    Sub-District Authority
iii.   District Council (Land Officer and Agricultural Officer)
iv.    Tanroads
v.     District Court
In case of no resolution before entering the administrative appeal line, the response time of the
administrative authorities (points ii. to iv. above) shall not exceed two weeks. If the grievance is
accepted, the authorities shall compensate the travel expenses of the grievant at a rate to be
defined by the Tanroads at the beginning of the resettlement and compensation process. No
further appeals mechanism is advised beyond the local administrative level to avoid excessive
costs for the grievant.
9.12   Implementation schedule
Displaced households and farmers will receive timely notice respectively to harvest the fields
and salvage the frames, iron sheets or glasses from the buildings. Contractor Clauses will ensure
that notices are readily served and discomfort is allayed. As discussed above Village chairmen
will allocate new plots to the isolated building owners and farmers inside the same villages,
offering equal chance to exploit traffic-related business. The Town Planning Officers of Singida
Rural and Iramba Districts will draft the urban resettlement plans for the collective relocation of
the buildings of respectively Msisi Village and Shelui Nselembwe Trade Center. The
Agricultural Extension Officer in collaboration with village authorities of Singida Rural District
will prepare plan for the farming community dislocated along Iguguno bypass. Both the urban
and the agricultural resettlement plans will be drafted and the land made available before the
houses are demolished and the farmlands destroyed.
The RAP will span a half year from the date on which the project is officially underway through
the following administrative and fieldwork schedule. The rehabilitation of any stretch of the
road cannot begin until all land has been formally acquired and resettlement completed and
DPs relocated in location satisfactory to them.
Annex 8-Part3                     Annex 8 - 67                        Techniplan



Singida Shelut Road: Detailed Engineering Design  Final Report: Annex 8 - EIA, SIA & RIA
Part 3
Table 9.8: Dislocation and resettlement schedule (2003-04)
Quarters since start-up date
Framework operationsI                                  2   3   4    5   6
1       TANROADS: preparation of maps and report     '
Transmission of maps and report to Ministry of X
2     Lands  and  Human    Settlement  Development,  *
comments
3       Location of alternative settlement by urban and     ;          r
rural authorities
4       Ministry   of   Finance:  mobilization  of
compensation funds
Local Govemment: payment of compensation                        *
money                                                         7I -A-
6       Local Government: distribution of alternative _
_ _ _ plots                                                           _ 1
7       Start-up of physical resettlement operations                   *0 ,
8       Monitoring and Evaluation                  e   e   *    *   *   -
4After the six-month life of the resettlement operation, the monitoring and evaluation
operation will continue on annual basis (as suggested by Op 4.12) supplemented by a mid term
review and hence for a reasonable period after all resettlement and related development
activities have been completed
Bar-charted operations need to be intensified towards the end of the period.
9.13   Costs and Budget
9.13.1 Overview. The individual resettlement cost has four main cost components,
corresponding to:
* The value of the buildinz and ancillary structures or improvements to be destroyed
within the right of way
* The value of the business activities interrupted by the project
* The value of land/farms to be affected by the project
* The relocation costs, including transport and accommodation allowance.
A. Value of the buildings: Government Valuer in collaboration with District and Village
authorities and the concerned house owners, has estimated the value of the buildings to be
demolished. The estimates comply national legislation on the compensation and World
Bank Operational Directives.
B. Compensation of business activities interrupted by the proiect: if a building is used for
commercial purposes, the daily turnover have been estimated in order to compensate its loss
for a given period, in addition to the compensation for the building structure and the transfer
to other suitable premises. Taking into account existing laws and regulations a profit of 36
months has been calculated for business compensation..
C. Compensation for land/farms - The land/farmlands to be affected by realignment, detours,
borrow pits and quarries will be compensated according to the Land Act 1999
Annex 8-Part3                     Annex 8 - 68                      Techniplan



Singida Shelui Road: Detailed Engineering Design  Final Report: Annex 8 - EIA, SIA & RIA
Part 3
D. Relocation costs: It include transport and the provision of a land plot similar to the previous
one. Transport costs will be minimal, as all families and businesses will be relocated in the
same village or urban center. Transport costs can be compensated as stipulated in Land Act
1999.
9.13.2 Overall costs. The overall relocation costs is estimated at TSh. 516,542,000.00
equivalent to US$ 516, 600.00. The components for this relocation are categorized as follows:
-    Compensation and resettlement of 113 buildings in the design right of way for a cost of
TSh.128, 250,000.00 a sum adequate for the typology of buildings to be relocated (under
the National legislation and WB rules for "full replacement cost");
-    Compensation 3 acres farmlands to be affected by detour and camp sites at a cost of Tsh
1,500,000.00
-    Compensation for range lands at a cost of Tsh 500,000.00
-    License for mining building materials at a cost of Tshs. 5,000,000.00
-    Fee to the local government for building materials at a cost of Tsh 20,000,000.00
-    Monitoring and evaluation of RAP at a cost of Tshs 7,500,000.00
-    Relocating of utilities at a cost of Tsh 320,000,000.00
Electricity  - 170,000,000.00
Water Supply - 100,000,000.00
Telephone poles - 50,000,000.00
-    Contingency (7%) at a cost of Tsh 33,792,500.00
Table 9.9: Summary budget of resettlement components of the project (in Tanzanian Sh.)
Component                       Resettlement costs
Buildings, business and farmlands                        128,250,000.00
Detours                                                    1,500,000.00
Rangelands                                                  500,000.00
Relocation of public utilities                          320,000,000.00
Mining License                                             5,000,000.00
Fee to the local government for                          20,000,000.00
building materials
Workshops, meetings and M&E:                               2,500,000.00
- Funds for Local NGOs efforts                            2,500,000.00
- Funds for external monitoring                           2,500,000.00
Sub-total                       482,750,000.00
Inflation and contingency factor (7%)                    33,792,500.00
GRAND TOTAL                            516,542,500.00
Annex 8-Part3                     Annex 8 - 69                       Techniplan



Singida Shelui Road: Detailed Engineering Design  Final Report: Annex 8 - EIA, SIA & RIA
Part 3
9.13.3    Financial   schedule   of RAP. The proposed financial schedule of the
project's resettlement component is tabulated below. The funds will to be made
available by the project. The contribution of the govemment will be in terms of the
contribution of the govemment to the project.
Table 9:10 Summary budget of resettlement components of the project (in Tanzanian
Sh.)
Resettlemen  Source       Monthly cash flow (from proect official start-up date)
Component      t costs  of funds     1     1   2   r    3          4         5   |   6
1000 Sh
Compensation
for buildings,  128,250.00  Project  128,250
businesses
and farrns
Detours        1,500.00   Project                                  1,500
Rangelands      500.00    Project                                  500
Relocation of  320,000.00  Project  160,000             80,000              80,000
U tilities               _ _ _ _ _            _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ __       _ _ _ _
Licence        5,000.00             5,000
Fee for
Building       20,000.00            5,000      5,000               5,000             5,000
Materials
Workshops,                              .
meetings and  -2,500.00   Project    300        300      800       300       400      400
M & E :                   _  _      _  _   _  _   _  _  _   _                 _   _ _   _
- Funds for
Local NGOs     2.500.00   Project    300        300      800       300       400      400
efforts__                   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __                  _ _ _
- Funds for
external       2.500.00   Project    300        300      800       300       400      400
monitoring
Sub-total 482,750.00           299,150.    5,900    82,400    7,900     81,200  6,200
Inflation and
contingency    33,792.50  Project    5632       5632     5632      5632      5632    5632
factor (7%)   .                   .
GRAND          516,542             304,782     11,532   88,032    13,532    86,832   11,832
9. 14 RAP Institutional Framework and Organizational Responsibilities
This section provides (see Table..below ) a list of all agencies and institutions involved in each
step of the resettlement process (preparation, appeals, implementation and monitoring). The
experience of the majority of the actors involved seems to adequate to the tasks to be carried out
and therefore no particular capacity building measures are required.
As soon as the RAP is cleared and finalised, Tanroads will formally disclose it to the affected
people. For this purpose, Tanroads will organize 10 sessions, one in each of the Adrministrative
Village Areas crossed by the road. The sessions will be chaired by the RAP specialist of
Annex 8-Part3                     Annex 8 - 70                       Techniplan



Singida Shelui Road: Detailed Engineering Design  Final Report: Annex 8 - EIA, SIA & RIA
Part 3
Tanroads and attended by representatives of the higher territorial hierarchies (Districts and
Division/Wards). Adequate display materials will be utilized.
TANROADS will provide to the Ministry of Land and Human Settlement Development: (a) the
topographic maps at scale 1:2000 of the design road reserve area, and: (b) a report on the
buildings and farming plots which presently exist within the design right of way. TANROADS
will also prepare the list of the occupants dispossessed by the project, specifying their rights of
occupancy and the assessed value. The Local Government (i.e District Councils) will dispatch
the dislocation notices to the concerned households and farmers.
Ministry of finance through Tanroads will disburse the compensation funds to the district
council to pay the communities eligible for compensation.. After the effect of the compensation
and resettlement the communities will be given two months for resettlement. TANROADS will
then authorize the Contractor to start demolition works.
In the project area it was found that the effective NGO in the area is World Vision. This NGO
will assist in raising public awareness on resettlement and facilitate local community
participation in RAP implementation, conflict resolution etc
Annex 8-Part3                     Annex 8 - 71                       Techniplan



Singida Shelui Road: Detailed Engineering Design           Final Report: Annex 8 - EIA, SIA & RIA
Pari 3
Table 9 11 RAP Insutruuional Framework and Organizati nal Responsibilities
Steps              Agencies involved                          Activities to be carried out
Provide the Ministry of Land and Human Settlement Development with.
a Topographic maps at scale 1 2000 of the design road reserve area
Tanroads            b.  Report on buildings and farmung plots existing within the nght of
way
c   Valuation report approval
Ministry of Land and Human  Approval of the valuation report
Settlement Development
Concemed administrations   Identify, allocate and make available the alternative plots as follows.
Identify and allocate altemative plots for building ownwers, farmers
RAP Preparation         Village Chairmen       inside the villages and businessmen within Singida Rural and Iramba
Districts
Town Planning Officers of  Draft urban resettlement plans for the collective relocation of the buildings
Singida Rural and Iramba Distncts of Msisi village and Shelui- Nselembre Trade Center
Prepare the resettlement plan for the famung community dislocated along
Agnicultural extension Officers of Iguguno bypass, borrow pits, detour and camp sites and minor
Singida Rural and Iramba Distncts realignments
Ministry of Land and Human  Dispatch the dislocation notices to the concemed households,
Settlement Development    businessmen and farmers
Organize and maintain regular and final meetings dunng RAP preparation
TANROADS
Hear complaints of a DPs and attemnpt to effect a resolution dunng
Local NGOs           community or traditional meetings before the complaints enter the
administrative appeals huerarchy.
Wards Authonty         Receive and give solution to gnevances before
Grievance and   Distnct Council (Land Officer and Receive and give solution to gnevances before
appeals            Agncultural Officer)
Regional Engineer of     Receive and give solution to grievances before
TANROADS
Distnct Court         Receive and give solution to gnevances before
Concerned administrations  Deliver to the dislocated persons the agreed compensation sums and the
new land plots
Local Govemment         Built urban infrastructures for the new plots
TANROADS              Authonze the Contractor to start demolition works
RAP                                       RAP implementation and organization of meetings with communities and
Implementation           TANROADS              affected people
Formal and Informal Village  Participation to the RAP implementation meetings
Leaders
Local NGOs           Ensure viable community participation and proper communication
between affected persons and Tanroads officials
M& E Commuttees composed of  (a) Identify problem cases ensunng they are dealt with
Monitoring and       .Departments of Lands,
Evaluation (dunng  Agnculture, Livestock, Forestry  (b) Contnbute to the database formiung part of the overall evaluation of the
the 6 months     and Social Affairs, Tanroads'  resettlement program
period of RAP     Regional Office (as Secretary)  ( E
implementation                                (c) Ensure proper partcipation of DPs m the RAP process.
and beyond)             Local NGOs           Ensure proper participation of DPs
Extemal monitonng       Perform independent monitonng and evaluation tasks
Annex 8-Part3                             Annex 8 - 72                              Techniplan



Singida Shelul Road: Detailed Engineering Design  Final Report: Annex 8 - EIA, SIA & RIA
Part 3
9.15 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) of RAP (including Post-resettlement
Monitoring).
The institutional structure responsible for overseeing the implementation of the Resettlement
Master Plan should include skills for regular internal monitoring of the compensation and
relocation procedures. Such monitoring will serve two functions: (a) identify problem cases
ensuring they are dealt with, and: (b) contribute to the database forming part of the overall
evaluation of the resettlement program (c) ensure proper participation of DPs in the RAP
process. Besides internal monitoring, there will be provision for regular external M&E by a
neutral qualified party such as a university department. The M&E lines of responsibility will
involve the regional authorities. A M&E Committee will be established at regional level, with
the participation of DPs (either directly or represented by local NGOs) and representatives from
the Departments of Lands, Agriculture, Livestock, Forestry and Social Affairs. Representative
from Tanroads Regional Manager act as Secretary of the Comrmittee. The Committee shall
review the RAP-related work.. It will meet at least three times over the six-month plan
performance period, upon summoned by the Regional Manager of Tanroads. After the six-
month life of the resettlement operation, the monitoring and evaluation operation will continue
on annual basis (as suggested by Op 4.12) supplemented by a mid termn review and hence for a
reasonable period after all resettlement and related development activities have been completed.
The M&E activities of the institutional structure will be supplemented by a independent
qualified party such as a university department.
Annex 8-Part3                      Annex 8 - 73                       Techniplan



