Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 3888 TA 
 
Project Agreement 
 
(Central Transport Corridor Project) 
 
between 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
and 
 
TANZANIA RAILWAYS CORPORATION 
 
Dated   Mat 31,  2004 
 
Page  2
CREDIT NUMBER 3888 TA 
PROJECT AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT, dated May 31, 2004 between INTERNATIONAL 
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association) and TANZANIA RAILWAYS 
CORPORATION (TRC). 
 
WHEREAS (A)  by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith 
between United Republic of Tanzania (the Borrower) and the Association, the 
Association has agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various 
currencies equivalent to eighty one million and six hundred thousand Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR 81,600,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Development 
Credit Agreement, but only on condition that TRC agree to undertake such obligations 
toward the Association as are set forth in this Agreement; 
 
(B) 
by a Subsidiary Grant Agreement to be entered into between the 
Borrower and TRC, part of the proceeds of the Credit provided for under the 
Development Credit Agreement will be granted to TRC, on the terms and conditions set 
forth in the said Subsidiary Grant Agreement; and 
 
WHEREAS TRC, in consideration of the Association’s entering into the 
Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the 
obligations set forth in this Agreement; 
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
Definitions 
 
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the Development Credit Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and in the General 
Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth. 
Page  3
-
2
-
ARTICLE II 
Execution of the Project 
 
Section 2.01. (a) TRC declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project as 
set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out Part C of the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate administrative, financial, engineering, environmental and resettlement 
practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, 
facilities, services and other resources required for Part C of the Project;  
 
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Association and TRC shall otherwise agree, TRC shall carry out Part C 
of the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in the Schedule to 
this Agreement.  
 
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to the 
Development Credit Agreement. 
 
Section 2.03. (a) TRC shall carry out or cause to be carried out, the obligations 
set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and 
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of this Agreement. 
 
(b) 
For the purposes of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions and without 
limitation thereto, TRC shall, in conjunction with the Borrower: 
 
(i) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association 
and furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after 
the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this 
purpose among the Association, the Borrower and TRC, a plan 
for the future operation of the Project designed to ensure its 
sustainability; and 
 
(ii) 
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange 
views with TRC and the Borrower on the said plan. 
 
Section 2.04. TRC shall: duly perform all its obligations under the Subsidiary 
Grant Agreement and except as the Association shall otherwise agree, TRC shall not take 
Page  4
-
3
-
or concur in any action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning 
or waiving the Subsidiary Grant Agreement or any provision thereof. 
 
Section 2.05 (a) TRC shall, at the request of the Association, exchange views 
with the Association with regard to the progress of Part C of the Project, the performance 
of its obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Grant Agreement, and 
other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit; and 
 
(b) 
TRC shall promptly inform the Association of any condition which 
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the accomplishment of 
the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by TRC of its obligations under this 
Agreement and under the Subsidiary Grant Agreement. 
ARTICLE III 
Management and Operations of TRC 
 
Section 3.01. TRC shall or shall cause the Railway Operator to carry on its 
operations and conduct its affairs in accordance with sound administrative, engineering, 
financial and environmental practices under the supervision of qualified and experienced 
management assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers. 
 
Section 3.02. TRC shall or shall cause the Railway Operator at all times to 
operate and maintain its plant, machinery, equipment and other property, and from time 
to time, promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in 
accordance with sound engineering, financial and environmental practices. 
 
Section 3.03. TRC shall or shall cause the Railway Operator to take out and 
maintain with responsible insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to the 
Association for insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent 
with appropriate practice. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. For the purposes of Part C of the Project:  
(a) 
TRC shall maintain a financial management system, including records 
and accounts, and prepare financial statements, in accordance with consistently applied 
Page  5
-
4
-
accounting standards acceptable to the Association, adequate to reflect its operations and 
financial condition and to register separately the operations, resources and expenditures 
related to the Project. 
(b) TRC 
shall: 
(i) 
have its financial statements (balance sheets, statements of 
income and expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year 
(or other period agreed to by the Association) audited, in 
accordance with consistently applied auditing standards 
acceptable to the Association, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association;  
(ii) 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such year (or such 
other period agreed to by the Association), (A) certified copies 
of the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section, for such year (or such other period agreed to by the 
Association), as so audited, and (B) an opinion on such 
statements by said auditors, in scope and detail satisfactory to the 
Association; and 
(iii) 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning 
such records and accounts and the audit of such financial 
statements, and concerning said auditors, as the Association may 
from time to time reasonably request. 
Section 4.02. For the purposes of Part C of the Project: 
(a) 
Without limitation upon TRC’s progress reporting obligations set out in 
the Schedule to this Agreement, TRC shall prepare and furnish to the Association a 
financial monitoring report (FMR), in form and substance satisfactory to the Association, 
which: 
(i)  
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, showing 
separately funds provided under the Credit, and explains 
variances between the actual and planned uses of  such funds; 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
Page  6
-
5
-
explains variances between the actual
 
and planned Project 
implementation; and 
(iii)  
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the 
end of the period covered by said report. 
(b) 
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Association not later than forty-
five (45) days after the end of the first calendar quarter after the Effective Date, and shall 
cover the period from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the 
end of such first calendar quarter; thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the 
Association not later than forty-five (45) days after each subsequent calendar quarter, and 
shall cover such calendar quarter. 
ARTICLE V 
Effective Date; Termination; 
Cancellation and Suspension 
 
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective. 
 
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and of TRC 
thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates: 
(i) 
the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall 
terminate in accordance with its terms; or 
(ii) 
the date fifteen years after the date of this Agreement. 
 
(b) 
If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance with its 
terms before the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall 
promptly notify TRC of this event. 
 
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force and 
effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General Conditions. 
Page  7
-
6
-
ARTICLE VI 
Miscellaneous Provisions 
 
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing.  Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly 
given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telex or facsimile to the 
party to which it is required or permitted to be given or made at such party’s address 
hereinafter specified or at such other address as such party shall have designated by 
notice to the party giving such notice or making such request. Deliveries made by 
facsimile transmission shall also be confirmed by mail.  The addresses so specified are: 
For the Association: 
 International 
Development 
Association 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
 64145 (MCI) 
 
For TRC: 
 
Tanzania Railways Corporation 
 
P.O. Box 468 
 
Dar es Salaam 
 
United Republic of Tanzania 
 
Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
41308 Cable Railways 
(255) 22 2116525 
 
 
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of TRC may be 
taken or executed by the Chief Executive Officer or such other person or persons as the 
Chief Executive Officer shall designate in writing, and TRC shall furnish to the 
Association sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature 
of each such person. 
Page  8
-
7
-
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument. 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in Dar-es-Salaam, United Republic of Tanzania, as of the day and year first above 
written. 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By  /s/  Judy M. O'Connor   
 
Authorized Representative 
 
TANZANIA RAILWAYS CORPORATION 
 
By  /s/   Linford Mboma 
Authorized Representative 
Page  9
-
8
-
SCHEDULE 
Implementation Program 
1. 
(a) 
TRC shall, in conjunction with the Borrower, prepare and furnish to the 
Association a Project Implementation Plan, in form and substance satisfactory to the 
Association, giving details of all operational guidelines and procedures as shall have been 
agreed with the Association for the implementation, monitoring and supervision of the 
Project, including: 
(i) 
performance indicators, monitoring and evaluation guidelines, 
and environmental assessment methodology; 
(ii) 
administrative, accounting and financial procedures;  
(iii) 
procurement and disbursement guidelines;  
(iv) 
guidelines for the compensation and resettlement of Affected 
Persons including, as they become available, details of individual 
RAPs; and 
(v) 
details of the EMPs as they become available. 
(b) 
TRC shall carry out the Project in accordance with the arrangements and 
procedures set out in the Project Implementation Plan, and, except as the Association 
shall otherwise agree, shall not amend or waive any provision thereof, if such amendment 
or waiver may, in the opinion of the Association, materially or adversely affect the 
implementation of the Project.
 
2. 
TRC shall maintain the TRC PCU whose mandate, terms of reference and 
composition shall be acceptable to the Association, and which shall be responsible for the 
day-to-day execution of Part C of the Project. 
3. 
(a) 
TRC, in conjunction with the Borrower, shall develop, in respect of any 
rail construction, rehabilitation or maintenance activities carried out under Part C of the 
Project, prior to the approval of bid documents for any such activity: 
(i) 
an Environmental Assessment, acceptable to the Association, 
giving details of the environmental status, and potential 
environmental risks and adverse impacts, which are specific to the 
Page  10
-
9
-
respective Project activity, along with proposed mitigation 
measures; 
(ii) 
A Social Assessment, acceptable to the Association, giving details 
of the social status, and potential social risks and adverse impacts, 
which are specific to the respective Project activity, along with 
proposed mitigation measures; 
(iii) 
an Environmental Management Plan, acceptable to the 
Association, giving details of measures appropriate or required to 
manage potential environmental risks and mitigate adverse 
impacts associated with the respective Project activity, together 
with adequate institutional, monitoring and reporting 
arrangements capable of ensuring proper implementation of, and 
regular feedback on compliance with, the EMP; and  
(iv) 
wherever applicable, a Resettlement Action Plan, acceptable to 
the Association, giving details of a program of actions, measures 
and policies designed to facilitate the compensation and 
resettlement of Affected Persons, including the magnitude of 
displacement, proposed compensation and resettlement 
arrangements, budget and cost estimates, and sources of funding, 
together with adequate institutional, monitoring and reporting 
arrangements capable of ensuring proper implementation of, and 
regular feedback on compliance with, the RAP. 
(b) 
TRC shall ensure that Part C of the Project is implemented in accordance 
with the guidelines, procedures, timetable and other specifications set forth in the 
Environmental Assessments, Social Assessments, Environmental Management Plans and 
Resettlement Action Plans and, except as the Association shall otherwise agree, shall not 
amend or waive any provision of the aforementioned assessments and plans, if such 
amendment or waiver may, in the opinion of the Association, materially or adversely 
affect the implementation of the Project. 
 
(c) 
TRC shall submit quarterly consolidated reports on compliance with social 
and environmental safeguard measures under Part C of the Project, giving details of 
measures taken in furtherance of the EMPs and RAPs, and any of conditions which 
interfere or threaten to interfere with the smooth implementation of the said plans, and 
remedial measures taken or required to be taken to address such conditions. 
4. 
(a) 
TRC shall, not later than May 31 of each year, undertake, in conjunction 
with the Borrower, the Association and other interested parties, an annual review of the 
Page  11
-
10 - 
Project or, in the case of the review to be undertaken not later than May 31, 2006, a 
midterm review, during which they shall exchange views generally on all matters relating 
to the progress of the Project and the Program, and the performance by TRC of its 
obligations under this Agreement, including the progress achieved by TRC under Part C 
of the Project, having regard to the performance indicators agreed upon between the 
Borrower and the Association. 
 
(b) 
Not later than one month prior to the review, TRC
 
shall furnish to the 
Association, for its comments, a report, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably 
request, on the progress of Part C of the Project, and giving details, in particular, of the 
various matters to be discussed at such review. 
 
(c) 
Following the review, TRC
 
undertakes to act promptly and diligently in 
order to take any corrective action deemed necessary to remedy any shortcoming noted in 
the implementation of Part C of the Project, or to implement such other measures as may 
have been agreed upon between the parties in furtherance of the objectives of the Project. 
 
