                                              Document of
                                           The World Bank

                                      FOROFFICIAL USEONLY

                                                                                          ReportNo. 28409 TZ




                                 PROJECTAPPRAISAL DOCUMENT

                                                  ONA

                                          PROPOSEDCREDIT

                               INTHEAMOUNTOF SDR 81.6MILLION

                                  (US$122MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                                 TO THE

                                  UNITEDREPUBLICOF TANZANIA

                                                FORTHE

                            CENTRALTRANSPORT CORRIDORPROJECT

                                            MARCH31,2004




Transport Sector
Country Department 4
Africa RegionalOffice
This document has a restricteddistribution andmay be used by recipients only inthe performance oftheir
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                            CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                        (Exchange RateEffective March31,2004)
                            Currency Unit = Tanzania Shillings (TZS)
                               TZS 1000 = US$0.902
                                    US$1 = TZS 1108.7


                                   July 1 -- June 30
                                    FISCALYEAR


                         ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AADT             Annual Average Daily Traffic
AASHTO    American Association
APL       Adjustable Program Lending
BRT       BusRapidTransport
CAG       Controller and Auditor General
CAS       Country Assistance Strategy (MOCT, Zanzibar)
CFAA      Country FinancialAccountability Assessment
CODAP     Coordination o f Donor Aided Project
CPAR      Country Procurement Assessment Review
CTB       Central Tender Board
CTCP      Central Transport Corridor Project
DAWASA    Dar es Salaam Water Supply and Sanitation Authority
DRC       Democratic Republic o f Congo
EAI SA    Environmental Assessment / Social Assessment
EIA & SIA EnvironmentalImpact Assessment & Social Impact Assessment
EMP       EnvironmentalManagement Plan
ERR       Economic Rate of Return
FAD       Finance and Administration Division
FMR       Financial Monitoring Reports
GDP       Gross Domestic Product
GOT       Government of Tanzania
GPN       General Procurement Notice
HDM       Highway Development and Maintenance
HIV/ AIDS HumanImmunodeficiencyVirus / Acquired Immunodeficiency Syndrome
ICB       International Competitive Bidding
ICT       Information Communication Technologies
IDA       International Development Association
IFC       InternationalFinance Corporation
IRP I1    IntegratedRoads Project I1
LGA       Local Government Authority
M C T     MinistryofCommunications andTransport, Mainland
MOCT      MinistryofCommunication and Transport, Zanzibar
MOW       MinistryofWorks
MTEF      MediumTermExpenditureFramework

    NBF       Not Bank Financed                              FOROFFICIALUSEONLY
    NCB       National Competitive Bidding
    NDF       Nordic Development Fund
    NEMC      National EnvironmentalManagement Council
    NGO       Non-Governmental Organization
    NORAD     NorwegianAgency for Development Cooperation
    NPV       Net Present Value
    NTP       National Transport Policy
    OP/BP     Operation Policy / Bank Policy
    PAD       Project Appraisal Document
    PC        Project Company
    PCR       Physical Cultural Resources
    PER       Public Expenditure Review
    PFMR      Project Financial Management Report
    PIP       Project Implementation Plan
    PORALG    President's Office Regional Administration and Local Government
    PPA       Public Procurement Act
    PPIAF     Public Private Infrastructure Advisory Facility
    PRG       Partial Risk Guarantee
    PRSP      Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
    PSRC      PresidentialParastatal Sector Reform Commission
    QCBS      Quality and Cost-Based Selection
    RAHCO     Reli Assets Holding Company
    RAP       Resettlement Action Plan
    RFB       RoadFundBoard
    RFP       Request for Proposal
    RRP       Railways Restructuring Project
    SDP       Specific Development Project Unit
    SSATP     Sub-Saharan Africa Transport Policy
    SUMATRA Surface and Marine Transport Regulatory Authority
    SWAP      Sector Wide Approach
    TA        Technical Assistance
    TANROADS Tanzania National Roads Agency
    TAZARA    Tanzania Zambia Railway Authority
    TB        Tender Board
    TOR       Terms o f Reference
    TRC       Tanzania Railways Corporation
    UNDB      UnitedNations Development Business
    VPD       Vehicles Per Day
    WAN       Wide Area Network

                                Vice President:   Callisto E. Madavo
                    Country ManagerDirector:      Judy M.O'Connor
                       Sector ManagedDirector:    C. SanjiviRajasingham
              Task Team Leader/TaskManager:       Dieter E. Schelling


This document has a restricteddistributionandmay be used by recipients only in
the performanceof their official duties. I t s contents may not be otherwise disclosed
without World Bank authorization.


                                               TANZANIA.
                          CENTRAL TRANSPORT CORRIDORPROJECT


                                              CONTENTS




A. Project Development Objective                                                       Page

   1. Project development objective                                                      3
   2. Key performance indicators                                                         3

B. Strategic Context

   1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supportedby the project      3
   2. Mainsector issues and Government strategy                                          3
   3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                 8

C. Project Description Summary

   1. Project components                                                                 9
   2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                      11
   3. Benefits andtarget population                                                      12
   4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                      13

D.Project Rationale

   1. Project altematives considered and reasons for rejection                           13
   2. Major relatedprojects financed by the Bank andor other development agencies        14
   3, Lessons leamed and reflected inthe project design     .                            14
   4. Indications o fborrower commitment and ownership                                   15
   5. Value added o f Bank support inthis project                                        15

E. Summary Project Analysis

   1. Economic                                                                           16
   2. Financial                                                                          17
   3. Technical                                                                          17
   4. Institutional                                                                      18
   5. Environmental                                                                      19
   6. Social                                                                             20
   7. Safeguard Policies                                                                 20

F. Sustainability and Risks

   1. Sustainability                                                                     21

  2. Critical risks                                                                       21
  3. Possible controversial aspects                                                       22


G. Main Credit Conditions

  1. Effectiveness Condition                                                              22
  2. Other                                                                                22

H. Readiness for Implementation                                                           23

I.CompliancewithBankPolicies                                                              23



Annexes

Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                           24
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                     27
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                          37
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary, or Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Summary            38
Annex 5: Financial Summary for Revenue-Earning Project Entities, or Financial Summary     46
Annex 6: (A) Procurement Arrangements                                                     47
          (B) FinancialManagement and DisbursementArrangements                            55
Annex 7: Project ProcessingSchedule                                                       66
Annex 8:  Documents inthe Project File                                                    67
Annex 9: Statement o f Loans and Credits                                                  68
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                             70
Annex 11:Environmental Impact Assessment and Mitigation Measures                         ,75
Annex 12: Partial Risk Guarantee                                                          79




MAP@)
Map o f Tanzania

                                                   TANZANIA
                                        Central Transport Corridor Project
                                       ProjectAppraisal Document
                                              Africa RegionalOffice
                                                     AFTTR
Date: March 31,2004                                      Team Leader: Dieter E. Schelling                       ~~




Sector Managermirector: C. Sanjivi Rajasingham           Sector(s): Railways (45%), Roads and highways (43%),
Country Managermirector: Judy M.O'Connor                 Central government administration (12%)
Project ID: PO78387                                      Theme@): Infrastructure services for private sector
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)       development (P), Trade facilitation andmarketaccess (P),
                                                         Regulation and competition policy (P), State
                                                         enterprisehank restructuring and privatization (P), Export
                                                         development and competitiveness(S)



For LoanslCreditslOthers:
Amount (US$m): IDA Credit $122.00m, PRG $40.00m (Specific Board approval for the PRGwill be sought once the
private concessionairehas beenselected andthe PRGhas beennegotiatedto IDA'Ssatisfaction).


Proposed Terms (IDA): StandardCredit
Grace period (years): 10                                 Years to maturity: 40
Commitment fee: 0.50%                                    Service charge: 0.75%         '



BORROWER                                                                10.02    I          0.00   I        10.02
IDA
IDA GUARANTEE



Borrower: REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
Responsible agency: TANROADS, MOCT ZANZIBAR AND TRCIRAHCO
Address: P.O. 11364, 3rd FloorMaktaba Complex Building, BibiTiti Mohamed Street, Dar es Salaam, Tanzania
Contact Person: Dr.F.Y. Addo-Abedi, Chief Executive
Tel: 255-22-2-2152576                 Fax: 255-22-2-150022                Email: tanroadshq@tanroads.org
Other Agency(ies):
Ministryof Communications andTransport, Zanzibar
Address: P.O. Box 266, Zanzibar
Contact Person: Edward A. Mwakyembe
Tel: 255 24 223 2841-3                Fax: 255 24 223 3674                Email: moct@zanzinet.com
Tanzania Railway Corporation
Address: P.O. Box 468, Dar es Salaam, Tanzania
Contact Person: Mr.Linford Mboma, Director General
Tel: 255-22-2-1 12695 / 2-110599               Fax: 255-22-2116525                  Email: dgx-mboma@trctz.com
trcpc2@intafrica.com

- 2 -

A. Project Development Objective

1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The project supports the National Transport Policy (NTP), which was prepared in a participatory way and
presented to the public in October 2003. Within the NTP the Central Transport Corridor Project (CTCP)
focuses on improved performance o f the Central Transport Corridor, both in respect o f road and rail
transport, improvement o f key roads in Zanzibar, and on generally enhanced road management capacity.
The development objective o f the Central Transport Corridor Project (CTCP) is to: (a) upgrade strategic
road links; (b) enhance road management capacity; and (c) improve operations o f Tanzanian Railways
(TRC and TAZARA).

2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
Following are the key performance indicators in respect o f the road component o f the project: (i)traffic
increases by at least 10% per annum on average between 2004 and 2009 on improved roads; (ii)                 the
network under TANROADS responsibility (28,900 km o f trunk and regional roads) in poor condition
reduced from 49% in 2003 to 30% in2009. Inrespect o f the rail component o f the project, following are
the key performance indicators: (i)    total freight traffic tonnage carried (on TRC network) is expected to
increase from the current level of 1.45 million tons to 2.0 million tons by 2009, (ii)  level o f transit traffic
carried will by 2009 increase by 20% from the 560,000 tons in 2003; and (iii)       kilometers o f track under
speed restriction as a percentage o f the total will decrease from the current 10% to 2% in2009. The above
assumes that signing o f the concession agreement with a private Concessionaire will take place in
November 2004 andhandover inJune 2005 at the latest.

B. Strategic Context
1.Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: Report No. 20728 -TA                Date of latest CAS discussion: June 15,2000

The Central Transport Corridor Project (CTCP) is consistent with the Bank Group Country Assistance
Strategy discussed by the Executive Directors on June 15, 2000. The Bank's mission in Tanzania is to
assist the Government in reducing poverty through the promotion o f higher growth, with interventions to
buildassets for the poor, reducetheir vulnerability and promotebetter governance and accountability. The
CAS proposes to focus interventions in four strategic areas: (a) private sector and infrastructure
development; (b) sustainable rural development; (c) improved social infrastructure; and (d) public sector
reform and institution building. The proposed Project would assist in all the above strategic areas by: (a)
continuing the build-up o f the local construction industry through their progressively increasing
involvement in road development and maintenance; (b) improving access to rural areas vital for rural
development; (c) improving access to social infrastructure; (d) supporting capacity building o f
TANROADS for the management o f the trunk and regional roads; and (e) improving the performance o f
Tanzanian Railways through its concessioning to a private operator.

2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
2.1      Roads Sub-Sector




                                                       - 3 -

                                                 Good andFair              Poor Condition         Total
                                                 Condition (km)                  (km)              (km)

        Trunk Roads                                   (5563)                    (4371)            9934*

        RegionalRoads                                 (9276)                    (9682)            18958*

        Subtotal managedby                            (14839)                   (14053)           28892"
        TANROADS

        UrbanRoads



        FeederRoads                                   (1000)                    (29000)           (30000)

        Subtotal managedby                            (7715)                    (43393)           (51108)
        Local Governments

        TotalNetwork                                  (22554)                   (57446)        (80000)




From the above table it follows that: (i) half the trunk and regional road networks are in poor
                                            about
condition; (ii)the total road network that is in good and fair (or maintainable) condition is about 22,500
km; (iii) the local government network only an estimated 7700 kmis inmaintainable condition (20% of
           of
these are urban secondary roads); (iv) feeder roads are mostly tracks in poor condition (they are-
traditionally been managed by the local communities); (v) only about 28% o f the overall network is in
                  -                                                                                or have

good and fair condition.

It is estimated that the core network requiredfor poverty alleviation (the network that provides reliable
access to the majority -say, 90%- o f the rural population) is o f a lengtho f about 45,000 km. To get this
core network into maintainable (good and fair) condition, about 3 billion U S Dollars (3000 billion
Tanzanian Shillings), or about $ 300 million per annum, would be required over the coming 10 years (to
rehabilitate the share o f the network in poor condition and to maintain the network in good and fair
condition). With the improved condition of the network, the share requiringmaintenance would gradually
increase and the share for rehabilitation (and upgrading) decrease. The amount spent inthe road sector in
the past, about $100 150 millionper annum, traps the road sector in a vicious cycle whereby insufficient
                      -


                                                   - 4 -

money is allocated for rehabilitation, which "forces" moneys intended for maintenance to be used for spot
improvement and emergency works, leaving insufficient resources for maintenance, which leads to a
deterioration o f the network, which requires further rehabilitation, and so on.

Road Management and Financing

Roadmanagement and financing capacity inTanzania inthe past has been insufficient, leading to the above
described cycle o f premature road network deterioration and resulting rehabilitation need. In response to
this lack o f capacity, Government has created TANROADS under the executive agency act in 2000 and the
Road Fund Board (RFB) in 1999. Both TANROADS and RFB have since greatly enhanced the road
management and financing capacity in the sector. Further reform is needed, however, to secure the long
term sustainability o f these reforms, and to achieve the Government's goal to have a core network o f about
45,000 km o f roads ingood and fair condition by 2015.

TANROADS, with about 780 staff which were transferred from the former Roads Department o f the
Ministry of Works (MOW), needs to be professionalized and made fully and solely responsible for the
delivery o f the trunk and regional road programs.          This can be achieved through a business-like
organizational set-up, competitive selection o f staff, based on carefully preparedjob descriptions, provision
o f appropriate accommodation and up-to-date management equipment, and with adequate autonomy from
the parent Ministry. It is felt that under the current set-up, TANROADS being an executive agency o f the
Ministryof Works, its autonomy in terms of day to day management is insufficient, and its sustainability
fragile. Therefore, TANROADS should be turned into a Road Authority created under an act approved by
parliament with its own independent and decision making Board, as is world-wide best practice, inline with
the SADC Protocol on Transport, Communications and Meteorology, and as announced by GOT in the
TANROADS Establishment Order, in 2000. Under such a set up TANROADS would still be answerable
to the MOW, which will bear the ultimate responsibility for the trunk and regional road network. MOW'S
core function would be road sector policy setting, and general road sector oversight.

The RFB was created in1999 under the RoadTolls Amendment (No. 2) Act, 1998. The RFB has its own
Board. As per the RFB act, 30% o f the resources collected from the Road Fund (RF) are allocated to
LGAs. The RF is currently fimded from a Tshs 100 (9 US cents equivalent) per litre fuel levy. In2002 a
total amount o f about $ 65 million was collected. This would be sufficient if strictly used for maintaining
the maintainable network o f about 22,500 km. However, political realities require that a portion o f the RF
be used for rehabilitation (inthe absence o f sufficient funding for rehabilitation). This is particularly true
for the local government road network, which has only a very modest proportion inmaintainable condition.

It can be assumed that, if road user charges are kept at their current level in real terms, resources will
increase at a rate above general economic growth (he1 consumption increases normally at a rate o f about
2-4% above GDP growth), and if the core network (of about 45,000 km) is fully rehabilitated the RF
would be sufficient to maintain the core network by 2015. However, for the coming five to ten years
substantial Government and donor money is required to rehabilitate the road network (andupgrade it where
economically justified). IDA is committed to increase funding in the sector substantially, and so are other
donors, providedthe reform process continues.


2.2.     Rail Sub-Sector

TanzaniaRailways Corporation (TRC)




                                                       - 5 -

The Bank has a long history o f supporting the railways in East Africa, starting in the mid 1950s. The
Tanzania Railways Corporation (TRC) was formed in 1977, after the break-up o f the East Africa
Railways. The Railways Restructuring Project (RRP) was approved by the Board in June 1990 as part o f
a multi-donor program for TRC. The Credit closed on December 31,2002. The objective o f the RRP was
to assist TRC to become a commercially viable enterprise           - operationally efficient and financially
self-sufficient. Originally, it was envisaged that TRC would remain inthe public sector with commercial
and management autonomy provided through a performance contract arrangement. Following an initial
increase in rail traffic, it became increasingly evident that the project objectives would not be achieved
within the `parastatal' framework. This institutional framework imposed serious constraints on efficient
commercial operations, that is (a) the system lacked incentives and sanctions arrangements which would
reward initiative and innovation and penalize inaction and poor performance; (b) have cumbersome rules
and procedures that prevent either rapid or decentralized decision-making; (c) was prone to direct and
indirect political interventions in management and operations; and (d) was under pressure to maintain
loss-making services and lines without adequate financial compensation.

While RRP led to a more commercial management approach, TRC's overall performance did not show the
substantial improvement expected despite the high investment, technical assistance, upgraded computer
systems and intensive supervision by the funding agencies. At the end o f 1997, GOT announced its
decision to concession TRC to the private sector; this preempted a donor decision to cease support. The
experience with railway concessions in Latin American and African countries (Cote d'Ivoire, Burkina,
Gabon, Cameroon, and Malawi) has, with few exceptions, proven to be very encouraging and is now
accepted as the most promising approach for sustainable railways in developing countries. Following
GOT'S decision, RRP was restructured to provide concession transaction assistance and operational
support for TRC during the transitional period leading to concessioning. Considerable progress has been
achieved since 1997. The concessioning process is well advanced with the process o f pre-qualification o f
potential bidders completed. Three bidders are fully prequalified and four are conditionally prequalified.
The biddingprocess is scheduled to be launched in April 2004. A concessionaire is expected to take over
responsibility for the operation and expansion o f the rail and transport services by June 2005. TRC's
operational performance had improved during 2001 and 2002 as a result o f TRC's enhanced management
supported by the assistance o f donor funded line management in a few key areas. Mainline locomotive
availability had improved, and record levels o f freight traffic was hauled both in2001 and 2002. However,
financial performance had shown little improvement, and concessioning is considered as essential for the
long-term commercial future o f the railway. Towards the end o f 2003 the delay o f the concessioning
process had a negative impact on the performance o f TRC, specially in respect o f locomotive and wagon
availability and rail breakages, and TRC could no longer cope with the raising demand for freight
transport.

Financial sustainability for TRC can be achieved, but it will not be easy because o f the small revenue base,
high fixed costs, and overstaffing. It is made even more difficult by inadequate asset renewal over a very
extended period. The investment under the RRP resulted in (i)         the renewal o f 200 km o f track , the
provision o f rails and sleepers for casual renewals on 1000km o f line (out o f a network o f 2722 km) and o f
equipment and machine for track maintenance and welding, (ii)     rehabilitation, repair andpurchase o f a total
o f more than 2600 wagons (almost the entire fleet), o f 24 locomotives out o f 90 and o f 50 passenger
coaches (other 27 purchased) out o f 150. Notwithstanding that effort, some o f the network is still laid with
the original German track, circa 1910, and most o f the locomotives and rolling stock is more than 30 years
old.    By improving the operating systems, physical resources and staffing levels, a competent
concessionaire will be able to make the railway financially viable, but will not be in a position to finance
substantial immediate renewal o f the basic infrastructure (which remains owned by GOT). In these
circumstances, there needs to be clear demarcation o f responsibilities between GOT and the concessionaire:


                                                     - 6 -

GOT would take responsibility for the initial renewal of tracks (of about 200 km), retrenchment o f surplus
staff andpast environmental and social liabilities, and the concessionaire would take care o f all operational
investments and future maintenance and upgrading o f the track.

Approximately 200 km o f TRC track has to be renewed, as it is time-expired and suffering an escalating
frequency o f rail fractures. It is estimated that the renewal will cost $ 33 million. It is unlikely that a
concessionaire will be willing to finance such immediate heavy investment requirements in track
infrastructure owned by GOT inaddition to the other essential investments inoperating assets (locomotives
and rolling stock) and operating systems (particularly communications). Financing o f the track renewal by
GOT is a prerequisite for the successful concessioning of the railway. GOT has therefore requested the
Bank's assistance for the track renewal, as well as limited assistance to liquidate some outstanding social
andenvironmental liabilities inorder to ensurethe successofthe concessioning process.

The GOT had initially decided to concession TRC in 2001 and embarked on a tendering process in
2001/2002. The effort was not successful as not a single bid was received, though comments on the
concession were sent to PSRC by some o f the potential bidders, which highlighted the need for some form
o f political risk mitigation. Given the post September 1lthevents, the ENRONscandal and the subsequent
corporate downgradings, and the Argentina and Brazilian crisis, investors have shown general
unwillingness to bid for projectskoncessions in emerging market countries, as has been evidenced by bid
failures in several o f these countries. GOT, therefore, decided to re-launch the bidding process after
revising some aspects o f the proposed concession and, as part of its effort to make the concession more
attractive to potential bidders, requested IDA for a PRG to provide political risk mitigation in support o f
the concession.

Despite political and economic stability since independence in 1961, the GOT recognizes the need to offer
an IDA PRG to address Government/parastatal performance and policy related risks. It is expected that
investors' interest will be enhanced through the provision o f the PRG, particularly in the current adverse
investment environment. In view o f the fact that Tanzania is considered as a `frontier' market by investors
where political and policy related risks are perceived as significant, Bank Group intervention through a
PRG is considered to be an appropriate form o f Group support in line with the Board Paper o f December
2000 ('Enhancing the Use of World Bank Guarantees as an Operational Tool: A Review of the World
Bank Guarantee Program'), particularly given the Bank's considerable involvement in the sector and the
availability of an explicit counter-guarantee from the Government o f Tanzania to ensure project
sustainability. It is intended that PRG support would be complemented with MIGA support and possibly
IFC support and bidders are being advised to approach the two institutions. If successful this would be the
first PRG insupport o f a Transport Project.

TAZARA

The Tanzania-Zambia Railway (TAZARA) is an 1870 km line constructed in the 1970s, connecting
Tanzania and Zambia. TAZARA's infrastructure is in a reasonably good condition, but is, operationally
and financially, inworse condition thanTRC. Thejoint owners o f TAZARA, the govemments o f Tanzania
and Zambia, have now made a decision to engage private sector participation inTAZARA's management
and operations. A grant under PPIAF has been arranged to undertake the necessary studies with the
following objectives:
0    to identify and evaluate the various options for private sector participation in the operations currently
     carried out by TAZARA, andto recommend, withjustification, the most appropriate strategy;
0    to make recommendations on the institutional arrangements for the rail asset holding entity and the
     regulator; and


                                                     - 7 -

0    to propose changes necessary in the legal and regulatory regime currently in place to ensure the
     successful implementation o f the restructuring and privatization strategy.
The study is expectedto commence inApril 2004.
Both governments have requested the Bank to provide assistance for preparing the bidding documents,
marketing the transaction, negotiating the final contract, facilitating the takeover by the selected bidder,
restructuring the residual TAZARA, and establishing the appropriate legal framework.

2.3 Government Strategy for the Transport Sector

GOT strategy for the transport sector is to reduce costs and increase service standards by: (i)   investing in
improved Mastructure, especially in the road sector; (ii)promoting modal efficiency; (iii)          enhancing
competition and (iv) recovering some of the cost from the users.

Within the road sub-sector govemment policy is to provide a core network o f about 45,000 km o f roads in
good and fair condition by 2015. Such network is perceived as being needed for providing reliable access to
the majority (90%) o f the rural population in Tanzania. Each link o f the network should be at an
economically optimal level o f service related to the traffic borne. Above 200 vehicles per day (VPD)
tarmac roads are usually the optimal solution, between 200 and 50 VPD gravel roads are usually optimal,
andbelow 50 VPD spot improvedearth roads are usually the optimal solution.

Within the rail sub-sector, the introduction o f private sector management and finance through long-term
concession arrangements is central to the strategy. The basic infrastructure will remain under the public
ownership, but will be leased to the private concessionaire. The concessionaire would be bound by the
concession agreement to maintain the infrastructure and hand it back, at the end o f 25 years, in a
substantially improved condition. The operating assets will be leased or concessioned to the concessionaire,
who will be expected to make further investments needed to achieve the financial potential o f the railway as
well as make concession and lease payments to RAHCO. The concessionaire would be requiredto maintain
the present level o f passenger services, unless demand falls substantially as a result o f roadimprovements,
and the third-class passenger fare would be fixed, inreal terms, at the present levels. With more efficient
management and improved operational assets, there is an immediate rail market for 2 million tons (TRC
cannot carry all the traffic on offer) and the concessionaire should be able to attract substantially greater
traffic from road, given the long haul distances (1000 km) at which rail has a major cost advantage over
road.

The concessionaire will have a monopoly o f rail traffic over the TRC network, with the exceptions of
transit traffic between southern Africa and Uganda for which a concession has already been granted to a
separate company, TransAfrica Railway, and o f traffic frondto Rwanda for which the company Panache is
allowed to use its own wagons to transport Rwandan cargo on the TRC track. Economic regulation is not
expected to be a major issue, given the level o f rail competition, but residual economic regulatory powers
have been established under SUMATRA which will also oversee safety regulation inthe sector. Monitoring
the concession agreement and the compliance with the technical standards will be undertaken by the asset
holding authority, RAHCO, which is also the concessioning authority. RAHCO would have the right to
terminate the concession and lease agreements, inthe event that the concessionaire fails to meet the required
operating and technical standards. GOT will also be protected by a performance bond.

3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
3.1      Upgrading of Sections of Strategic Road Links




                                                     - 8 -

The construction o f the 110 km Singida-Shelui road will complete the upgrading o f the Central Transport
Corridor linking the port o f Dar es Salaam with the landlocked countries o f Burundi and Rwanda to
bituminous standard. It will also connect the westem and lake regions o f Tanzania with the nation's capital
and port. Additionally, fifty nine kilometers o f roads will be rehabilitated and upgraded to bituminous
standard inZanzibar. These roads provide access to the main northem and eastem areas with isolated rural
communities and major tourism development. Furthermore, five key ferries in Mainland Tanzania will be
rehabilitated. Feasibility, detailed design and biddingdocuments for the rehabilitation and upgrading for a
further 713 kilometers of key trunk roads will be preparedinpreparation o f future lendinginthe sector.

3.2      Enhancementof Road Management Capacity

Through IRPII the Bank has participated in building up the capacity o f TANROADS and MOCT
Zanzibar. This project would build on the achievements, and would inparticular, assist TANROADS with
a new headquarter building, improved communication equipment, improved organizational and managerial
capacity, and training and technical assistance.

3.3      Improved Operations of Tanzanian Railways

The proposedproject would assist GOT to:
1, Rehabilitate specific sections o f the TRC track which are failing andneed renewal;
2. Provide a Partial Risk Guarantee to help enhance investor interest for the concession
3 , Finance investments in rail equipment ifrequired;
4. Clean-up existing polluted areas around the major railway workshops and depots;
5. Relocate existing squatters and encroachers from within the rail reserve;
6. Help to buildcapacity to ensure the effective functioning of the proposedasset holding company
    (RAHCO);
7. Support the residual TRC inits role o f non-core asset disposal and eventually support its winding
    down;
8. Support the engagement o f private sector participation inthe TAZARA railway.

C. Project DescriptionSummary
1. Project components(see Annex 2 for a detailed description andAnnex 3 for a detailed cost breakdown):
Part A: Upgrading of StrategicRoad Links

Inline with the Government's roadsector development plan, the Project will support the following:


1. Rehabilitation and upgrading to bituminous standard o f the Singida-Shelui Road (110 km), including
    the costs o f the EMP and RAP;
2. Rehabilitation and upgrading to bituminous standard o f the Mkwajuni-Nungwi, Matemwe-Pongwe and
    Paje-Pingwe roads inZanzibar (59 km), including the cost o f the EMP and RAP;
3. Carrying out and updating o f feasibility studies and detailed design, and preparation o f bidding
    documents for 713 kilometers o f high priority trunk roads to be rehabilitated and/or upgraded under a
    proposed follow-on project, including: (a) the Singida-Babati-Minjingu road (220 km), (b) the
    Dodoma-Babati road (263 km), (c) the Korogwe-Mkumbara-Same road (165 km), and (d) the Tanga            -
    Horohoro road (65 km);



                                                     - 9 -

4. The rehabilitation o f the MV Kigamboni, Pangani, Sengerema, Kilombero and Rufijiferries.

Part B: Enhanced Road Management Capacity

In order to enhance capacity for road management, both in Mainland Tanzania and in Zanzibar, and in
view o f the preparation o f a proposed follow-on project, the Project will support the following:


1. Design and construction o f a new TANROADS headquarters building;
2. Setting up o f a Wide Area Network to improve communication between TANROADS' headquarters,
    its regional offices and MOCT Zanzibar;
3. Carrying out o f a study for the enhancement o f the organization and management o f TANROADS;
4. Carrying out of studies to identify road investment priorities, such as traffic counts and an update o f
    the ten-year investment plan;
5. Preparation o f a local government roads inventory and condition survey;
6. Carrying out other transport related studies, including a Dar-es-Salaam Bus Rapid Transit and traffic
    management study;
7. Provision o f technical advisory services and training for improved management and operational
    capacity o f TANROADS and MOCT Zanzibar;
8. Provision o f technical advisory services, training and financing to IDA PCU and MOCT CODAP for
    the day-to-day administration, financial management, procurement, monitoring and evaluation of Part
    A andB ofthe Project, andfinancing ofthe external financial audit o fthe Project.

Part C: Improved Performance of Tanzanian Railways

Inline with the Government's policy to engage the private sector into the operation andfinancing ofthe rail
sector, the Project will support the following:

1. Provision o f urgently needed rails, sleepers and other material for TRC, for the replacement o f the
    track between Itigiand Tabora;
2. Provisiono f other rails, sleepers and material for TRC, including their installation, these are meant for
    the replacement o f the balance o fthe tracks o f TRC between Itigiand Tabora. (The mode o f placing o f
    this material will be discussed with the pre-qualified bidders for the concession and disbursement for
    this portion o f the credit is tied to signing o f a concession agreement or such other agreement
    satisfactory to the Association).
3. Preparation o f an Environmental Assessment, a Social Assessment, EMPs and RAP for TRC;
4. Financing o f clean-up costs based on the Environmental Assessment and EMP, and o f resettlement
    costs based on the Social Assessment and RAP;
5. Provision o f technical advisory services and training for: (i)       the handing over o f TRC assets and
    operation o f the Railway Operator; (ii)the winding up o f TRC; and (iii)           the building up o f the
    management and operational capacity o f RAHCO;
6. Provision o f technical advisory services for the future private sector participation in TAZARA,
    including: (i)the restructuring o f TAZARA; (ii)the establishment o f the regulatory and legal


                                                         -10-

    framework governing the operations o f TAZARA; and (iii)     preparation o f EA, SA, EMP andRAP;


The proposed PRG in support of the Concession for the Management and Operation of TRC
(Subject to Separate Board Approval)

The proposed PRG would be provided in support of the concessionaire to be selected following a
competitive tendering process, which is underway. The concessionaire will be required to arrange the
necessary financing (equity and/or debt) for the operation and management o f the concession for the
duration o f its 25 year term. The concessionaire will be required to set up a wholly-owned special purpose
Project Company in Tanzania for the purpose o f canying out its obligations under the Concession and
Lease Agreements(Concessi0n Agreements). The total investment requirement over the life o f the
concession is projected to be around US$180 -200 million, which is expected to be financed through equity
and/or loans from the concessionaire or its lenders and internally generated casMow. In addition, the IDA
credit o f US$ 33 million would be used to finance the rail tracks and associated equipment and services
which would be made available by RAHCO to the concessionaire together with up to an amount o f US$40
million PRG to help catalyze debt andequity investments inthe concession.

The proposed PRG would backstop RAHCO's payment obligations under the Concession Agreements to
the Project Company. While the precise level o f RAHCO support for the concession and the exact scope o f
PRG coverage will only be determined once these have been negotiated with the selected bidder, they are
likely to include both periodic and termination payment obligations o f RAHCO. The periodic payments
would be in support o f RAHCO's obligations to undertake restoration works on the rail infrastructure
(which RAHCO will continue to own during the term o f the concession) as a result o f political or natural
force majeure events. The termination payment would be with respect to compensation owed to the
concessionaire by RAHCO in the event that the concessionaire or Project Company terminates the
Concession Agreements as a result o f (i)a material breach o f the Concession Agreement by RAHCO, (ii)    a
Discriminatory Change inLaw adversely affecting the Railway Operator, and (iii)     Expropriation.

Board approval for the final terms and conditions o f the PRG will be sought once the final level o f RAHCO
and PRG support has beendetermined and documentation has beennegotiatedwith the selectedbidder.

                                                                                                         % of
                                                                                                        Bank-

                                                                    84.32         47.4       70.71
  Part B: Enhanced road management capacity                         15.99          9.0       14.83
  Part C: Improved performance o f Tanzanian Railways               37.76         21.2       36.46       22.5
 Partial Risk Guarantee                                             40.00         22.5       40.00       24.7
                                           Total Project Costs     178.07        100.0      162.00       100.0
I                                  Total Financing Reauired        178.07 I      100.0 I    162.00       100.0

2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
CTCP would build on the reform program supported under the IRP-I1andthe RRP by:
1. Providing support to TANROADS for road network management including planning, procurement,
    contract management, financial management, safeguards and monitoring. Specifically it would speed
    up the procurement process by exempting TANROADS from the Central Tender Board (CTB)
    involvement intheir procurement process;


                                                   -  11 -

2. concessioning o f TRC to a private operator; and
3. preparation for the private sector participation inthe operation o f TAZARA.

Further key transport sector policy reforms, such as (i)   transforming TANROADS into a Road Authority;
(ii) definition o f the management o f local government roads; (iii)enhancement o furban transport regulatory
capacity inDar es Salaam; (iv) improvedvehicle emission control and changing to unleaded petrol; and (v)
road safety measures, will be assisted through this project and supported in a follow-on project which is
proposed to be in the form o f an APL using a sector-wide approach (SWAP) jointly with the Government
and other development partners.

Regarding the railways, the Project supports a major sectorial reform which includes (i)     the concessioning
o f the operations o f the railways to a private operator; and (ii) the creation o f an asset holding company
(RAHCO).

3. Benefits and target population:
The central transport corridor is one o f the most important o f Tanzania's nine transport corridors. Its
significance is important in terms o f population served, agricultural production and potential, mining,
tourism, and trade with landlocked countries. The central corridor extends about 1,500 km connecting Dar
es Salaam with Morogoro, Dodoma, Nzega with a link to Mwanza on Lake Victoria and further leading to
Rwanda and Burundi border in case o f the road corri,dor. It provides access to Tabora and Kigoma, on
Lake Tanganyika through the railway corridor which is not serviced by a road. These corridors connect
major urban centers, ports and border points with inland regions and vast rural areas, and function as vital
lifelines for a large number o f people.

The investments to be undertaken under the roads component o f the project would restore the essential role
and function o f the roads concerned. The restoration is expected to yield substantial benefits, mainly in
terms o f vehicle operating cost savings resulting from improved road condition. The project will benefit the
entire population including rural dwellers livingalong the corridor. Maintenance cost savings would also be
realized as a result o f timely investments which will prevent fhther road deterioration to a point where full
reconstruction would be required. These anticipated impacts are consistent with the objective o f
strengthening economic infrastructure, which has been identified in the CAS as a key element in GOT'S
growth and poverty eradication strategy.

Regarding the railways, the concessioning is expected to result in a substantial improvement in the
railway's capacity, operating efficiency and level o f service. The specific benefits for stakeholders are
expected to be: (i)for freight customers: reduced transport costs; higher quality and predictability o f
services; improved national and international competitiveness; reduced damage; (ii)      for passengers: lower
transit times, fewer delays, reduced accident rates (low income passengers, traveling third class, are
protected against real fare increases or reductions in service levels); (iii)
                                                                           for GOT: positive returns from the
railways through lease payments and concession fees, as well as taxes on the concessionaire's profits and
Reducedpressure on the road infrastructure leading to lower road rehabilitation andmaintenance costs; (iv)
for the concessionaire: improved physical infrastructure providing the opportunity for attracting more rail
traffic andthus the potential for higher profits; and (v) for neighboring countries o f Uganda, Burundi, DRC
and Rwanda: reduced transit costs and better access to the sea.




                                                     - 1 2 -

4. Institutional andimplementation arrangements:
Overall fiduciary responsibility will be with the IDA PCU (IDA Project Coordination Unit) o f
TANROADS who will manage the project's Special and Project Accounts, and who will oversee the other
implementing agency's procurement actions. The Zanzibar road works will be executed by the CODAP
(Coordination office for Donor Aided Projects) Unit o f the Zanzibar Ministry o f Communication and
Transport. The rail component will initially be executed by the dedicated unit which was established within
TRC to execute the RRP. During project execution RAHCO (Reli Asset Holding Company) will be
created. RAHCO will sign the Concession Agreements with the selected private operator on the
Government's behalf and must, therefore, be established by the time o f the signing o f the concession
agreement, planned for November 2004. At the time o f the planned commencement o f the concession by
June 2005, RAHCO will take over from TRC as the implementing agency for the rail component. RAHCO
will receive technical assistance from the project to buildup its capacity for that purpose. At the time o f
the take over o f RAHCO, the D C A will be amended to reflect the changes.

D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
Road Sub-sector: It has been considered to insist on more up front road sector reforms, such as the
transformation o f TANROADS into a RoadAuthority, as the Government had committed itself inthe 2000
TANROADS ordinance. However, it was felt that the long delayed financing o f the Singida to Shelui road
could not be held up any longer. The discussion on the renewal o f the ROADS ACT, where the
Government has agreed to form a joint GOT/donor review committee, is considered as the main vehicle for
the dialogue with Government on M h e r sector reforms. These discussions will focus on the said
transformation o f TANROADS and define a conducive frame work for the management o f rural roads.

Railway Sub-sector: The concession o f TRC was considered as a separate Railway Restructuring Project,
but later chosen to be part o f the formerly roads-only project because o f the urgency o f facilitating the
concessioning process. However, the two are closely linked as part o f the Central Corridor, and it made
sense to combine them in view of their complimentary role in regional trade and transport facilitation.
Moreover, as is to be expected in the concessioning process, the morale o f TRC staff is low and
deteriorating, and the physical condition o f TRC is critical. Both situations lead to decreased performance
o f TRC, and asset stripping is common under such circumstances. Having a fm commitment by IDA for
the financing o f rail and sleeper replacement and the possibility o f a PRG is likely to (i)enhance bids in
favor o f the Government; and (ii) encourage Government to move quickly on the concessioning
                                       will
process. For these reasons, it has been decided to include the rail component inthis Project.




                                                    - 13-

2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).


               Sector Issue                            Project

                                                                               Implementation    Development
 Bank-financed                                                                  Progress (IP)    Objective (DO)

 Roadnetwork invery poor condition         Sixth Highway Project                     S                 S
 Lack o f capacity to manage the network IRP1                                       HU                U
 As above                                  IRP2                                      S                 S
 Railway financial performance             Railways Restructuring Project            S                 S
 declining
 Other development agencies
 To improve condition o f roadnetwork      EU, AFDB, NORAD,
 and enhance roadmanagement capacity DANIDA, SDC, JICA, Kuwait,
                                           OPEC


3. Lessonslearned and reflected in the project design:
1.Roadcomponent
The (first) Integrated Road Project which was launched in 1991 and closed in 1999, was rated as
unsatisfactory in its Implementation Completion Report (ICR) due to non-achievement o f the project's
development goals and slow and partial physical implementation. This ICR provides valuable lessons for
the Central Transport Corridor Project roads component:

0   The IRPl basically relied on the strengthening o f the existing institutional set-up for the management o f
    the road sector without demanding up-front institutional change. Only aRer the clear failure of this
    approach, did the Government agree to fundamental change (with creation o f the Road Fund in 1999
    and TANROADS in2000). This Project now assists to progress further and complement the reforms
    already achieved.

0   The absence o f substantially completed detailed engineering for all major roads immediately prior to
    Board presentation leads to delays and cost increases. This Project is presented with a majority o f
    designs andbiddingdocuments completed.

0   Donor Coordination led by Government is essential. Both MOW and M C T need to take the lead in
    developing poverty focused policies and strategies (MOCT) has already done so in its National
    Transport Policy o f 2003).     The project helps them through support to develop such plans and
    strategies and to hold annual policy and donor coordination conferences.

2. Rail component
The client and the Bank have drawn valuable lessons from preparing and implementing past railway
projects, and in particular projects aimed at helping concessioning processes, which have been taken into
account inthe preparation o f this project.

0   Privatizing railway assets rather than restructuring parastatals gives results which are much more


                                                    -14-

    profound and sustainable. However, the railway infrastructure is considered a strategic asset for a
    nation and investments required to renew and update it are sometimes too high to attract private
    investors as it may negatively impact on the viability o f the concession. Insuch cases, concessioning,
    where the State retains ownership over the infrastructure and the private sector is in charge o f the
    operations and investments inequipment, is a viable choice.

    Private sector is interested in investing in railway concessions only if the concessions are offered on
    reasonable terms, which enable them to recover costs and make an appropriate return on investments.
    Moreover, environmental and social liabilities and work force downsizing should be the responsibility
    o f the State as the private investor would not be willing to assume responsibility for the costs
    associated with these activities. Hence, the present project design provides for IDA financing for track
    renewal, and social and environmental liabilities while the GOT shall finance staff retrenchment costs.

    Following the previous failed attempt to concession TRC, the use o f political risk mitigation to support
    the concession appears necessary. The possibility o f the use o f an IDA PRG is being offered to bidders
    to help enhance investor interest. This should result inmore competitive bids and better financial terms
    and higher up-front commitment to invest inasset rehabilitation and replacement. (See Annex 12)

    One o f the conditions o f success o f a concession is the effective functioning o f the regulatory body and
    o f the institutions in charge o f monitoring the concessionaire's performance and maintenance o f
    infrastructure. Hence the inclusion o f the component for the institutional support to RAHCO, the asset
    holding company on behalf o f the Government, and TRC, which will take care of the residual assets
    before being wound up.

4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
The Government has initiated action to address road sector relatedpolicy issues, as detailed inits Letter o f
Development Policy, and has prepared a Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP), which outlines linkage
between adequate transport and poverty eradication.         In addition, GOT has prepared a Public Sector
Expenditure Report for Trunk and Regional Roads, outlining its macro-policy and strategy, as well as
associated sector strategies, and a 10-Year Road Sector Development Program which will further firm up
Government's development policy and create an action plan for poverty alleviation. As outlined in the
National Transport Policy (2003), GOT is disengaging itself from direct operational activities and allowing
private sector participation in the provision o f infrastructure and services. The objective is to effectively
separate policy and planning, from regulation on the one hand and finance, execution and operation on the
other.

5. Value added of Bank support inthis project:
1.Roadand Railway Reform

The Bankhas been a leader inpromoting road reform inthe region (through SSATP) andworld wide and is
well positioned to assist Governments to enhance the management o f their road assets. Interms o f railway
concessioning, as well, the Bank has successfully assisted a number o f countries to concession their
railways to private operators. In Africa this has been successfully done in the Ivory Coast, Burkina Faso,
Cameroon, Madagascar, Zambia, and is currently on-going in a number o f other countries.

2. Value added of PRG Support

The proposed TRC concession was first tendered internationally in November 2001. Although four


                                                      -15-

companies had pre-qualified, no compliant bid was received by PSRC. An important element o f the bidders
concerns was that no political risk mitigation was offered by GOT in support of the concession. Giventhe
current adverse investment climate for investments in emerging market countries, the possibility o f the use
o f a PRG insupport o f the concession could help to enhance investor interest. A PRG is likely to strengthen
investor confidence inthe Government/ RAHCO policy and performance commitments. As a consequence,
bidders may offer more competitive bids resulting in higher concession fees and lease payments and
stronger upfront commitment to invest innetwork rehabilitation and expansion.

A PRGmay help to improve the risk profile ofthe privatization by reducing the perceived risks andthereby
enabling investors to raise funds, directly or through their corporate balance sheets, in commercial debt
markets that may not be available without some form o f political risk mitigation. As such, a PRG may help
to make the privatization financeable by catalyzing acquisitiodconcession finance as well as by leveraging
large amounts o f capital typically needed for network rehabilitation and expansion. Inthis way, the pace o f
new investments for expansion o frelevant services can be accelerated by overcoming the general reluctance
o f investors to commit large amounts o f capital upfront.

The risks covered by the PRG would be limited to political risks and RAHCO related performance
undertakings. In this way, the PRG would provide a transparent mechanism for allocating risks between
RAHCO andpotential investors. GOT and RAHCO would be accountable only for their own actions while
the investors would be accountable for all the commercial risks, including traffic risk as well as investment
and performance risks.

The use o f a PRG to catalyze commercial debt or investments could help to achieve much longer tenors for
the debt andreduce the investors' overall cost of financing because of the AAA credit-rating o fthe Bank as
well as by a reduction o f the risk premium. This should help to achieve more sustainable retail tariff
regimes for consumers by lowering the capital costs that investors need to recover through the retail tariffs.

The PRG would not give rise to any additional contingent liability for the government, as it would backstop
only the contractual obligations that RAHCO would make to the concessionaire. In addition, the
government would not incur any costs associated with the PRG, as all guarantee-related charges would be
payable by the concessionaire.

 It is envisaged that an investment o f around US$180-200million would be required to be undertaken by
the private concessionaire during the 25 year term of the concession. Under the current investment climate,
investors would be reluctant to commit to such investments unless they are provided with some assurances
that the GOT would not prematurely terminate the concession and if this were to happen they would be
duly compensated. Giveninvestors' experience of governance issues relating to government commitments in
emerging market countries, investors and lenders may require these assurances to be backstopped by IDA.
As a result, an indicative term sheet for an IDA PRG is being incorporated in the bid package for the
pre-qualified investors (See Annex 12).

E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessmentsare inthe project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic(see Annex 4):
0 Costbenefit         NPV=US$ million; ERR= % (see Annex 4)
0 Costeffectiveness
0 Other(specify)
Road Component:
Costhenefits analyses have been carried out for the Singida-Shelui and Zanzibar roads, using the H D M 4


                                                     -16-

model, For both components, several technical altematives have been tested, the economic analysis leading
to a rational choice. The Internal Rates o f Return and Net Present Value o f the chosen solutions are shown
hereafter:

       Road section                      cost                     IRR                        NJ?V
                                         (m$)                      (%I                     (m US$)
Singida Shelui (109 km)
         -                              42.43                     24.3                      34.15
Mkwajuni    - Nungwi    (19              3.51                      14.9                     0.771
km)
Matemwe     - Pongwe   (21               3.87                      13.3                     0.489
km)
Paje Pingwe (17 km)
      -                                  3.08                      14.1                     0.452

Rail Component:
A costbenefit analysis has been carried out, comparing the with and without project situations. The main
assumptions are that the freight traffic would increase by 14% in the first three years following the
rehabilitation, and by 3% per year later on, that the number o f staff will be reduced from 7,000 to 3,000,
that the concessionaire's investment would be close to US$ 30 million, while the Bank is financing US$ 33
million and that the main benefits to be expected are the road avoidance cost for additional traffic, and the
reduction in the unit cost o f operation for the existing traffic. Under such assumptions, the ERR o f the
project is estimated as 45%.

2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR = % (see Annex 4)
The transaction advisor for the rail has prepared a financial model on the basis of which the bidding
documents were prepared. The bidders for the concessioning o f the railway will prepare their own financial
models inorder to decide on their bid.

Fiscal Impact:
The fiscal impact o f the project will initially be negative for the country, since counterpart funding are
required and redundancy costs will arise. Inthe mid to short term, however, a positive fiscal impact can be
expected through increased fiscal revenues due to increased economic activities and the payment o f fees for
the rail concession.

3. Technical:
Road Component: Design standards are based on the Tanzanian Design Manual and are adequate given
the likely traffic that the roads will be exposed to. The Singida Shelui road will have a carriageway width
                                                                  -
of 6.5 meters with 1.5 meters wide shoulders. The pavement will consist o f 200 mm cement stabilized
natural gravel sub-base layer, a 150 mm crushed stone base, and double surface dressing. The Zanzibar
roads will have a carriageway width o f 6 meters with 0.75 meters shoulders. The pavement will consist o f
a 150 mm gravel sub-base, 150 mm crushed stone base and a surfacing o f 50 mm asphalt concrete.
Asphalt concrete has been chosen for the surface because the only type o f stone found in Zanzibar is
limestone which is too soft to permit surface dressing.

Rail Component:         The technical proposal for the replacement o f rail and sleepers on three worst
deteriorated sections of a total length o f 197 kilometer between Dodoma and Tabora will be presented to
bidders during the bidding process who will be requested to review these proposals and to make altemative
proposals (within the credit limit), ifnecessary.


                                                      -17-

4. Institutional:


4.1 Executing agencies:
The roads components o f the project will be executed by TANROADS, an executive agency o f the
Ministry of Works (MOW), regarding roads in Tanzania Mainland, and by MOCT Zanzibar regarding
roads in Zanzibar. The rail component will be executed initially by TRC. RAHCO (Reli Asset Holding
Company) will be created with the help o f the project, and RAHCO will take over the executive function
for the rail component from TRC at the time of the commencement o f the concession (planned by June
2005).
4.2 Project management:
Overall fiduciary responsibility will be with the IDA PCU (IDA-Project Coordination Unit) o f
TANROADS who will manage the project's Special and Project Accounts, and who will oversee the other
implementing agency's procurement actions. The Zanzibar road works will be executed by the CODAP
PCU (Project Coordination Unit for the Coordination o f Donor Aided Projects) Unit o f the Zanzibar
Ministry of Communication and Transport. The rail component will initially be executed by the dedicated
unitwhich was established within TRC to execute the RRP.Duringproject execution RAHCO (Reli Asset
Holding Company) will be created. RAHCO will sign the concession agreement with the selected private
operator on the Government's behalf and must therefore exist at the time o f signing (planned for November
2004). At the time o f the planned commencement o f the concession (by June 2005) RAHCO will take over
from TRC as the implementing agency for the rail component. RAHCO will receive technical assistance to
buildup its capacity for that purpose. At the time o f take over o f the implementation function for the rail
component by RAHCO from TRC, the D C A will have to be amended accordingly.
4.3 Procurement issues:
The overall procurement risk for the project has beenjudged as average. TANROADS which will assist to
oversee the procurement action o f the other implementers needs to implement the procurement capacity
enhancement planas outlinedinparagraph4 o fAnnex 6A.
4.4 Financial management issues:
A dedicated unit established within TANROADS is in charge o f specific projects including IDA financed
projects. The key accounting staff in the IDA PCU is adequately qualified and well experienced with
World Bank requirements.      Currently a significant proportion o f the fknding for the roads network is
received from development partners and TANROADS has an obligation to demonstrate that public funds
are being effectively managed and fully accounted. The accounting system is based on a well functioning
computerized, double entry, accrual-based system maintained within the FAD.

The overall conclusions of the financial management 'assessment are: (i)the project's financial
management arrangements satisfy the World Bank's minimumrequirements under OP/BP10.02. However,
some improvements remain to be effected for the system in order to establish an acceptable control
environment and to mitigate financial management risks. The various measures/improvements should be
implementedby the due dates as indicated inthe Financial Management Annex to the PAD (see Annex 6B);
(ii) project financial managementriskisassessedasbeinglow/negligibleprovidedthatthefinancial
    the
management arrangements are properly implemented and the financial management action plan (see Annex
6B) is satisfactorily addressed inpractice.

Standardfinancial covenants include the submission to IDA ofl (i)      audited financial statements within six


                                                  - 18-

months after the year-end; (ii) related information as required by IDA; (iii)
                                   other                                               financial Monitoring
Reports (FMRs) within 45 days after each calendar quarter period.

Disbursements from the IDA Credit will initially be made on the basis o f incurred eligible expenditures
(transaction based disbursements). Strengthening its accounting and financial management capacity will
enable TANROADS to eventually facilitate the introduction o f FMR-based disbursements.

The extemal audit will be carried out annually.as part o f the TANROADS audit by the Controller and
Auditor General (CAG) or such other person registered as an auditor under the Auditors and Accountants
Act, 1972 and approved by the CAG. The auditor will be required to express an opinion on the audited
project financial statements only, incompliance with Intemational Standards on Auditing.
5. Environmental:                            Environmental Category: A (Full Assessment)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
For the Singinda-Shelui road which is the main component o f this credit, environmental and social
assessments have been prepared and were disclosed, after ASPEN review and approval, both inthe Bank's
Kiosk and inTanzania as per requirements 120 days before Bank approval.

The three roads in Zanzibar are being considered as second year sub-projects for which the E N S A
approval process is carried our during project implementation.         The E N S A for this sub-project was
approved by ASPEN prior to appraisal, subject to the incorporation o f its comments. After finalization o f
the documents these will be disclosed in line with IDA requirements. Construction is planned to commence
after the full implementation o f the RAP inearly 2005.

For the rail component, the production o f an E N S A satisfactory to IDA is a condition o f disbursement for
part of the credit proceeds allocated to the rail component. Procurement for these services is currently
on-going and it is expected that services will commence immediately after effectiveness o f the credit.
5.2 What are the main features o f the EMP and are they adequate?
The main features o f the EMP for the Singida Shelui road are tree planting, putting inplace fire barriers,
                                                   -
support to local environmental NGOs, HIV/AIDS and cultural aspects awareness campaigns.
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status o f EA:
                     Date o f receipt o f final draft: May 2003 (Singida- Sheluiroad)

The E N S A for the Singida Shelui roads was disclosed on December 12,2003. The E N S A for the
                             -
Zanzibar roads is expected to be disclosed inApril 2004 andthe one for the rail component in September
2004.
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage o f (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe mechanisms
of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
Intensive consultations have taken place with affected villages and communities along the road way, with
local NGO's andwith environmental groups.
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact o f the project on the
environment? D o the indicators reflect the objectives and results o f the EMP?
A specific part will be added to the quarterly FMRto report on environmental and social actions taken.


                                                       -19-

6. Social:
6. I Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
Transport projects tend to cause health problems (such as HIV/AIDS) through increased social interaction,
anddue to safety problems. The project addressesthese problems through contractor conductedHIV
awareness campaigns and through road safety measures along the road way.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating inthe project?
Itis proposedto the transport ministries to holdannual sector meetings jointly with private sector and
government stakeholders and other donors where the Government would present its plans, where
implementation issues could be discussed and solutions sought.
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
Duringproject preparationthe consultants preparing the design documents interacted with local
communities, NGOs and environmental groups inorder to prepare the EA/SA.
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
TANROADS has engaged a full time social scientist to monitor and follow-up social impacts.
6.5 How will the project monitor performance interms of social development outcomes?
A specific partwill be added to the quarterly FMRto report on environmental and social actions taken.

7. Safeguard Policies:


    Environmental Assessment(OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)                          0 Yes 0No
    Natural Habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                                 0 Yes 0No
    Forestrv (OP 4.36. GP 4.36)                                                  0Yes 0No
    Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                                    0Yes 0No
    Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                                0Yes 0      No
    IndigenousPeoples(OD 4.20)                                                   0Yes 0No
    Involuntary Resettlement(OP/BP 4.12)                                         0 Yes 0No
    Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                                            0Yes 0No
    Projectsin International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)                  0Yes 0No


7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.

0   Safeguards measures to be included inthe tender documents and TOR for consultants
0   Environmental specialist from TANROADS to monitor the EMP and RAP preparation,
    implementation and supervision
0   Reporting on compliance is part o f the FMR.




                                                   - 20 -

F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
The sustainability o f the roads component o f the project depends largely on the progress o f the reforms
that have been commenced by the Government. This project will lay the ground for further reform,
implementation o f which is proposedto be linked to a much larger sector-wide follow on project through an
Adaptable Program Lending (APL) credit. Reforms already achieved are the creation o f a Road Fund for
the financing o f road maintenance in 1999 and the creation o f TANROADS, an executive agency
responsible for the management o f the trunk and regional roads inthe country. Next steps are to enhance
TANROADS efficiency andto arrive at conducive framework for the management o f rural roads.

Sustainability o f the r a i l system in Tanzania is largely dependent upon its successful concessioning. The
likelihood for successful concessioning is strongly linked to the implementation o f the project - without the
renewal o f the track and PRG support, it is unlikely that the private sector would be prepared to undertake
the concession. The project will also help strengthen GOT'Soversight o f the concession, which is another
essential condition for the sustainability of the sector.

2. Critical Risks(reflecting the failure o f critical assumptions found inthe fourth column o f Annex 1):
The table below identifies the key risks that project management may face in achieving its objectives and
provides a basis for determining how management should address these risks.

                     Risk                          Risk Rating                 Risk Mitigation Measure
 From Outputs to Objective
 Consultants and Contractors are                         M         Inthe past contractors andconsultants often did
 performing satisfactorily                                         not perform as required. The key to their
                                                                   improved performance is tight contract
                                                                   management. Improved contract management i s
                                                                   the focus o f the TA provided to TANROADS
 Government does not let TANROADS                        M         TANROADS to some extent still operates like a
 operate at ms-length                                              government department. This project supports
                                                                   efforts to make it more autonomous and
                                                                   responsive
 Lack o f compliant bids for the                         M         Riskmitigationthrough PRG
 concessioning o f TRC due to high
 perceived country risk
 From Componentsto Outputs
 TANROADS can not carry out its                          M         O+M Study andother actions supportedby the
 mandatedresponsibilities independently                            credit are to enhance capacity o f TANROADS.
 and efficiently                                                   Commitment is being solicited from Governmen
                                                                   to let TANROADS operate at arms-length
 Counterpart funds will not be budgeted                  M         Annual review o f counterpart funding
 andreleased ontime                                                requirement during GOTPERdiscussions is
                                                                   planned
 The track renewal does not result in                    N         The design of the renewal component will be
 operational improvements                                          undertaken inconjunction with the
                                                                   concessionaire, and will be tranched. It is very
                                                                   unlikely that a competent operator will not take
                                                                   advantage o f the opportunities offered.

                                                       - 21 -

GOT does not provide sufficient budget               S           The package offered to 1800TRC employees
for future TRC retrenchments                                     who were retrenched in2003 was adequate.
                                                                 Future retrenchments including phasing needto
                                                                 be well plannedand discussed betweenthe
                                                                 successful bidder and GOT and appropriately
                                                                 budgeted for
Financial management risks: the staff in             M           Training o f staff is ongoing and hands-on
the IDA PCUhave implemented the new                              support by supplier o f software reduces this risk
EPICOR system, however, initial teething
problems couldjeopardize timely and
accurate financial reporting

RAHCOdoes not have the necessary                     M           IDA support is beingprovidedfor technical
capacity for oversight o f the concession                        assistance for capacity buildingo f RAHCO
Overall Risk Rating                                  M



3. Possible ControversialAspects:



G. Main Creditconditions
1. EffectivenessCondition
1, the Subsidiary Grant Agreement has been executed on behalf o f the Borrower and TRC;
2. the Project Implementation Plan has been duly adopted by the Borrower inform and substance
    acceptable to the Association; and
3. the Borrower has opened a Project Account and the initial contribution o f Tshs. 900 million has been
    deposited therein.

The following are specified as additional matters within the meaning o f Section 12.02(b) o f the General
Conditions, to be included inthe opinion or opinions to be h i s h e d to the Association:

1. the Project Agreement has beenduly authorized or ratifiedby TRC, and is legally bindinguponTRC
    inaccordance with its terms; and
2. that the Subsidiary Grant Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by the Borrower and TRC
    and is legally bindinguponthe Borrower andTRC inaccordance with its terms.

The maximum period untileffectiveness is 90 days after the signing o f the D C A and PA.

2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
Conditions of Disbursement




                                                   - 22 -

1. EA and SA for the Zanzibar road component i s prepared, approved and disclosed;
2. EA and SA for the rail component, prepared, approved and disclosed, for disbursement o f emergency
    25%; and
3. For the balance 75% o f the amount, the Borrower shall have signed a railway concession agreement or
    made arrangements satisfactory to the Association.

Project Inialenieiztatian

The Borrower shall, not later than May 31 of each year, undertake an annual review o f the Project, and
shall undertake a midtermrevieFY not later than May 3 1, 2006.

H. Readiness for Implementation
@ 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
        o f project implementation.
C,1. b) Not applicable.

  2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start o f
      project implementation.
Z 3. The Project ImpleinentationPlanhasbeenappraisedandfoundto berealistic and ofsatisfactoT
      quality.
24. Thefollowingitems arelackingandarediscussedunderloanconditions (SectionG):
r_




I. Compliance with Bank Policies
   1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
1
J2.ThefollowingexceptionstoBankpoliciesarerecommendedforapproval. Theprojectcoinplieswith
      all other applicable Bank policies.




                                                  - 23 -

                                  Annex I:Project Design Summary
                            TANZANIA Central Transport Corridor Project
                                   KeyIndicator
                                         Perform                lata Collection Strategy
                                                                                               itical
                              Sector Indicators:                ectorl country reports:  from Goal to Bank Mission)
:o promote economic and       Yncreasedvolume of                .nnualEconomic Review    !ffective market integration
ocially sustainable           igriculture, commercial and       RSP                      vi11leadto additional
levelopmentandpoverty         ndustrial goods nationally in ublic Expenditure Review     xonomic growth and the
lleviation by supporting: (i) illseasons.                                                mprovement of critical
irivate sector and                                                                       )overty indicators.
nfrastructure development;
ii)publicsectorreformand
nstitutionbuilding; and (iii)
mproved social
nfrastructure.



JrojectDevelopment            Outcome I Impact                  'roject reports:         :fromObjective to Goal)
1bjective:                    Indicators:
To support Government's
(ational Transport Sector
strategic Plan through :

A) Upgrading of Strategic     Traffic increases on improved 'ANROADS Reports.            Governmentand Donors
Zoad links.                  roadsat least by 10%per                                     support for rehabilitation is
                              annum on averagebetween                                    forthcoming as planned.
                              2004 and 2009.

B) EnhancedRoad               Portion of road network undei 'ANROADS Reports.            RoadFund financing for road
aanagement Capacity.          TANROADS responsibilility                                  maintenanceis sustained and
                              inpoor condition reduced                                   forthcoming as planned.
                             from 49% in 2003 to 30 %
                              2009.(Average per year).

:C) Improved operation of     Traffic on TRC increases          teport of concessionare  Demand for freight transport
ranzanian Railways            from 1.45 milliontons at                                   inthe central corridor
                              signing o f the concession                                 increasesas planned and rail
                              agreement to 2.0 million by                                can compete with road
                              the end of 2009, level of                                  transporters.
                              transit traffic will increaseby
                              20% in 2009 from the level of
                              560,000 tons in 2003, kmo f
                             tracksunder temporary speed
                              restriction will decrease from
                              the current 10% to 2% in
                              2009.




                                                           - 24 -

Output from each               Output Indicators:             Project reports:     (from Outputs to Objective)
Component:
(A) Singida-Shelui Road         169km of roads pavedand       TANROADS and MOCT    Consultants and Contracters
(110 km) and 59 km of          five ferries rehabilitated.    Zanzibar reports.    perform.
strategic roads inZanzibar
upgradedto paved standard
and key ferries rehabilitated.


(B) Feasibility, detailed      Bid documentsare available.    TANROADS & MOCT      Consultantsperform.
design and documentation for                                  Zanzibar reports.
rehabilitation, and upgrading
of4 trunk roads totally 713
km.


(C) TANROADS and MOCT TANROADS HQ building                    TANROADS and MOCT    GOTallows TANROADS
Zanzibar capacity enhanced      occupied, WAN operational     Zanzibar reports.    operate at arms-lenght.
and keey studies for improved and studies executedby July
road management executed.       2007.

(D)TRC concessionedto a         ConcessionAgreement signed Signed Concession       Private Sector respondsto
private operator.               by November 2004 and          Agreement            bids and Government
                                commencement of concession                         concludesbid evaluation and
                               by June 2005.                                       negotiations ina timely
                                                                                   manner.




Project Components I           Inputs: (budget for each        Project reports:    (from Components to
Sub-components:                component)                                          Outputs)
A.1Paving of Singida-Shelui $ 55.73 million
Road (110 km) and
supervision.
A.2 Reconstructionof 3 roads $ 14.34 million
inZanzibar (59 Km) and
supervision.
A.3 Feasibility Studies,       $ 7.67 million
detailed design and bidding
documents (713 kms)
A.4 Rehabilitation of ferries  $ 6.58 million


B1TANROADS HQ Building $ 4.88 million
B.2 Wide Area Network for      $ 1.24 million
TANROADS.
B.3 O&M study for               E 1.08 million
TANROADS
B.4 Road investment             E 1.08 million
prioritization
B.5 Local governmentsroads      E 1.35 million
inventory &survey


                                                          - 25 -

B.6 DSMBRT & other             $ 2.47 million
transport related studies
B.7 TA & training for          $ 3.62 million
TANROADS & MOCT
Zanzibar
B.8 Operating costs            $ 0.27 million

C.1Urgently neededrails,       $ 8.50 million
sleepers and other material for
TRC
C.2 Other rails, sleepersand   $ 25.47 million
material for TRC, including
installation
C.3 Preparationof SNEA         $ 0.54 million
C.4 Environmental Clean-up $ 0.55 million
and Resettlement
C.5 TA and training for TRC, $ 0.54 million
the concessionaireand
RAHCO
C.6 TA for the private sector
participation inTAZARA
Partial Risk Guarantee
                               Total: $ 178.07 million




                                                       - 26 -

                               Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
                           TANZANIA Central Transport Corridor Project



By Component:

Project Component A: Upgrading of strategic road links US$84.32 million
                                                          -
A.1 Singida-SheluiRoadRehabilitationandUpgradingProject (US$55.73m, of which IDA US$
50.33m and GOT US$5.40m)

Background.       Singida-Shelui Road (110 km) leads from the region's headquarters to the border o f
Tabora region, serving a number o f intermediate administrative and trade centers as Iguguno, Misigiri and
Shelui. It falls under the Central Corridor o f the national trunk road network, with the highest international
freight flows across the country.      Due to the difficult crossing o f the Rift Valley through Sekenke
Escarpment, the road is viewed as the bottleneck inthe corridor. The existing roadway is gravel surfaced,
7 to 10 m wide, including shoulders. Shoulders cannot be used for non-motorized traffic. Design features
are poor androad safety is much below national standards.

Table: Mainfeatures of the existing road section

                  Section          Alignment                  Pavement                 Remarks
                  Singida-Iguuno    Horizontal minradii      Garvel Road. Poor         The depressed road
                  Confluence km     1OOm                     condition, with           section behaves as a
                  0-35                Maxgrade 5.5%          widespread                channel incase o f
                                                             undulations and           flooding
                                                             corrugations
                 Iguguno           Horizontal minradii       Gravel road, poor         Tightbendexiting
                 Confluence-       450m Max. grade 7.1% condition, pavement            from Iguguno
                 Misigiri km                                 depressions, corrugation
                 35-76                                       and rutting
                  Misigiri- Shelui Horizontal minradii       Gravel road except a      The stretch across
                  km77-110          1OOmMax grade            road stretch through      the Escarpment o f
                                    12.3%                    Sekenke Escarpment        Sekenke is quite
                                                             that is bitumen paved,    treacherous
                                                             at present inbad          especially incase o f
                                                             condition                 rainstorm

Strategic Importance. The proposed components o f the Central Transport Corridor Project serve the
Western and North Western parts o f the country as well as the neighboring land locked countries o f
Rwanda, Burundi, Uganda and Democratic Republic o f Congo. The Government accords high priority to
the rehabilitation and upgrading o f the sections along the Central Corridor.
A.2 Reconstructionof 3 roads in Zanzibar (US$ 14.34m, of which IDA US$ 12.94m and Gov US$
1.40m)

Project Description
This subcomponent includes the rehabilitation o f 3 different road sections on Zanzibar's sea shore.


                                                     - 27 -

          Year                     RoadA                  RoadB                Road C
          2003                       96                     29                   121
      2006 (opening)                 138                    63                   173
          2015                       233                    149                  292


CostEstimates
   Upgradingworks to bitumenstandard                        US$ 13.24m
    SupervisionCosts                                        U S $ 1.10m
       TOTAL                                                U S $14.34 million


A.3 Feasibilitystudies and detailed design(US$ 7.67m, of which IDA US$ 1.51m, NDFUS$6.05m
and Gov 0.llm)
A.3.1 Feasibility Study and Detailed Engineering Designfor Upgrading and WorksSupervision of
Singida Babati -Minjingu Road Project (US$2.59m, of which NDF US$2.59m)
       -

                                               - 28 -

The Singida - Babati - Minjinguroad (222km), is composed o f two different sections namely; Singida -
Babati (T014), which is a branch of the Central Corridor Route and covers 163km and links the two major
strategic corridors, Central and the Great North corridor at Babati, and Babati - Minjingu(59km), which
forms part o f the Great North Road Corridor (T005) and connects the Central Corridor Route with the
North -East corridor via Babati- Minjingu- Arusha. Minjinguis located 28 km to Makuyuni thejunction
to Ngorongoro, Manyara and Serengeti National parks. The entire road passes through agricultural and
pastoral potential areas with mainly sunflower and wheat as cash crops.
The Singida - Babati - Minjinguroad is an unpaved gravevearth road, 5-6.0m carriageway width, with no
shoulders. The section from Singida to Manyara border (55km) is an unengineered earth road and is inbad
condition, while the remaining section, Singida border -Babati-MinjinguinManyara region is ina fair to
poor condition. The section received some maintenance interventions during 1999/2000 to restore
accessibility under the El-Nino road infrastructure repair program. Activities included gravelling and
drainage improvement following the existing non-engineered alignment. Maintenance operations carried out
recently are mainly spot improvement to restore accessibility on the earth road sections and routine and
recurrent maintenance involving grading and drainage maintenance for gravelled sections.
The road facilitates goods movement from Singida and Manyara to Arusha, Kilimanjaro and Tanga port
and M e r to Mombasaport inthe neighboring country o fKenya via Tanga -Horohoro road.
Traffic on this road is mainly composed o f heavy goods vehicles ferrying various agricultural produce to
processing plants in Arusha, Moshi, Tanga and Mombasa in Kenya. According to traffic count data o f
MOW for the year 2001 the average traffic volume is about 200 vehicles per day (vpd). The lOYR SDP
forecasts the Annual Average Daily Traffic (AADT) to exceed 600 vpd in year 2012. However, light
vehicle traffic is currently restricted by poor road conditions.
TANROADS has commissioned a feasibility study o f the whole road and this is expected to be completed
soon, The proposed study under CTCP will review the feasibility to ensure that mandatory requirements
such as EMP and RAP have been prepared and if not include them inthe study. This will be followed by a
detailed design based on the preferred option and biddocumentation.

A.3.2 Feasibility Study, Detailed EngineeringDesign, Upgrading to Bitumen Standard of Dodoma -
Babati Road Section (vS$2.70m, of which NDF US$2.70m)

The Dodoma - Babati road has a total length of about 263 km and forms part o f the Great North Corridor
Route (T005) running from Iringa to Arusha via Dodoma and Manyara regions and has been identified as a
strategic corridor in Tanzania road network. The road comprises of two sections namely; Dodoma -
Kondoa - Manyara border (228 km) and Babati           - Dodoma border (35 km). The road crosses seven (7)
bridges and passes through flat, rolling and hilly (Kolo and Bereko escarpments) terrain. It passes through
agricultural potential areas reknowned for maize, millet, beans, sunflower, coffee and groundnuts. It also
links tourist destinations such as Ngorongoro, Tarangire, and Manyara National parks. The Great North
Corridor also links the productive areas o f Iringa, Dodoma, Manyara and Arusha regions and the North
Corridor (T005). It is also a major link between Zambia, Tanzania and Kenya.
The alignment is an unengineered gravevearth road whose width varies from 4.5 - 6.0 m for the section
from Dodoma to Manyara border and4.5 - 5m for the section from Manyara border to Babati. The present
condition o f the section from Dodoma - Manyara border varies from fair to poor condition and the rest
varies from fair to good.
 In calendar years 1998, 2000 and 2001, the road received major repairs along some sections inorder to


                                                      - 29 -

ensure its accessibility throughout the year. However, currently most o f the drainage structures are silted
and eroded on the downstream. Many culverts have broken headwalls/wingwalls and aprons. Generally, the
drainage on the section from Dodoma to Manyara border varies from fair to poor while from Manyara
border to Babati varies from fair, along the flat terrain, to good inhilly sections. The existing road lacks the
basic engineering qualities (structural, geometry, drainage and alignments).
The road is intended to stimulate economic growth by reducing transportation costs and improving
accessibility to economically productive areas, primarily agriculture, tourism as well as increased
accessibility and mobility inrural areas.
The traffic on road is fairly low due to the poor condition o f the road with most vehicles from Dodoma to
Arusha opting to use the longer but paved route via Chalinze. According to the traffic census carried out in
2002 by the Ministryo f Works, the Average Daily Traffic is 90. After upgrading to bitumen standard, it is
anticipated that vehicles usingChalinze route will be diverted back to this road and considerable new traffic
will be generated.
The proposal is to carry out a feasibility to determine the most appropriate and cost effective intervention
as a first phase followed by a detailed design and bid documentation for upgrading to the feasible standard.
The CTCP shall finance both phases o f the study.


A.3.3 Feasibility Study and detailed design of Tanga -Horohoro road (US$0.76m, of which NDF US$
0.76m)
The Tanga- Horohoro road links the port and town o f Tanga to the International border between Tanzania
and Kenya. The 65km road section when upgraded will complete the all weather bitument road from Dar es
Salaam (via Chalinze and Segera) to Mombasa, the principal port city inKenya.
The road passes through a flat to rolling terrain with a coastal climate. Currently the road is in a good
condition with recent regravelling o f bad sections. In addition, duringthe past two years construction o f 6
bridges and access roads has been accomplished through the IRPII credit at an estimated cost o f TShs.
6.8billion and this has significantly improved the road resulting inincreased traffic. The accesses have been
constructed to a 6m wide bitumen standard road while the bridges are to 6m wide carriageway with a
provision for a pedestrianfootpath. The rest o f the road varies inwidth from 4.5m to 6m.
The road serves a rural farming community whose production could be increased significantly by access to
markets inthe tourist areas of the Kenyan South Coast.The road once developed will also spur growth in
cross border travel and increase commerce between Kenya and Tanzania.
The road is amongst critical strategic links and the first phase comprising the construction o f the bridges
that is complete, is expected to be followed by the upgrading of the whole road to bitumen standard in the
follow up credit.
The envisaged study will include a feasibility stage followed by detailed design and bid documentation. The
alignment will tie up with the already constructed bridges.
A.3.4 Study and design of Korogwe-Mkumbara-Same road (US$1.62m, of which IDA US$l.Slm and
Gov US$0.11m)
This section of the North East corridor that is constructed to bitumen standard has started
showing signs o f distress and it is proposed to carry out a feasibility study, detailed design and
documentation within the CTCP credit. Civil works for full rehabilitation is planned during the
follow up credit.



                                                      - 30 -

A.4 Rehabilitationof 4 ferries (US$ 6.58m, of which IDA US$5.94mand Gov 0.64m)
TANROADS has proposed the rehabilitation of 5 key ferries (MV Kigamboni, MV Pangani, MV
Rufiji, MV Sengerema, and MV Kilombero) andhas commissioned a study under IRPIICredit to
not only establish the level of rehabilitation requiredbut to also review the economic viability of
operating them. Once the study recommendations are presented it i s proposed to explore the
option o f concessioning the operation of the viable ones to a private operator. The study is
expected to be completedby May 2004.The rehabilitation will be done prior to concessioning.


Project Component B: Enhanced road managementcapacity US$15.99 million
                                                          -
B.l Tanroads Headquarter Building (US$4.88m, of which IDA US$4.40mand Gov US$0.48m)
This component will support TANROADS build its head quarter in Dar es Salaam. The MOW
will provide a plot for the building. Currently TANROADS operates from a leased offices in the
city that are congested and there i s no room for expansion. The component provides funds for
civil works and supervision. It i s expected that TANROADS will be able to move to its new
offices by July 2007.
Under the proposed CTCP, design, supervisionandworks are to be financed.
B.2 Wide Area Network(US$ 1.24m, ofwhich IDA US$1.20mand Gov US$0.04m)
This component will provide funding to enable TANROADS develop a dedicated ICT network
within its regions and the head office for ease of communication and transmission of data and
other information including purchase of appropriate equipment.

B.3. Organisation and Management Study of TANROADS (US$ 1.08m, of which IDA US$ 1.OOm
and Gov US$0.08m)
TANROADS has been in operation for the past 3 years and as it continues to evolve and take
more responsibility there i s a case for an institutional audit to determine the optimal organization
structure and hence level o f staffing. This component will assist TANROADS carry out a job
evaluation, determine the level o f staffing and identify areas that require strengthening. It will also
help them identify skills not available within the organization that would need to be out-sourced
inthe short andmediumterm while the organizations makes alternative longterm plans.

B.4 RoadInvestmentPrioritization(US$l.O8m, ofwhich IDA US$l.OOm and Gov US$O.OSm)
TANROADS proposes to develop a methodology for ease o f identification and prioritization o f
roads and networks requiring intervention, particularly rehabilitation and upgrading. It i s
proposed to carry out a preliminary appraisal o f all (or a majority of) trunk and regional roads to
establish those that are economically andor socially viable for M e r development and map them
out in a logical order for ease of reference. Through this process TANROADS will be able to
prioritize investments from GOTand Development Partners. It should be noted that this study will
compliment the 25 year, 10 year and 5 year development plans in the transport sector prepared by
the Ministryof Transport and Communications, Tanzania and provides more detailedinformation
to assist inprioritization.
B.5 Local Governments Roads Inventory and Condition Survey (US$ 1.35m, of which IDA US$
1.26m and Gov US$0.09m)



                                                 -31  -

Currently 30% of the Road Fund is earmarked for the maintenance of roads falling under
POLARG. Both the Road Fundand POLARG do not have a clear indication o f the condition and
length of roads falling under the district road management. TANROADS already has a clear
indication of the roads under their jurisdiction based on inventory completed in December 2003.
To help establish the length and general condition of district roads it i s proposedto carry out an
inventory in 10 representative districts. Based on the outcome, further inventory may be carried
out in the remaining districts. Hopefully the outcome will also help the Road Fund in future
allocation of funds. It i s proposed that this component be implementedjointly with the Road
Fund.

B.6 Other transport studies (US$ 2.47m, of which IDAUS$2.30m and Gov US$0.17m)
B.6.1 Dar es Salaam Rapid Bus Transit and Traflc Management Study (US$ 1.08m, of which IDA
US$1.00m and Gov US$0.OSm)
The City Council of Dar es Salaam plans to review traffic management in the city to reduce
congestion and to particularly increase capacity at various junctions. They also propose to
introduce a Rapid Bus Transport system to increase public transport and reduce dependance on
private transport. This component will therefore assist them in carrying out commercial and
feasibility study and preparing plan for RBT and private sector participation operation traffic
management studies and review of institutional arrangements. If the proposal i s found to be
commercially feasible further support may be included ina future credit for related infrastructure.

B.6.2 Other transportsector studies (US$1.40m, of which I D A US$1.31m and Gov US$0.10)
Inpreparationfor a future APL it is proposedto carry out several studies inthe transport sector to cover
not only roads but ports and other related aspects. This component will cater for these activities.


B.7 Technical assistance and training for TANROADS and MOCT (US$ 3.62m, of which IDA US$
3.42m and Gov US$0.20m)
B.7.1 & B.7.2 Technical Assistance for TANROADS and MOCT (US$ 2.54m, of which IDA US$
2.36m and Gov US$O.lSm)
Under IRP-11, CODAP/MOCT, Zanzibar has shown ability to coordinate and execute projects,
but it has also shown weakness in contract management and financial monitoring resulting to
substantial delay of some project components. Recognizingthe limitations of the unit's capacity to
manage the expanded road program under IRP-11, the Bank supported the unit with a contract
management and heavy equipment specialists. This has improved the capacity, however more
specialist expertise will be requiredin the foreseeable future. Specifically i s proposedto retain the
services of a contract specialist and possibly a procurement expert. The component shall support
these and others as necessary. For the mainland TANROADS has been responsible for
implementing project under IRPII. TANROADS i s a semi-autonomous Road Agency.
TANR0AD.Sis mandated to be incharge o f (a) road network development and management; (b)
planning and management o f network maintenance; and (c) overseeing the implementation o f the
program, with emphasis on technical and financial monitoring and performance evaluation. Like
wise TANROADS has established a dedicated IDA PCU under direct management o f its Chief
Executive, composed o f experienced professional staff, who have been responsible o f technical


                                                    - 32 -

and financial management of the project under IRP 1I.Their responsibility included:                     (i)
coordinating the planning and implementation of the IRP I1 program; (ii)supervising and
execution o f the program; (iii)  preparing quarterly and annual technical and financial performance
reports and financial audits; (iv) compiling progress reports for quarterly and annual review
meetings with stakeholders and donor community; (v) updating o f the program documents
including the annual expenditure and financing plan; (vi) disseminating information to the public
and stakeholders; (vii) organizing donor consultative meetings. Substantial progress has been
made in creating a professional team, however weaknesses have been noted that have resulted in
delays and losses. It i s therefore proposed to engage short and medium term TA inspecialist areas
to build capacity and a category has been included. This should strengthen the IDA-PCU to
absorb more responsibilities.

B.7.3 & B.7.4 Trainingfor Tanroadsand MOCT (US$0.81m, of which IDA US$0.81m)
Training i s an integral and ongoing process within TANROADS and MOCT Zanzibar. This
component will however be more focused and will aim at providing skills in areas that are
deficient particularly those identified during the institutional operation and management study.

B.7.5 Externaljinancial audit (US$0.27m, of which IDA US$0.25m and Gov US$O.O2m)
It is proposedthat, in conjunction with the Auditor-General, TANROADS will appoints auditors
from the private sector annually to audit the project. This component provides funds for this.

B.8 Operating costs (US$ 0.27m, ofwhich IDA US$0.24m and Gov US$0.03)
This item covers transaction mainly and other operational expenses related to the implementation
of the project through TANROADS.

Project Component C: Improved infrastructure of Tanzania Railway Corporation US$ 37.75 million
                                                                                 -
Concession Structure

The proposed Concession will include a 25-year lease for the TRC railway network, with the right to
manage and maintainthe network, and leaseof TRC locomotives and rolling stock. The concessionaire will
also have the exclusiveright on the TRC network to operate freight services and passenger services for the
period, with an obligation to supply designatedpassengerservices.
The concessionaire will operate freight and passenger services throughout the network and undertake the
integratedmaintenance, upgrading and operation of the infrastructureand rolling stock. It will earn access
fees from TRC and any other operator it may agree to provide access to. It will be incorporated in
Tanzania and will be regulatedby the Surface and Marine Transport Regulatory Authority (SUMATRA)
and will have to comply to the Railways Act 2002, as well as with local safety and environmental
regulation. During the duration of the lease, RAHCO will retain ownership of the land and railway
infrastructureand the leasedlocomotivesandrolling stock.
The payments associated with the concession have two components. The first component is a periodic
payment for the right to operate passenger and freight services. It is structuredas apercentageof the gross
revenues of the Concession Operator. The second payment component is a periodic lease payment for the
use of the infrastructure,denominatedinU S dollars andindexedagainst U S inflation.
Total investment requirementover the life of the concession is projectedto be around U$180- 200 million.
It is expected that these will be financed through: equity from the concessionaire, loans to the


                                                   - 33 -

concessioanire from financial institutions (both amounts to be determined), US$33 million through an IDA
credit specifically for track rehabilitation, and the balance through internally generated funds.
The Infrastructure Lease, for a period o f 25 years, covers the track and the buildings located on the land
included in the lease (such as locomotive and wagon maintenance depots), maintenance units, he1points,
terminals, yards and shunting facilities and sidings. The Concession Operator will be responsible for the
maintenance o f the infrastructure and for all train control and safety on the network. RAHCO will be
responsible for an initial capital program to upgrade some sections and for any emergency works required
under Force Majeure. RAHCO may also upgrade infrastructure andor extend the network using its own
finds duringthe leaseperiod.
The assets to be concessioned include all o f the TRC rolling stock, spares, plant and maintenance
equipment and office equipment, and some specialized facilities. The operational TRC diesel locomotive
fleet consists of 49 mainline locomotives, 20 branchline locomotives and 24 shunting locomotives. The
operational TRC vehicle fleet consists o f 166 vehicles and 1,424 wagons. In addition, there are 423
non-operational wagons. The concessioned assets includes plant and equipment for infrastructure and other
maintenance and all office computers, furniture and fittings. The concessionaire will select what he
requires, the rest shall be retainedby TRC to be disposed appropriately.
The concessionaire will be able to select those staff it requires for the operation o f the concession from
existing staff at all levels in TRC as part o f the package. All TRC employees re-employed by the
Concession Operator will have their terminal benefits frozen and paid by the Government on retirement and
will thus not cany over any leave or pension entitlements. The Concession Operator is required to engage
former TRC staff on terms that are at least equal to those which they enjoyed under TRC. The
concessionaire will have the right to reduce the staffing levels and any staff made surplus within two years
of the operation o f the concession would be paid by GOT at its own cost.
Periodic reviews will be conducted by RAHCO to ensure that the Concessionaire and the Concession
Operator have conformed with the terms o f the Lease and Concession Agreements and with the agreed
infrastructure work programs.
C.1 & C.2 Provision of rails, sleepers and other material(US$ 33.97m, of which IDA US$ 33m and
Gov US$0.97m)
A section of TRC's track, about 200k1n (almost all German 561b/yd rail) between Itigi - Tabora, has
completely outlived its useful engineering life and needs to be replaced at the earliest opportunity. The cost
of renewal is estimated at US$33 million. GOT has, assumed the responsibility for this renewal and the
commitment included inthe concession biddingdocument. It is proposed that TRC lay equivalent o f 25%
o f this renewal cost prior to concession and the 75% component be laid once the concession has been
signedwith fullparticipation o fthe operator. Some o fthe proposal included: (i) o f track by a Bank
                                                                                    relaying
financed contract; (ii)   relaying o f the track by the concessionaire using IDA financed rail and sleepers.
Technical approaches: (iii)   replacement o f the old rail and sleepers by new 801b track; (iv) replacement o f
the Dar - Morogoro        - Dodoma section with new 801b track and use o f the cascaded track on the
deteriorated section. Approaches (i)     and (iii) be the conventional approach, but (ii) (iv) would
                                                   would                                         and
provide significant operational improvements as well as leveraging investment from the concessionaire.
Rehabilitation through a contractor (i),   to be selected under the Project, would give complete responsibility
for the final outcome to one party. However, the track would be concurrently used by the concessionaire
for rail operations, and the renewal contract would be let through RAHCO rather than the concessionaire.
Such an arrangement is possible but it would require close coordination, detailed working arrangements
established in the renewal contract (for line closures, etc.) and could lead to tension, slow progress, and
even contractual problems. The alternative approach (ii)       would use IDA funds for the procurement o f the


                                                       - 34 -

track material (rails, ballast, sleepers and fastenings) and leave the concessionaire to undertake the actual
relaying o f the track. This would avoid the problems o f coordination.
TRC's long-term policy has been to renew the track with 80 lb rails (iii),    under the expectation that, in 20
years or so, the entire network would be renewed with 80 lb rails and axle-loads can be significantly
increased. Replacement with 601b rail would save little cost as such rail and the corresponding sleepers are
outdated and it would require special manufacture, at a relatively higher cost. It has thus been agreed to
renew with 801b material (as under RRP).
TRC's track consist o f 801b, 601b and 561b rails. The 801b rail allows heavier locomotives but the
potential cannot be used as the adjoining sections have lighter rail. Renewing the Itigi - Tabora section
would not allow heavier locomotives until, at the very least, the entire Dodoma -Tabora section was
relayed with 801b track. An alternative approach (iv) to renewal would be to relay the present 601b track
between Dar es Salaam and Morogoro or Dodoma with 801b rail, and then cascade the released track
(probably 60% is re-usable) to relay the Itigi - Tabora section.             This would generate substantial
operational benefits for the concessionaire as the gradients on the Morogoro section currently require
freight trains to be hauled by two locomotives, which could be replaced by one heavier, high-powered
locomotive. The cost o f the track materials for this section would be equivalent to a complete relaying
contract for the Itigi- Tabora section.
The altemative (iiand iv) would benefit the concessionaire who might thus be prepared to fund the cost o f
the civil works.However, the altemative will need to be finalized in consultation with RAHCO and the
preferred bidder, when identified. Ifthe procurement o f track materials is selected, the procurement would
be made in at least two tranches, linked to the progress on the relaying.
The base cost o f the component would be US$33.0 million with nominal contingency as TRC has made
several purchases o f rail recently (74% o f the total project cost, assuming that the concessionaire funds the
civil works).
These material shall be purchased in two steps: urgently needed rails, sleepers and other material will be
purchased by TRC as soon as the Environmental and Social Assessments requirements are met and for an
amount o f $8.50m; then the rest will be purchased after the concession agreement is signed, under an
agreement reached with the bidder and for an amount o f $25.50m.
C.3 Preparation of the Environmental and Social Assessments (US$ 0.54m, of which IDA US$ 0.5m
and Gov US$0.04m)
The TRC has prepared a TOR for the execution o f an environmental and social impact assessment. The
TOR was initially approved by ASPEN, however a review before launch has been recommended and
approval is expected in March 2004. A short list o f consultants has also been made and it is expected that
the RFP will be launched in March 2004. The plan is for the appointment o f the consultant to be made in
May immediately after the credit is approved. The funds for the study have been included in the credit.
Subsequent mitigation measures include clean up o f oil spills are discussed below.
(2.4 Environmentalclean-up and resettlement costs (US$ 0.44m, of which US$ 0.39m and Gov US$
0.04m)
The Environmental and Social Liability audit, undertaken as part o f the concession advisory services,
revealed oil pollution around TRC's workshop facilities and a number o f squatters inthe rail reserve. The
bidding documents indicated that GOT would take responsibility for existing liabilities and the
concessionaire would be responsible for any subsequent environmental or social liabilities.           GOT has
requested the Bank to assist with (i)  the clean-up o f existing pollution, and (ii) relocation o f squatters
                                                                                  the
Pollution Clean-up: Relatively limited areas around the main workshop facilities at Dar, Morogoro,


                                                      - 35 -

Moshi, Mwanza, and Tabora are contaminated by oil. The project will assist GOT to clean up the soil in
these areas, Provisional cost US$0.5 million
Resettlement Costs: Inline with OP4.12, IDA funds will not be used for cash compensations, including for
land, but for the cost of the assistance o f people out o f the right o f way o f TRC to other suitable locations
(such assistance will be provided by local NGOs).
C.5 Technical assistance for RAHCO, TRC and the proposed concessionaire (US$ 0.54m, of which
IDA US$0.5m and Gov US$0.04m)
The concessioning of TRC and the overall withdrawal o f the public sector from the provision o f transport
services has resulted in the need for new institutions to regulate the transport sector and monitor the
concession contracts, while a residual TRC will remain to liquidate the assets and resolve the outstanding
financial and legal liabilities. These are new roles/functions and the institutions will require some initial
assistance, inthe form of technical assistance and training, to become hlly established.
The Reli Asset Holding Company will be the lessor o f the TRC assets leasedto the concessionaire, and will
have the responsibilities o f keeping the asset register and monitoring the compliance o f the concessionaire
with the concession and lease agreements. Inaddition, RAHCO would be the implementing agency for any
capital works on the TRC rail network, financed by GOT. RAHCO is a limited liability company, wholly
owned by GOT. Assistance inthe form o f staff training, studies or technical assistance may be needed for
the establishment and capacity building o f RAHCO.
C.6 Technical assistance for the private sector participation in TAZARA Railway (US$ 2.15m, of
which US$2m and Gov US$0.15m)
A study is due to be commissioned inFebruary 2004 through a grant from the PPIAF to look into various
options that are available for the participation o f the private sector in the management o f the TAZARA.
TAZARA is an important railway that links the port o f Dar es Salaam to Zambia and the Southern and
South Eastern regions o f Tanzania. It is expected that the 6 months study will provide mechanism for the
privatization o f the rail. The funding earmarked will support the process including possibly the funding for
the transaction advisers and provision o f TA to guide the process.




                                                      - 36 -

                                             Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
                                   TANZANIA. Central Transport Corridor Project



 PartA: Upgrading of strategic road links
 Part3: Enhancing of road magement capacity
  Part C: Enhancement of the performance of Tanzanian
 Railways
  Part D: Partial Risk Guarantee
' Total  Baseline Cost
  Physical Contingencies
1 Price Contingencies                                                                                 3.08                  6.06                     9.14

I                                          Total Proiect Cost;                                       44.81               133.26                  178.07
I                                   Total Financing Rewired                                   I      44.81       I       133.26           I      178.07         I


I Works                                                                                       I        18.59     1             55.78      1             74.37    1
  Goods                                                                                                 4.20                   30.84                    35.04
  Services                                                                                            21.52                      6.05                   27.57
 ITraining                                                                                              0.24                     0.58                     0.82
  Operating costs                                                                                       0.27                     0.00                     0.27
  Partial Risk Guarantee                                                                                0.00                   40.00                    40.00
                                                            Total Project Cost;                        44.82                 133.25                    178.07
                                                 Total Financing Required                              44.82                 133.25                    178.07

    I
     Identifiable taxes and duties are 0 (US$m)and the total project cost, net of taxes, is 178.07 (US%m).Therefore, the project cost sharing ratio is 68.51% of
    total project cost net of taxes.




                                                                       - 37 -

                               Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary
                            TANZANIA Central Transport Corridor Project


A. Singida Shelui road
                -



  Road section     Pavingcompared Econ. costs (m%) Current traffic            EIRR (YO)         NPV (m%)
                          to...

Section A
Singida -Sekenke Regraveling                   2                 221              14.7            3.94
Diversion
(76.1 km)          Nothing                    23.5               221             28.0             27.95

Section B
Kinkungu Road      Regraveling                0.25               201              1.7             -4.55
(11.9 km)
                   Nothing                    8.6                201              10.8            -0.66



Sekenke            \Regraveling               0.6                 181             14.1            6.08

                                               6                  191             27.4            0.78

Based on these results, the decision has been made to choose the paving solution.


Main Assumptions:
Traffic Forecasts
The traffic forecasts are based on two types o f studies:
      - traffic counts and surveys, inorder to estimate the current Annual Average Daily Traffic (AADT)
and  -            carried out in 1999,2001 and 2002;
         traffic growth estimates, based on the economic growth rates projectionfor the next years,
growth-traffic             elasticity studies and diverted traffic estimates.
This study stated that the generateddiverted traffic should be around 78% o f the current traffic, ranging
from a low o f 43% to a highof 114%.
Vehicle Operating Costs.
The labor costs utilized for the calculation o f VOC are as follows:
         skilled labor for vehicle maintenance:      $ 3-48/hr
         vehicle crew wages:                         $1.14-3.1 /hr (according to vehicle category)
        passengerworking time:                       $ 0.25 /hr


                                                      - 38 -

        passenger non-working tome:               $ 0.05 Ihr

Maintenance strategies
Without Project
    re-gravelling: when gravel thickness is <=50mm--cost: $24.34 /m3
    grading: carried out every 12month--cost: $2,250 lkm
    routine maintenance: carried out as per local norms--cost $l,OOOh
With Project
    resealing: when surface damage is >=25% o f the carriageway, the resealing includes:
        ---- patching:
             double seal coat: cost $5.l/m2
             edge repairs: cost $11.9/m2
                      cost $ 10.0 /m2
             crack sealing: cost $ 6.0/m2
    pothole patching: when number o f potholes is >=25lkm-cost $1O.O/m2
    routine maintenance: carried out as per local norms---cost $1,42O/km

Methodology
For economic analysis purposes, the Project roadhas been divided inthree sections because to take unit
account the different construction cost per km, and vertical alignment. Furthermore the Project road has
been divided intwo lots according to the proposed contract strategy as presented below:

        Design Road Sections

      LOT              Section      Length                      Sub -section and change
                                      km
      Lot 1            Section   76.103     Singida Town, change from 1+278 to O+OO
                       1
                                            Singida- Sekenke Diversion, change from O+OO to 74+825
       Lot 2         Section 2    11.875   KinkunguRiver roadfrom chainage74+825 to 86+700
                     Section 3   21.449     Sekenke Confluence - Shelui, from chainage 86+700 to 108+149

The economic analysis o f proposed works for the project road has been carried out utilizing the HDM-4
model. Two levels o f analysis have been considered.
The first level compares the selected alternative of the Project road against the alternative
"Without Project". The second level compares separately the two lots o f the Project road against
the corresponding alternatives "Without Project".

Sensitivity analysis / Switching values of critical items:
a. SensitivityAnalysis
Two different sensitivity tests have been carried out, one considering possible changes inthe construction
costs and the other one measuring the impact o f traffic growth variations. It has gauged the effects o f the
above variations on the economic IRR.




                                                    - 39 -

                                               Base case High traffic Low traffic High costs Low costs
Traffic growth                                      5.50%        6.50%          4.50%
 Construction costs                                                                           20%          -20%
 Nothing                ElRR                      24.30%        27.60%         21-30%      20.90%        29.00%
                        NPV (m$)                     34.15        47.28          23.88
 Regraveling            ElRR                       12.13%       14.70%          9.60%      10.40%         14.40%
                        NPV (m$)                       0.17         6.98         -5.06

b. AdditionalBenefits

Farmers ' cost savings:Substantial cost savings are projected to accrue from upgrading the Singida-Shelui
road. Farmers are expected to adjust progressively to road upgrading because in agriculture there is a lag
time between a decision to produce and the production o f the final output. Delay may vary between two and
three years, although 50 to 65 % o f the adjustment towards the long-run equilibrium occurs in the first
year.
The region traversed by the Project road exports foodstuffs to both internal and external markets. Over the
period 1995-2000, the region has annually exported 256,000 ton o f crops.
Contribution to the national development generated by the Project Road:The improvement o f Project
road will also contribute to the development o f other sectors, namely the mining sector ,the international
and national road cargo industry and the tourism sector.
Mining sector: The Central Corridor, including the section Singida-Shelui is an important link to the
important gold mines o f Kahama, Nzega and Shinyanga andthe nickel deposits inNgara district.
Road cargo industry: All sections o f the Central Corridor, including Singida-Shelui are strategic for
cargoes coming from Rwanda, DRC and Burundiand from the interior o f Tanzania Mainland.
Tourism sector: Although no important parks are located along the Central corridor, it serves as connection
for the Great North, Western and Lake Circuit corridors that serve tourist destination. Along this corridor,
though are located archaeological sites with rock graffiti such as those in Singida region.

c. Risk Analysis
Risk analysis is most commonly performed by assigning probabilities o f occurrence to key parameters,
together with the evaluation o f the combined effects o f changes in the values o f each parameter. The
parameters to which the project is most sensitive are derived from the sensitivity analysis. In the case o f
Singida Shelui road section, the risk analysis has been carried out for changes in:
    -   construction costs
    -   traffic growth rates.
The uncertainties in construction costs occur frequently in the works implementation stage, particularly
when a long period elapses between the economic appraisal and the start o f the works. The probability o f
change in construction costs has been estimated on the basis o f past experience. The probability o f a
decrease or increase in cost o f construction turns around 20%. Traffic growth forecasts depend on a wide
number o f factors, such as economic growth and social, political and civil events, that exert a direct impact
on VOCs and road maintenance costs. The uncertainties about the traffic growth rates o f the present
project are related to the country's overall development trends. Inthe past ten years, economic growth has
been satisfactory. Consequently, it is assumed that there i s a 50% probability that the uncertainty in
forecasting traffic growth rates is lower or higher than the adopted traffic forecast.



                                                     - 4 0 -

B.Zanzibar road projects

Summary of Benefitsand Costs:

Three technical solutions (described in Annex 2) have been considered for each road section, and
independent economic analysis have been carried out. For section A (Mkwajuni-Nungwi) and C
(Paje-Pingwe), two alternatives have been considered, including (or not) the terminal sections to the fish
market, Michamvi and the access road. The table below summarizes the results o f the study.

 Roadsection      Technical      Invest. costs    Recurrent   Dailytraffic   EIRR(YO)        NPV (m%)
                    solution         (m%)         costs (m%)

RoadA                                                                                                    I


Mkwajuni  -     A-GWC-1              1.79            0.57         183            15.3          0.367
Nungwi (17.7
km)
                A-DSD-1              2.46            0.14         183            15.4          0.583
                A-Asph- 1            3.24            0.14         183            15.0           0.69
Access Road
Mkwaj.  - Fish
             -  A-GWC-2              1.79            0.57         183            11.8          -0.023

market (19.4
km)
                A-DSD-2              2.46             0.14        183             15.5         0.687
                A-Asph-2             3.51             0.14        183             14.9          0.771

RoadB
Matemwe -       B-GWC-1              1.65             0.75        88              12.1          0.013
Pongwe (21
km)
                B-DSD-1              2.88             0.1          88             12.5          0.162
                B-ASph-1             3.87             0.12         88             13.3          0.489

RoadC
Paje Pingwe C-GWC-1
    -                                1.29             0.32        188             17.4          0.425
(14.4 km)
                C-DSD-1              2.23             0.06        231             15.6          0.578
                C-Asph-1             2.86             0.07        231             15.8          0.774
Paje-           C-GWC-2              1.39             0.33        188             14.0          0.161

*m)
Michamvi (16.6

                C-DSD-2              2.38             0.06        231             13.6          0.255
                C-As~h-2             3.08             0.08        231             14.1          0.452

Based on these results, the decision has been made to choose the asphalt solution.

MainAssumptions:
a. Traffic Forecasts
The traffic forecasts are based on two types o f studies:



                                                    -41   -

   --   traffic counts and surveys, inorder to estimate the current Annual Average Daily Traffic (AADT);
        traffic growth estimates, based on the fuel imports statistics inthe last 10 years, assuming that the
share rate between power production and road transport will remain constant, and distorted in order to fit
local conditions. The estimated annual growth is 5% before distortion, andthen modified to 6% (Mkwajuni
-NungwiandPaje-Pingwe), 8% (passengersonPongwe-Matemwe) and 10%(freight onPongwe-
Matemwe).

b. Methodology
The economic analysis o f proposed works for the project road has been carried out utilizing the HDM-4
model. Its description can be found inthe preceding section regarding the evaluation o f the Singida-Shelui
road.
Sensitivity analysis / Switching values of critical items:
a. Sensitivity Analysis
Two sensitivity tests have been carried out consisting of:
         A 10-20% increase of construction costs,
        B      10-20% reduction o f traffic volumes,
The sensitivity analysis has gauged the effects o f the above variations on the economic IRR. Results are
summarized hereafter, three cases being considered: (+20,-0) for an increase by 20% o f the construction
costs and a decrease by 0% o f the traffic volumes, (+O,-20) and (+20,-20):




              (+20,-0)   (+O,-20)   (1-20,-20)  (+20,-0)   (+O,-20)   (+20,-20) (+20,-0)  (+0,-20)  (+20,-20)
A              12.68      12.57       10.42      12.33       12.53      9.75     12.71.     12.82     10.72
A+              9.58       9.13        7.2        12.7       12.92      10.08    12.72      12.67     10.71
B               9.99      10.14        8.21      10.44       10.67      8.69     11.59      11.76     10.19
c              14.45      14.29       11.71      12.59       12.53      9.75      13.4      13.33     11.19
c+          1I 11.41   II 11.18   II   8.9    II 10.68   I1  10.6   II  7.95     11.89      11.82      9.8


b. RiskAnalysis
The probability o f change in construction costs has been estimated on the basis o f past experiences. The
probability o f a decrease or increase in cost o f construction turns around 20%. Traffic growth forecasts
depend on a wide number o f factors, such as economic growth and a number o f social, political and civil
events, exerting a direct impact on VOCs and maintenance costs. The uncertainties about the traffic growth
rates o f the present project are related to the island's overall development trends. In the past ten years,
economic growth has been satisfactory. Consequently, it is assumed that there is a 50% o f probability that
the uncertainty inforecasting traffic growth rates is lower or higher thanthe adopted traffic forecast.

e. AdditionalBenefits
The main economic activity of the regions accessed by theses 3 roads is tourism. The access to not less
than 70 hotels will be rehabilitated, allowing fhrther economic growth. Additional benefits are also
expected inthe agriculture and fishery sectors, which will take advantage o f a faster access to the markets.

C.Railways

 1.      The economic rate o f return (ERR) has been computed by ascertaining the costs and benefits o f the


                                                       - 42 -

"With" and "Without" Project scenarios for a 20lyear period. Inall probability, the implementation o f the
Project could commence from January 1,2005. The "With" and "Without" Project scenarios are discussed
below.

2.       The "With Project" scenario will have the following key features:

(a)      Project commencement: The project implementation is scheduled to commence on January 1,
2005. It is assumed that the concessionaires would commence operations during the year 2005, most
probably by January 1,2005; Year 2005 has also been assumed to be first year o f the economic analysis;

(b)      Implementation of physical investments:         The Project funds allocated for track rehabilitation
would be utilized during the first two years o f the concession, i.e., before December 31, 2005. With the
resulting improvement in the condition o f the track, availability o f wagons, reliability o f locomotives, the
traffic during the year 2005 is projected to increase from the one projected in year 2004, i.e., 1.4 million
tons, to 1.6 million tons. Assuming an average lead o f 10000 kms, the traffic during the first year o f
analysis would amount to 1600million ntkm duringthe year 2005;

(c)      Disbursement of staffretrenchment funds: GOTis usingits own funds for staff rationalization and
these would be available for disbursement as soon as the concession becomes operational, Le., during the
early 2005. All the funds for staff retrenchment are, therefore, assumed to be disbursed during the first two
years o f the Project;
(d)      TrafJic projections:      Track rehabilitation is scheduled for the first two years o f Project
implementation. The freight traffic during the first year o f the Project, Le., 2005, is estimated at 1.6 million
tons. Further investments and an efficient private management could lead to a further substantial shift in
the freight traffic from road to rail. During later years, the traffic could grow at a compounded rate o f
14%. This is based on a commodity wise analysis. However, for the economic analysis, traffic growth has
been conservatively estimated at 10% per year for the first three years only, starting with 1.6 million tons
or 1600 million ntkmequivalent inthe first year as indicated above. This reflects a shift intraffic from road
to rail. Thereafter, the traffic has been estimated to grow by 3% every year, reflecting economic growth;

(e)      Operating costs: The operating cost for a well performing TR at the level o f 1.6 million tons o f
freight traffic has been estimated by the consultants as US$57 million (excluding depreciation);

(f)      Staffcosts: The current staff level is about 8,800 and the concessionaire is likely to operate with
3000 staff.

(g)       Variable costs:   Variable costs have been assumed to reduce by 10% each in the first two years
and, thereafter, remain constant. 20% reduction in variable costs is considered quite achievable. The
reductions are expected to be effected in the areas o f consumption o f fuel, spare parts, wastage control,
more economical procurement through long-term contracts, better inventory control, and more effective
utilization o f operating assets;

(h)      Fixed costs:    Fixed costs have been assumed to reduce by 10% each in the first two years and,
thereafter, remain constant. 20% reduction in futed costs is considered quite achievable. The reductions
are expected to be effected in the areas o f infrastructure maintenance more economical procurement o f
fittings and parts by use o f long-term contracts and better inventory control, better quality control leading
to reduced wear, derailments, and accidents, better control o f working capital, and better utilization o f fixed
assets. However, with the increase in traffic, the unit costs would show a decline due to the futed costs
being shared by higher traffic. It is also assumed that the concessionaires would not need to engage more
staff or operating assets for the increased traffic, which will be taken care o f through increased staff and
resource productivity. It is assumed that the concessionaires would not need to engage more operating



                                                       - 43 -

assets for the increased traffic, which will be takencare o f through increased resource productivity;
(9       Investments by the concessionaires: Even though the concessionaires' strategy for investment can
not be anticipated, a good guess would be that the concessionaires would invest whatever is needed to
rehabilitating the railway assets so as to cater fully to the railway demand. The present management has
estimated the investments to be close to US$60 inaddition to the US$33 million to be provided through the
credit.   For the purpose o f analysis, it has been assumed that the concessionaires would make the
investment o f US$60 million spread over a period o f 6 years.
0)       Repatriation by the concessionaires:          Based on the concessioning experience elsewhere in
sub-Saharan Africa, the concessionaires normally expect between 30 and 40% return on their equity
investments. Assuming that the concessionaire will be able to raise loans at Labor+risk allowance, an
average return on the concessionaire's investment (2/3rd loan plus 1/3rd equity) o f 25% has been assumed.
Since the concessionaires are most likely to be foreigners, the return on capital payments have been
deducted from the net cash flow to arrive at the benefits available to the economy.

(k)      Road costs: The road costs have been assumed to be US$.O8/ntkm. These are estimated on the
basis o f the tariffs charged by the road hauliers as generally assessed. These are assumed to reduce to
US$.O7/ntkm over the next five years as a result o f road improvements and better management by road
hauliers when faced with competition from a privatized railway;

(1)      Project benefits taken into account:        Two benefits o f the Project have been considered in
computing ERR: (i) avoidance cost for additional traffic as in the absence o f the Project, the
                        road
additional traffic would have continued to move by road; and (ii)     reduction inthe unit cost o f operation for
the existing traffic. However, recognizing that the road users might lose some benefits in shifiing to rail,
the overall benefits have been reduced by a factor o f .5 inthe base case; and

(m)      Project benefits not taken into account: There would be other economic benefits, which have not
been taken into account for the economic analysis because even without these benefits, the ERR is far
above the acceptable level. These include: (a) increase inpassenger traffic and revenues; (b) redeployment
o f retrenched staff elsewhere in the economy (estimated to be about 20% o f the retrenched staff not
employed by the concessionaires; (c) more productive use o f non-core assets o f the railways; and (d)
reduced environmental degradation, railways being considered less polluting than road.
4.       For the "Without Project" scenario, it is assumed that:
(a)      All staff currently employed by TRC would be retained and no staff would be retrenched since no
financing would be available for the same; however the staff would get reduced at the rate o f 3% per year
as a result o f normal attrition until it reaches the level o f about 6,000, considered necessary for operating
the railways;
(b)      The railway management would not be able to make any investments in the system. However, in
that case, the system could wither away very fast andmight even close down altogether. Therefore, for the
purpose o f this analysis, it has been assumed that, somehow, the company would invest US$2.0 million per
year over a period o f 10 years;
(c)      The freight traffic would decline at a rate o f 4% per annum due to inadequate investments and
inadequate maintenance; and
(d)      The staff-related costs would reduce as a result o f 3% reduction o f staff due to normal attrition.
The fixed costs are assumed to remain the same but the unit costs for this component would increase due to
the declining traffic; and
(e)      The fixed and variable costs are assumed to remain constant.

5.       The ERR in the base case is estimated as 45% (see table 4B.1 for estimates of unit costs in the
"with" and the "without" scenarios, and 4B.2 for ERRfor the base case scenario).


                                                       - 44 -

6.      Sensitivity analysis. The ERRSfor various pessimistic and optimistic plausible combinations are
indicated below:
(a)     With traffic growth under the "With" scenario restricted to 0% per year for the first three years
andthen 3% per year: 40% (Table 4B.3);
(b)     With traffic growth as inthe Base case but the no reduction inthe variable and fixed costs: 38%.
(Table 4B.4);
(c)     With both (a) and (b) together: 34% (Table 4B.5);
(d)     With traffic growth under the "With" scenario being 5% per year for the first three years andthen
3% per year: 48% (Table 4B.3);

Summary o f NPV and ERR for different scenarios

                Base            Sensitivity    Sensitivity      Sensitivity     Sensitivity
N P V                           One            Two              Three           Four
USDMillion      185              160           168              137             202
ERR             45              40             38               34              48




                                                 - 45 -

                               Annex 5: Financial Summary
                        TANZANIA Central Transport Corridor Project
                                     Years Ending


                         IYear1  I year2    I Year3    I Year4   I year5  IYear6  IYear 7
Total Financing
Required
 Project Costs
  Investment Costs          41.9      41.9        34.9       14.0      7.0     0.0    0.0
 Recurrent Costs             0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0
Total Project Costs         41.9       41.9       34.9       14.0      7.0     0.0     0.0
Total Financing             41.9       41.9       34.9       14.0      7.0     0.0     0.0
Financing
   IBRDllDA                 36.6       36.6       30.5       12.2      6.1    0.0      0.0
   Government                3.5         3.5       2.9        1.2      0.6    0.0      0.0
       Central               3.5         3.5       2.9        1.2      0.6    0.0      0.0
       Provincial            0.0         0.0       0.0        0.0      0.0    0.0      0.0
   Co-financiers              1.5        1.5       1.3        0.5      0.3    0.0      0.0
User FeeslBeneficiaries      0.0         0.0       0.0        0.0      0.0    0.0      0.0
Other                        0.0         0.0       0.0        0.0      0.0    0.0      0.0
Total Project Financing     41.6       41.6       34.7       13.9      7.0    0.0      0.0




Total Financing
Required
Project Costs
   Investment Costs          0.0       0.0         0.0        0.0      0.0    0.0      0.0
   Recurrent Costs           0.0       0.0         0.0        0.0      0.0    0.0      0.0
Total Project Costs          0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0      0.0    0.0      0.0
Total Financing              0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0      0.0    0.0      0.0
Financing
   IBRDllDA                  0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0      0.0    0.0      0.0
   Government                0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0      0.0    0.0      0.0
       CentraI               0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0      0.0    0.0      0.0
      Provincial             0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0      0.0    0.0      0.0
   Co-financiers             0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0      0.0    0.0      0.0
User FeeslBeneficiaries      0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0      0.0    0.0      0.0
Other                        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0      0.0    0.0      0.0
Total Project Financing      0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0      0.0    0.0      0.0


Main assumptions:



                                            -46-

                            Annex 6(A): Procurement Arrangements
                       TANZANIA: Central Transport Corridor Project

Procurement
   A. Procurement

   1. OngoingProcurementReform

   1.1 The procurement system in Tanzania has been under reform over the last 4 years based on the
   recommendations of the 1996 Country Procurement Assessment Report (CPAR).              The Government
   enacted a Procurement Law inFebruary 2001 replacing all previous procurement legislation. The Act
   became effective on July 1,2001, Intandem, the Government also issuedthe Regulations intwo parts:
   (a) Procurement o f Goods and Works; and (b) Selection and Employment o f Consultants. In mid
   November 2002, the Government issued a set o f Standard Bidding Documents (SBD) comprising o f
   (a) Procurement o f Goods through International Competitive Bidding; (b) Procurement o f Health
   Sector Goods; (c) Standard Request for Proposal; (d) Standard Pre-qualification Document for
   Procurement o f Works; (e) Procurement o f Works through National Competitive Bidding; and (f)
   Procurement o f Works, Smaller Contracts. These documents were reviewed during the 2003 Country
   Procurement Assessment Report (CPAR) and found to be consistent with good public procurement
   practice.

   1.2 The following are among the recommendations made during 2003 CPAR: (a) establishing a
   Procurement Authority responsible for oversight o f public procurement; (b) decentralizing procurement
   to ministries, departments, and government agencies (MDAs); (c) changing the legal framework to
   include private sector representatives in the Public Procurement Appeals Authority; and (d) replacing
   the supplies officers with Procurement Specialists, a new position in the public sector rating system.
   The final report including all recommendations, was submitted to the Government by end o f April 2003
   for implementation. The Government has drafted an action planto implement these recommendations.
   The Government will table the proposed amendment to the current Law to reflect the 2003 CPAR
   recommendations to the Parliament inApril 2004 session.

   1.3 Based on the CPAR findings, the procedures and practices o f procurement in Zanzibar need
   substantial improvement. At present, procurement capacity in the Zanzibar Government is almost
   nonexistent. There is an Act to establish a Central Tender Board (CTB), but the Act only provides for
   the organization, and does not deal with any o f the procedures o f procurement. While the Central
   Tender Board Act became effective on July 1, 2002, the relevant regulations have not yet been issued.
   Although, established by Act, CTB is not yet h c t i o n i n g since the members have not been appointed.
   As an interim measure, following the 2003 CPAR recommendations, the Ministry o f Finance and
   Economic Affairs has issued interim instructions authorizing ministries to approve all contracts. The
   Ministry o f Finance and Economic Affairs has also drafted a new Public Procurement Bill to repeal
   and replace the Central Tender Board Act o f July 2002. The draft procurement bill is not consistent
   with the recommendations o f the 2003 CPAR, which to some extent is a reflection o f the lack o f
   understanding o f the CPAR recommendations.

   2. Use of Bank Guidelines

   2.1. Procurement o f civil works and goods will be carried out in accordance with the Guidelines:
  Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits (January 1995 edition- revised January and



                                                  - 4 7 -

August 1996,September 1997, and January 1999). Bank's Standard BiddingDocuments (SBD) and
Standard Bid Evaluation Forms for works and goods under Intemational Competitive Bidding (ICB)
will be used. Since the Government has prepared Standard Bidding Documents for procurement o f
works and goods the Government may use these documents for procurement o f works and goods under
National Competitive Bidding (NCB).

2.2. Selection o f consultants will be carried out in accordance with the Guidelines: Selection and
Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers (January 1997 edition            - revised September
1997, January 1999, and May 2002). Bank standard Request for Proposals (RFP) and evaluation
forms will be used where applicable.

3. Advertising

3.1. A General Procurement Notice (GPN) was published in March 2003 in the UN Development
Business (UNDB), Development Gateway's dgMarket, and in a daily national newspaper o f wide
circulation. The Government has updated the GPN to reflect the inclusion o f railways component in
this project.   The updated GNP will be published in UNDB online and Development Gateway's
dgMarket immediately after negotiations. Invitation to prequalify for large civil works as well as other
Specific Procurement Notices (SPN) for goods and works to be procured under I C B and N C B and for
consultant services will be published in a daily national newspaper o f wide circulation.           Such
invitations shall also be published in UNDB online and in dgMarket inorder to get broadest interest
possible from bidders. The date for SPN should coincide with the date that the bidding documents are
available for purchase by interestedbidders. The Government shall advertise a request for expressions
o f interest for each contract for consulting firms in a national newspaper o f wide circulation. Large
consulting services shall be advertised inUNDB online and in dgMarket. The Government may also
advertise requests for expressions o f interest in an international newspaper or a technical magazine.
Not less than 14 days from date o f posting on UNDB online shall be provided for responses, before
preparation o f the short list.

4. ProcurementCapacity

4.1. A procurement capacity was carried out to assess the capacity o f implementing agencies, which
will be responsible for implementing the project. This project basically, has two major components,
namely, road and rail. Inaccordance with proposed implementation arrangements, procurement o f the
road component will be carried out by Tanzania National Roads Agency (TANROADS) through
IDA-Coordination Project Unit (IDNCPU) and the rail component will be carried out by Tanzania
Railways Corporation (TRC) during the initial stages until RAHCO becomes operational.                 The
Zanzibar road works will be executed by the Ministry o f Communication and Transport through their
office for Coordination o f Donor Aided Projects (CODAP) under the supervision o f IDA-CPU.
CODAP has 3 qualified Engineers with procurement experience, specifically working on World Bank
Project. Besides, there are 2 qualified Civil Engineers under the Roads Commission, who will provide
technical backstopping, particularly for this project.

4.2. IDNSDP is charged with procurement and contract management o f projects financed by IDA and
other donors. The unit is also responsible for financial management related matters including, inter
alia; processing payments to contractors, suppliers, and consultants; processing replenishment
applications; preparation o f financial statement; and facilitation o f audits.
qualified Civil Engineers inclusive o f the head o f unit. Also it comprises o f one Social Scientist; one
                            -                                                    The unit has eight (8)

Environmental Specialist; one Transport Economist; and 4 Accountants. In addition, the unit is at


                                                 - 48 -

present supported by three (3) Technical Assistants (TAs) one inprocurement and two (2) incontract
                                                            -
management. Their contracts expire in June 2004. Four (4) out o f 8 civil engineers have adequate
experience in procurement o f works and selection o f consultants. Currently, the four (4) engineers are
fully devoted to activities related to Tanzania Second IntegratedRoadsProject (IRPII) another project
                                                                                         -
financed by IDA   - and  will be also responsible for implementation o f this project. IRPIIcloses on June
30, 2004.

4.3. TANROADS has a Procurement Unit (PU) that oversees procurement activities o f the
organization. The size o f the unit is small, presently staffed by 3 procurement specialists inclusive o f
Head o f the Unit. Among activities being handled by P U include, inter alia; (a) to advise the user
departments on matters related to procurement and contract management; (b) review o f the draft
procurement documents     - bidding  documents, Request for Proposals (RFPs), contract documents, etc.;
(c) record keeping o f procurement files; and (d) serves as a secretariat to the TANROADS' Tender
Board in accordance with PPA. TANROADS has a Tender Board (TB) that is chaired by the Chief
Executive Officer. The TB consists o f five (5) members drawn from within and two (2) extemally.
Currently, the TB has limitedauthority to award contracts inaccordance with the thresholds outlined in
the Regulations. To expedite procurement processes for this project, inthe meantime, while waiting for
amendment o f the procurement Law, TANROADS has requested for full authority from the Minister
for Finance so that its TB will in future award contracts without making reference to the Central
Tender Board (CTB).        This is in line with GOT'Sfull decentralization contained in 2003 CPAR
recommendations. In2003, DAWASA was given a full authority; TANROADS may cite DAWASA's
precedent to justify their request.

4.4 The Independent Procurement Review (IRP) carried out in December 2002 as part o f the CPAR
indicated that generally TANROADS has inadequate record keeping and filing systems. Preliminary
observations from the ongoing Procurement Post Review (PPR) is that procurement files are kept by
each user department, and sometimes it is very difficult to retrieve information during procurement
audit. TANROADS is currently working towards improving filing andrecord keeping.

4.5 Before RAHCO is,formed and fully operational, TRC will be responsible for procurement o f rails,
steel railways sleepers, and fittings. Day to day procurement will be done by a unit that was
responsible for procurement during execution o f the Railways Restructuring Project (RRP), the
previous World Bank funded project. The Credit for this project closed on December 31, 2002.
Currently this unit has a Procurement Specialist, who is a qualified civil engineer and two (2) support
staff,    The Procurement Specialist has rich experience in procurement gained during the
implementation o f the RRP. Presently he is responsible for preparation o f the railways component.

5. ProcurementPlan

5.1. The Government has prepared a procurement plan for works and services covering the entire
project period. A specific procurement plan for the first 2 years o f implementation will be agreed
with TANROADS and TRC. The procurement plan will include relevant information on all goods,
works, and consulting services expected to be procured, and their estimated cost; procurementhelection
methods as well as timing and whether is a post or prior review contract. TANROADS and TRC will
submit for review by March 31 o f each year specific annual procurement plans for the 12 subsequent
months that will include contract packaging, estimated costs, types o f contract, procurement methods
and procurement schedules.

6. ProcurementImplementationArrangements


                                                  - 49 -

6.1 The implementing agencies are TANROADS, MOCT, Zanzibar and TRCRAHCO. Procurement
o f component falling under TANROADS will be done by IDA-CPU. Also, this unitwill be responsible
for supervision o f the other two implementing entities. The Zanzibar works will be executed by the
Ministry of Communication and Transport through the office of Coordination office for Donor Aided
Project (CODAP). This is the same arrangement currently being followed for implementation o f IRPII
that is due to close on June 30, 2004. Based on the results o f the procurement capacity assessment, it
is considered that I D N C P U has adequate capacity in procurement and reasonable staff, who has
adequate experience inprocurement to continue providing technical back-stopping to CODAP in areas
o f procurement, and contract administration. Day to day procurement o f TRC component will be done
by the office o fthe Project Coordinator.

7. ProcurementMethods

Specific procurement arrangements are summarized in Tables A and Al, and are briefly described
below.

7.1. Works: [estimated to cost IDA a total of US$66.94million including contingencies].
The civil works will comprise o f : the upgrading o f 110 km o f Singida-Shelui road from gravel to
bitumen standard that will be implemented in 3 packages; the reconstruction o f 59 km o f roads in
Zanzibar; and the building o f a new headquarter for TANROADS. Works related to upgrading o f
roads will be procured following ICB procedures. Pre-qualification o f civil works contractors will be
done for large contracts costing US$ 10 million equivalent or above per contract. The process has
already started for Singida-Shelui road and pre-qualification o f Contractors for package 3 contract is at
an advanced stage while for the other 2 packages it is currently ongoing. Civil works contracts costing
more than US$5 million equivalent per contract will be procured through International Competitive
Bidding (ICB).     Domestic Preference will be applicable to local contractors bidding for contracts
through ICB.      Civil works contracts costing less than US$5 million equivalent per contract will be
procured through National Competitive Bidding(NCB).

7.2. Goods: [estimated to cost IDA a total of US$34.00 million including contingencies].
Goods to be procured are for the creation o f a Wide Area Network for TANROADS; and the provision
o f rails, steel railways sleepers, and fittings to TRC; and the rehabilitation o f 5 ferries. Goods
estimated to cost US$500,000 equivalent and above per contract will be procured through International
Competitive Bidding (ICB).      Individual contracts costing less than US$500,000 equivalent will be
procured through National Competitive Bidding (NCB) procedures. Other goods with an estimated
value o f less than US$50,000 equivalent per contract may be procured through National and
International Shopping or, the UNDP Inter-Agency Procurement Services Office (IAPSO), based on
comparing price quotations from at least three suppliers in accordance with IDA Procurement
Guidelines (paragraph 3.5 June 9, 2000 Memorandum "Guidance on Shopping" issued by the Bank).
Request for such quotations will be in writing, and will include time and place for delivery o f the
quotations, a clear descriptiodspecifications and quantity o f the goods; as well as requirements for
delivery time, place for delivery o f goods, and installation requirements as appropriate. The request for
quotations should be sent to at least three reputable suppliers, however, it may be better to approach up
to five suppliers because not all three suppliers may respond, so that at least three competitive
quotations are received.

7.3 Consultants: [estimated to cost IDA US$20.82 million including contingencies and US$ 6
millionfunded by NDF].


                                                 - 50 -

Consulting services required for implementation o f the project including technical assistance's, and
supervision o f works are shown below.          All consulting services contracts costing more than
US$200,000 equivalent for f m s will be awarded on the basis o f Quality and Cost Based Selection
(QCBS) procedures in accordance with Part I1o f the Guidelines. Short lists for contracts costing less
than US$200,000 equivalent may consist of national firms only in accordance with provision of
paragraph2.7 o f the Guidelines provided that at least three qualified f m s are available at competitive
costs. However, if foreign firms have expressed interest, they will not be excluded from consideration.
Consulting services contracts o f standard or routine nature, e.g., audits, costing less than US$200,000
equivalent for firms will be awarded on the basis o f Least Cost Selection (LCS) method in accordance
with provision o f paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 o f the Guidelines. Consulting service contracts estimated to
cost less than US$lOO,OOO equivalent to be awarded to consulting f m s may be awarded according to
the Consultants' Qualifications selection method in accordance with provision o f paragraphs 3.1 and
3.7 o f the Guidelines. In addition all contracts awarded under Single Source Selection (SSS) will be
subject to IDA review in accordance with procedures in Appendix Io f the Consultant Guidelines.
Individual consultants will be selected in accordance with the Guidelines in Part V. In exceptional
cases, and after the Bank's prior agreement, services that meet the requirements o f paragraphs 3.8 to
3.11o f the Guidelines, may be awarded on Single-Source selection basis.
7.4 Training Programs including workshops are geared toward capacity building, information
sessions, and improving management skills. Training programs will be part o f the Project's Annual
Work Plans and will be included inannual procurement plan. The annual training program (including
proposed budget, participants, location o f training, and other relevant details) will be reviewed by the
Bankbefore trainingbegins.

8. Prior Review Thresholds (Table B)

8.1. Table B gives the thresholds for Bank prior reviews:
Works: Each contract for civil works estimated to cost US$l,OOO,OOO equivalent or more will be
subject to prior review in accordance with the procedures o f Appendix Io f the Guidelines.

Goods: Each contract for goods estimated to cost US$ 500,000 equivalent o f more will be subject to
prior review with the procedures o f Appendix Io f the Guidelines.

Consultants Services: Consultancy contracts with firm estimated to cost US$200,000 equivalent or
more, and consultancy contracts for individuals estimated to cost US$lOO,OOO equivalent or more will
be subject to prior review in accordance with procedures set forth in Appendix Io f the Consultants
Guidelines. In addition all contracts awarded under Single Source Selection (SSS) will be subject to
IDA review inaccordance with procedures inAppendix Iof the Consultant Guidelines. Training and
exceptional extensions o f non-prior review contracts raising their values to levels equivalent or above
the prior review thresholds will also be subject to prior reviews.

Contracts, which are not subject to prior review will be selectively reviewed by the Bank duringproject
implementation and will be governed by the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 o f Appendix Ito the
relevant Guidelines.    All documentation used for the procedures o f contracting, employment o f
consulting services, evaluation and award shall be retained for subsequent examination by auditors and
IDA supervision missions.

9. Overall Procurement RiskAssessment


                                                 - 51 -

     9.1.The overall procurement risk assessment for the project at both levels is rated Average and the
     following action planis designed to mitigate the average procurement risk.

                                             Action                                                 Deadline          I   Responsible

           railways componentsincludingfirm andmonitorabledates
           Publishtheupdated GeneralProcurementNotice (GPN) to reflectthe inclusion
                                                       .    .                         I Done                          ITANROADSand
           ofthe railwayscomponent                                                                                     BANK
           Finalize InternalInstructions                                                July 2004                      TANROADS
          IReviewthe   overalluroiectmocurementcaoacitvfor bothTANROADS and           I December2004                  ITANROADS
          CODAP and ifrequiredrechit ProcuremeitSpdcialiststo reinforcetheir capacity.
           ImproveTANROADS archivingsystemfor ease ofreference                          July 2004                      TANROADS

            Harmonizeprocurementfunctions by amalgamating PUandIDNSpecific              Processto start inJuly 2004    TANROADS
            Donors Unit
           Conducttraining for procurementstaffofPU, IDNSpecific DonorsUnit, TRC,     DuringProject implementation-On TANROADS /IDA
          andmembersofthe TBs                                                         going activity.
          Conducttrainingfor procurementandcontractmanagement staff indispute         Duringprojectimplementation      TANROADS /IDA



 10. Frequencyof procurementsupervisionmissionsproposed: Once every six months (includes special
procurement supervision for post-review/audits)

 Procurement methods (Table A)




4. Training                                         0.00                    0.00                   0.81             0.00            0.81
                                                   (0.00)                   (0.00)               (0.81)            (0.00)         (0.81)
5. Operating costs                                  0.00                    0.27                   0.00             0.00            0.27
                                                   (0.00)                   (0.23)               (0.00)             (0.00)        (0.23)
   Total                                          103.43                     6.27                 22.37              6.00         138.07
                                                  (96.37)                   (4.80)              (20.82)             (0.00)       (121.99)


   Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, servicesof
   contracted staff ofthe project managementoffice, training, technical assistance services, and incrementaloperating
   costs related to (i)managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.




                                                                - 52 -

                     Table A I: Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
                                      (US$ million equivalent)




'
\Includingcontingencies

         Note:QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
               QBS = Quality-based Selection
               SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
               LCS = Least-CostSelection
               CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
               Other Selection of individual consultants (IC) (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines),
               Commercial Practices, etc.
               N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
               Figures in parenthesesare the amounts to be financed by the Bank Credit.




                                               - 53 -

Prior review thresholds (Table B)

                 Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review'

                                   Cont
                                      Th

                                      >5,000,000                      ICB                       All contracts
                                   <5,000,000 but                    NCB                        All contracts
                                      >1,000,000
                                      <1.ooo.ooo                     NCB                        Postreview

                                       >500,000                       ICB                       All contracts
                                       <500,000                      NCB                        Postreview
                                        <50,000                   NS/IS/IAPSO                   Postreview
3. Services
Firms                                  >200,000                      QCBS                       All contracts
                                       <200,000                  QCBS/LCS/CQ                    Postreview
individuals                            All values                     sss                       All contracts
                                       >100,000                         IC                      All contracts
                                       <100,000                         IC                      Postreview
                                       All values                      sss                      All contracts

                Total value of contracts subject to prior review: US$lZO.OO million
                          Overall Procurement Risk Assessment:           Average
      Frequency of procurementsupervisionmissionsproposed: One every 6 months
                                                                         (includesspecialprocurement supervisionfor
                                                                         post-review/audits)


"Thresholds generally differ by country andproject. Consult "Assessment of Agency's Capacityto Implement
 Procurement"and contactthe RegionalProcurementAdviser for guidance.




                                                    - 54 -

             Annex 6(B): Financial Management and DisbursementArrangements
                          TANZANIA: Central Transport Corridor Project

Financial ManaPement
1. Summary ofthe FinancialManagement Assessment

1.1      Country Risks

A Country Financial Accountability Assessment (CFAA), carried out in2001, concluded that: "signzjkant
advances have been made in Tanzania in the last few years, particularly in terms of accounting and
expenditure control as well the introduction of the Medium Term Expenditure Framework (MTEF).
Equally there are other areas, which for various reasons, have not advanced as quickly, such as the
standing and capacity of the national audit ofice or the ability of the anti corruption/ethics bodies to
undertake their duties effectively. Generally, Tanzania has a sound system of formal rulesfor financial
management and many of these rules have recently been updated and strengthened."

GOThas clearly made great steps in improving financial management and through the revised Public
Financial Management Reform Programme (PFMRP) sets out a methodology to carry the process forward.
These initiatives are significantly supported by the donor community at, for instance, the Accountant
General and the Office o f the Controller and Auditor General as well as the Accounting Departments o f a
number o f line ministries. The speed o f progress o f implementation and integration o f the IFMS and the
legislative changes has however left a number o f gaps, which unless filled, will negate the benefits o f the
achievements o f the recent past. In addition, issues o f non-compliance, limited execution, inadequate
monitoring, insufficient capacity and lack o f enforcement need to be resolved. Theses issues indicate that
inadequate financial accounting and auditing systems both at central and local govemment level pose a high
fiduciary risk. Priority issues identified in the CFAA include strengthening o f planning and budgeting,
improved govemance and integrity, strengthening o f local government financial management and
maintenance of high standards o f financial reporting and auditing. The country's financial accountability
framework, and therefore financial management, would be considerably more effective and the associated
fiduciary risk mitigated, if these areas were strengthened. The PFMRP, which is soon to be launched, is
designed to address these weaknesses.

1.2      Project Risks

The 2001 and 2002 audited financial statements and management letters o f the forerunner IRP-I1project
identified areas requiring improvement      to strengthen accounting procedures and the internal control
system. In addition, World Bank missions discussed with TANROADS the need for proper contract
management o f the supervision consultants, and indicated that unless the client carryout its contract
management responsibilities, the desired effects o f the works contracts are reduced and the objectives o f the
project not met. At the request o f the Road Fund Board an interim audit for the year ended 30 June 2002
was conducted early in2002 by the Office o f the CAG. The scope o f the work included audit testing for all
implementing agencies, including TANROADS.               Again, the audit report identified a number o f
accountability issues andweaknesses which need to be addressed.

1.3      Main Strengths and Weaknesses

The project financial management is strengthened by the following salient features:
         TANROADS is a registered Executive Agency, having to comply with strict financial



                                                     -55 -

accountability requirements. The track record o f the institution is above average - it had unqualified
audit reports              since it had been established in2000
        The accounting personnel is adequately qualified and well experienced.
        The TANROADS accounting system is based on a well functioning computerized, double entry,
        accrual-based system.
        The entity has an Accounting Procedures Manual, which describes the intemal control system that
has     been inplace since its establishment.
        The project is a follow-on project and hence the key accounting staff with experience o f World
Bank    requirements is retained.

The project financial management is weakened by the following salient features. TANROADS has though
made progress inaddressing them as indicated:
        The staff in the IDNSDP unit have not implemented the new EPICOR system yet. Teething
problems may jeopardize timely and accurate financial reporting. However, significant progress has been
made in integrating the units accounting into EPICOR and at the time o f negotiations the system was being
tested inpreparation for full integration before July 2004.
        Poor linkages exist between physical progress and financial outcomes.             There is a need to
develop/procure and implement a Project Management System compatible with the FM System. During
appraisal it was confirmed that a draft TOR for the procurement o f system has been prepared.
         The Accounting Procedures Manual (April 2000 version) needs to be completely updated in the
light of practical experience and emerging requirements since the establishment of TANROADS. Good
progress has beenmade inupdating the manual and it is expected to be issuedinJune 2004.

The measures taken will minimize the impact of the weaknesses and the following is a description of how
they will function:

1.4      Financial Management System and Reporting

Organizational Structure

A dedicated unit established within TANROADS is in charge o f specific projects including IDA financed
projects. It i s intended to gradually integrate the unit into the organizations overall management structure.
However, the I D N C P U unit will initially take full responsibility for project FM reporting under the
supervision o f the Director o f the Finance and Administration Division (FAD). During project execution it
shall coordinate project implementation andmanage:
(a)      procurement, including purchases o f goods, works, and consulting services,
(b)      project monitoring, reporting and evaluation;
(c)      contractual relationships with IDA and other co-financiers; and
(d)      financial management and record keeping, accounts and disbursements.

The Chief Executive Officer o f TANROADS will be the "Accounting Officer" for the project, assuming
the overall responsibility for accounting for the project funds.

Currently a significant proportion o f the funding for the roads network is received from Development
Partners and TANROADS has an obligation to demonstrate to the Development Partners that their funds
are being effectively managed and fully accounted.          Although this project may be regarded to be a
follow-up project, the FM arrangements differ significantly from the previous project and are therefore
subject to a complete FMassessment.


                                                      - 56 -

Financial/Accounting Procedures Manual

The project financial management will be based on the system documented inthe TANROADS Accounting
Procedures Manual, covering financial policies and procedures, accounting and internal control system,
financial reporting, flow o f funds and auditing arrangements.

The Accounting Procedures Manual (April 2000 version) is being updated in the light o f practical
experience and emerging requirements since the establishment o f TANROADS. The EU-funded Financial
Management Consultant is now almost 111time devoting his time on this project due to the fact that the
scope o f the task had significantly been expanded. It now encompasses eliminating duplications and
inconsistencies between the Accounting Procedures Manual and EPICOR Manuals, reviewing the reality o f
the existing procedures, capturing of numerous existing procedures that have not been included in the
manuals in the past, grouping procedures in different volumes o f these manuals and capturing o f new
procedures due to the development o f the systems over the past few years. This task will now be completed
by June 2004 due to increased scope.

Accounting System,Accounting Policies and Procedures

The FM system must support management in their deployment o f limited resources with the purpose o f
ensuring economic, efficient and effective application o f these resources in the delivery o f outputs and the
achievement o f desired outcomes.       Also, it should ensure that funds are properly managed and flow
smoothly, adequately, regularly and predictably to the implementing agency. Specifically, the FM system
should be capable of producing usefbl information in a timely manner for decision-making purposes (to
enable project management to monitor the efficient implementation o f the project). This information should
have the characteristics o f being understandable, relevant, reliable and comparable and would enable
management to plan, implement, monitor and appraise the entity's overall progress towards achieving its
objectives. This will be achieved through the preparation o f quarterly Financial Monitoring Reports
(FMRs) that integrates project accounting, procurement, contract management, disbursement and audit
with physical progress.

The TANROADS accounting system will be based on a computerized, double entry, accrual-based system.
The objectives o f the system are to:
         Record assets, liabilities, revenue and expenditure o f the organization so as to meet statutory and
other requirements;
         Provide information to management to assist them inrunning the organization's activities on a day
to day basis;
         Provide information on reporting and accountability to stakeholders, and in particular for donor
funding;
         Provide a suitable financial framework for planningthe organization's future activities by means o f
annual budgets and long term strategies;
         Facilitate concise and accurate Management Information Reports from reliable records to enable
corrective measures on time;
         Enable performance evaluation o f the organization; and
         Enable the flow o f management information from the basic recording system described above. In
addition, certain accounting information is obtained from other sources like Weigh bridge Managers.

The following summarizes other salient financial management arrangements:
         Chart of Accounts: The project will use the same structure o f chart of accounts used in


                                                     - 57 -

TANROADS and create specific codes for project specifics. The chart o f accounts is flexible enough to
provide financial information per (1) project activity (2) project component and (3) expenditure category.
         Internal Control System: Plans have been drafted for the enhancement of a robust system of
internal control with specific emphasis on financial control and improved project management. This should
go hand-in-hand with the update o f the Accounting Procedures Manual.
         Banking: Bankaccounts, supportedby satellite nation-wide computerized bankingfacilities, have
been opened for regional offices at CRDB, (except for two regions banking at NBC, namely Coast and
Manyara).
         Assets: A preliminary reconciliation of asset inventory from regional offices has been undertaken,
along with determination o f the remaining usefid lives o f fixed assets for inclusion in the accounting
records. However, the asset inventory did not include (1) equipment hire units, (2) motor vehicles and (3)
plant& machinery. The process o fdoing the inventory andvaluation o fthese items, is inprogress.
         Budgeting: Salient features ofthe budgeting process includes:
o        Procedures are inplace to ensure proper preparation and compilation o f the annual budget.
0        The budgets lays down physical andfinancial targets.
o        Budgets are prepared for all significant activities in sufficient detail to provide a meaningful tool
with which to monitor subsequent performance.
o        Actual expenditures are compared to the budget with reasonable frequency, and explanations
required for significant variations from the budget. Prior approval o f variances are required.

Information systems

The specifications o f a computer-based financial management system, EPICOR (previously known as
Platinum ERA) were developed to be implemented throughout the organization, including the 21 regional
offices (with the exception o f the new region Manyara which will be implemented duringthe financial year
ended 30 June 2004.). The computer package had been procured and the hardware installed in all regions.
Accounting staff at HQ and these regions have received training inthe application o f the Computer system
and Accounting Procedures Manual. The computers systems in the regions are not connected to the HQ.
For this reason transfer o f data is not done online; it is sent to H Q on computer tapes where the information
i s then consolidated.

TANROADS will receive financing from IDA for the funding o f the procurement and implementation o f
the Wide Area Network (WAN) under component 2 o f the CTCRP.                   This facility will allow online
transmittal o f information.

Currently, the IDNSDP unit retains separate reporting formats for different Donors and therefore different
sets o f accounts are maintained for reporting to them a situation that complicates the organizations
reporting system. To arrest this situation, steps have been taken to integrate all the organization's financial
accounting and reporting systems with the EPICOR system, which will now be usedfor all accounting and
financial reporting throughout the organization. It had been envisaged that the financial statements o f
IRP-I1for the year ended 30 June 2003 would have been prepared with the use of EPICOR. However,
while the training of the staff had been done and the implementation and procurement o f the system was
well underway, it had been delayed due to design challenges that the consultants (Softech) needed to
resolve. It is envisaged that full integration will be achieved by the June 2004.

From a general management perspective, there is a need to have this FM system integrated with
sub-systems/modules that would provide for project management and contract management. Inthis regard
a TOR for the procurement/ development o f a Project Management System (PMS) has been prepared.


                                                       - 58 -

Reporting (Financial Monitoring Reports)

Formats o f the various periodic financial monitoring reports to be generated from the financial management
system will be developed. There will be clear linkages between the information in these reports and the
Chart o f Accounts. The financial reports will be designed to provide quality and timely information to
project management and various stakeholders on project performance.

The following quarterly FMRswill be producedby the IDNSDP unit:
8        Financial Reports:
0        Sources and Uses o f Funds by FundingSource
o        Uses o f Fundsby Project Activity/Component
8        Physical Progress (Output Monitoring) Report
8        Procurement Report
The formats have been defined and agreed by negotiations and the project must be capable o f producing
FMRsby credit effectiveness. The first quarterly report is due byNovember 15,2004.

The project may later become eligible to use the report-based disbursement method, provided that during
project implementation, it (a) sustains satisfactory financial management rating during project supervision;
(b) submits FMRs consistent with the agreed form and content as explained below; and (c) submits Project
Audit Reports by the due dates.        The project is then required to submit to the Bank the following
information inorder to support report-based disbursement:

8        FinancialMonitoring Report (FMR).
         Special Account (SA) Activity Statement.
8        SA Bank Statements.
8        Summary Statement o f SA Expenditures for Contracts subject to Prior Review.
8        Summary Statement o f SA Expenditures not subject to Prior Review.

Project Financial Statements

The Executives Agencies Act, 1997 states that such institutions should prepare its financial statements in
accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Practice (which inter alia includes the application o f the
accrual basis o f recognition o f transactions). The IDA Credit Agreement will require the submission o f
audited financial statements to the Bank within six months after the year-end. In addition to the monthly
reconciliations and quarterly FMR's, the project will produce annual Project Financial Statements for
analytical and audit purposes.

These Financial Statements will compose o f
    A Statement of Sources and Uses of Funds / Cash Receipts and Payments which recognizes all cash
    receipts, cash payments and cash balances controlled by the entity; and separately identifies payments
    by thirdparties on behalfo fthe entity.
0   The Accounting Policies Adopted and Explanatory Notes. The explanatory notes should be presented
    in a systematic manner with items on the Statement of Cash Receipts and Payments being cross
    referenced to any related information inthe notes. Examples o f this information include:
             a summary o f fixed assets by category o f assets;
        0    a summary o f SOE Withdrawal Schedule, listing individualwithdrawal applications;
             A Management Assertion that Bankfimds have beenexpended inaccordance with the intended
             purposes as specified inthe relevant World Bank legal agreement.


                                                     - 59 -

Monitoring

Project monitoring will take the following forms:
        Management oversight o fthe IDNSDP unit;
        Annual external audit o f the Project finances.

Previously the concern had been raised that managerial reports are produced in a fragmented manner.
Nevertheless, it was observed that the preparation o f the quarterly Financial Report for the IRP-I1is not
yet integrated with the process o f preparing the quarterly Status Reportfor the Performance of the Road
Sector. This would ensure that the quality o f information is credible ahd that the preparation o f the latter
report is based on the same financial data prepared on the accrual basis and which is being used for
financial management purposes. The integration and linkage to the PMS will hopefully address this. Status
Reports currently contain most o f the information required for FMRs.

1.5     Flow of Funds

Fundsflow arrangements for the project, through two bank accounts are as follows:
        IDA will make aninitial advance disbursement from the proceeds o fthe Credit by depositing into a
Borrower-operated Special Account (SA) held at Citi Bank (or an acceptable commercial bank) and
denominated inUS Dollars.
        Actual expenditure will be reimbursedthrough submission o f Withdrawal Applications and against
Statements o f Expenditure, which will be approved inaccordance with internal control measures applied in
TANROADS.
        Payments for activities implemented at the TANROADS, TRC and MOCT, Zanzibar will be done
centrally from the TANROADS' head quarters.
        Counterpart funds and transfers ffom the SA (for payment o f transactions in local currency) will
be deposited in the Project Account in accordance with project objectives. The Government will allocate
and pay over counterpart funds for the project by cheque (Warranto f funds). Counterpart funds will be
allocated through the normal central government budgetary process. Counterpart funds are accessed
through compliance with the country specific FinancialRegulations.
        The two bank accounts should be opened by credit effectiveness. The account signatories should
also be documented inthe Accounting Procedures Manual

1.6      Staffing and Training

StaflQualijkations & Skills

The Director o f Finance and Administration, and Chief Accountant o f TANROADS are professionally
qualified Tanzanian CPAs. The three accounting staff inthe IDA-CPU are accounting graduates and two
o f them are conversant with the Bank's FMrequirements due to their exposure to the IRP-I1project. They
have also received training inthe use o fthe EPICOR system.

Training Plan

The FAD organizes continuous training courses for its staff inorder to enhance their accounting capacity
and to update them on EPICOR upgrades.



                                                     - 60 -

1.7     Supervision

Financial management supervision will be carried out regularly by the Financial Management Specialist
(FMS) at least once a year. The initial supervision will be on implementation progress o f agreed actions as
per paragraph 1.10 and the effective operation of the EPICOR system within the IDA-CPU. In addition,
the project may be submitted to regular SOE reviews as requiredby the World Bank.

The FMS will also:
        Conduct an FMsupervision before effectivenesddisbursement;
        Review the financial component o f the quarterly FMRs as soon as they are submitted to the World
Bank; and,
        Review the annual Audit Reports and Management Letters from the external auditors and
follow-up on material accountability issues by engaging with the TTL, Client, and/or Auditors.

A 2002 SOE review by a World Bank team of the forerunner IRP-I1project revealed no major or
unresolved weaknesses identifiedin the financial management systems. Also a follow-up review (May
2003) of the implementation o f the SOE recommendation revealed no major weaknesses. The IRP-I1
project has thus been rated as satisfactory on financial management since the FM-rating became effective.

1.8     ProcurementArrangements

Procurement by the IDA/SDP unit will be under the management o f the Procurement Specialist. There are
no specific Procurement arrangements that specifically impact the FMarrangements.

1.9     Conclusion

The evaluation above indicates that the project's financial management arrangements satisfy the Bank's
minimum requirements under OP03P10.02. However, some improvements remain to be effected for the
system in order to establish an acceptable control environment and to mitigate financial management risks.
The various measures/improvements should be implemented by the due dates as indicated in the table
below.   The project financial management risk is assessed as being low/negligible provided that the
financial management arrangements are properly implemented and the following financial management
action plan is satisfactorily addressed inpractice:



  No.                               Action                            Due date          Covenants
  1.    Update the Accounting Procedures Manual (April 2000         Substantially None
        version) with due observance o f strengthening the completed
        system o f Intemal Control.  ,
  2.    Integrate the current accounting and financial reporting    Substantially None
        system used by the IDA-CPU with the EPICOR system           completed
        used by other TANROADS units.
 3,     Procurement and implementation o f a WAN.                  June 2007, draftNone
                                                                   TOR have been
                                                                   prepared
 4.     Prepare and update status reports on financial and Draft FMR               None
        physical progress on quarterly basis. The reports should prepared. 1st
        compare plannedactual targets and outputs and be report due


                                                    -61  -

        integrated with the accounting system.                     November 15,
                                                                   2004
 5.     Develop/procure and implement a Project Management December 2004 None
        System compatible with the FMSystem.                       Draft TOR
                                                                   have already
                                                                   been prepared.
 6.     Open a Project account and deposit Tshs. 900 million Effectiveness           2ondition o f
        therein                                                                      ffectiveness

1.10    FinancialCovenants andEffectiveness Conditions

Financial covenants are the standardones as stated inArticle IV o f the Development Credit Agreement.
The only effectiveness condition is shown inrow six inthe table above.

2. Audit Arrangements
Internal Audit

An Internal Audit unit has been established at HQwith independent dual reporting to the CEO and
respective auditees. Responses to audit queries are required to be submitted directly to the CEO to improve
quality and timeliness o f follow-up.    This unit will concentrate on corporate governance and testing
compliance with financial regulations.

Taking into account that the internal audit function is relatively small (3 professional accountants and 1
semi-professional), there needs to be strong supervision and quality assurance in the Project.          The
day-to-day supervision o f accounting functions will be assured by the organization structure o f
TANROADS.

ExternalAudit

The external audit will be carried out annually as part o f the TANROADS audit by the Controller and
Auditor General (CAG) or such other person registered as an auditor under the Auditors and Accountants
Act, 1972 and approved by the CAG. The external audit will cover all World Bank and NDF funds and
Counterpart funds at all levels o f project execution. The auditor will be required to express an opinion on
the audited project financial statements only, in compliance with International Standards on Auditing
(IFACKNTOSAI pronouncements) and submit the audit report within six months o f the end o f the financial
year. In addition, detailed management letters containing the auditor's assessment o f the internal controls,
accounting system and compliance with financial covenants inthe IDA Credit Agreement, and suggestions
for improvement will be prepared and submitted to management for follow-up.

The following observations relate to audit compliance o f the forerunner IRP-I1project:
        The audited financial statements and management letters for the year ending 30 June 2002 had
been issued late (in March 2003).       Although the audit report contained an unqualified opinion, the
management letter identified areas requiring improvement to strengthen accounting procedures and the
internal control system. This state o f affairs was confmed in a review conducted by the World Bank
duringMay 2003 to evaluate the timely and complete follow-up o fthe audit findings andrecommendations.
While the IDA/PCU unit had taken steps to solicit responses on the issues raised inthe management letter,
sadly this process had not been concluded by the date o f this assessment due to the Ministryo f Works not
beingresponsive ina timely manner.


                                                    - 62 -

         The financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2003 had been prepared with the use of the
same database as inthe past, due to delays in implementation o f EPICOR It was submitted for audit by
the end o f September 2003 and the audit report and management letter issued in January 28, 2004 one
month late.

3. DisbursementArrangements
   Disbursements from IDA would initially be made on the basis o f incurred eligible expenditures
    (transaction based disbursements). IDA would then make advance disbursement from the proceeds o f
   the Credit by depositing into a Borrower-operated Special Account          (SA) to expedite Program
   implementation. The advance to an SA would be used by the Borrower to finance IDA's share of
   Program expenditures under the proposed Credit. Another acceptable method o f withdrawing funds
   from the Credit is the direct payment method, involving direct payments from the Credit to a thirdparty
   for works, goods and services upon the Borrower's request.         Payments may also be made to a
   commercial bank for expenditures against IDA special commitments covering a commercial bank's
   Letter o f Credit. IDA's Disbursement Letter stipulates a minimumapplication value for direct payment
   and special commitment procedures.

   Upon credit effectiveness, TANROADS would be required to submit a withdrawal application for an
    initial deposit to the SA, drawn from the IDA Credit, in an amount to be agreed to in the Development
    Credit Agreement.      Replenishment o f funds from IDA to the SA will be made upon evidence o f
    satisfactory utilization o f the advance, reflected in SOEs andor on full documentation for payments
    above SOE thresholds. Replenishment applications would be required to be submitted regularly. If
    ineligible expenditures are found to have been made from the SA, the Borrower will be obligated to
    refund the same. Ifthe SA remains inactive for more than six months, the Borrower may be requested to
    refund to IDA amounts advanced to the SA.

    IDA will have the right, as reflected inthe Development Credit Agreement, to suspend disbursement of
    the funds ifreporting requirements are not complied with.

    Strengthening its accounting and financial management capacity will enable TANROADS to establish
    effective financial management and accounting systems, which should eventually facilitate the
    introduction o f Financial Monitoring Report (FMR)-based disbursements in periods subsequent to
    project effectiveness.   The adoption o f this approach will enable the project to move away from
    time-consuming transaction based disbursement (voucher-by-voucher)       methods to quarterly report
    based disbursements to the project's SA, based on the FMRs. Report-based disbursements offers more
    flexibility.




 Allocation of credit proceeds (Table C)

                                   Table C: Allocation of Credit Proceeds


 Civil works                                                                  60% o f local expenditures
                                                                            100%o f foreign expenditures

                                                      - 63 -

1I-1 -under Part A.2                                     10.17
      under Part C.2                                      0.00
1 --  under Part C.4                            III       0.37            III                                 III
      other                                              46.20
  Goods                                                                         75% o f local expenditures
                                                                               100%o f foreign expenditures
  --- under
      under Part C. 1                                     8.22
            Part C.2                                     24.82
      other                                               0.97
  Consultants, services, training and audit                                      93% o f all expenditures
  -- under  Part C                                        3.14
      other                                              14.88
  Operating costs                                         0.23                   90% o f all expenditures
  Unallocated                                            13.00
  Total Project Costs with Bank                          122.00
    Financing
   Total                                                 122.00


    Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
 All applications to withdraw proceeds from the Credit account will be fully documented except for
 expenditures against contracts for: (a) works under contracts below $1,000,000 equivalent each; (b) goods
 under contracts below $500,000 equivalent each; (c) consulting and auditing services under contracts
 below 200,000 equivalent each; and (d) $100,000.00 for individual consultants. Documentation supporting
 expenditures claimed against SOEs will be retained at the project and will be available for review as
 requested by IDA supervision missions andproject auditors.

    Special account:
 To facilitate disbursement o f eligible expenditures for goods works and services, GOT will open a Special
 Account in a commercial bank acceptable to IDA. The special account will be managed by TANROADS
  and TRC and will cover IDA's share o f eligible expenditures. The authorized allocation for the special
  account will be US$12.0 million. Replenishment o f funds by IDA will be made upon production o f
  evidence o f satisfactory utilization o f the advance, as reflected in the SOE or in full documentation for
 payments above the SOE thresholds. Upon credit effectiveness or as needed ,an amount of US$6.0 million
 will be deposited in the special account. Subsequent deposits may be requested as needed. To the extent
 possible , IDA's share o f expenditures should be paid through the special account. Replenishment
  applications should be submitted regularly, preferably monthly, after monthly bank statements are received
  and reconciled, with appropriate supporting documents for local and foreign expenditures as required. Only
  IDA's share of eligible expenditures will be paidthrough the special account.




                                                      - 64 -

                               Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
                        TANZANIA: Central Transport Corridor Project



ITime taken to prepare the project (months)      1        9                   I       8               I
 First Bank mission (identification)                      0911012003                  09/08/2003
Appraisal mission departure                               0211512004                  03/02/2004
 Negotiations                                             0313012004                  03/16/2004
 Planned Date of Effectiveness                            0713012004                  0710112004

Prepared by:
Dieter Schelling, Solomon MuhuthuWaithaka, Yash Pal Kedia, Farida Mazhar, Julien Dehornoy, Vickram
Cuttaree, England Rogasian Maasamba


Preparationassistance:
EnglandRogasian Maasamba

Bank staff who worked on the projec
         Name
 Dieter Schelling                        Task Team Leader
 Farida Mazhar                             Lead Financial Officer (PFG)
 Yitzhak Kamhi                             Senior Consultant
 Solomon MuhuthuWaithaka                   Highway Engineer
 Michael Silverman                         Sr.Counse1
 Marius Koen                             Sr.Financia1 Management Specialist
 Mercy Sabai                               Sr. FinancialManagement Specialist
 Ajay Kumar                              Transport Economist
 Pascal Tegwa                              Sr. Procurement Specialist
 Nina Chee                                Environmental Specialist
 Farida Khan                             Operations Analyst
 Ani1 Bhandari                           HighEngineering andQuality Assurance Control Peer Reviewer
                                                                                     -
 Cesar August0 Queiroz                   Highway Engineering   - PeerReview
 Nina Jones                              Program Assistant
 England Rogasian Maasamba                Team Assistant
 Leah Mukuta                              Team Assistant
 Julien Dehomoy                            Project Assistant
 Vickram Cuttaree                        Young Professional (PFG)




                                                  - 65 -

                            Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
                         TANZANIA Central Transport Corridor Project


A. Project Implementation Plan
An overallprocurementplanfor the project has beenpreparedandis attachedto the appraisalaide
memoire. A detailedprocurementplanwith monitorable milestoneswill be producedfor year one andtwo
before March 30,2004.

B. Bank Staff Assessments
Aide Memoires and Status Report on the Sector from 2002- 2004
Financial Assessment Management Report

C. Other
1. National Transport Policy 2003
2. 10-Year Road Investment Program    - 2002
3. National Road Safety Masterplan
4. PER Reports    - 2001/02/03      - 2004

5. Feasibility Study and Detail Design for Singida-Shelui Road 2003
6. National Transport Masterplan  - 2002                      -

7. Environmental Guidelines for Transportation Program 2001
                                                         -
8. Tracking of Road FundStudy 2002
                                 -
*Including electronic files




                                                 - 66 -

                                          Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
                                       TANZANIA: Central Transport Corridor Project
                                                              March24. 2004
                                                                                                                      Difference betweenexpected
                                                                                                                               and actual
                                                                    Original Amount in US$ Millions                          disbursements'
Project ID  FY    Purpose                                       IBRD         IDA        SF        GEF Cancel.  Undisb.       Orig   Frm Rev`d
PO17014        4 HlVlAlDS                                          0.00      70.00                       0.00    68.60         0.00      0.00
PO58706     2002 Forest Conservation and Management                0.00      31.10                       0.00    32.21         2.43      0.00
P002797     2002 TZ Songo Songo Gas Dev. & Power Gen.              0.00      183.00                      0.00    175.24      106.03      0.00
PO71012     2002 Primary Education Development Program             0.00      150.00                      0.00    105.23       37.50      0.00
PO73397     2002 Lower Kihansi Environmental Managemenl            0.00       6.30                       0.00      6.02        1.55      0.00
PO47762     2002 Rural Water Supply                                0.00      26.00                       0.00    27.32         2.56      0.00
PO65372     2001 Social Action Fund                                0.00      60.00                       0.00    29.46        -2.76      0.00
P069982     2001 Regional Trade Fac. Project- Tanzania             0.00       15.00                      0.00     11.39        2.81      0.00
PO50441     2000 Rural & Micro Fin Svc                             0.00       2.00                       0.00      1.09        I.06      1.OB
PO57187     2000 FlDP II                                           0.00      27.50                       0.00     15.94       15.15      6.05
PO58627     2000 Health Sector Development Program                 0.00      22.00                       0.00      4.56       -7.01      0.00
PO60833     2000 Public Service Reform Program                     0.00      41.20                       0.00     31.61       -9.33      0.00
PO02822     2000 Tanzania PSCA 1                                   0.00      190.00                      0.00     81.21     -108.84      0.00
PO49838     2000 Privatization                                     0.00       45.90                      0.00     32.25       22.16      0.00
PO47761     1999 Tzx Administration                                0.00       40.00                       0.00    26.31       22.30      0.00
PO02804     1998 Agric Research                                    0.00       21.80                       0.00     5.34        4.77      0.00
PO02789     1998 Human Resources Dev 1                             0.00       20.90                       0.00     1.89        0.29       0.00
PO02753     1997 Nat. Ext Proj PH Ii                               0.00       31.10                       0.00     2.36        4.80      -1.68
PO46837     1997 Lake Victoria Env.                                0.00       10.10                       0.00     3.52        -1.13      0.00
P038570     1997 Tz. River Basin Mgm Smai.                         0.00       26.30                       0.00     4.57         6.57      0.00
PO02758     1996 Urban Sector Rehab                                0.00      105.00                       0.00    18.03       21.79       0.00
PO02770     1994 Roads Ii                                          0.00      170.20                      63.53    36.38      107.13      35.77
                                                                   0.00

                                                        Total:    0.00     1295.40                      63.53    720.52      229.83      41.20




                                                                   - 67 -

                                        TANZANIA
                                    STATEMENTOF IFC's
                                 Held and Disbursed Portfolio
                                       June 30-2002
                                     InMillionsUSDollars

                                                      Committed                        Disbursed
                                                     IFC                             IFC
FY Approval   Company                         Loan    Equity    Quasi   Partic  Loan  Equity  Quasi  Partic
1998          AEF BlueBay                      1.45    0.00      0.00    0.00   1.45   0.00    0.00   0.00
2001          AEF Boundary Hi1                 0.20    0.00      0.00    0.00   0.20   0.00    0.00   0.00
1996          AEF Contiflora                   0.35    0.00      0.00    0.00   0.35   0.00    0.00   0.00
1998          AEF DropZanzibar                 0.32    0.00      0.00    0.00   0.32   0.00    0.00   0.00
1997          AEF Hort Farms                   0.19    0.00      0.00    0.00   0.19   0.00    0.00   0.00
1998          AEF MajiMasafi                   0.27    0.00      0.00    0.00   0.27   0.00    0.00   0.00
1996          AED Milcafe                      0.18    0.00      0.00    0.00   0.18   0.00    0.00   0.00
1994          AEF MoshiLthr                    0.00    0.19      0.00    0.00   0.00   0.19    0.00   0.00
1999          AEF MusomaFish                   1.50    0.00      0.00    0.00   1.so   0.00    0.00   0.00
1997199       AEF Pallsons                     0.32    0.00      0.00    0.00   0.32   0.00    0.00   0.00
1995          AEF Tanbreed                     0.70    0.00      0.00    0.00   0.70   0.00    0.00   0.00
2000          AEF Zan Safari                   0.70    0.00      0.00    0.00   0.70   0.00    0.00   0.00
2002          EximBank                         2.50    0.00      0.00    0.00   0.00   0.00    0.00   0.00
1996          IHP                              0.82    0.60      0.00    0.00   0.82   0.00    0.00   0.00
2000          IOH                              2.50    0.00      0.00    0.00   2.50   0.00    0.00   0.00
2000          NBC                              0.00    10.00     0.00    0.00   0.00   3.44    0.00   0.00
1993          TPS (Tanzania)                   5.69    0.87       1.04   0.00   5.69   0.87     1.04  0.00
1991/97       TPS Zanzibar                     0.00    0.03      0.00     0.00  0.00   0.03    0.00   0.00
1994          TanzaniaBrewery                  0.00    6.00      0.00     0.00  0.00   6.00    0.00   0.00
1998          Tanzania Jubilee                 0.00    0.29      0.00     0.00  0.00   0.29    0.00   0.00
1994          ULC Leasing                      0.00    0.38      0.00     0.00  0.00   0.38     0.00  0.00
2001          AEF 2000 Industries              1.60    0.00      0.00     0.00  0.00   0.00     0.00  0.00
1996199       AEF A&K Tanzania                 0.15    0.00      0.00     0.00  0.15   0.00     0.00  0.00
1997          AEF Aquva Ginner                 0.68    0.00      0.00     0.00  0.68   0.00     0.00  0.00
                    Total Portfolio:          20.12    18.36      1.04    0.00  16.02  11.80    1.04   0.00



                                                   Approvals PendingCommitment
FY Approval   Company                            Loan     Equity      Quasi    Partic
2002          Exim Bank                           0.00       1.oo      0.00    0.00

              Total PendingCommitment:            0.00       1.oo      0.00    0.00




                                             - 68 -

                                                Annex IO: Country at a Glance
                                TANZANIA Central Transport Corridor Project
                                                                                Sub
POVERTYand SOCIAL                                                           Saharan       LOW-
                                                                   Tanzania   Africa    Income         levelopment diamond.
2002
Population, mid-year(millions)                                        35.2      666       2,495                      Life expectancy
GNI per capita (Atlas method, US$)                                     280      450        430
GNI (Atlas method, US$billions)                                        9.9      306       1,072
Average annual growth, 199642                                                                                               T
Population(%)                                                           2.4      2.4        1.9
Laborforce (%)                                                          2.5      2.5        2.3        ;Ni                                   Gross
                                                                                                       ier                                  primary
Most recent estimate (latestyear available, 1996.02)                                                   :apita                            nroliment
Poverty (% ofpopulationbelownationalpovertyline)
Urbanpopulation(% of totalpopulation)                                   34        33         30
Lifeexpectancy at birth (years)                                         43        46         59
Infantmortality (per 1,000 live births)                                107       105         81                -
Childmalnutrition(% of childrenunder5)                                  29                                   Access to improvedwater source
Access to an improvedwater source (% ofpopulation)                      66        58         76
Illiteracy(% ofpopulation age 75+)                                      23        37         37
Gross primaryenrollment (?Aof school-agepopulation)                     63        86         95                       Tanzania
    Male                                                                63        92        103                       Low-incomegroup
    Female                                                              63        80         87

KEY ECONOMICRATIOSand LONG-TERMTRENDS
                                                       1982           1992      2001       2002
                                                                                                        Economlcratios.
GDP (US$ biliions)                                                      4.6       9.3       9.4
Grossdomestic InvestmenffGDP                                           27.2     17.0        17.4
Exportsof goods and ServiceslGDP                                       12.4     15.3        16.7                           Trade

Grossdomestic savings/GDP                                               0.3       8.4       10.5
Grossnationalsavings/GDP                                                6.2       7.3       10.1
CurrentaccountbalancelGDP                                             -15.5      -7.9                  Domestic
interestpaymentslGDP                                                    1.2       0.4        0.6       savings                          Investment
Total debUGDP                                                         145.1     71.5        77.2
Total debt service/exports                              23.6           42.2     10.3         7.8
Present value of debffGDP                                                       14.4
Presentvalue of debVexports                                                     89.9                                    Indebtedness
                                        1982-92 1992-02               2001      2002    2002-06
(average annualgrowth)                                                                                          -Tanzania
GDP                                                      4.0            6.1       6.3
GDPDercaDita                                   ....      1.3            3.8       4.1                                   Low-Incomegroup


STRUCTUREof the ECONOMY
                                                       1982            1992     2001       2002       1 Growth of Investmentand GDP (%)
(% of GDP)                                                                                                                                         1
Agriculture                                                            48.0     44.8        44.4
industry                                                               16.2      16.0       16.3
   Manufacturing                                                        0.2       7.4        7.6
Services                                                   ........    35.8     39.2        39.3
Privateconsumption                                                     80.0     79.9        77.1
General government consumption                                         19.6      11.7       12.5
Importsof goods and services                               ......      39.4     23.9        23.6

                                                    1
                                                                                                      1                                            I
(averageannualgrowth)
Agriculture                                                             3.6       5.4        5.0       " T                                         1
Industry                                                   ....         5.3       6.9        9.3       40
   Manufacturing                                                        4.3       5.0        7.0       20
Services                                                   ....         3.7       5.5        6.2
Privateconsumption                                                      3.9      24.0        2.3      .20
                                                                                                        o
Generalgovernmentconsumption                                            1.9     -32.6       13.6      4 0 1    "
Grossdomesticinvestment                                    ......       0.7       5.8        6.7               -Exports           -9-Imports
importsof goods and services

'The diamondsshow four key indicatorsinthe country(In bold)comparedwith its income-groupaverage.Ifdataare missing,the diamondwill beincomplete.




                                                                           - 69 -

                                                                                                                       Tanzania

PRICES and GOVERNMENTFINANCE
                                               1982     1992       2001   2002
Domestic prices                                                                     Inflation (Oh)                                    1
(% change)                                                                        30

Consumer prices                                26.9     21.6         5.2    4.6   25

ImplicitGDP deflator                                    25.4         6.2    4.2   20
                                                                                   15

Government finance                                                                 10

(% of GDP, includes currentgrants)                                                  5
                                                                                    0
Current revenue                                          12.7      11.4   11.5               97    98      99      00       01       02
Currentbudget balance                                     0.6       -0.7   -1.4               -GDP       deflator -0'CPI
Overallsurplus/deficit                                   -1.6       -5.0   -5.7

TRADE
                                               1982     1992       2001   2002   I Exportand
(US$ millions)                                                                                  Import levels(US$ mill.)

Totalexports(fob)                               411      414        772    737   12.000.
 Coffee                                          134       60        57     70
 cotton                                           56       98        33     41     1.500
 Manufactures                                     43       64        56     38
Total imports(cif)                             1,128    1,357      1,726  1,889    1,000

 Food                                            108       25       169
 Fueland energy                                 256       142       106              500

 Capital goods                                  527      639        755    613   II     0

Export price index /1995=100)                     66       75        151    156             98   97    98    99     00      01    02

Importpriceindex (1995=100)                       77      101        102    110                 Exports        .Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                        112       74        146    141

BALANCE of PAYMENTS
                                               1982     1992       2001   2002     1 Currentaccountbalancelo
(US$ millions)                                                                                                   GDP (Oh)              I
Exports of goods and services                    645      546      1,430  1,569      0
Importsof goods and services                   1,201    1,885      2,232  2,224      1
Resource balance                                -556  -1,337       -802   -656       2
                                                                                     3
Net income                                       -85     -187        -65    -45      4
Netcurrent transfers                              24      456        -19     10      6
                                                                                     8
Currentaccountbalance                           -523     -714      -738              7

Financingitems (net)                             524      617        909             8
                                                                                     9
Changes in netreserves                             0     -102      -171   -347     -10

Memo:
Reserves includinggold (US$ miNions)
Conversion rate (DEC,/ocal/US$)                   9.3   297.7      876.4  966.6

EXTERNALDEBT and RESOURCEFLOWS
                                               1982     1992       2001   2002
(US$ miNions)                                                                        Composltlon of 2002 debt (US$ mill.)
Total debt outstandingand disbursed            6,202    6,675      6,679  7,236
  IBRD                                           211      171          8      6    I
  IDA                                            414    1.618      2,566  2.869                    G: 606 A:6

Total debt service                               152      235        154    128
  IBRD                                            25       45          4      3
  IDA                                              4       19         35     22
Composition of net resourceflows
  Officialgrants                                 309      697        927
  Officialcreditors                              231      263         93    179
  Privatecreditors                                31      -45        -21    -21
  Foreigndirect investment                        17       12        224
  Portfolioequity                                  0        0          0
World Bank program
  Commitments                                     71       60        355     57      A IBRD                             E Bllaleral
                                                                                                                           -
  Disbursements                                  107      235        119    148         .         -
                                                                                        ~

                                                                                     B IDA      D Other multilateral   F Private
                                                                                                                            - Shorl-tem
                                                                                                                           ~
  Principalrepayments                             10       39         23      8      C  - IMF                          G
  Netflows                                        97      196         96    140
  Interest payments                               16       25         17     17
  Nettransfers                                    79      171         60    123

hote: Ihis table was producedfrom the Developmenttconomics centrald         a              t            a               b               b




                                                               - 70 -

Additional Annex 11: EnvironmentalImpact Assessment and Mitigation Measuresfor Singida
                                                   -Shelui Road
                              TANZANIA Central Transport Corridor Project

1. The RoadInfluenceArea

The environmental study has considered two concentric road influence zones, namely:


Road Reserve Area, 45 m wide, along the design route, covering a total surface o f 5 km2

Wider Proiect Area: it coincides with the "Feeder Road Basin" o f the project road, covering an area o f about
5,000 sq km.

The direct, short-term physical impacts o f the road project are largely limited to the road reserve area and its
immediate environs. The long-term potential impacts on the Wider Project Area mainly concern the
modification o f the settlement pattern and possible damage risks for the forest cover, the cultural heritage, as
well as threats to health due to the intensification o f disease vectors and to the spread of HIV-AIDS
prevalence. Some o f the long-term and indirect impacts may be beneficial on the Wider Project Area, such as
the greater possibility o f intervention o f the government services dealing with the protection o f nature, cultural
heritage andhuman welfare.

The project area is part o f the Central Plateau Ecological Region, between 1,000 and 1,600 mo f altitude. It
hosts a variety o f ecosystems, including seasonal wetland, dense and derived dry forests, savanna woodland
and grasslands. Humanaction-deforestation, hunting, overgrazing andnature-depleting extensive farming -
has heavily modified all ecosystems.

2. Socioeconomicand CulturalEnvironment

Population. About 250,000 people live inthe Wider Project Area, o f which 150,000 in Singida Urban District
and 100,000 intwo rural Districts (Singida Ruraland Kiomboi-Iramba). The overall population density is 60
inhabitants per km2(16 inthe rural countryside). The design route road runs through a dozen villages and one
Trading Center (Shelui Nselembwe at km91). Shelui town lies 5 kmnorth o f the project road. Ulemo and
Misigiri are fast growing settlements androad safety measures are required. The new bypass will avoid
Iguguno Trading Center, which will continue to be served by an upgraded road.

Economy. Agriculture employs 80 % o fthe manpower and yields 60% o f Singida Region's domestic product.
Industryis confinedto small-scale, agro-based processing and service-oriented handicrafts. Trading lacks
wholesale facilities. Tourism is poorly organized. Despite low monetary incomes, the region does not suffer
from acute poverty and the food balance is good. Children do not suffer from widespread malnutrition or
diseases. But economic growth is slower inSingida thanthe neighboring administrative regions. The lag
appears to be both the cause andthe effect o f the poor development o f road transport facilities.

Cultural heritage. Singida region hosts prehistoric Physical Cultural Resources (PCR), spanning more than
10,000 years. The earliest extant East African rock paintings - showing stylized humans and isolated
naturalistic animal figures either in outline or flat monochrome   - areconcentrated inSingida region. More than
50 rock paintings and other prehistoric sites have recently been inventoried with the assistance o f the Italian
cooperation, including the so-called Drum Caves. The site o f Kiomboi, lies inthe Wider Project Area, 20 km


                                                         - 71 -

northof the road, not so near to it as to be exposedto the immediate hazardsofthe plannedworks.

3. AlternativesAssessed

Six variant routeshave beenassessedinterms of environmental and social impact, namely:

         three different routes traversing Sekenke Escarpment, and:
         two bypassesaround IgugunoTrading Center, where the present roadcrossesthe town.

Sekenke Escmment: for each alternative alignment, an ad hoc EIA and SIA has beenprepared. The solution
advised by the present study requires six viaducts. This solution will have a favorable ecological impact,
becauseabout 12 kmof former hilly route can be convertedto a forest roadwithin the plannedSekenke Forest
reserve, with extensive reforestationover more than 2,500 ha. The negative impact on KinkunguRiver Gorge,
which presently serves as a natural corridor for wildlife migrating from Singida plateau to Wembere
Swamplands, will be minor, as the six new bridges will cross the meandering river bed. Green screens
protectingthe forests along the new designroute can mitigate suchimpact.

1g;uguno Bypass. The proposedbypass, 7 km long, will have the double advantage of avoiding the congested
Iguguno urban area and shortening the road lenght by as much as 1.5 km. The bypass - which will run
sufficiently close to the southern urban outskirts not to deprive them of the trading benefits generated by
through-fare traffic -will cross the MunyuRiver south of the town, where a new bridge is needed(25m span).
The new roadreservewill cut across farms (45 ha). Various EIA options

Road environment in Singida Town. To foster safe mixed-traffic flows within a pleasant urban environment,
two lanes will be introduced, with aparallelparkinglane at least 2.0m wide on both sides, to serve commercial
business. Sidewalks for pedestrian access to schools, parks, shopping areas and other main buildings will line
the mainstreet. Kerb-openinginlets at suitable intervalswill drainthe street.

4. Environmentaland social impact statement and recommended mitigationmeasures

The impactof the project inthe roadconstructionphase (years 2004-07) and inthe roaduse phase (year 2007
onward) is summarizedinthe following tables

          Environmental impact and mitigating measures in the road Constructionphase (2004-07)

                          EIS                           Recommendedmitigation and enhancement measures
Land take, earthworks                                 Proper timing o f works. Topsoil stock piled for later use
Borrow pits, quarries                                Works to transform the pits into permanent water points
Detours and haul roads                               Minimize vegetation clearance. Restore sites after use
Workers camps                                        Careful camp location, construction, management
Machines (noise, vibration, pollution)                   Machine mufflers. Dust sprinkling. Halt works during
                                                                                 holidays
Water and soil pollution                             Recycle lubricants. Precautions to avoid accidental spills
Site and detour hazards                              Proper signaling. Careful driving o f haul trucks
Health hazards during works                          Healthexam & treatment o f workers with priority to HIV-AIDS
Breedinghabitat o f disease vectors                  Goodlandscaping, filling & drainage to avoid creating habitats
Threat to Physical Cultural Resources (PCR)          Clause in Works Contract to protect them
Displacement o f property and business                Resettlement, compensation and access to equivalent asset
                                                      basis


                                                       - 72 -                                                       8

                   Environmental impact and mitigating measures in Phase II,Road Use (2004 onward)

                 Environmentalimpacts                     Recommendedmitigation and enhancement measures
Traffic risks and pollution effects                     Introduction o f updated vehicle and traffic control systems
  Forest fires                                          Creation o f green barriers along the road
  Endangering o f cattle herds                          Creation o f new stock route and markets
Higher pressure on ecosystems                           Strengthening o f ecologic services, awareness campaigns
  Road maintenance impacts                              Handbook for ecologically sustainable road maintenance
  Increase of disease vectors                           Upgrading o f health facilities focused on HIV-AIDS
  Threats to Physical Cultural Resources (PCR)          Heritage protection o f and development o f eco-tourism


   Each mitigation or enhancement measure has been debated with the local communities along the road's design
   alignment, and with the concerned National authorities: NEMC, Ministry o f Tourism & Natural Resources,
   Forestry Department.

   5. Environmentaland Social ImpactMitigationActionPlan

   The Action Plan will be geared to implement both the environmental and socioeconomic mitigation and
   enhancement measures. Consistently with the identified impact cycles, the Action Planwill span three phases,
   as tabulated below:

   Phasing o f Singida-Shelui Environmental and Social MitigationAction plan

                 Phases                         Year                             Key responsibilities
II Works            -                                               - -
         imolementation               103-05            Icontractor, TANROADS and other line Ministries                 1
                                       ~~    ~~

   Roaduse & maintenance              105 onward        IMinistrv o f Lands, TANROADS

   EAP Phases I & 11: Engineering and Work Implementation (2003-07): the mitigation measures will
   counteract the adverse effects o f earthworks (land takes, materials spoiling, plant operation, haul traffic), like
   soil erosion, water pollution, encroachment into natural and humanhabitats. Borrow pits and quarries cover a
   surface o f 110ha.

   EAP Phase III,road use and maintenance from 2007), will mobilize seven environmental impact
   management processes, namely:
       i. EnvironmentallySustainableRoadMaintenance
       ii. TrafficManagement
       iii. DevelopmentofAncillaryInfrastructure
       iv.     Ecosystem Protection inthe Wider RoadArea
       v.      Health Protection Against Disease Vectors (HIV-AIDS and others)
       vi.     Safeguard o f Physical Cultural Resources inthe Wider RoadArea
       vii.    Benefit Enhancement Measures

   I. Environmentallvsustainableroadmaintenance.A"MaintenanceHandbook"willprovide
   guidelines for environmental friendly maintenance, taking into account the type o f road structures, cut
   vegetation, drainage system and impact mitigation measures advised by the project. The manual will not
   overlap with the current Road Maintenance Handbook o f Tanroads, insofar as the latter provides general



                                                          - 73 -

procedures for, while the former would impartspecific solutions for the maintenance o f each km and
individual structure of Singida Shelui road section, focusing on environmental issues. The handbook will also
consider the collaboration o f Tanroads with the Ministry o f Education and Culture to protect the cultural
heritage along the road.

11.          Traffic management. Ifnot curbed by appropriate measures, like speed signs, rumble strips,
intersection layout, etc., across towns andvillages, or crash barriers and guardrails, traffic related risks would
increase proportionally to the traffic flow.

111.         Development of ancillaw infrastructure: socioeconomic infrastructure will enhance the benefits
generated by the upgradedroad. Investment costs, funded by the regional budget assisted by credit line
facilities, will be recovered by user-fee mechanisms.

IV.Ecosystem Protection inthe Wider Road Area. The design route will cross 20 km o f ecologically sensitive
areas in Sekenke Forest Reserve and Wembere Game Reserve.

Sekenke Forest Reserve. Closed to normal traffic, the old hilly road (12 km) will be dedicated to forest service
and tourism. Thanks to reduced fire exposure, the uphill forests will regenerate, returning up to 300 ha to
nature and timber production. The project will install signs and gates to interface Singida Shelui road with the
Forest Reserve. On the negative side, the new route may slightly affect wildlife in Kinkungu Gorge.
Recommended mitigations: (a) green barriers for fire protection, and: (b) support to village people bordering
on the escarpment to set up charcoal makers associations and ensure participative forest management.

 Wembere Game Reserve. The future Reserve will encompass 1,200 km2o f a swamp-river-lake complex, rich
inwildlife. InWembere valley, the present road acts as a dam, preventing the fish migration. The project
hydraulic design will minimize the barriers to seasonal water flows across the first 3 km o f Wembere basin,
presently hamperedby the small number and size o f culverts.

V.           Safeguard o f Phvsical Cultural Resources (PCR) in the road area. Easier access to PCR may
increase thefts and acts o f vandalism. After works completion, Tanroads, jointly with the Ministry o f
Education & Culture and the local authorities, will help in protecting the PCR near the road, featuring:
prehistoric and historic sites, cemeteries, family graves, traditional groves, churches, mosques, vernacular
architecture, etc.

VI.Health-oriented environmental measures. Incoming workers andtraffic flows may carry and spread disease
vectors. Local medical services should closely monitor AIDS-HIV. The project will provide a subvention to
prevent spread to workers and community along the roadduring construction o f the said road.

VI1.         Benefit enhancement measures. As a result o f improved access, Singida Regional Government will
be able to improve health care, education facilities, water supply, power plants, rural communications and other
amenities. The institutions that rely on transport services can expand the environmental opportunities generated
by the project.

Action Plan for Implementation. Tanroads will appoint a Task Manager to coordinate the project's
environmental components. H e will submit a Memorandum to the Environmental Department of the Vice
President's Ofice (VPO) and the National Environmental Management Council (NEMC)),suggesting the
tasks and schedule o f each Action Plan component. After reviewing the Memorandum, the VPO will issue a
corresponding Order to the concerned Ministries and Agencies, and will oversee the whole process. N E M C
will provide advisory and monitoring services, with the help o f specialized institutes and consultants. The

                                                         - 74 -

Ministry o f Local Government will transmit the VPO Order and the attached schedule to Singida Regional
Government, which in his turn will instruct the District Offices, notify the local communities and inspect the
planned measures.

Contractualcomponents. The environmental and social impact mitigation measures of phase Iof the Action
Plan, related to work implementation, will be attached, with their bill o f quantities, to the Works Contract. A
`chance-finds' clause will be incorporated inthe Contract to ensure the protection o f PCR, not only those which
are already known and classified, but also those which are yet unknown and could unpredictably be found and
inadvertently damaged duringthe construction.

Supervisionsystem and Action Plan monitoring. The Works Supervisor will report to VPO andNEMC on
the progress o f the Action Plan, constantly updating the Environmental Desk Officer o f Tanroads. N E M C will
monitor the Action Plan and cany out a mid-tenn and final evaluation, with the assistance competent o f
consultants and institutes.
 Environmentalaudit. The audit ofthe long-term effects ofthe mitigatiodenhancement measures shouldbe
the responsibility o f the National Environmental Management Council.

Community participation to Action Plan. During the field study, the Consultant has sensitized the local
communities about the ecological and resettlement implications o f the project. The response has been positive
at all levels. Comments, suggestions and additional detailed information can be collected after the Action Plan
Memorandum prepared by Tanroads is circulated among local authorities.

Environmental costs. Environmental mitigation and enhancement measures are estimated at TZS
715,000,000, equivalent to US$ 715,000. Investment costs for ancillary infiastructure do not compete to the
project. Details o f two components are shown below.

Cost of mitigation measures in Phase I.The remedial works to overcome the environmental damage during
road construction will cost US$ 370,000, out o f which US$ 160,000 are for the mitigation o f the impact o f
construction works and US$210,000 for the impact o f road use and maintenance.

Cost of mitiaation/enhancement measures in Action Plan's Phase II,US$ 100,000, covering two major
interventions:
0   Environmental mitigation measures impacts of road use (an awareness campaign, targetting forest and
     wildlife protection, tree planting and charcoal production; US$50,000); and
0    Cultural heritage and tourism (including
    0    (i) Completion o f the inventory o f rock art paintings: 15,000 U S $;
    0    (ii)Physical Cultural Resources safeguard and cultural tourism package in the road area: U S $
         20,000; and
    0    (iii) Promotionofeco-touristcircuitsinSekenke&WembereReserves:US$15,000).

Financial schedule o f EAP. The funds provided by the project will be complemented by Government funds,
and the participation o fNGOs and local communities.

The total cost estimate of the Action Plan inUS$715,000m out o f which US$235,000 will be used during the
works period and US$480,000 duringthe operational period.




                                                          - 75 -

                    Additional Annex 12: Partial Risk Guarantee
                    TANZANIA: Central Transport Corridor Project

              SUMMARY OF INDICATIVE TERMS AND CONDITIONS
                    OF THE IDA GUARANTEE INSUPPORT OF
        THE CONCESSIONINGOF TANZANIA RAILWAYS CORPORATION




Borrower or Beneficiary:    Project Company (PC) to be established in Tanzania by the
                            Concessionaire.

Guarantor:                  InternationalDevelopment Association (IDA).

Purpose:                    (i)  To catalyze debt finance in support o f investments through
                            a commercial or shareholder loan.
                                                           or
                            (ii)Intheabsenceofdebtfinancing,toprovidepoliticalrisk
                            mitigation by backstopping a Letter o f Credit ( to be issued by
                            RAHCO in favor o f the PC) that can be drawn following a
                            'Guaranteed Event' (See below).
Use of proceeds:            Proceeds o f the financing covered by the Guarantee to be used
                            for productive purposes relating to the purchase o f goods and
                            services and other eligible expenditures incured for the
                            construction,    rehabilitation and   refurbishment     o f  the
                            concessioned assets (not amlicable for the L/C structure)

PrincipalAmount:            To be determined through discussions between RAHCO, the
                            Concessionaire and IDA. In any event a principal amount not to
                            exceed U S Dollars 40 million.

Currency:                   U S Dollars or any other major currency.

Term:                       To be indicated by the Concessionaire andto be agreed by IDA.

Interest Rate of the        An appropriate margin to reflect the IDA guarantee, above the
Guaranteed Loan or LIC      cost o f funds. (To be indicated by the lenders / Concessionaire
following Drawings:         and agreed with IDA).

Guarantee Support:          IDA could guarantee:
                            (i)Scheduledprincipalandinterest paymentsto lendersnot
                            paid by the Borrower as a result o f the occurrence o f a
                            'Guaranteed Event' (see below);
                                                            or
                            (ii)Inthe absenceofdebt financing, all or partofthe L/C
                            drawn ( and not repaid by RAHCO within the agreed period) to

                                            - 76 -

                           cover a cash flow shortfall caused by the occurance o f a
                           'Guaranteed Event' (see below).
                           The above alternative options would need to be discussed and
                           agreed with RAHCO. the Concessionaire and IDA.

Guaranted Events:          Breach o f Contract in respect o f certain RAHCO payment
                           obligations in the Concession and Lease Agreements. Specific
                           breach o f contract coverage to be negotiated with the
                           Concessionaire and / or its lenders by IDA and could include: (i)
                           Termination Event as a result o f Expropriation, (ii) Termination
                           Event as a result o f Changes in Law and (iii)   RAHCO's failure
                           to   make    required    Restoration    payments    for   the rail
                           infrastructure.

                           (i)0.75 percent per annum on IDA guaranteed amounts
'IDAGuarantee Fees:        outstanding, payable by the PC.

Standby Fee:               (ii)0.25 percent per annumon guaranteed but undisbursed
                           loan amounts, payable by the PC. (N/A to guaranteed L/C)

Front-end Fees:            (iii)(a)AnInitiationFeeof0.15percentoftheamountcovered
                           under the IDA Guarantee (but not less than USD100,OOO) for
                           intemal Project preparation and development costs, payable by
                           the PC.
                                 (b) Processing Fee o f up to 0.50 percent of guaranteed
                           amounts to cover IDA-designated reimbursable expenses,
                           payable by the PC up on receipt of invoices.

Conditions Precedent to    Usual and customary conditions for project financings o f this
                           type, including the following:
the effectiveness of the   (a)   Firm commitment for proposed equity and /or deb1

IDA Guarantee:             financing;

                           (b) Execution, delivery and effectivenss o f the concession and
                           Lease Agreements and all other concession and financing
                           agreements, each inform and substance satisfactory to IDA;
                           (c)   Delivery o f environmental documentation, including ar
                           Environmental Assessment and Management Plan, satisfactorq
                           to IDA;
                           (d) Effectiveness o f all required insurance (to include IDA as
                           an additional insured on the third-party liability insurance);

                           (e)   Provision o f satisfactory legal opinions;
                           (0 Payment in full of the Initiation Fee and Processing Fee
                           and the first installment o f the Guarantee Fee;

                           (8) Conclusion o f a Guarantee Agreement between Lenders       01
                           the L/C issuing bank and IDA, a Project Agreement between the
                           Concessionaire and IDA, and an Indemnity Agreement between


                                           - 77 -

                       [DAand the Government-ofTanzania.

                                                                                 ~    ~~




Buy-out Option:        [f interest payments are covered under the Guaranteed Loan,
                       hen following a default by the Borrower o f the Guaranteed
                       Loan, a demand by the Lender(s) and payment under the
                       3uarantee, the IDA shall have the right, at its sole discretion, to
                       mrchase the Guaranteed Loan or oustanding obligations due for
                       m amount equal to the outstanding principal and accrued but
                       inpaid interest (not including default interest) on the Guaranteed
                       Loan. Inthe event IDA acquires the Guaranteed Loan, IDA will
                       lave the right under its Indemnity Agreement with the
                       Sovernment o f Tanzania to demand immediate payment to IDA
                        3 f the outstanding Guaranteed Loan amount.      (N/A to the L/C
                       structure).

Subrogation:           [fand to the extent the IDA makes payment under the IDA
                       Guarantee and the Government o f Tanzania has failed to
                        reimburse IDA for the amount so paid in accordance with the
                        terms o fthe Indemnity Agreement and such failure has continued
                       for at least 60 days, then IDA shall be immediately subrogated
                       to the Lender(s)' rights, including any security rights, in respect
                        of such payment, provided that IDA shall not be subrogated to
                       any voting rights or rights o f enforcement o f security untileither
                       (i)IDA has paid the Guaranteed Amount; or (ii)where,
                       following an acceleration, IDA has agreed to make payments in
                       accordance with the Loan's original repayment schedule I D A
                        may waive any such rights o f subrogation.

GuaranteeAgreement:     The terms and conditions o f the IDA Guarantee would be
                       embodied in a Guarantee Agreement between the commercial            01:
                       shareholder Lender(s) and IDA (or in the case o f a guaranteec
                       L/C, IDA and the issuingbank).

Indemnity Agreement:    The Government o f Tanzania would enter into an Indemnio
                        Agreement with IDA. Under the Agreement, the Government 0:
                       Tanzania would undertake to indemnify IDA on demand, or a:
                       the IDA may otherwise determine, for any payment made by the
                       IDA under the terms of the Guarantee. The Indemnig
                        Agreement will follow the legal regime, and include dispute
                       settlement provisions, which are customary in agreement:
                       between member countries andthe IDA

ProjectAgreement:      The PC will enter into a Project Agreement with the IDA ir
                       respect o f its Guarantee. Under such Agreement, the PC will
                       agree to use the proceeds o f each advance, in the case o f a
                        Guaranteed Loan (or portion thereof), in accordance with the
                       terms and conditions o f the Project Agreement and the Loan
                       Agreement to provide reports (including audit reports) and other



                                       - 78 -

                                      Project information and make warranties, representations and
                                      covenanted undertakings, including in respect o f compliance
                                      with environmental laws and the applicable World Bank
                                      Guidelines.

Other Provisions:                     As part of its appraisal process, IDA would carry out due
                                      diligence including a technical and economic analysis o f the
                                      Project, review the financing structure o f the concession and
                                      financing agreements, andthe proposed riskcoverage, as deemed
                                      relevant by IDA. The PC would be expected to comply with all
                                      applicable Bank policies and requirements, including those
                                      governing    disclosure    o f   information,   and    applicable
                                      environmental, social, fiduciary, and anti-corruption safeguards.




The ProposedPRGStructure

In order to enhance bid responsiveness, in the context of the currently prevailing adverse investment
climate and the previous failed Government tender for a concessionaire, two alternative PRG structures are
being offered to the concessionaire, as outlined in the indicative term sheet set out above. The two
structures consist o f (i)the traditional Limited Recourse Structure and (ii) Letter o f Credit Structure.
                                                                                 a
Once a concessionaire has been selected and expressed a preference for one or the other o f these two
alternative structures, the structure andrisk coverage o f the PRG will be negotiated with the concessionaire
andor its lenders and specific Board approval would be sought on the negotiated PRG terms and
conditions.

Under the Limited Recourse Structure, the PRG will guarantee either a commercial or shareholder loan
provided to finance the Project Company's investments in locomotives and rolling stock. Inthis case, the
PRG could only be triggered in the event o f a debt service default on the covered loans caused directly by
RAHCO's non-compliance with its contractual undertakings (Le. RAHCO's Breach o f Contract under the
Concession Agreements). The term o f the covered loan(s) would be negotiated by the concessionaire and its
lenders once the concessionaire is selected, and would be subject to IDA'Sapproval.

The Letter o f Credit (LE) Structure has been developed, particularly in the context o f privatization or
concession guarantees, to enhance and facilitate privatizations and the concessioning o f infrastructure and
public service utilities. Thus it is intended to be offered for the first time in the context o f the proposed
TRC Concession, which would also be the first privatizatiodconcession operation to be supported by a
PRG.

The L/C Structure is specifically designed to provide political risk mitigation to the concessionaire/Project
Company, when its financing plan does not anticipate direct commercial debt to the Project Company.
Under this structure, RAHCO, for its account, would open an L/C with a commercial bank based in
Tanzania (the Issuing Bank) for the benefit o f the Project Company. The L/C would not exceed the
maximum amount of US$40 million and would have a validity period which would be negotiated between
RAHCO and the concessionaire/Project Company and agreed by IDA.

In the event o f a RAHCO Breach o f Contract guaranteed by IDA, the Project Company would notify


                                                     - 79 -

RAHCO as well as IDA. Ifthe Breach o f Contract is not remedied within the cure period agreed in the
Concession Agreements, and ifit is not disputed by RAHCO, the concessionaire would be entitled to
present agreed documentation to the Issuing Bank for a draw under the L/C backed by IDA. If, however,
RAHCO disputes the occurrence of a Breach of Contract, then the applicable dispute settlement
mechanisms (including arbitration) set forth in the Concession Agreements would need to be exhausted
before a draw on the L/C could be made.

Following a drawing upon the L/C and payment to the Project Company, RAHCO/Government (under the
L/C agreement) will be obligated to reimburse the Issuing Bank for the amounts drawn (plus interest at an
agreed rate accruing until repayment is made) within a "repayment period" to be negotiated between the
L/C issuing bank and RAHCO and to be agreed with IDA. This repayment period could extend from a
minimum of six months to a year or longer, and will essentially represent the maximum loan term to
RAHCO for the drawn amounts. If RAHCO should fail to make the required reimbursementAoan
repayment within the repayment period, then the Issuing Bank would have the right to call on the PRG and
the total amount o f the L/C would be reduced by the amount o f such PRG payment. However, if RAHCO
makes the required repayment to the L/C Issuing Bank prior to the expiration o f the repayment period,
then the L/C amount would be reinstated to its original amount and IDA would have no obligation for
payment under the PRG.

As is the case with all guarantee operations, any payments made by IDA under either o f the above
structures would give IDA the right to seek reimbursement from the Government under the Indemnity
Agreement that would be concluded between IDA and the Government o f Tanzania. Also the risk coverage,
the amounts covered, as well as the guarantee charges would be the same for both the structures. The IDA
Guarantee would be priced at 0.75% per annum on guaranteed amounts disbursedand outstanding with a
standby fee o f 0.25% per annum on guaranteed undisbursed amounts. In addition, there would be an
upfront initiation fee o f 0.15% and a processing fee o f 0.50% (for reimbursable expenses) of the
guaranteed amounts. All PRG related charges would be payable by the concessionaire and not by RAHCO.


Key Legal Documents:

The key Legal Documents that will be entered into to effect the concession will consist o f the following:

A Concession Agreement which will be executed among RAHCO, the concessionaire and the Project
Company (as Concession Operator) which will grant the concession for the management, operation, and
maintenance o f the rail infrastructure to the private concessionaire (operating through the Project
Company)      and its right to provide railway freight          and passenger transport services.         The
concessionaireh'roject Company will be required to make periodic payments to RAHCO, consisting o f a
percentage of its gross revenues, throughout the concession term. The Agreement will define the rights and
obligations of the concessionaire and Project Company, including service performance obligations, as well
as the obligations of RAHCO with respect to Restoration o f the rail infrastructure and any payment
obligations o f RAHCO in the event o f early termination by the Project Company or concessionaire. It also
outlines a dispute resolution process in the case o f disputes between RAHCO, the concessionaire and the
Project Company.

A Lease Agreement which will be executedbetween RAHCO andthe Project Company for the lease ofthe
rail infrastructure and the existing rolling stock under which the Project Company would be required to
makeperiodic leasepayments for the use o fthe assets to RAHCO.



                                                    - 80 -

The PRG related key Legal Documents, will consist o f the following:

A Guarantee Agreement which will be executed between the lender@) or the L/C IssuingBank and IDA,
which will specify the Guarantee Coverage as well as the process for making a claim upon IDA in the
event a guaranteed event is triggered by a RAHCO Breacho f Contract.

A Project Agreement which will be executed among the Project Company, the concessionaire and IDA
which will set forth certain undertakings o f the Project Company and the concessionaire (e.g. in respect o f
applicable environmental, safeguards, and use o f proceeds undertakings).

An Indemnitv Agreement (IA) which willbe executed between IDA andthe Government o fTanzania. The
IA will entitle IDA to repayment on demandor otherwise as IDAmay direct inthe event that IDA makes a
payment to the lenders or the WC IssuingBank on behalf o f RAHCO under the Guarantee Agreement.




                                                    -81   -


MAP SECTION


