                                   Updated Project Information Document (PID)
                                                                                                Report No: AB100


Project Name                       TANZANIA-Central Transport Corridor Project
Region                             Africa Regional Office
Sector                             Roads and highways (100%)
Theme                              Infrastructure services for private sector development (P)
Project                            P078387
Borrower(s)                        REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
Implementing Agency(ies)           TANROADS
                                   Address:
                                   Contact Person:
                                   Tel: 255-22-2-2150101         Fax: 255-22-2-150022         Email:
                                   tanroadsh1@cats-net.com
Environment Category               B (Partial Assessment)

Date PID Prepared                  July 28, 2003
Auth Appr/Negs Date                January 15, 2004
Bank Approval Date                 May 15, 2004


1. Country and Sector Background
Transport Sector. The transport network in Tanzania comprises:

(a)      road transport, with roads totaling about 85,000 km
(b)      railway transport, with two railways totaling about 3,570 km and operated by Tanzania Railway
Corporation (2,600 km) and Tanzania-Zambia Railway Authority (970 km)
(c)      Maritime transport, with major sea ports at Dar es Salaam, Tanga and Mtwara and inland water
transport with ports in lake Victoria, Tanganyika and Nyasa
(d)      Air transport, with three international airports at Dar es Salaam, Kilimanjaro and Zanzibar.

Road transport represents 70% of freight and 90 percent of passenger transport in the country.
Registered vehicles are over 120,000 and average annual traffic growth rate is 6 percent. Commercial
vehicle population was estimated at 36,000 (1999), of which 64 percent are freight vehicles. More than
90 percent of the commercial vehicles are one vehicle owner/operator, with low level of technical and
managerial expertise and limited financial capacity. During 2001, the transport sector contributed 12
percent to the country's export earnings.


Roads provide the only means of access to much of the rural communities and an effective management
of road assets is of vital importance to the Government's strategy for economic development and poverty
reduction as detailed in the Poverty Reduction Strategy Papers (PRSP). The road network is much less
developed in Tanzania than in some other SSA countries. The density of the Tanzania road network is
96 m/sq. km as compared to Kenya (262 m/sq. km) and Uganda (330 m/sq. km). In addition, the primary
grid is incomplete.


The road network. The on-going review of Highway Ordinance recommends network classification in
the following five categories:

·        Trunk roads. Primarily national and international through routes that link several regions and
provide access to important border posts and ports;

                                                      2
                                                                                                       PID


·        Regional roads. Secondary routes connecting district centers in a region or connecting another
important center to a trunk road.
·        District roads. Connecting district headquarters to higher class roads, or connecting important
centers within the district or important centers to a higher class road;
·        Feeder roads. Village access roads linking important centers within a ward to the rest of the
network;
·        Urban roads. Roads within a city, municipality or a township.

    In addition, there are numerous unclassified roads, which include paths, tracks, national park roads,
estate roads, private roads, etc. Trunk and regional roads are the responsibility of the newly created
Tanzania National Roads Agency (TanRoads). Responsibility for managing district and urban roads rests
in the President's Office Regional Administration and Local Government (PORALG).

         The latest road condition survey was carried out in 1999, and although the value and accuracy of
the data is uncertain, it does provide an overview of the trend in development. A visual condition survey
of the paved trunk road network was carried out in connection with Phase 1 of the 10 year RSDP. The
road network in the country is generally poor, especially for unpaved roads. Regional and district roads
are in a worse condition than trunk roads.

Table : Condition of Road Network, 1999


Road Type            Good           Fair             Poor              Total
Trunk Roads
 Paved               2,353          1,098             470              3,921
 Unpaved               946          2,839            2,524             6,309
Regional Roads
 Paved                  22            100             100                222
 Unpaved             4,895          9,791            9,791             24,477
District/Urban       3,995          9,755            36,250            50,000
Roads
Total Roads          12,211         23,583           49,135            84,929


Note: Condition of district/urban roads is based on data surveys conducted in 1997
Source: District roads survey data , 1997; National Transport Sector Strategic Plan and Infrastructure
Master Plan, 2001.

The road transport sector in the country is characterized by high cost and low quality of services,
resulting from:

(a)      high backlog of road network maintenance and rehabilitation;
(b)      inadequate institutional arrangements, laws, regulations and procedures;
(c)      Inadequate financing for road maintenance;
(d)      inadequate human capacity; and
(e)      low level of enforcement of safety, environmental standards, social impact management and
gender equity related issues.


(a)      Need to restore the road network. A comparison of road condition surveys between 1997 and
1999 (PER, 2000) suggests that heavy investments by Government and donors in the rehabilitation and
reconstruction of paved trunk roads has significantly improved quality of roads, though insufficient

                                                       3
                                                                                                           PID



maintenance has further deteriorated the remainder of the trunk and regional road network. The 10-year
Road Sector Development Program (RSDP) developed alternate scenarios of the funding requirements to
provide a good service level to road users and support the predicted economic growth in the country.
The desirable program scenario estimated total cost of road construction and maintenance over a 10-year
period between US$2.2 billion and US$2.0 billion, depending upon the maintenance strategy adopted.
This amount is much beyond the capacity of the Government to finance from its own fiscal budget,
requiring considerable assistance from the donors to finance the gap. While much of the road
maintenance cost would be met from Government's own revenues (including the RF), development
works and backlog maintenance would require donor assistance.

A critical constraint to poverty reduction strategy is the inability to move agricultural products in rural
Tanzania due to the poor condition of rural roads. The situation is bad because it either limits access to
markets or raises the costs of access to products. Improvement in the rural/feeder road network in this
context therefore entails establishing links between villages and markets to enhance commercialization
and access to input, as well as intra-community links, for which involvement of the rural communities in
the identification of needs and maintenance of the network is key for sustainability.

(b)      Inadequate institutional arrangements, laws, regulations and procedures, including: (i) the
planning and management responsibilities are divided among a number of Ministries responsible for
Transport, Works, Home Affairs, Finance, Regional Administration and Local Government; (ii) lack of
coherent policy guidelines for planning and development; (iii) inadequate formal coordination and
consultation among principal actors; (iv) weak application of scientifically based planning methodologies
appropriate to the country specific environment and nonexistence of data systems; (v) lack of regulatory
regimes equipped to enhance competition, fair operational practices and complementarity of services.

The responsibility for road infrastructure is shared between the central Government through the Ministry
of Works and the local Government authorities through the District and Urban Councils. The ministry
responsible for transport is also involved in policy, planning and regulatory issues while the local
Government is responsible for district and urban roads. The involvement of multiple institutions causes
lack of accountability and inefficiency in both management and administration of the roads sub-sector.

TANROADS was set up as a semi-autonomous Road Agency in July 2000. It has taken over the
responsibility for road maintenance management from MOW, and is expected to improve Government's
road project management capabilities and thus create the conditions for effective implementation of the
IRP-II and RRRSP. It has established a dedicated Unit in September, 2001, under the management of its
chief executive. The unit is in charge of IDA and other specific donors funded projects.

Under IRP-II, institutional capacity building were provided to CODAP (MOW), which was responsible
for all donor coordination related to the IRP. However, CODAP was constrained by a shortage of
qualified personnel to carry out its mandate. Given the lack of qualified manpower that can be recruited
permanently into the Government establishment, and the volume of work entailed in managing both
ongoing and proposed projects, CODAP recruited Contract Management, Finance and Accounting, and
Project Management specialists for technical assistance under IRP-II. These immediate resource
requirements have strengthened CODAP's management capacity. TANROADS has absorbed most
functions of CODAP. Zanzibar has also established a CODAP office which is being supported initially
by IRP-II in the basic skills of financing and technical management. However, to achieve sustainability
and expose staff to actual operations, the support needs to be continued over a longer period.

(c)      Inadequate financing and management for road maintenance. Much of the road maintenance
undertaken to-date has been in response to emergency situations, at the expense of planned road

                                                     4
                                                                                                        PID



maintenance. To provide a secure and sustainable basis for road maintenance, the Parliament of the
United Republic of Tanzania enacted a Road Tolls (Amendment No 2) Act 1998, establishing a Road
Fund (RF) and a Board. Setting up the RF with dedicated financing from road user fees has made
available more money for road maintenance than in the past. However, neither is the money sufficient to
address full maintenance needs nor is it being put to use most effectively.          In many respects, the
character of the road fund continues to be along the lines of the first generation road funds--the user
generated fees are channelled into the RF through the budget; money is debited from the road fund
account after instruction from the PS, Ministry of Finance; and requests from the RF Board to streamline
flow of funds and divert revenues from existing charges not accruing to the RF do not receive adequate
acceptance. The road fund continues to be a part of the regular budget process, even though it is
supported by user charges. Absence of independent audits of collections and disbursements do little to
strengthen market discipline.

In absence of detailed inventory of the road network (including road length, type, condition, topography),
an assessment of road maintenance need is a theoretical exercise, assuming that all roads are in a
condition which require only routine and periodic maintenance. Rough estimates of road maintenance
needs suggest a total annual requirement of US$90.8 million--paved (trunk and regional) roads (US$20.9
million); unpaved (trunk and regional) roads US$52.5 million); and earth, district and feeder roads
(US$17.5 million). Total receipts into the RF fell far short of the estimated requirements in FY01
(US$48 million).
In Zanzibar, a Road Fund was established in 1995 to provide a dedicated source of funding for road
upkeep and maintenance activities, and a fuel levy was introduced to provide revenue for the Fund.
However, the revenue generated from the fuel levy has not been allocated to the Road Fund and road
maintenance in Zanzibar suffers from severe under-funding, resulting in most of the primary roads being
in very poor condition. The neglect of the roads in Zanzibar is due mainly to the absence of institutional
arrangements based on specific legislation or mandatory regulations that would establish sustainable
financing mechanism capable of ensuring an adequate flow of funds dedicated to long-term road
maintenance. The updated ZIROP study for Zanzibar suggested draft legislation for both the Zanzibar
Roads Implementation Office and Road Act for exclusive use of Road Fund for management and
development of roads.

(d)     Inadequate human capacity, including: (i) weak capacity of the domestic construction industry in
designing, construction and maintenance of roads; (ii) shortage of adequately trained and experienced
personnel in the transport planning departments and units; and (iii) low managerial capacity in public
enterprises.

Through implementation of IRP-I and IRP-II, capacity building of private contractors has been carried
out, and more than 300 contractors have been trained to contribute to the road sector projects. GOT
intends to further strengthen the private sector capacity and to ensure a stable construction market for
those contractors.

The approach taken by GOT is to rely primarily on the private sector for the actual execution of the road
work, while devoting a much greater emphasis and capacity within Government for planning and
regulation, and within TANROADS for overall management and supervision of the road program
implementation. In this connection, GOT has identified the need to define policies for: (i) developing
and expanding the domestic construction sector to progressively take over a higher proportion of the road
construction and maintenance works; and (ii) physical implementation of routine and periodic
maintenance of the existing network.

                                                     5
                                                                                                          PID



(e)      Low level of enforcement of safety, environmental standards, social impact management and
gender equity related issues. Experience in the transport sector shows that environment and social
issues are integral components of transport projects. Recently, MCT developed National Environmental
Assessment Procedures and Guidelines to meet the challenge posed by environmental and social issues in
transport projects. Sector guidelines are being further elaborated to address specific environmental and
social issues that could result from road development projects.

GOT's proposed National Transport Sector Strategic Plan and Transportation Infrastructure Master Plan
also incorporate the crucial linkage with overall social sector strategy, especially in addressing the social
aspects of road development and maintenance including actions taken to address poverty. These actions
are particularly important, since the link between community isolation and the incidence of poverty was
recognized. The IMF financed Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility focuses on this issue, along with
the Local Government Reform Program (LGRP). The proposed Project will take into consideration the
outcomes of those programs.

Government Strategy

The Government is committed to a policy of privatization/commercialization of core functions that can
be transferred from central Government to focused specialized service providers. The objectives are: (a)
provide an efficient, safe and sustainable road network in support of market integration and poverty
reduction; (b) improve the managerial and operational efficiency of road administration; and (c) develop
the domestic construction industry. In pursuit of these objectives, the Ministry of Works has, among
things, embarked on a program of institutional reforms based on commercialization/ contract out of the
technical services and development of performance based maintenance contracts

The approach taken by GOT is to rely primarily on the private sector for the actual execution of road
work, while devoting a much greater emphasis and capacity within Government for planning and
regulation, and within TANROADS for overall management and supervision of the road program
implementation. In this connection, GOT has identified the need to define policies for: (i) developing
and expanding the domestic construction sector to progressively take over a higher proportion of the road
construction and maintenance works; and (ii) physical implementation of routine and periodic
maintenance of the existing network. While Government policy is to encourage private sector
participation, the role of overall road management will remain in MOW until TANROADS has become
fully operational. This transition of management and implementation roles were further clarified in the
recently prepared National Transport Sector Strategic Plan.

GOT has recently embarked on a Local Government Reform Program (LGRP) with donor support to
strengthen the capacity of local government to deliver public services, including roads, and to strengthen
their financial capacity.

The Government has developed a National Transport Policy document (January, 2001) with the objective
to: (a) support the national development program for sustainable economic growth, economic reform,
meeting basic human needs and human resource development; (b) apply a participatory approach in the
planning for infrastructure provision involving all stakeholders; (c) provide for suitable institutional
arrangements, laws and regulations to ensure provision of effective, reliable and integrated transport
services; and (d) support appropriate development strategies including development corridors, land use
densification and efficiency and integrated economy through establishing a strong infrastructure base and
services.

                                                      6
                                                                                                        PID



The Government has prepared a Transport Infrastructure Master Plan (September 2001) with the
objective to prepare a prioritized short, medium, and long term investment plan for the transport sector
which is consistent with the national transport policy objectives. The main purpose of the master plan
was to further the goal of national integration and stimulate regional development by providing transport
corridors that can be used by neighboring countries for trade. The level of future transport activity was
estimated using a disaggregated approach to demand forecasting. In addition, a series of meetings were
held with producers and transport companies. The model provided a prioritized investment plan for
maintenance, rehabilitation and upgrading of the trunk and regional road network for a 50 year
investment period, in seven phases. The total road sector requirements for the first five year phase
(2001-2005) were estimated at US$ 577 million.

The Government has also prepared a 10-year Road Sector Development Program (RSDP) (July, 2001) to
support its national development objectives. Using a set of economic and strategic importance criteria
(production in agriculture, mining and tourism and international transit trade), transport corridors and
road sections were ranked in order of importance. Nine corridors were assessed and the central corridor
obtained the highest ranking. The desirable program ensured a good service level to road users over the
network, which is capable of supporting the predicted economic growth in the country within the
framework of the 10-year RSDP. The estimated total cost of the desirable 10-year program range
between US$2.2 billion and US$2.0 billion, depending upon the maintenance strategy adopted, which is
much beyond the capacity of the Government to finance from its own fiscal budget, requiring
considerable assistance from the donors to finance the gap.

2. Objectives
The project supports Government's 10-year Road Sector Development Program (RSDP) by focusing on
rehabilitation of the most priority link within the Central Transport Corridor area and improving
institutional capacity to manage road program, assets and services on a more commercial basis. The
primary objective of the proposed project is to: (a) improve access to economically productive Central
Transport Corridor area; (b) support actions aimed at further strengthening management and financing
systems for sustainable maintenance of the road network; and (c) reduce poverty and promote awareness
of HIV/AIDS program.

The Central Transport Corridor is one of the nine transport corridors identified in the strategic plan,
which interconnects most parts of the country and is critical to promoting trade and investment by
opening up areas of main economic activities, such as mining, tourism, agriculture and manufacturing.
The Corridor serves Western and North-Western parts of the country as well as the neighboring land
locked countries of Rwanda, Burundi, Uganda and Democratic Republic of Congo. The Government
accords high priority to the rehabilitation and upgrading of the sections along the Central Corridor.

In addition to upgrading section of the Central Transport Corridor, the project focuses on: (a) preparing
feasibility studies and detailed designs of trunk roads located within the Central Transport Corridor area;
(b) improving maintenance management by setting up performance based contracts; (c) providing
technical assistance for road sector management capacity building; and (e) conducting poverty impact
baseline studies and HIV/AIDS awareness program.

                                                       7
                                                                                                       PID



3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
An important source of value added by Bank is its comparative worldwide experience in the preparation
and implementation of major capital expenditure programs. This has been acknowledged by the donor
community which has recognized the Bank's leadership role during the preparation of this project. Bank
involvement and experience with developing road management and maintenance systems in Ethiopia,
Ghana, Zambia, and Uganda, will be beneficial to efforts aimed at developing road network improvement
and administrative improvement in Tanzania. Performance based maintenance management contracts
have been implemented or are being developed in a number of countries, such as Argentina, Chile,
Brazil, USA, Canada, New Zealand, UK, Australia and Chad. A number of these initiatives are
supported by the World Bank.

Another source of advantage is the Bank's experience in road sector reform in the region gained over the
last 10 years through he steering of he Road Maintenance/Management Initiative (RMI). This has
provided the Bank with the good will of the beneficiaries and donors in creating a cooperative framework
where sector reform has gradually been shaped, implemented and monitored. It will also help ensure
further institutional and financial sustainability of roads management by helping to define and implement
efficient, effective and sustainable policy frameworks, institutional arrangements, and financial
management systems and financing mechanisms tested and endorsed in RMI practices.

The Bank's participation would provide continuity in the implementation of the long-term national
program. The Bank will also help Tanzania to incorporate new concerns in its transport sector,
particularly regarding poverty and HIV/AIDS issues.

4. Description
Tentative components have been identified and are specified below. (A map showing road
components of CTCRP is attached.)

(a)     Civil works and Supervision of upgrading to bitumen standard of Singida-Shelui Road.
Singida-Shelui road (110 km) leads from the region's headquarters to the border of Tabora region,
serving a number of intermediate administrative and trade centers as Iguguno, Misigiri and Shelui. It
belongs to the central corridor of the national trunk road system. The existing roadway is gravel surfaced
(7 to 10 m wide, including shoulders). Design features are poor and road safety is below standard.
(b)     Feasibility study and detailed design for upgrading of Singida-Babati-Minjingu road (220km).
(c)     Institutional capacity building to TANROADS/MCT/MOCT Zanzibar.
(d)     HIV/AIDS components.
(e)     Study to establish baseline and Monitoring Indicators for alleviation of poverty as related to
development of the transport sector.
(f)     Development of Project Document and Specification for Performance Oriented Maintenance
Project for Tanzania Mainland.
(g)     Development of Project Document and Specification for Performance Oriented Maintenance
Project for Zanzibar.
(h)     External audit services (over 6 years).
(j)     Feasibility Study and Detailed Design for Dodoma-Babati Road (263 km).
Civil works for upgrading Singida-Shelui Road
Supervision of Singida-Shelui road (110 Km)
Feasibility Study and Detailed Engineering Design of Singida ­ Babati ­ Minjingu (220km)
Feasibility Study and Detailed Design for Dodoma-Babati Road (263 km)
Study to establish baseline and Monitoring Indicators for Transport/Poverty Alleviation
Development of Project Document and specification for Performance Oriented Maintenance Project for
Tanzania Mainland

                                                          8
                                                                                                         PID



Development of Project Document and specification for Performance Oriented Maintenance Project for
Zanzibar
Technical Assistance for TANROADS and MOCT Zanzibar
HIV/AIDS awareness components through project implementation

5. Financing
Source (Total ( US$m))
BORROWER ($5.00)
IDA ($61.00)
Total Project Cost: $66.00

6. Implementation
Financial Management. The dedicated IDA/SDP Unit established within TANROADS will be in charge
of specific projects including IDA financed projects. However, the need for strengthening the financial
management capacity is aggravated by the extra responsibilities to be taken on for the new project and
the current lack of segregation of financial management responsibilities. The IDA/SDP Unit will take
full responsibility for project financial management and reporting within the Finance and Administration
Division (FAD). Currently a significant proportion of the funding for the roads network is received from
donors and TANROADS has an obligation to demonstrate at all times to the donors that their funds are
being effectively managed and fully accounted. The following proposed action plan would strengthen
the current financial management system within the TANROADS unit and address some of the emerging
financial management issues.


 No.                                                 Action
 1.     Update the Accounting Procedures Manual (April 2000 version) with due observance of
        strengthening the Internal Control System.
2.      Integrate the current accounting and financial reporting system used by the IDA/SDP unit with
        the EPICOR system used by other TANROADS units. Use 1 July 2002 as the cut-off date.
3.      Prepare and update status reports on financial and physical progress on quarterly basis. The
        reports should compare planned/actual targets and outputs and be integrated with the
        accounting system.
4.      Design and provide continuous training courses for staff in the regions in order to enhance
        their accounting capacity -- in particular on the basic utilization of computer applications.
 5.     Develop/procure and implement a PMS compatible with the FM System.



Auditing. The external audit will be carried out as part of the annual TANROADS audit by the
Controller and Auditor General (CAG) or such other person registered as an auditor under the Auditors
and Accountants Act, 1972 and approved by the CAG. Financial statements will be prepared and audited
annually. In addition, detailed management letters containing the auditor's assessment of the internal
controls and accounting system and suggestions for improvement will be prepared and submitted to
management for follow-up.


Disbursement of IDA Funds. Disbursements from IDA would be initially be made on the basis of
incurred eligible expenditures (transaction based disbursements). IDA would then make advance
disbursement from the proceeds of the Credit by depositing into a Borrower-operated Special Account to
expedite Program implementation. The advance to a Special Account would be used by the Borrower to
finance IDA's share of Program expenditures under the proposed Credit. Another acceptable method of
withdrawing funds from the Credit is the direct payment method, involving direct payments from the
Credit to a third party for works, goods and services upon the Borrower's request. Payments may also be

                                                       9
                                                                                                        PID



made to a commercial bank for expenditures against IDA special commitments covering a commercial
bank's Letter of Credit. IDA's Disbursement Letter stipulates a minimum application value for direct
payment and special commitment procedures.

Upon credit effectiveness, TANROADS would be required to submit a withdrawal application for an
initial deposit to the Special Account, drawn from the IDA Credit, in an amount to be agreed to in the
Development Credit Agreement. Replenishment of funds from IDA to the Special Account will be made
upon evidence of satisfactory utilization of the advance, reflected in SOEs and/or on full documentation
for payments above SOE thresholds. Replenishment applications would be required to be submitted
regularly on a monthly basis. If ineligible expenditures are found to have been made from the Special
Account, the Borrower will be obligated to refund the same. If the Special Account remains inactive for
more than six months, the Borrower may be requested to refund to IDA amounts advanced to the Special
Account.

In addition, TANROADS shall comply with the new requirements of a circular issued by the Ministry of
Finance (2001) on the Channeling of Project Funds through the Exchequer System. Compliance or
exemption from these requirements should be agreed with the Accountant General by the time of
pre-appraisal of the project.

Strengthening its accounting and financial management capacity will enable TANROADS to establish
effective financial management and accounting systems, which should eventually facilitate the
introduction of Financial Monitoring Report (FMR)-based disbursements in periods subsequent to
project effectiveness. The adoption of this approach will enable the project to move away from
time-consuming transaction based disbursement (voucher-by-voucher) methods to quarterly report based
disbursements to the Project's Special Account, based on the FMRs. Report-based disbursements offers
more flexibility.



7. Sustainability

The critical factor required for sustainability of Program and Project benefits is continued Government
commitment. In this regard, the Government has demonstrated its commitment at the highest level by
according the road sector the highest priority in its economic development, and has taken a number of
actions to confirm this commitment along with necessary institutional strengthening. The President's
declaration made on May 31, 2000 at the Road Stakeholders' Conference in Dar es Salaam, highlighting
the need for roads as a key instrument in the development of the country, symbolizes the straightforward
commitment of the GOT. MCT has prepared National Transport Sector Strategic Plan, to further clarify
the focus of institutional strengthening. MCT has also prepared a Transport Infrastructure Master Plan,
while MOW completed a 10-Year Road Sector Development Program (10YRSDP), of which the RRRP
is a priority part. The annual Road Sector Public Expenditure Study indicates the use of funds for each
sector, and highlights where there may be shortfalls in some sectors. These actions are expected to
contribute to ensuring the availability of the local counterpart financial resources needed to complement
IDA and other donor financing of the Program. The establishment of TANROADS further enhances
GOT's ability to effectively manage the RRRSP preparation and implementation.

8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
Experience from past projects indicates that the main risk has been the limited capacity of the
implementation agency, in particular, the ability of the agency to effectively address problems related to
contract management, contract administration, and financial and technical monitoring. The following are
some of the lessons learnt from recent programs.

                                                      10
                                                                                                        PID




Key Lessons Learned from IRP
(i) Complexity of the Project and Country Absorptive Capacity. Project composition and implementation
schedule should match the absorptive capacity of the implementing agency. In design of such large
investment, involving several donors, the approach should aim at a phased investment with well-defined
triggers with long-term program supported by all donors.
(ii) Project Design. The absence of substantially completed detailed engineering for all major roads
immediately prior to Board presentation makes variation orders almost inevitable, leading to delays and
cost increases. In institutional capacity building, too many demands for simultaneous reforms along with
implementation burdens taxed the capacity of the government and implementing agency to deliver budget
and outputs on schedule.
(iii) Learning from Past Mistakes. The lessons of experience of past project implementation were to
safeguard against future mistakes both for IDA and the borrower. Major flaws experienced in the Sixth
Highway Project Credit were also experienced under IRP-I. For example, appropriate technical
documentation and provision of adequate resources should be fully completed before commencement of
works. In short, more attention needs to be paid to past lessons of experience during project design and
implementation.
(iv) Donor Coordination. The spirit of cooperation of the donor community in support of the IRP-I and
IRP-II was initially satisfactory. However, during the course of implementation, it was not easy to
maintain the interests of all donors as each focused on execution of their own program under the parallel
financing arrangement. In this regard, strengthening of TANROADS coordination ability is
essential, or alternatively, a transport sector coordination unit in MOF could be established.

Lessons from neighboring country
There have been substantial delays in the processing and awarding of contracts, leading to substantially
higher costs at the initial stages of commencement and to delayed completion. The structure of road
administration in Tanzania has been subject to frequent changes, resulting in poorly organized planning
and administration, and ineffective long-term institutional development. Therefore, institutional
strengthening of road administration, as well as changes in the decision-making process, have been
undertaken by the Government. Other lessons are that inadequate engineering design and weak
documentation resulted in implementation delays and cost overruns. Steps are therefore being taken
during project implementation to ensure the readiness and availability of completed contract
documentation before commencement of works.

Lessons from Sector Investment Programs (SIPs) in other countries
Several lessons from road SIPs in other East African countries are being considered in the preparation of
the RRRSP and the Phase 1 Project. These include: (i) the need for ownership and accountability and
avoidance of overlapping responsibility (for example, the responsibility/authority of Road Agency in
relation to that of Road Fund Board, MOW, and PORALG); (ii) the importance of having in place a
sector strategy, institutional frameworks, and stable and sufficient financial resources for counterpart
financing which contribute to the effectiveness and sustainability of investments and avoidance of
implementation problems; (iii) ensuring that road designs and bidding documents are completed and
updated as necessary before bidding; (iv) the need for building up sufficient capacity for project
implementation and; (v) the need for effective donor coordination to avoid inconsistency in development
objectives. These important lessons would be reviewed with the Borrower prior to appraisal to ensure
that action is taken.

Based on the above mentioned lessons, the Project will: (i) assist implementing sustainable institutional
arrangements, particularly those focused on capacity building of TANROADS; (ii) avoid complexity in
project components and adjust the size and pace of project implementation considering the improvement

                                                     11
                                                                                                        PID



of absorptive capacity of implementation agency, thus by adopting APL; and (iii) prepare adequate
engineering design and documentation before commencement of works to avoid implementation delays
and cost overruns..

9. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
     Issues : The following direct and indirect negative environmental impacts can arise from road
rehabilitation and maintenance works: land take, dust and noise, generation of sediment, river pollution
and scour damage (river damage extraction), safety hazards (quarry faces, blasting, etc.), health hazards,
visual impacts. The following socioeconomic impacts can arise from road rehabilitation and
maintenance works: permanent and temporary land take resulting in involuntary resettlement and/or
compensation, land tenure impacts, public health impacts, cultural impacts, and changes in local
population's way of life and/or exploitation of natural resources, etc. An EA and RAP will be prepared,
approved and disclosed prior to Project appraisal.

10. List of factual technical documents:
Draft detailed designs and Prequolification Document for Contractors.

11. Contact Point:

     Team Manager
     Yitzhak A. Kamhi
     The World Bank
     1818 H Street, NW
    Washington D.C. 20433
     Telephone: 202-473-7858
      Fax: 202-473-8326

12. For information on other project related documents contact:
        The InfoShop
        The World Bank
        1818 H Street, NW
        Washington, D.C. 20433
        Telephone: (202) 458-5454
        Fax:     (202) 522-1500
        Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop


Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may not be necessarily
included in the final project.

