                              Document of
                            The World Bank




                                               Report No: ICR00001299



         IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                          (IDA-38880)

                                ON A



                               CREDIT

                  IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR81.6 MILLION
                     (US$122 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                               TO THE

                     UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA

                              FOR THE

               CENTRAL TRANSPORT CORRIDOR PROJECT




                             June 29, 2010




Transport Sector
Country Department AFCE1
Africa Region
                     CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

              Exchange Rate Effective ­ December 31, 2009
               Currency Unit = Tanzanian Shillings (TZS)
                       US$1.00 = TZS 1,339.50
                         US$1.00 =SDR 0.64

                            FISCAL YEAR
                            July 1 ­ June 30

                 ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ADSL     Asymmetrical Digital Subscriber Line
AfDB     African Development Bank
BRT      Bus Rapid Transport
CAS      Country Assistance Strategy
CODAP    Coordination of Donor Aided Project
CTCP     Central Transport Corridor Project
DCA      Development Credit Agreement
DP       Development Partners
DRC      Democratic Republic of Congo
EA/SA    Environmental Assessment/Social Assessment
EIA      Environment Impact Assessment/Social Impact Assessment
EMP      Environment Management Plan
EIRR     Economic Internal Rate of Return
ERR      Economic Rate of Return
FMR      Financial Monitoring Reports
GOT      Government of Tanzania
ICR      Implementation Completion Report
ICT      Information Communication Technology
IDA      International Development Association
IFC      International Finance Corporation
IRP-II   Integrated Roads Project II
HDM      Highway Development and Management Model
JICA     Japan International Cooperation Agency
KPH      Kilometers per hour
LAN      Local Access Network
LOC      Letter of Credit
M&E      Monitoring and Evaluation
MCC      Millennium Challenge Corporation
MOCT     Ministry of Communication and Transport, Zanzibar
MS       Moderately Satisfactory
NDF      Norwegian Development Fund
NPV      Net Present Value
O&M        Organization and Management
PCU        Project Coordination Unit
PDO        Project Development Objectives
PMMR       Performance Maintenance Management Roads
PMO-RALG   Prime Minister's Office, Regional Administration and Local Government
PPIAF      Public-Private Infrastructure Advisory Facility
PRG        Partial Risk Guarantee
RAHCO      Reli Assets Holding Company
RAP        Resettlement Action Plan
RF         Road Fund
RRP        Railway Restructuring Project
TA         Technical Assistance
TANROADS   Tanzania National Roads Agency
TAZARA     Tanzania Zambia Railway Authority
TEMESA     Tanzania Electrical, Mechanical and Electronics Services Agency
TR         Tanzania Railways
TRC        Tanzania Railway Corporation
TRL        Tanzania Railway Limited
TSSP       Transport Sector Support Project
TTCL       Tanzania Telecommunications Company Limited
WAN        Wide Area Network
VOC        Vehicle Operating Costs
VPD        Vehicles per day




                        Vice President: Obiageli K. Ezekweli
                     Country Director: John Murray McIntire
                      Sector Manager: C. Sanjivi Rajasingham
                  Project Team Leader: Dieter E. Schelling
                  ICR Primary Author: Fang Xu
                                              TANZANIA
                                   Central Transport Corridor Project




                                                      CONTENTS

Data Sheet ........................................................................................................................ i
A. Basic Information........................................................................................................ i
B. Key Dates .................................................................................................................... i
C. Ratings Summary ........................................................................................................ i
D. Sector and Theme Codes............................................................................................ ii
E. Bank Staff................................................................................................................... ii
F. Results Framework Analysis ..................................................................................... ii
G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs ................................................................... v
H. Restructuring (if any) .............................................................................................. . vi
I. Disbursement Profile ................................................................................................. vi

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design............................................... 1
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 7
3. Assessment of Outcomes .......................................................................................... 14
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 20
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 20
6. Lessons Learned........................................................................................................ 23
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners........... 25

Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing.......................................................................... 26
Annex 2. Outputs by Component.................................................................................. 27
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ................................................................. 34
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes............. 42
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ........................................................................... 44
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 45
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ..................... 46
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ....................... 72
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 73
MAP
A. Basic Information
                                                                          Central Transport
Country:                Tanzania                Project Name:
                                                                          Corridor Project
Project ID:             P078387                 L/C/TF Number(s):         IDA-38880
ICR Date:               06/29/2010              ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                          REPUBLIC OF
Lending Instrument:     SIL                     Borrower:
                                                                          TANZANIA
Original Total
                        XDR 81.6M               Disbursed Amount:         XDR 80.1M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         XDR 80.1M
Environmental Category: A
Implementing Agencies:
 TANROADS
 MOCT, Zanzibar
 TRC
 RAHCO
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:
 Nordic Development Fund (NDF)

B. Key Dates
                                                                               Revised / Actual
     Process             Date             Process             Original Date
                                                                                   Date(s)
Concept Review:       05/21/2003     Effectiveness:            08/27/2004         08/27/2004
Appraisal:            03/02/2004     Restructuring(s):
Approval:             04/29/2004     Mid-term Review:          05/31/2006         05/15/2006
                                     Closing:                  12/31/2009         12/31/2009

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Substantial
Bank Performance:                               Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Moderately Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                 Ratings                 Borrower         Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Moderately Satisfactory Government:      Moderately Satisfactory
                                                Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Moderately Satisfactory                  Moderately Satisfactory
                                                Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                                    Overall Borrower
                        Moderately Satisfactory                  Moderately Satisfactory
Performance:                                    Performance:


                                                i
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                            Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                         Quality at Entry
                           No                                              None
at any time (Yes/No):                              (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                            Quality of
                           No                                              None
time (Yes/No):                                     Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                           Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                  Original            Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                     12                    5
Railways                                                              45                  22
Roads and highways                                                    43                  73


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Export development and competitiveness                                11                  25
Infrastructure services for private sector development                23                  25
Regulation and competition policy                                     22                  10
State enterprise/bank restructuring and privatization                 22                  15
Trade facilitation and market access                                  22                  25

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                         At ICR                            At Approval
Vice President:            Obiageli Katryn Ezekwesili           Callisto E. Madavo
Country Director:          John McIntire                        Judy M. O'Connor
Sector Manager:            C. Sanjivi Rajasingham               C. Sanjivi Rajasingham
Project Team Leader:       Dieter E. Schelling                  Dieter E. Schelling
ICR Team Leader:           Dieter E. Schelling
ICR Primary Author:        Fang Xu


F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The project's development objective is to(i) upgrade strategic road links; (ii) enhance
road management capacity; and (iii) improve operations of Tanzanian railways.


                                                 ii
Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)



(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target     Formally        Actual Value
                                              Values (from        Revised        Achieved at
   Indicator          Baseline Value
                                                 approval         Target        Completion or
                                               documents)         Values         Target Years
                Traffic increases on improved roads at least by 10% per annum on average
Indicator 1 :
                between 2004 and 2009
                                           Singida - Shelui in               Singida - Shelui in
                                           2009: 322 vpd                     2009: 759 vpd
                Singida - Shelui Road
                                           Mkwajuni -                        Mkwajuni -
                200 vpd
                                           Nungwe         : 294              Nungwe         :
Value           Mkwajuni - Nungwe
                                           vpd                               1665 vpd
quantitative or 183 vpd
                                           Mkwajuni -                        Mkwajuni -
Qualitative)    Matemwe - Pongwe
                                           Pongwe:         142               Pongwe:          374
                88 vpd
                                           vpd                               vpd
                Paje - Pingwe 231 vpd
                                           Paje - Pingwe                     Paje - Pingwe
                                           372 vpd                           915 vpd
Date achieved 06/01/2001                   12/31/2009                        12/31/2009
Comments
(incl. %        On average, this indicator is achieved 130% above target
achievement)
                Reduction of poor condition of road network that is under TanRoads'
Indicator 2 :
                responsibility
                                           30% of the
Value           49% of the network in                                        15% of the network
                                           network in poor
quantitative or poor condition (14,000                                       in poor condition
                                           condition (8,500
Qualitative)    km)                                                          (4,250km)
                                           km)
Date achieved 06/01/2003                   12/31/2009                        12/31/2009
Comments
                The proportion of road network in poor condition under TANROADS#
(incl. %
                responsibility reduced by 50% more than the target value. 150% achieved.
achievement)
Indicator 3 : Total freight traffic level on TRC
Value
                1.45 million tons of       2.0 million tons of               0.41 million tons of
quantitative or
                traffic                    traffic                           traffic
Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/01/2005                   12/31/2009                        12/31/2009
Comments
                Target not achieved. Instead of increasing by 38%, the freight traffic on TRC
(incl. %
                decreased by 72%.
achievement)
Indicator 4 : Transit traffic level on TRC increase by 20%
Value           560,000 tons of transit    672,000 tons of                   140,000 tons of
quantitative or traffic                    transit traffic                   transit traffic



                                               iii
Qualitative)
Date achieved   06/01/2005                 12/31/2009                          12/31/2009
Comments
                Target not achieved. Instead of increasing by 19.7%, the transit traffic on TRC
(incl. %
                decreased by 76.4%.
achievement)
Indicator 5 :   Railway tracks under temporary speed restriction in % of the network
                                           2% under                            4.2% under
Value           10% of tracks under
                                           temporary speed                     temporary speed
quantitative or temporary speed
                                           restriction of                      restriction of below
Qualitative)    restriction of 25 kph
                                           below 25 kph                        25 kph
Date achieved 06/01/2005                   12/31/2009                          12/31/2009
Comments        The target of limiting temporary speed restriction to 2% of track length was not
(incl. %        achieved mainly due to grossly inadequate investments in track and
achievement) infrastructure during the prolonged concessioning period.

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target                      Actual Value
                                                                 Formally
                                               Values (from                        Achieved at
   Indicator          Baseline Value                              Revised
                                                 approval                         Completion or
                                                               Target Values
                                                documents)                        Target Years
Indicator 1 : 169 Kms of roads upgraded to paved standards and five ferries rehabilitated
                                                                               115.4 km Singida
                                                                               Shelui Road and 3.3
                                                                               km at Singida urban
                                            169 km which
                                                                               completed.
                                            includes Singida-
                                                                               56 km in Zanzibar
                                            Shelui Rd and 3
                                                                               completed.
Value                                       Strategic roads in
                0 km upgraded and no                                           2 Ferries
(quantitative                               Zanzibar, three
                ferry rehabilitated                                            rehabilitated (MV
or Qualitative)                             ferries
                                                                               Kigamboni and ,
                                            rehabilitated and
                                                                               MV Sengerema 3
                                            two new ones
                                                                               ferries procured
                                            procured
                                                                               (MV Kilombero,
                                                                               MV Pangani and
                                                                               MV Rufiji)
Date achieved 08/01/2004                    12/31/2009                         12/31/2009
Comments
                a)       103% achieved (175 km of road completed)
(incl. %
                b)       100% achieved (Ferries rehabilitated/procured)
achievement)
                Feasibility, detailed design and documentation for rehabilitation and upgrading
Indicator 2 :
                of trunk roads for 713 km of trunk roads completed
                                            Bidding                            Design and bidding
Value           no feasibility study of
                                            documents                          documents for
(quantitative   design available for above
                                            available for 713                  1,320 km
or Qualitative) roads
                                            km of roads                        completed
Date achieved 08/01/2004                    12/31/2009                         12/31/2009
Comments
                185% achieved
(incl. %


                                                iv
achievement)
                  TANROADS and MOCT Zanzibar capacity enhanced and key studies for
Indicator 3 :
                  improved road management executed
                                                                                All the above
                                                                                executed,
                                                                                implemented and
                                             TA for
                                                                                operational, except
                                             TANROADS and
                                                                                TANROADS HQ
                                             MOCT Zanzibar
                                                                                building is not built.
Value                                        implemented;
                  No studies or                                                 O&M study was
(quantitative                                TANROADS HQ
                  enhancement executed                                          not done since
or Qualitative)                              building occupied;
                                                                                TANROADS felt
                                             LAN/WAN
                                                                                that it is not needed.
                                             operational; All
                                                                                More studies were
                                             studies completed.
                                                                                added during the
                                                                                implementation and
                                                                                were completed.
Date achieved     08/01/2004                 12/31/2009                         12/31/2009
Comments          Almost 100% achieved. The TANROADS HQ building is not built because the
(incl. %          client changed the original location of the proposed building. The O&M study
achievement)      was not done because TANROADS felt it is not needed.
Indicator 4 :     TRC Concessioned to a private operator
                                             Concession                         Concession
                                             agreement signed                   agreement signed
Value             Bidding documents          by November                        on Sept. 03, 2007
(quantitative     issued to prequalified     2004 and                           and TRC operations
or Qualitative)   bidders                    commencement of                    handed over to TRL
                                             concession by                      on October 01,
                                             June 2005                          2007
Date achieved     08/01/2004                 06/30/2005                         12/31/2009
                  The concession became operational more than two years behind schedule. The
Comments
                  concession performed poorly ; the government and the Concessionaire are in
(incl. %
                  discussion to terminate the concession and to transfer the concessionaire#s equity
achievement)
                  to the government.

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                      Actual
         Date ISR
 No.                               DO                          IP                 Disbursements
         Archived
                                                                                  (USD millions)
  1     06/15/2004             Satisfactory                Satisfactory                      0.00
  2     11/10/2004             Satisfactory                Satisfactory                      6.00
  3     05/03/2005             Satisfactory                Satisfactory                      6.00
  4     10/19/2005             Satisfactory                Satisfactory                    12.76
  5     05/21/2006             Satisfactory                Satisfactory                    21.38
  6     12/17/2006             Satisfactory                Satisfactory                    35.48
  7     04/05/2007             Satisfactory                Satisfactory                    45.93
  8     09/24/2007             Satisfactory                Satisfactory                    55.45


                                                  v
  9    04/22/2008       Satisfactory               Satisfactory    83.32
 10    11/10/2008       Satisfactory               Satisfactory    96.73
 11    06/05/2009       Satisfactory               Satisfactory   109.97
 12    11/24/2009   Moderately Satisfactory        Satisfactory   120.05


H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable



I. Disbursement Profile




                                              vi
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

1.      Tanzania is a poor country with 85 percent population working in the agriculture
sector and its economy relies a lot on the exports of agriculture and mining products.
Better transport infrastructure and service will reduce the transport costs of those exports,
provide the poor with better access to economic and social services and enhance the
integration of the national economy, and will therefore, contribute to poverty reduction
and growth.

2.     The Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) of Tanzania in 2000 proposed to
focus Bank's interventions in four strategic areas: (a) private sector and infrastructure
development; (b) sustainable rural development; (c) improved social infrastructure; and,
(d) public sector reform and institution building.

3.      The government of Tanzania's (GOT) strategy for the transport sector at appraisal
was to reduce costs and increase service standard. For the road sub-sector, the
government's policy was to provide a core network of about 45,000 km of roads in good
and fair condition by 2015. For the railway sector, the introduction of private sector
management and finance through long-term concession arrangement was central to the
strategy.

4.      The World Bank transport team has been engaged in improving Tanzania
transport system in a systematic and continuous manner aiming at supporting economic
growth and poverty reduction through a more efficient transport system. The engagement
covers all subsectors including road, railway, aviation and port. Consistently, the focus
was on the central transport corridor (both railways and roads) which is an important link
to a large part of the country's economic activities and provides access to the landlocked
neighboring countries, Burundi, Rwanda, Uganda and Eastern Democratic Republic of
Congo (DRC).

5.      The Central Transport Corridor Project (CTCP) was supporting the CAS and
GOT's transport sector strategy. For the road sector, the government has already put a
good amount of resources in addition to donors' funding on core road network
development. Most sections of the Central Corridor were already improved to paved
condition and the paving of some of the remaining sections was ongoing through
government and other Development Partners (DPs) financing. The project financed the
remaining bottleneck which included the Sekenke escarpment (the worst trouble spot of
the entire corridor).

6.      Tanzania Railways Corporation (TRC), by the time of appraisal in March 2004,
was able to maintain the record level of traffic achieved in 2002. However, there were
distinct signs of performance decline in the coming years, the main ones being the
following: (a) the inventory of spare parts left over from the Railways Restructuring

                                             1
Project (RRP), which closed on December 31, 2002, was fast depleting and the
government had made no budgetary allocation for support to TRC; (b) TRC's financial
performance, as distinct from operational performance, continued to be poor in spite of
increased revenue due to overstaffing and high fixed costs and it was in no position to
finance the critical repairs needed; (c) the possibility of substantial retrenchment of staff,
deteriorating infrastructure and negligible financial support from the government were
resulting in a sharp decline in staff morale and productivity; (d) The departure of key
RRP-financed expatriate personnel after the closure of RRP negatively impacted TRC's
management capacity; and (e) competition from road for small loads and short hauls was
accelerating and TRC was finding it difficult to maintain its traffic level in these areas. In
the face of these signs, the government's strategy for TRC was three-fold: (a) concession
the railways as soon as possible in the expectation that the concessionaire will take all
needed actions to improve performance; (b) fund part of the infrastructure rehabilitation
needs to make the concession attractive; and (c) permit the concessionaire to decide on
the optimal staff strength and finance the retrenchment of the staff rendered surplus.

7.     For Tanzania Zambia Railway Authority (TAZARA), the governments of
Tanzania and Zambia, the two joint owners of TAZARA, after prolonged discussions
between themselves and the Bank, had decided in principle to concession TAZARA in
order to reverse its precipitous decline. A grant under the Public-Private Infrastructure
Advisory Facility (PPIAF) had been arranged to finance a study to evaluate various
concessioning options and make recommendations. At the time of appraisal, the study
was due to commence soon. The two governments had requested for support towards
decision-making and subsequently implementing the selected option.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as
approved)

8.    The original PDO was to: (a) upgrade strategic road links; (b) enhance road
management capacity; and (c) improve operations of Tanzania railways.

9.     Key performance indicators are:

Road component
   (a) traffic increases by at least 10 percent per annum on average between 2004 and
           2009 on improved roads;
   (b) the network under Tanzania National Roads Agency (TANROADS)
           responsibility (28,900 km of trunk and regional roads) in poor condition
           reduced from 49 percent in 2003 to 30 percent in 2009.
Rail component
   (a) total freight traffic tonnage carried (on TRC network) increases from 1.45 million
           tons in 2002 to 2.0 million tons by 2009;
   (b) level of transit traffic increases by 20 percent from the 560,000 tons in 2003 to
           672,000 tons in 2009; and
   (c) kilometers of track under speed restriction as a percentage of the total will
           decrease from 10 percent to 2 percent in 2009.

                                              2
1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators,
and reasons/justification

10.      There was no revision to PDO and key indicators.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries (original and revised)

11.     The main beneficiaries comprised all users of the central corridor (road and
railway corridors) and the regions linked by the central corridor namely: (a) users of the
central roads and railway systems; (b) agriculture, mining and tourism industries along
the central corridor; (c) large number of people in vast rural areas and inland regions
connected through urban centers, ports and border points to the central corridor; and, (d)
neighboring countries like Burundi, Rwanda, Zambia, Uganda and the Democratic
Republic of Congo.

12.     Other project beneficiaries included: (a) TANROADS and the Ministry of
Communications and Transport (MOCT) of Zanzibar, whose capacity was improved
through capacity building and training; (b) GOT would gain from increased revenue in
relation to lease payment and taxes on concessionaire's profits; (c) the railway
concessionaire (including the government which had 49 percent share in the total equity
of the concessionaire) would accrue higher profits increased railway traffic due to
improved physical infrastructure and increased efficiency of operations.

1.5 Original Components (as approved)

13.     Component A: Upgrading of strategic road links in mainland Tanzania and
in Zanzibar (original cost: US$70.71 million, actual cost: US$88.49 million) aimed at
providing better access to isolated rural areas, promote tourism industry and reduce
export costs.

      (a) Rehabilitation and upgrading of the Singida-Shelui section (110 km) of the central
          transport corridor, including preparing an Environmental Management Plan
          (EMP) and Resettlement Action Plan (RAP);
      (b) Rehabilitation and upgrading of the Mkwajuni-Nungwi, Matemwe-Pongwe and
          Paje-Pingwe-Michamvi roads in Zanzibar (56 km), including preparing EMP and
          RAP;
      (c) Carrying out and updating feasibility studies, detailed design and bidding
          documents for 713 kilometers (four sections) of high priority trunk roads to be
          rehabilitated and/or upgraded under a proposed follow-on project. Nordic
          Development Fund (NDF) financed three sections (US$6.05 million) namely
          Singida-Babati-Minjingu, Dodoma-Babati and Tanga-Horohoro;
      (d) Rehabilitation of the MV Kigamboni, Pangani, Sengerema, Kilombero and Rufiji
          ferries.




                                              3
14.   Component B: Enhancing road management capacity specifically for
TANROADS and MOCT Zanzibar (original cost: US$14.83 million, actual cost:
US$6.49 million).

   (a) Design and construction of a new TANROADS headquarters building;
   (b) Setting up of a Wide Area Network and Local Access Network (WAN and LAN)
       for TANROADS to improve communication between headquarters, its regional
       offices and MOCT Zanzibar;
   (c) Carrying out of a study for the enhancement of the organization and management
       of TANROADS;
   (d) Carrying out of studies to identify road investment priorities, such as traffic
       counts and an update of the ten-year investment plan;
   (e) Conduct of a local government road inventory and condition survey;
   (f) Carrying out other transport related studies, including a Dar-es-Salaam Bus Rapid
       Transit (BRT) and traffic management study;
   (g) Provision of technical advisory services and training for improved management
       and operational capacity of TANROADS and MOCT Zanzibar.

15.      Component C: Improved Performance of Tanzanian Railways (original cost
US$36.46 million, actual cost US$27.32 million) aimed to improving the performance
of Tanzania railway by engaging private sector into the operations and financing of the
rail sector.

   (a) Provision of urgently needed rails, sleepers and other material for TRC, for the
       replacement of the track between Itigi and Tabora (immediate requirement);
   (b) Provision of other rails, sleepers and materials for TRC for the replacement of the
       balance of the tracks of TRC between Itigi and Tabora. (to be supplied after
       concession of rail operations)
   (c) Preparation of an Environmental Assessment, a Social Assessment and EMPs and
       RAP for TRC;
   (d) Financing of clean-up costs based on the Environmental Assessment and EMP,
       and of resettlement costs based on the Social Assessment and RAP;
   (e) provision of technical advisory services and training for (i) the handing over of
       TRC assets and operation of the Railway Operator; (ii) the winding up of TRC;
       and (c) the building up of the management and operational capacity of the Reli
       Assets Holding Company (RAHCO);
   (f) provision of technical advisory services for the future private sector participation
       in TAZARA, including: (i) the restructuring of TAZARA; (ii) the establishment
       of the regulatory and legal framework governing the operations of TAZARA; and
       (iii) preparation of Environmental and Social Assessments (EA/SA), EMP and
       RAP.




                                            4
1.6 Revised Components

16.   Although the project was not officially restructured, the following changes were
made some of which necessitated Development Credit Agreement (DCA) amendment.

   (a) Component A

       (i)   Three variations were added to the Singida-Shelui road rehabilitation works
             contract:
               a. 3.32 km of roads in Singida Municipality;
               b. installation of the Njuki weighbridge at km 6.18; and
               c. construction of Iguguno box culvert.
       (ii) Pothole repair on the Zanzibar Airport to keep it from falling apart until
             rehabilitation works financed under CTCP-2 would commence.
       (iii) The coverage of detailed design and bidding documents of high priority
             trunk roads was expanded from the planned 713 km to 1,430 km. Four more
             road sections were added: Dodoma-Iringa, Nzega-Tabora, Arusha-Minjingu
             and Tunduma-Sumbawanga. Designs for Tabora ­ Nzega road (116 km)
             could not be completed under the project after TANROADS terminated the
             contract. The final length hence became 1,314 km.

17.    A new activity, Performance-based Management and Maintenance of Road
(PMMR) pilot projects in Mwanza, Rukwa and Tanga was added after the mid-term
review with contracts commencing in August 2007 through September 2008. The PMMR
engineering and bidding documents were prepared through a trust fund. The original plan
was to tender these in 2005 and finance them under the Transport Sector Support Project
(TSSP) under preparation at the time. TSSP preparation and presentation to Board were
rescheduled and alternative financing had to be sought, and it was decided to finance the
PMMR contracts through CTCP.

   (b) Component B

       (i)   The design and construction of TANROADS building did not materialize
             because of the change of the original location and the resulting need to
             change the design of the proposed building. Redesigning and securing a
             new lot took more time than envisaged, therefore TANROADS headquarters
             was not constructed by the end of the project.
       (ii) The Organization and Management (O&M) study for TANROADS was
             cancelled following restructuring of TANROADS organization, and the
             perception at TANROADS that the study was not needed.
       (iii) The following studies were added:

              ·   Baseline traffic count on the mainland road network;
              ·   Road maintenance concession study in mainland Tanzania;
              ·   Zanzibar master-plan and transport policy;
              ·   Zanzibar International Airport master-plan;

                                           5
              ·   Baseline survey of user (dis-) satisfaction at Zanzibar Airport;
              ·   Feasibility study and detailed engineering design for seven airports;
              ·   Road fund leakage study.

   (c) Component C

       (i) The technical advisory services to TAZARA were cancelled for the following
            reasons:
                a. The Tanzania and Zambia governments were undecided on whether or
                    not to go for concession; and
                b. The preference of the two governments was to award the concession to
                    a Chinese firm if going for concession without going through an
                    internationally competitive process. The reasons advanced by the
                    governments for not deciding in favor of a competitively procured
                    concession were:
                         i. huge outstanding liabilities to Chinese government (close to
                            US$500 million at current prices); and
                        ii. high estimated cost of staff retrenchment (approximately
                            US$25 million) This sub-component was therefore cancelled.
       (ii) The supply of 197 km sleepers was reduced to 127 km due to the increased
            cost of steel.

1.7 Other significant changes

18.     Amendments to the DCA. There were four reallocations of credit proceeds in
April 2007, October 2008, April 2009, and November 2009. The first amendment in
April 2007 was to: (a) include an additional activity ­ a pilot PMMR component; (b)
reallocate the amount for the procurement of ferries from Category (1) ­ Works to
Category (2) ­ Goods; (c) retrofit the financing parameters to increase the percentages of
financing for expenditure under category (3) Consultants services, training and audits
from 93 percent to 100 percent.

19.     The second amendment was in October 2008. The remaining balances were
insufficient to cover the commitments in Category (1) ­ Civil works under part (a) ­
Reconstruction of Zanzibar roads; and part (d) ­ Upgrading of Singida-Shelui road.
Therefore, a reallocation of funds from Category 5 ­ Unallocated to the above categories
was deemed necessary.

20.     The third amendment in April 2009: Some more additional resources were
required to meet the expenditures mentioned in the second amendment in Category 1,
parts (a) and (d), and Category 2 (c) - Rehabilitation of ferries respectively.

21.    The fourth and last amendment in November 2009 was to: (a) fine-tune the
remaining activities and increase funds for Category (2) ­ Goods (part b) by SDR5.12
million; and (b) accelerate the activation of the Letter of Credit (LOC) which delayed the
contract for the supply of rails and sleepers due to lack of IDA resources.

                                            6
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

22.    The CTCP had two major components: road and railway. Both components were
aligned with the government transport strategy and incorporated the lessons learned from
previous projects in the sector.

23.      In the road component, the project focused on the central transport corridor which
connects North Western Tanzania as well as Burundi, Rwanda, Uganda and DRC to the
port of Dar es Salaam. The government and other DPs financed rehabilitation and paving
of the corridor and as part of this initiative CTCP financed the paving of the Singida ­
Shelui section which included the challenging Sekenke escarpment The road component
also put a lot of effort into the enhancement of institutional capacity including providing
training; conducting various studies and installing WAN and LAN systems at
TANROADS to improve the communication, etc. The project was also successful in
having the majority of designs and bidding documents completed before Board
presentation of the CTCP-2 and TSSP to avoid the delays and cost increases encountered
in the first Integrated Road Project.

24.      The concessioning of TRC was firstly considered as an independent project as a
follow on of RRP. However, it was then decided to combine this railway component with
the road component under one project to reduce the Bank transaction costs. Also, since
the two components are closely linked as part of the Central Transport Corridor, it made
sense to combine them in view of their complimentary role in regional trade and transport
facilitation. The preparation of this component took into account the lessons from the
RRP and reflected those lessons in project design as follows.

25.      First, RRP had concluded that in spite of substantial investment and technical
assistance (TA) support, TRC's overall performance, particularly the financial
performance, as well the railways' management capacity remained below expectation.
Therefore the railway component was made contingent on the government fully
committing to concession the railways. Second, the first concession bid launched by the
government in 2000 had failed because the qualification criteria were too demanding and
risk allocation was too unfavorable for the private sector. Therefore, CTCP included
investment support for track renewal and for addressing environmental and social
liabilities to make the concession more attractive to potential bidders. Third, an IDA
Partial Risk Guarantee (PRG) of a maximum of US$40 million was proposed to be made
available to the successful concessionaire, if requested.

26.     However, the project, underestimated the risks for the railway due to
concessioning delay, underfunding of track and asset rehabilitation, optimistic forecasting
of traffic, and inadequate addressing of social issues, and, consequently, the mitigation
measures also proved to be insufficient for the reasons set out below.




                                            7
27.     First, railway concessioning is a complex process and time slippages are common.
While making all efforts to maintain schedules, it would have been prudent to plan for the
possibility of delay in the concession becoming operational and to ensure continued
efficiency of operations of TRC during the concessioning process. The plan could have
included some or all of the following: (a) a short-term management contract (with only a
few key management personnel) for the railways with the explicit understanding that the
contract will be terminated immediately after the concessionaire takes over; (b)
engagement of one or two key experienced management personnel from the market or on
secondment from an efficiently working railway; (c) retrenchment of surplus staff as
early as possible to save on operating costs and make more funds available for critical
spare parts; and (d) availability of enough funds to avoid adding to the backlog of
maintenance during the concessioning process. A further contingency plan could have
provided for: (a) use of IDA funds for rehabilitation even before the award of the
concession, if it became clear that the concession would be delayed; (b) support by the
government for rehabilitation of wagons and locomotives to prevent decline of freight
handling capacity; and (c) granting temporary and limited-period exemptions for certain
expenses and taxes.

28.     Second, there was a clear need for huge funds for liquidating the backlog of
maintenance and rehabilitation of railway infrastructure. As per the railway records,
more than 2,000 km were estimated to be in need of rehabilitation in 2002 and, even at a
conservative cost estimate of US$0.2 million per kilometer, the funds needed for
rehabilitation would have amounted to US$400 million. The concessionaire was
expected to bring in close to US$60 million in equity, directors' personal loans, and
commercial loans (IFC was under discussion as a potential lender) and that along with
US$33 million to be provided through the credit would have enabled the concessionaire
to commence rehabilitation of critical areas and then continue the process by ploughing
back the surplus from operations (Traffic level in 2005 was still close to 1.2 million tons
and revenue close to US$60 million equivalent. With expectations of traffic increase by
more than 50 percent, staff reduction by 60 percent, and other cost reduction by 20
percent or so, a progressively increasing surplus could have been expected). It should
have been clear at the design stage that the plan for rehabilitation of the infrastructure
would not work if the key assumptions of traffic growth, cost reduction, and adequate
surplus generation did not materialize. Subsequent events did create serious problems.
The concession signing and takeover was delayed by two years (partly because one
bidder launched a legal challenge), traffic declined by 50 percent instead of increasing
(some of which could have been anticipated as the traffic had already shown a declining
trend since 2002), and condition of infrastructure worsened further. Timely induction of
funds for the rehabilitation of critical sections of track and rolling stock could have
avoided the steep decline in performance.

29.    Third, TRC carried a lot of small (wagon load) traffic, servicing many small
customers, but did not have many large-volume customers. Even in 2002, when the
railways carried close to 1.5 million tons, the top ten customers accounted for only 30
percent of the total traffic, whereas typically in other railways they would account for 60-
70 percent. TRC was able to do that probably because the roads were poor, competition

                                             8
was restricted, and commodity trade was dominated by public institutions. However,
"small load" freight is not the preferred segment of business for the railways being too
expensive to handle. Small loads normally are better suited for road transport. In any
future collaboration with the Government to revive the railways, the revitalization design
should be based on realistic traffic projections recognizing the following: (a) TRC does
not have an inherent comparative advantage over trucks with regard to small loads; (b)
increase in average haul from 1082 km in 2002 to 1151 km in 2009, shows that small
traffic is moving away from the railways; (c) main cargoes, i.e., cement, fertilizer, maize,
salt, petroleum products, sugar, grains, cotton and tobacco will continue to be the main
stay of the railways ; (d) focusing on provision of one-stop services by collaborating
with truckers for logistics beyond the origin and end of the railway line could prove
attractive; and (e) general and container cargo could grow at a much faster rate compared
to others and the railways should develop appropriate strategies to attract this traffic. As
far as TAZARA is concerned, agreement needs to be reached with the Zambia Railways
concessionaire for Tazara to connect to the mines in Zambia directly.

30.     Finally, both staff retrenchment and transfer of staff to the Concessionaire could
have been managed more efficiently and sensitively. Even though the government
eventually paid close to US$56 million to retrench about 3,500 staff (almost US$16,000
per person), the process of arriving at the package was contentious and took inordinately
long to finalize. From the time the concession process commenced in 2002 and until it
became operational in 2007, most staff remained uncertain about the terms of
retrenchment and that adversely affected their morale and productivity. The final
package was too liberal in comparison with average payments for similar retrenchments
and the staff identified to be engaged by the concessionaire felt short-changed and
envious with consequent impact on their morale and productivity. The staff joining the
concessionaire also remained uncertain about the retrenchment and pension benefits
pertaining to their service with TRC as TRC had legally wound up and there was no
evidence of any alternative institutional or budgeting arrangements by the government.
This heightened their anxiety and added to a decline in productivity.

31.    In summary, TRL was facing serious problems including tremendous backlog of
maintenance and rehabilitation, increasing competition from road, staff challenges, and
changing customer requirements, and as such its financial turnaround was not achieved.
The Project included best practice features in its design (concession, investment support,
and PRG) but inadequate appreciation of the financing needs, social concerns, changing
customer requirements, and the need for a contingency plan in case of slippage of the
concessioning timeframe, seriously compromised the quality of the project/concession
design and adversely affected the outcome.

2.2 Implementation

32.    Disbursement: The Project closed on December 31, 2009, as originally planned,
with almost full disbursement of the Credit amount. Initial rate of disbursement was
slow, with only 21 percent disbursed by the mid-term review in May 2006. Effective
disbursements only started by the end of 2007 after the equipment and personnel for road

                                             9
works were mobilized and the railway was concessioned. The slow start is attributed to
three reasons: (a) setbacks in the bidding process for road work, (b) delay in completing
Environment Impact Assessment (EIA) and RAP by RAHCO which was a condition for
the disbursement of 25 percent of the investment allocation for the railway component;
and (c) delay in awarding the railway concession, which was a condition for the
disbursement of the remaining 75 percent of the allocation for the railway component.
However, appropriate action was taken to accelerate disbursement in the remaining
period and ensure full disbursement without resorting to any extension of the closing
date. Additionally, various activities for road management capacity enhancement (except
the O&M Study discussed later) were implemented as planned and contributed a lot to
road management capacity building.

33.     Client Responsiveness: The Team was alerted to the changing requirements and
acted proactively in making changes and adjustments where necessary in order to
maximize the benefits of the project. More specifically: (a) adding the weighbridge to
Singida-Shelui road work helped control axle loads, thus, reducing the road damage due
to truck overload; (b) expansion of detailed design activity from 713 km to 1,430 km
helped mobilize investments for a larger portion of the network in need of rehabilitation
on the basis of completed design and thus helped accelerate the rate of road improvement
with expanded benefits; (c) financing the first year implementation of PMMR projects
amounting to US$5 million, thereafter the financing of the contracts was taken over by
the Road Fund (RF); and (d) the O&M study consultancy contract was not processed as
TANROADS decided that the study was not needed after change of management and
restructuring of the organization and thus unnecessary expenditure was avoided.

34.     Poor implementation of the railway component: The railway component did
not move smoothly. The unanticipated challenges experienced by the railways during
project implementation exacerbated the problems embedded in the project design
(detailed discussion on design issues in section 2.1). The Project faced delay in both
concessioning process and rehabilitation of rail infrastructure and lack of decision
regarding TAZARA.

35.     Delay in Railway Concessioning: The railway concessioning was delayed by
more than two years for various reasons, two specific ones being beyond the
government's control. First, one of the bidders launched a legal challenge in a local court
and even though the case was eventually dismissed, close to one year was lost. Second,
the preferred bidder selected GAPCO as a local partner, but the same was not acceptable
to IFC, a potential lender to the Concessionaire, due to GAPCO being in arrears with
regard to IFC payment in another deal. That led to a contentious and time-consuming
exchange of views between the various parties and the local partner was finally dropped,
and GOT came in and became the minority shareholder holding 49 percent of the shares.

36.     Views on the new joint venture structure differed widely. Many perceived it as a
bad idea as it represents a conflict of interest with the government being on both sides of
the deal: as shareholder of TRL and owner of the railway as RAHCO. Others consider
this a good example of public-private partnership. In any event, although the selected

                                            10
concessionaire was agreeable to the new structure, the new arrangement instead of
resolving the matter created serious problems of coordination and caused further delay in
the signing of the concession agreement.

37.     Rehabilitation delay: Rehabilitation of the infrastructure also did not proceed
satisfactorily. Disbursement of 25 percent of limited funds allocated under the Credit
was tied to the satisfactory environment assessment and resettlement action plan and 75
percent to successful concessioning of TRC. Since concessioning was delayed by more
than two years, the procurement of the materials for rehabilitation was also delayed by
the same period. Rehabilitation of railway infrastructure after the concessioning
agreement was signed was further delayed by an earthquake in China as the "rail"
providers could not provide the materials on time.

38.    TAZARA Indecision: Tanzania and Zambia governments could not decide
whether to move ahead or not with the concession serves. Therefore, the planned TA
sub-component became redundant and the amount allocated for this was utilized
elsewhere.

39.     In summary, in spite of almost 98 percent disbursement and closing on time, the
project's PDOs with regard to the railway component were not achieved. The overall
outcome provides a mixed picture of satisfactory road related outcome and unsuccessful
railway-related outcome.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

40.     M&E Design: The M&E framework contained a set of outputs, intermediate and
outcome indicators pertaining to various components which were appropriate and linked
to PDOs. The framework outlined methods to keep track of the project progress and as a
basis for any adjustments during implementation. However, the M&E design could have
included more indicators to provide project and PDO-linked information to arrive at
quick corrective actions, if needed. For example, additional targets such as wagon
turnaround time, business offered by the railways' main customers on a monthly basis,
and time taken between request and supply of wagons, if specified, could have given a
clearer idea of the railways' declining trend and could have precipitated urgent action by
the government. Also, more intermediate indicators could have been added to provide
clearer ideas to achieve the outcome indicators. For example, customer surveys for
railways and budgetary allocation by the government for road condition improvement to
supplement the plans under the RF and the capital investment for road network should
have been included to facilitate better monitoring.

41.     Implementation and utilization: The M&E was implemented consistently with
the agreed design. Data was collected from different sources to ensure the accuracy and
sufficiency of the information. TANROADS, MOCT of Zanzibar, RAHCO were all
responsible for providing the related information. In addition, data was collected from the
RF, regional offices and the Tanzania Electrical, Mechanical and Electronics Services



                                            11
Agency (TEMESA). They were able to track regularly the evolution of indicators through
supervision and quarterly reports.

42.     Data generated through the M&E framework provided adequate information.
Remedial action and the options were regularly discussed with the government and the
government agencies. However, the seeming lack of corrective action in the railway
sector was not due to any deficiency in the M&E design or the information generated by
it but in seemingly difficult remedial actions such as financial inputs by the government
which was difficult for the government to mobilize or compromising the terms of the
concession considered important by the government. There was definitely a need for
uncommon solutions. For example, the Bank Team and the government could agree on
reallocating some funds for strengthening the management of TRC and rehabilitating the
railway infrastructure which could have prevented the sharp decline in traffic and
generated more funds for maintaining the infrastructure and other systems.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

43.     Environment: The environment category of the project was rated as `A' at
project appraisal. Before appraisal, full EA/SA were carried out for all planned road
works. However, the conclusion was that the EA/SA for the three Zanzibar roads,
considered as second year sub-projects, be carried out during project implementation
subject to Africa Safeguard Policies Enhancement's (ASPEN's) approval. Construction
was supposed to begin after the full implementation of the RAP in early 2005. The
project financed the construction of three Zanzibar roads therefore OP 4.01 and OP 4.12
were triggered. The environment impact of road works were well mitigated as a result of
the standards and guidelines developed and included in all road contracts. In addition, a
satisfactory EA/SA for the rail component was a condition of disbursement for part of the
credit proceeds allocated to this component. TANROADS engaged a full-time social
scientist to follow-up and monitor the environment and social impacts.

44.    The environmental clean-up of main workshop facilities in Dar es Salaam,
Morogoro and Tabora stations was completed by RAHCO and inspection was done by a
TRL environmental expert. Cleaning-up for Mwanza and Kigoma was completed in
December 2009 using project (IDA) funds after failure by GOT to provide the funds
(about TShs 100 million) under FY2008/2009 budget for this activity.

45.     Social issues: The Involuntary Resettlement Policy (OP 4.12) was triggered.
Resettlement framework and resettlement action plans for roads were implemented based
on procedures and guidelines outlined in the governing policies. Specifically the
following have been carried out, assessment of: (a) the application of the legal framework
and governing guidelines and policies; (b) the eligibility and compensation measures; (c)
the valuation procedures applied; (d) the level of community participation and its impact;
(e) the resettlement of community structures and sensitive areas; (f) the impact of borrow
pits, quarries and camp site; (g) the grievances and appeal and their settlement; (h) the
RAP institutional framework organization and its applicability; and (i) the RAP M&E.



                                           12
All compensation claims and grievances were settled accordingly based on the
monitoring and evaluation plan.

                  Table 1: Number and Type of Affected Properties
                                      PERSON              PERSON           PERSON
                                    AFFECTED ON        AFFECTED ON       AFFECTED ON
   S/No      ROAD SECTION
                                    RESIDENTIAL        COMMERCIAL        PLANTATION
                                      HOUSES            PROPERTIES
    1.    Mkwajuni ­ Nungwi              158                433                591
    2.    Pongwe ­ Matemwe                 7                240                247
    3.    Paje ­ Pingwe-                   9                 23                 32
          Michamvi
              Total                      174                696                870

                        Table 2: Actual Compensation
                             RESIDENTIAL &
                              COMMERCIAL      PLANTATION                    TOTAL
  S/NO     ROAD SECTION
                             AND BUILDING    (TZS MILLION)               (TZS MILLION)
                             (TZS MILLION)
  1     Mkwajuni ­ Nungwi        176.29          11.23                       187.52
  2     Pongwe ­ Matemwe          22.71           0.84                        23.55
  3     Paje ­ Pingwe-            38.16           0.97                       39.13
        Michamvi
  Total                          237.16          13.04                       250.20

46.     TRC/RAHCO RAP: A RAP was prepared for the railway component. The RAP
was approved by the Bank and disclosed in-country and at the Bank's Info-shop.
Resettlement concerned 145 project affected people (total compensation was estimated at
about US$600,000) who were considered living on the right of way of Railway network,
making it difficult for vehicles attempting to cross the rail line to see an on-coming train
in time. The RAP was prepared with a view that through the concession train traffic and
speed would increase. However, this did not materialize (actually the reverse happened)
and eventually the RAP was not implemented.

47.     Financial Management: Overall, the financial management is rated satisfactory.
A dedicated unit established within TANROADS with qualified and experienced staff
was responsible for financial management throughout the life of the project. The
quarterly Financial Monitoring Reports (FMR) were received regularly. Audits were
done annually and on-time; and were unqualified, except in 2007. The auditors issued a
qualified opinion on project financial statements in 2007, due to the following: (a)
limitation of scope of audit ­ financial statements submitted did not include balance sheet
and cash follow statements; and (b) non compliance with regulations ­ (i) inconsistencies
with Bank category allocations, (ii) non recognition of gain on exchange rate fluctuation,
(iii) underreporting of counterpart funds, (iv) differences between opening and closing
balances of general ledger and bank statements. TANROADS and the Bank's Financial
Management Specialist worked out an action plan to remedy the issues in the next audit

                                            13
reporting period as per the auditors' recommendations. Since then, all major issues have
been resolved and Bank procedures were fully complied with.

48.    Procurement. Although the project experienced delays at the start, procurement
under the project was rated satisfactory. All procurement activities and post-reviews
were satisfactory.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

49.     Multiple activities under CTCP are followed up with operations to sustain and
expand the project benefits. Most of the detailed design and bidding documents prepared
under CTCP, have secured follow up investment. Two IDA projects, the Second Central
Transport Corridor Project (CTCP-2, on-going) and TSSP (approved on May 27, 2010),
are to finance: (a) the rehabilitation of two sections of trunk roads, Korogwe ­ Same and
Arusha ­ Minjingu roads; (b) rehabilitation of selected airports, runways and terminals in
three regional airports, Kigoma, Tabora and Bukoba; (c) infrastructure for the BRT
system in Dar es Salaam. Other development partners like Millennium Challenge
Corporation (MCC), the African Development Bank (AfDB) jointly with the Japan
International Cooperation Agency (JICA) have committed investment on selected trunk
roads. In addition, GOT is to finance re-design and construction of TANROADS
headquarters which could not be done under CTCP.

50.     The PMMR project, after the initial financing by CTCP up to September 2008, is
since being financed by the RF and is progressing well. With RF revenue increased from
around US$60 million to more than US$200 million during the last five years, the RF is
able to provide sufficient resources for this activity.

51.   For other studies completed under CTCP, many recommendations are already
being implemented. For example, the traffic census methodology prepared for
TANROADS has been put into use.

52.     For the railway component, GOT is in the process of negotiating the termination
of the concession agreement with the private partner and has decided to take over all the
TRL shares. The Bank is considering support under a follow-on project for the
rehabilitation of the railway, provided an appropriate investment and management
program can be agreed upon, and GOT is ready to put in place a balanced regulatory
framework for the fair competition between rail and road transport, including appropriate
management arrangements. Other DPs have shown interest to assist as well.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

53.    The objectives of CTCP, designed in 2004, remain highly relevant with the
current priorities and in line with the CAS (2007-2010). The project also is closely
related to Tanzania's National Strategy for Growth and Reduction of Poverty

                                           14
(MKUKUTA, 2005-2010), particularly growth cluster I, growth of the economy and
reduction of income poverty, which strives "to further improve prospects of growth,
especially improvement of the investment climate, through better informed choices and
better financed programs in agriculture, forestry, environment, and mining; reduced
infrastructure bottlenecks, notably in transport and energy...".

54.    The design and implementation was relevant. The road component focused on
improving road condition on key sections on the central transport corridor and road
management capacity of key government institutions, the two key factors to increasing
transport efficiency, reducing transport cost and improving access for isolated rural area.
Indeed the expansion of the East African Community to include Rwanda and Burundi has
made the Central Corridor even more important as a strategic regional highway.

55.     For the railway component, the PDO "Improve Operations of Tanzania Railways"
was highly relevant. Even in 2002 and 2003, when TRC carried close to 1.45 million
tones of traffic, the financial performance was still poor. It was obvious that TRC had to
do more in terms of increasing traffic and revenues or reduce costs or both. The Project
rightly focused on improving railway infrastructure and management through
concessioning as a means to achieve the PDO. The linking of investment to success in
concessioning the railway was also aimed at ensuring continuing focus on concessioning,
which was the main instrument to achieve the PDO. However, as noted earlier, the
project could have been better designed by including a contingency plan for a possible
delay of the concessioning process. These weaknesses eventually reduced the benefits
that the project could have generated.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

56.     The project development objectives for the road sector were achieved. The traffic
on related road sections increased by 20-50 percent annually, exceeding the target of 10
percent per annum. The portion of road in poor condition under TANROADS
responsibility was fifteen percent in 2009 as compared with the target of 30 percent.
Contributing to the improved condition of the road network of Tanzania is the fact that
many of the roads for which design and bidding documents were prepared under the
project (a total of more than 500 kilometers) are currently being rehabilitated by other
development partners. In addition to achieving much higher-than-targeted traffic and road
condition, the road component also generated economic and social benefits as detailed in
3.5(a). The road management capacity has been enhanced as detailed in 3.5(b)
(instructional change and strengthening). It is assessed by the Implementation
Completion Report (ICR) team that the outcome of Component A was highly satisfactory
and outcome of Component B was satisfactory.

57.    The highly satisfactory performance in the road sector resulted from: (a) the
improved road network due to capital investment and enhanced road maintenance; the
government's capital budget plus donor's funding invested in road sector during the
period of 2008-2010 have added up to US$859.2 million, far more than the investments
on the other transport sub-sectors. At the same time, the road network maintenance was

                                            15
also enhanced. The RF revenue has increased from around US$60 million per annum to
above US$200 million in 2009, one of the largest in Africa; and (b) the steady growth of
Tanzania economy generated more traffic. From 2002-2008, the national economy grew
at seven percent annually, though it declined to five percent in 2009 due to the
international financial crisis in 2009.

58.      While the road indicators are indicating remarkable performance vis-a-vis the
targets, the railway indicators are indicating the opposite. The outcome of the railway
component is being rated as highly unsatisfactory. The total freight traffic and transit
traffic carried by TRL network in 2009 was only 0.408mt and 0.14mt as opposed to the
target of 2mt and 0.67mt, respectively. The traffic on TRL declined to less than one-third
of the level at project appraisal, despite gross domestic product growing steadily at about
seven percent per annum during the five year project implementation period. The
continuing decline of railways also meant more traffic on road and much faster
deterioration of the roads leading to the need for more frequent rehabilitation and
increased cost of maintenance. That in turn increased the overall cost of transport for the
economy. On the bright side, however, the roads have been able to absorb this diverted
traffic which has benefited the economy.

59.     TRC's poor performance could be attributed to the following factors: (a) the
delayed concessioning process - TRC's performance was already showing a downward
trend and by 2005, freight traffic had already declined by about 20 percent. Had the
concession become operational by 2005 as scheduled, the deterioration could possibly
have been arrested. The two-year delay accompanied by absence of investments by the
government and a sound safety net for the staff led to the deterioration of railway
infrastructure, low staff morale, increased thefts and vandalism, increased strikes and
other irresponsible acts; and (b) Lack of cooperation among the interested parties: Even
after the concession agreement was signed, the government and the concessionaire did
not work together to solve the problems and improve the railway operations. Instead,
they engaged in blaming each other for the deteriorating performance resulting in
complete paralysis of action on either side.

3.3 Efficiency

60.     At project appraisal, economic analysis was conducted on three activities: (a)
Rehabilitation of Singida-Shelui Road; (b) rehabilitation of three road sections in
Zanzibar; and (c) concessioning and investing in TRC. At Implementation Completion
Report (ICR) stage, Theeconomic analysis on the above three activities was updated. A
consultant was also engaged to evaluate the performance of ferry activities and PMMR
projects. The economic internal rate of returns (EIRRs) of the road sector at appraisal
stage and at ICR stage will be summarized in Table 3.

                   Table 3: EIRR at Appraisal Stage and ICR Stage
EIRR%                                      Appraisal stage      ICR stage
Singida-Shelui                                 24.3               34.6
Three Roads in Zanzibar Paje ­ Pingwe-         14.1               16.1
Michamvi

                                            16
61.      Regarding the road sector, the EIRR of roads at ICR stage is higher mainly due to
the much higher than predicted traffic on the improved central corridor. The anticipated
traffic increase was 10 percent per annum, and actual traffic increase was 20-50 percent
per annum. Though, due to the heavy traffic, the maintenance cost on the central corridor
will be higher, the marginal benefit brought about by the heavy traffic will far exceed the
marginal cost due to more maintenance demand. If the railway sector could have
performed as anticipated, some of the freight traffic will be shared by the railway, which
will result in less damage to the road, therefore, less maintenance cost, the EIRR of road
component should be even higher. The detailed analysis is in Annex 3.

62.     Regarding PMMR pilots, a general improvement in terms of user comfort,
average travel speed and passability has been achieved for the pilot PMMR project.
Overall road conditions of the road network are being satisfactorily maintained at
required levels. Before the onset of the pilot PMMR project, some roads were not fully
passable but they are currently fully passable even during the rainy season, with an
obvious increase in traffic levels. Average travel speeds have substantially increased on
all roads. Before the project, the average travel speed was below 50 km/hour, after the
project, around 70 percent of the traffic has travel speed above 50 km/hour. User comfort
has significantly increased and set targets have been achieved in most of the project roads
and are continually being sustained through the performance based concept.

63.     The performance of two ferries, MV Kigmboni and MV Sengerema, was
evaluated. The two ferries are better performing with significant increase in traffic trend
i.e Mv Kigamboni- adults has increased from 571,512 daily, November 2003 to
1,168,920 in November 2009, an increase of 51 percent. Similarly to Mv Sengerema,
adult traffic increased from 16,462 in March 2003 to 28,268, an increase of 41 percent.
Though the traffic in November 2009 only represented the short term post-project
performance of the new ferries which were put into use for less than five months, it is a
good indication that the new/rehabilitated ferries in a long run will capture all estimated
financial and social economic benefits.

64.   Regarding the rail sector, the economic rate of return (ERR) and net present value
(NPV) at appraisal were computed on the basis of the following key assumptions:
    · The analysis was estimated for twenty years from 2005, the expected starting year
       of the Project until the end of 2024;
    · The concessionaire is assumed to invest US$60 million from year three to eight;
    · The government (through IDA) invests US$33 million in the first two years;
    · Traffic is assumed to be 1,600 million NTKM in 2005 and grows at 10 percent for
       the first two years and then at three percent/year;
    · Cost difference in rail and road traffic is assumed as US$0.03cents/NTKM;
    · Fixed and variable costs decrease by 10 percent per year for the first two years;
    · Benefits include road avoidance costs and reduction of operating costs;
    · Repatriation by concessionaire is assumed at a maximum of 25 percent on equity
      assumed to be US$20 million.



                                            17
65.     The ERR and NPV at ICR was computed keeping the same assumptions as above
plus the following:
    · Actual figures considered for the first five years;
    · Alternative concession will be finalized in 2010;
    · Traffic increases after 2010 at 10 percent for seven years and then at three
        percent;
    · The new concessionaire will invest US$60 million in six years from 2011 to 2016.

66.     Based on these assumptions, the ERR and NPV at appraisal and ICR are indicated
as in Table 2.

      Table 4: EIRR of Railway Component at Appraisal Stage and ICR Stage

Indicator                        Appraisal Stage                   ICR Stage
ERR (%)                                48                              10
NPV (US$ Million)                     200                            (-) 15

67.    Sensitivity: If the government fails to identify shareholders to continue the
concession or takes more time, the ERR and NPV could drop further. Details in Annex 3.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

68.     The overall rating is moderately satisfactory. The design was relevant and the
effectiveness of the road component is good though the outcome of railway component is
disappointing. The overall outcome of the project has to take into account the satisfactory
rating of road component (including road management capacity building) and the
unsatisfactory rating of railway component. Given that the road component is a much
larger part of the IDA credit in this project, the overall outcome rating is weighted as
moderately satisfactory.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

69.     Though there was no specific survey or evaluation on the project's impact on
poverty, gender and social development, positive impacts on these aspects have been
observed on site visits and recorded in related reports. The Singida to Shelui road
construction removed a major obstacle (the Sekenke escarpment) from the central
transport corridor. That obstacle could cut off the entire North West of the country from
the rest and would lead to massively increased transport costs.

70.     The intervention on three road sections in Zanzibar has boosted the tourism
industry. The ICR team was informed that more hotels have been constructed and more
tourists are coming to Zanzibar since the roads were rehabilitated. Previously, it would
take almost one day to travel from Zanzibar airport to the hotels located along the
seaside, now, it only takes one hour. Regular bus services, not existing before, were
observed when the ICR team went to site visit. The local communities also benefited

                                            18
from growing tourism resulting in more employment and business opportunities and
more income.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

71.     The project has contributed to the strengthening of road institutions' management
capacity. 135 staff from TANROADS and six staff from MOCT Zanzibar attended
training courses. The knowledge and skills of staff working for TANROADS and MOCT
of Zanzibar are greatly enhanced through training and workshops.

72.    The project also financed the studies to identify road investment priorities and an
update of the ten-year investment plan, as well as technical advisory services for
improving management and operational capacity of TANROADS and MOCT Zanzibar,
all of which has helped the road institutions improve their capacity to strategically
managing the road network.

73.    The WAN-LAN installed in 38 centers helped cut communication costs, improve
the communication between TANROADS' headquarters, its regional offices and MOCT
Zanzibar, thus enhancing the coordination and management among them.

74.     The management capacity of Prime Minister's Office Regional Administration
and Local Government (PMO-RALG) of local roads has also been strengthened. Local
governments are responsible for the management of about 66 percent of the total road
network. With CTCP financing the local roads inventory survey and mapping, the road
condition information is available and the bottlenecks have been identified, which has
offered the basis for better local roads management. The local governments are
increasingly performing better (the condition of local government roads has improved
from 50 percent in good and fair condition in 2005 to 58.5 percent in 2009) and a strong
private road construction industry has been created, which started from scratch and is
now executing the entire road maintenance program funded by the RF. Though those
achievements could not solely be attributed to the project, it contributed to it.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

75.      There are two unintended impacts of the project: (a) the heavy truck and bus
traffic on the central road corridor which now carries out 95 percent of total freight traffic
in this region, is wearing out the road more quickly resulting in a shorter life span and
higher road maintenance costs. (b) Subsequent to non-performing TRC after the
concession and the collapse of the concession agreement, a marked resistance to
concession has emerged. The government has no option but to take over TRC and no
concessioning of TAZARA is envisioned for the time being.




                                             19
3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
N/A

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Substantial

76.    There are two major risks to the development outcome. The high cost of
maintaining the highway carrying heavy trucks and bus traffic is a risk to the
sustainability of the improved road condition. In FY2008/09, the routine maintenance
needs of the national and local roads network were covered by 82 percent while periodic
maintenance needs were fulfilled by 52 percent therefore total maintenance needs were
covered by 67 percent. In the long-term the government needs to come up with a strategy
on how to control heavy trucks either to impose tax or upgrade the standard of the road.

77.      Improving the operation of Tanzania railways is still faced with great uncertainty.
If, as is generally expected the government takes over TRC, the TRC performance could
be improved with more appropriate institutional arrangements, preferably involving the
private participation but with more pragmatic and balanced terms. However, there are
still other issues which would need to be seriously considered include the following: (a)
the investment strategy is needed to make the railway sector competitive. The
rehabilitation cost has been variously estimated around US$400 million in the next ten
years. It is still uncertain of mobilization of funds of this magnitude; (b) the railways
must focus on traffic for which it has a cost advantage and should develop an aggressive
marketing strategy; (c) the regulatory framework must be improved to ensure a level
playing field for all transport modes.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

78.     The design of the project supported the strategic development of Tanzania's
transport sector. The project was designed to contribute to the further promotion of
export, tourism and private sector development and eventually contribute to poverty
reduction. During project preparation stage, senior Bank experts were involved, the
government and stakeholders were also consulted and engaged. As detailed in section
1.2, the quality at entry for the road components was Satisfactory and that of the railway
component was Moderately Satisfactory.

79.     Even for the railways, the team's willingness to taking the challenge of
revitalizing a rundown, low-income generating Tanzania Railway has to be recognized.
Concessioning of such a railway was a difficult and complex undertaking. However, as
indicated in Section 1.2, a more detailed sensitivity analysis with regard to traffic forecast
and timeframe for the concession could have improved the project's quality at entry.
Given that the various assumptions did not hold and the railway component design failed

                                             20
to consider the fall back position in case of slippages in traffic level and concessioning
targets, a rating of Moderately Satisfactory is justified.

(b) Quality of Supervision
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

80.      The supervision was much more intensive than the regular one since the entire
project team was in the field. The Bank team closely watched the progress of various
components and assisted in making the necessary adjustment to maximize the project
benefit. For example, the expansion of the coverage of detailed road design work from
planned 713 km to 1,430 km, financing PMMR projects, etc. The team identified signs
of serious decline of railway performance in the very first two years of project
implementation and has been working especially hard together with the government
expediting the concessioning and investment processes. However, any substantial
interventions were restricted by the on-going concessioning process; at the same time, the
team was optimistic and expected that once the concessionaire took over the decline will
be reversed, which turned out to be an unrealistic expectation. Such optimism was also
reflected by the "satisfactory" project ratings throughout the implementation except the
last rating right before the project closure. In retrospect, the team could have pushed for
more drastic measured earlier to turn the situation around, but its leverage was tenuous in
a politically difficult situation.

81.     Overall, the supervision was constructive. The poor outcome of the project
(railway component), as discussed earlier, was due to many reasons including the absence
of a backup plan to compensate for the setbacks, inadequate appreciation of the urgency
of the concession by the government, delay in articulating the staff retrenchment plans
even though the government finally allocated adequate funds for this, and less attention
paid to the safety net of the staff joining the concessionaire. The supervision team's
efforts could not remedy the setbacks of the above-stated factors. While the supervision
could be rated as "satisfactory", given the disappointing outcome of the railway
component, the supervision has been rated as Moderately Satisfactory.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

82.    The overall Bank performance could be rated as satisfactory on the basis of the
Bank team's: (a) proactively supervising the project by making necessary adjustments
and working closely with client to address the emerging issues in the road components,
which accounted for more than 70 percent of the Project; (b) ensuring full disbursement
without seeking any extension of the closing date; and, (c) working closely with the
government to make the concessioning process a success though unfortunately the
concession did not sustain. However, a rating of MS has been suggested due to the
Team: (a) underestimating risks facing the railways leading to sharp decline in the
railways' performance; (b) inadequate intervention in the face of declining performance
and delay in concessioning; and, (c) lack of harmonization of railway and road
component at design stage.

                                            21
5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

83.     The government showed strong commitment at preparation stage by advancing
the TRC railway concession with pre-qualification completed and agreeing to move
TAZARA towards the direction of privatization. During implementation, the government
carried out necessary policies to support the project including: (a) increasing the fuel levy
to raise the RF revenue from around US$60 million in FY06/07 to US$167 million in
FY08/09, an increase of 276 percent; (b) the Parliament to pass the Road Act which sets
out clearer responsibilities of the various actors in the sector. These actions proved to be
critical to improving the road network management and achieving the project
development objectives.

84.     However, After the government became the minor shareholder and the
concessioning agreement was signed, the government did not actively worked with
concessionaire to revive the deteriorated railway system including not taking timely
action to fulfill the precondition to activate IFC's loan for improving TRL performance.

85.     The government did not handle the retirement benefit of the staff retrenchment
most appropriately The retrenched staff had to agitate long for a satisfactory
compensation package even though eventually the government allocated enough funds,
close to US$50 million, for financing staff retrenchment. Staff apathy has been a
significant contributory factor in the poor performance of the railways both in the period
prior to concessioning and after concessioning. Frequent strikes and thefts contributed to
the destabilization of the concession.

86.   In light of the above shortcomings, the government performance is rated as
Moderately Satisfactory. This rating is a weighted acknowledgement of government's
commitment during the project preparation, yet being less proactive during the
implementation especially with railway concession.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

87.      There were multiple implementation agencies under this project. For road
activities, the implementation agencies were: (a) TANROADS; (b) MOCT, Zanzibar); (d)
PMORALG; and (e) Road Fund Board; for ferry, it was TEMESA; for aviation, it was
Tanzania Airports Authority (TAA). For railway activities, the implementation agency
was TRC and later on RAHCO. TANROADS through its IDA Unit was responsible for
the overall financial management and coordination of the project. TANROADS did a
good job and RAHCO also did well after it has gone through the necessary learning curve
subsequent of its establishment been established However, there was discrepancy of the
performances among different implementation agencies and the weighted evaluation of
implementation agencies performance is Moderately Satisfactory.



                                             22
88.     The road agencies have completed multiple project activities (altogether 67
contracts) on time and the outcome is satisfactory. The road network has improved and
has generated economic and social benefits for the communities and areas within its
radius. The performance of road agencies is rated as Satisfactory.

89.    The other agencies responsible for aviation, ferry and urban transport also
completed the planned activities on time with satisfactory outcome. Five ferries were
purchased or rehabilitated which greatly facilitated the daily commute of local people and
the economic activities. The Dar es Salaam BRT and traffic management study was
completed and is currently implemented under CTCP-2. All studies implemented by
TAA were also completed with satisfactory quality.

90.     TRC and later on RAHCO were mainly responsible for procurement of rails,
sleepers and other track materials for the rehabilitation of railway. The procurement was
delayed by two years; only 25 percent of the materials were procured by the end of 2007.
Such delay could mainly be attributed to the condition that procurement was tied up with
the signing of the concession agreement. However, TRC could have prepared and started
the procurement process for the whole lot of materials earlier and finalized the contract
soon after the signing of the concession agreement as that would have saved time as well
as partially improve the condition of the track in time. Change over to RAHCO did not
help as it was a completely new organization and took time to get into stride. TRC was
also responsible for environmental cleaning and implementing RAP. The environmental
cleanup was initially executed by TRC but delayed severely after retrenchment of staff
but later this activity was completed in December 2009. Implementation of RAP was
delayed and a Consultant was hired and completed the review of the resettlement cost in
2009, the actual implementation will be done later. The performance of TRC and
RAHCO was therefore rated as moderately unsatisfactory though its performance was
certainly limited by the arrangement.

91.     In conclusion, the weighted rating for implantation agencies is moderately
satisfactory acknowledging the good performance of road agencies, TAA and TEMESA.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

92.     Based on the combination of two ratings above, the overall borrower performance
is rated as moderately satisfactory.

6. Lessons Learned

(a) M&E Framework

93.    The M&E framework should be comprehensive and indicative, showing the path
to the project development objectives. The output and intermediate indicators should
closely link and be fully reflective to outcome indicators so that the project progress

                                           23
could be closely monitored, correct actions could be adopted when necessary, and why
outcome has or hasn't been achieved could be clearly identified. For example, various
factors could contribute to road condition improvement including more maintenance
resources, more capital investment on road and better road network management
capacity, etc. All these factors should be part of M&E framework to reflect how outcome
is to be achieved.

(b) Railway Component

94.     The Main Lesson: a railway cannot compete with road transport for multiple
small consignments. Such consignments were the core load of TRC prior to
concessioning. During the two years of uncertainty between the bidding for the
concession and the eventual signing of the concession agreement with the winning bidder
the majority of the load was lost to road transport (down from 1.2 million tons to 0.5
million tons per annum) and the concessionaire had no chance to win the lost load share
back for the railway. To be viable railways need a constant base load of recurring freight
over a long distance. Such base loads normally are mining products (such as TAZARA
has with its copper freight from Kapiri Mposhi to Dar es Salaam). A revival of TRL will
therefore depend on the development of mines in the North West of Tanzania and in the
neighboring countries Rwanda, Burundi and DRC. There are fairly developed mining
projects, such as the Kabanga Nickel mine in the Kagera Region with a promised base
load of about 200,000 tons per annum, which may warrant efforts for the revival of the
railway.

95.    Management arrangements leading up to concession. Concessioning a railway
is a challenging and difficult task accompanied with serious social, safety, and
environmental issues. It also remains a process with serious political overtones and
building consensus among key stakeholders and maintaining transparency is critical for
success. The process can also throw up many unforeseen hurdles such as legal
challenges, parliamentary intervention, natural disasters, economic upheaval etc. which
can sometimes delay the process for years. Also, since concessioning involves long-term
commitment of both parties, extreme caution on both sides is natural and actually
desirable. For all the above reasons, the concessioning process can take longer than the
planned schedule, sometimes three to four years in all. It will be a good idea for the
governments to make interim institutional arrangements such as short-term management
contract, hiring of a few professional managers in key disciplines from outside the
railways, twinning arrangement with some of the developed railway, etc. This will
ensure continuity of operations and prevent undue pressure to expedite the concession.

96.     Financing for rehabilitation. In the current concession designs, the potential
concessionaire is faced with obligations to invest in liquidating the backlog of
maintenance and subsequently maintaining the assets in workable conditions. When the
infrastructure is in very poor condition and heavy investment is required to restore the
infrastructure to standard condition, then the burden on the concessionaire becomes too
heavy. In such a case, the concession becomes highly risky and unattractive to potential
investors. It is no surprise that the concessions in Africa, where the railway infrastructure

                                             24
is often in poor state and in need of substantial investment, the response has been very
limited and not from the best of the lot. It would be better that the governments commit
to offer the railways in a "standard" condition without any backlog of maintenance. That
does not mean that the governments should first take years to rehabilitate poor railways
but that they should commit to hand over fund equal to the estimated cost of
rehabilitation to the concessionaire over an agreed time. Alternatively, the bidders should
be allowed to estimate the cost of rehabilitation and include it in their respective bids
with the winning bidder being offered the amount asked for. That would be fair as the
responsibility for the backlog rests with the sole shareholders, i.e., the government and it
should shoulder the responsibility of liquidating the backlog. While certainly increasing
government commitment, this arrangement will attract the best operators in the world and
ensure the best possible performance of the railways.

97.     Sensitivity to staffing issues. In most concessions, as in the one for TR, the
governments made adequate arrangements for the staff rendered surplus but did not
ensure an appropriate safety net for the staff selected by and engaged by the
concessionaire. The staff engaged by the concessionaire, instead of being lucky to have
retained their employment, found themselves at risk of losing their retrenchment and
retirement benefits, particularly for the period of their service with the parastatal
railways. To ensure staff commitment to the concession and their productive
contribution to the railway operations, the governments should make appropriate
arrangements to safeguard the pension and retrenchment benefits either through an
escrow account, their enrollment in government or government-approved pension
schemes, or formal commitments to pay the dues when arising or should consider
retrenchment of all the staff and clear their dues and require the concessionaires to
engage staff from the market.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

98.     The borrower has acknowledged that the outcome of the railway component was
disappointing, but the outcome of the road component was satisfactory. So, the borrower
assessed that even though there were many lapses, procurement delays, the overall
outcome is generally satisfactory. However, given the outcome of railway component and
the development objective was only partially achieved, the ICR team concluded that a
satisfactory rating overall is not convincing.

(b) Cofinanciers

99.     The cofinancier was NDF. They financed part of the update of feasibility study
and design and preparation of bidding documents. The cofinancier did not raise any
issues.

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)



                                            25
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
                                                       Actual/Latest
                               Appraisal Estimate                               Percentage of
         Components                                      Estimate
                                 (US$ millions)                                  Appraisal
                                                       (US$ millions)
Upgrading of Strategic Road
                                        70.71                  88.49               125.14
Links
Enhanced Road Management
                                        14.83                   6.49               43.76
Capacity
Improved Performance of
                                        36.46                  27.32               94.93
Tanzanian Railways
Total Project Cost                     122.00                 233.30               100.25


(b) Financing
                                                     Appraisal Actual/Latest
                                       Type of       Estimate      Estimate Percentage of
         Source of Funds
                                     Cofinancing                               Appraisal
                                                   (US$ million) (US$ million)
 Borrower                                             10.02             6.21        61.98
 International Development
                                                     122.00            122.30      100.25
Association (IDA)
 Nordic Development Fund (NDF)                         6.05             5.13        84.75
 International Finance Corporation
                                                                        14.0
(IFC)
Partial Risk Guarantee (PRG)                          40.00             0.00




                                           26
Annex 2. Outputs by Component

The project has three components and the outputs of each component are listed below.

Component A: Upgrading of strategic road links in mainland Tanzania and in
Zanzibar

1.     Subcomponent 1: Rehabilitation and upgrading of the Singida-Shelui road (110
km) of the central transport corridor

2.      The implementation of this subcomponent was divided into three sections,
namely; Package 1: Singida ­ Iguguno (34 km), Package 2: Iguguno ­ Sekenke Diversion
(42 km) and Package 3: Senkenke Diversion ­ Shelui (33 km). Upon closing of the
project, all three sections have been completed with satisfactory quality. In addition, three
new activities were added, construction of .32 km of Boma and Mandewa Urban roads,
installation of the Njuki Weighbridge at km 6.18 and construction of Iguguno box
culvert. The addition of three activities expanded the benefit to local community and
helped control the axle load so that the road could be better protected from overloaded
heavy trucks.

3.    Subcomponent 2: Rehabilitation and upgrading of the Mkwajuni-Nungwi,
Matemwe-Pongwe and Paje-Pingwe-Michamvi roads in Zanzibar (56 km). This
subcomponent involved upgrading to bituminous standard of Pongwe ­ Matemwe (20.4
km), Mkwajuni ­ Nungwi (18.86 km) and Paje ­ Pingwe- Michamvi (16.6 km) roads.

4.      Pongwe ­ Matemwe and Mkwajuni ­ Nungwi components were completed in
May 2008 with satisfactory quality. The Paje ­ Pingwe- Michamvi (16.6 km) road was
substantially completed in July 2007 and some defects were noticed and were presented
to the contractor. A joint inspection by the Employer and the Consultant done in
November 2008 on the completed road revealed that the defects such as road marking
had not been exhaustively addressed to and hence the Employer was unable to release to
the Contractor the second 50 percent retention money amounting to US$72,940.63 out of
which US$70,023 was International Development Association's (IDA's) portion. The
contractor submitted the claim to the International Court of Arbitration in June 2009 and
the claim is yet to be adjudicated.

5.      Subcomponent 3: Carrying out and updating of feasibility studies and detailed
design, and preparation of bidding documents for 720 kilometers of high priority trunk
roads to be rehabilitated and/or upgraded under a proposed follow-on project, including:
(a) the Singida ­ Babati ­ Minjingu road (220 km), (b) the Dodoma ­ Babati road (263
km), (c) the Korogwe ­ Mkumbara ­ Same road (172 km) and (d) the Tanga ­ Horohoro
road (65 km).




                                             27
6.      The Feasibility Study and Detailed Engineering Design for all the sub-projects
were completed within the credit period and for some of the projects implementation has
started. The details of the status of the projects are as indicated in Table 1.


                  Table 1: Status of Implementation of Roads Projects

S/N       Road section           Planned                 Implementation status
                               length (km)

1     Singida ­ Babati ­            220         Feasibility   Study    and    Detailed
      Minjingu                                  Engineering Design on 220 km
                                                completed under NDF funding.
                                                Physical works are in progress and are
                                                jointly funded by ADB.

2.    Dodoma ­ Babati               263         Feasibility Study    and   Detailed
                                                Engineering Design on 263 km were
                                                completed under NDF funding.
                                                Procurement of Contractor for the
                                                Physical works under GOT funding
                                                ongoing.

3.    Tanga ­ Horohoro              65          Detailed Design on 65 km completed
                                                under NDF funding. Procurement of
                                                Contractor for the Physical works
                                                under MCC funding ongoing

4.    Korogwe         ­             165         Detailed Engineering Design on 172
      Mkumbara ­ Same                           km completed under IDA

      Total                         713         720 km


7.       In addition, the following road sections were added and the completion status is
listed in Table 2.

                Table 2: The Implementation Status of Added Road Sections
S/N           Road section        Planned                Implementation status
                                length (km)

1     Dodoma ­ Iringa               266         The Detailed Engineering Design and
                                                Preparation of Tender Documents under
                                                NDF were successfully completed in July
                                                2009. The physical implementation of the
                                                project is earmarked for jointly financing
                                           28
                                                by ADF, JICA and GOT.
2                                               Feasibility study, environmental and
      Nzega­ Tabora                 116
                                                social impact assessment, and detailed
                                                engineering design including preparation
                                                of Tender Documents could not be
                                                completed under the project after
                                                Tanzania National Roads Agency
                                                (TANROADS) terminated the contract. a
                                                new Contract was signed between
                                                TANROADS and COWI A/S for
                                                carrying out the remaining services for
                                                the project road.
3     Arusha ­ Minjingu             103         The detailed engineering design and
                                                Tender Documents were completed in
                                                October       2008.    The      physical
                                                implementation of the project is
                                                earmarked for financing by IDA
4     Tunduma­                      225         The detailed engineering design was
      Sumbawanga                                completed in June 2009 under IDA
                                                financing. The physical works is
                                                earmarked for financing under MCC.


8.      Subcomponent 4: Rehabilitation of the MV Kigamboni, Pangani, Sengerema,
Kilombero and Rufiji ferries. The project involved rehabilitation of two ferries, namely,
MV Kigamboni, and MV Sengerema and procurement of three ferries, namely; MV
Kilombero, MV Rufiji and MV Pangani. During tendering the lowest evaluated bidder
provided the same cost for either rehabilitation of the existing ferry or supply of a new
one at the Rufiji crossing. The borrower opted for the supply of a new ferry.

9.      The rehabilitation of MV Kigamboni and MV Sengerema were completed in
November 2009 while the purchase of a new MV Kilombero was completed in March
2007. Procurement of Pangani was substantially completed by the end of the credit
period.

Component B: Enhancing road management capacity specifically for TANROADS
and MOCT Zanzibar

10.     This component had eight subcomponents. Except for the construction of a new
TANROADS headquarters building and Organization and Management (O&M) study of
the TANROADS structure, the other subcomponent were completed within the credit
period. The outputs of each subcomponent are listed below:

11.    Subcomponent 1: Design and construction of a new TANROADS headquarters
building. The design of the TANROADS Headquarters building at Plot No 9/1, Mabibo
was completed in January 2007. However, the employer decided to change the original
                                           29
location of the proposed building on grounds of, among others, being too far away from
the parent Ministry and Development Partners. The subsequent time spent for acquiring
the new plot and re-design to fit the new plot delayed the project such that it could not be
implemented within the credit timeframe.

12.    Subcomponent 2: Setting up of a Wide Area Network to improve communication
between TANROADS' headquarters, its regional offices and MOCT Zanzibar. This
subcomponent involved installation of Local Area Networks in 38 centers and then
connected to wide area network (WAN). The WAN and local access network (LAN)
contract was signed in 2006 and substantially completed in April 2009. The installation
of WAN was effected on 36 stations while the remaining two stations (Tunduma and
Nyakahura) were not connected to WAN due to the absence of network from the WAN
services provider, the Tanzania Telecommunications Company Limited (TTCL). After
the network being set up, a Consulting firm will be engaged to carry out a technical audit
and propose enhancement of the system as the system is not working as efficiently as
expected.

13.    Subcomponent 3: Carrying out of a study for the enhancement of the
organization and management of TANROADS. The study was not carried out as
TANROADS felt it was not needed following restructuring of the TANROADS
Organization in August 2007.

14.    Subcomponent 4: Carrying out of studies to identify road investment priorities,
such as traffic counts and an update of the ten-year investment plan. This study was
completed by TANROADS. The results formed an invaluable input in the preparation of
TSIP.

15.     Subcomponent 5: Preparation of a local government roads inventory and
condition survey. This study was successfully completed within the Credit period. The
output includes: (a) inventory of the District roads in mainland Tanzania; (b)
classification of the District Roads and Community roads; (c) production of maps; (d)
identification of location of resources e.g. water, gravel, sand, etc.; and, (e) location of
social centers, e.g. schools, hospitals, etc.

16.    Subcomponent 6: Carrying out other transport related studies, including a Dar-
es-Salaam Bus Rapid Transit (BRT) and traffic management study. The contract for the
study which comprised Conceptual Design and Detailed Design of Phase 1 was
successfully completed. The physical work is implemented under CTCP-2. In addition,
an Environmental and Social Impact Assessment (ESIA) Study for Jangwani Depot was
completed under this subcomponent.

17.     Subcomponent 7: Provision of technical advisory services and training for
improved management and operational capacity of TANROADS and MOCT Zanzibar. A
total of 135 TANROADS staff attended the training, out of whom 47 staff attended
professional training outside the country and 88 staff attended tailor-made professional



                                            30
seminars organized in the country. Six staff from MOCT Zanzibar attended training
outside the country.

18.     Subcomponent 8: Provision of technical advisory services, training and financing
to the Project; Coordination Unit (PCU) and MOCT Coordination of Donor Aided
Project (CODAP). Human Resources Specialist and a Transport Economist were engaged
as technical assistants to TANROADS for one year each. Two Technical Assistants were
engaged for two years contract to provide management assistance to the CODAP in the
MOCT, Zanzibar.

19.    The following activities were added during project implementation period and the
outputs are listed below:

20.     Emergency repair and maintenance of Zanzibar international airport. This
activity became necessary and was added due to the deterioration of the runway. The
contract was signed on June 2, 2008 and was completed on August 18, 2008. Works
involved repair of the trenches, sealing of cracks and pothole patching. The rehabilitation
of Zanzibar runway is currently financed under CTCP-2.

21.    Zanzibar Transport Master Plan and Transport Policy Study. The study
produced two documents, namely; "Zanzibar Transport Master Plan" and the "Transport
Policy Paper". The studies are important for the preparation of future Transport
Development Program.

22.     Zanzibar International Airport Master Plan Study. This included carrying out
feasibility study and the design of a new passenger terminal at the Zanzibar airport. The
study and design were successfully completed within the credit closure.

23.    Baseline Survey for Zanzibar International Airport. The main purpose of the
study was to determine how users currently rate the facilities and services offered at the
Zanzibar Airport and to establish the framework to be used to monitor satisfaction during
and after the proposed rehabilitation and extension of Airport runway. The survey was
successfully executed and the final report was submitted in September 2008.

24.    Design of Seven Airports. Feasibility study and detailed engineering design and
tender documentation for seven commercial airports were carried out. These airports are
Arusha, Bukoba, Tabora, Mafia, Shinyanga, Sumbawanga and Kigoma. Mafia Airport is
earmarked for MCC financing while Bukoba, Tabora and Kigoma Airports are earmarked
for IDA financing under the forthcoming Transport Sector Support Project (TSSP).

25.    Road Fund Leakage Study. The purpose of this study is identifying sources of
leakage of revenues intended for the RF and proposing mitigation measures. However,
during execution of the assignment the consultant faced some hurdles and could not
proceed due to inability to access relevant data. Subsequently, the Road Fund Board
appointed a task force to finalize the study. The final report was successfully completed.



                                            31
Component C: Improved Performance of Tanzanian Railways.

26.     Subcomponent 1: Provision of urgently needed rails, sleepers and other material
for TRC, for the replacement of the track between Itigi and Tabora. The goods from the
first two suppliers were delivered in November 2006 and the third supplier in May 2007.
A total length of rail relayed was 47 km as planned including Kitinku and Makutopora
(16 km), Itigi ­ Kitaraka (15 km) and Tura ­ Karangasi (16 km).

27.     Subcomponent 2: Provision of other rails, sleepers and materials for TRC for the
replacement of the balance of the tracks of TRC between Itigi and Tabora. The provision
of the goods was supplied under two contracts. The first contract was with Chinese. The
supplier had claimed that earthquake which took place in China destroyed his factory and
could no longer produce the required materials. The dispute was subsequently resolved
amicably and goods were supplied as planned. The second one procurement process was
delayed because of counteroffer by the awarded supplier. Also due to the Letter of Credit
issue, the supply of goods was delayed,steel prices raised up and only 50 percent of the
required goods were able to be delivered before closure of credit. As a result, the total
length of railway being relayed was reduced from 197 km to 127 km.

28.     Subcomponent 3: Preparation of an Environmental Assessment, a Social
Assessment and EMPs and RAP for TRC. The study was successfully completed within
the credit closure.

29.    Subcomponent 4: Financing of clean-up costs based on the Environmental
Assessment and EMP, and of resettlement costs based on the Social Assessment and
RAP. Following non-response to the tendering for Contractors to carry out the
environmental clean-up works, it was decided to use TRC/RAHCO in-house capacity to
carry out the assignment. The entity conducted the cleaning up works at Dar es Salaam,
Morogoro and Tabora only. TRL were subsequently contracted under IDA financing, to
clean up the remaining workshop facilities at Mwanza and Kigoma and the assignment
was completed by the closure of the Credit.

30.     Subcomponent 5: Provision of technical advisory services and training for: (a)
the handing over of TRC assets and operation of the Railway Operator; (b) the winding
up of TRC; and (c) the building up of the management and operational capacity of Reli
Assets Holding Company (RAHCO). The outputs of this subcomponent were: (a) a
Change Manager was engaged whose responsibility was to coordinate the process of the
change from the current management to the concessionaire. However, due to delays in
the takeover of the TRC operation by the Concessionaire, the services were suspended in
November 2006 until the time for handing over of the TRC to the Concessionaire. The
Contract of the Change Manager was concluded in December 2008 after submission of
his Final report; (b) a Consultant was engaged between July 2005 and December 2005 as
Assistant Director General ­ Operation to assist in the restructuring process; (c) the

                                           32
signing of the Concession Agreement between M/s RITES of India and M/s Reli Assets
Holding Company (RAHCO) of Tanzania took place on September 3, 2007. The
effective date of the concession was October 1, 2007.

31.     Subcomponent 6: Provision of technical advisory services for the future private
sector participation in TAZARA, including: (a) the restructuring of TAZARA; (b) the
establishment of the regulatory and legal framework governing the operations of
TAZARA; and (c) preparation of EA, SA, EMP and RAP. This component was not
commenced because of the management complications as it is owned by three partners
(Tanzania, Zambia and China).




                                          33
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

Economic Analysis of Singida-Shelui Road

1.    Upgrading of the Singida - Shelui road to bitumen standard covered three
packages namely; Singida - Iguguno, Iguguno - Sekenke and Sekenke - Shelui.
Works for the three packages were successfully completed around end 2008.

2.      The Highway Development and Management model version 4 (HDM4) was used
to evaluate the economic internal rate of return (EIRR) of rehabilitating Singida-Shelui
Road. The Data needed for analysis of the economic impact were collected from the
Tanzania National Roads Agency (TANROADS) through several reports. Baseline data
were mainly sourced from: Black and Veatch Africa; Consultancy Services to
finalize review of detailed engineering design report and tender documents for
Singida - Shelui road, Final report. The `after' project data were mainly sourced from
final reports for the three upgrading project packages for Singida - Shelui road prepared
by works supervision consultants.

3.     The main factors affecting the EIRR are: traffic level, Construction Cost, unit
maintenance cost, road roughness, vehicle operating costs (VOC) and travel time. The
values of these factors are listed in the Table 1 below.

                         Table 1: Main Factors for EIRR
                                    At appraisal stage                                  ICR stage
   Traffic (AADT)                          220                                            759
   Construction Cost (USDm)                 47                                             45
   road roughness Index                      9                                             2.5
   Travel time (minutes)                   170                                             87
The current unit maintenance cost and VOC are not listed because there are multiple values related with these two
factors depending on the difference maintenance and different vehicle types

4.     The sharp increase of traffic could be attributed to the much better road condition
post project. In addition, the non-performing railway sector also contributed to the traffic
increase on road sector.

5.       The main outcomes of economic analysis of Singida-Shelui road at ICR stage are
listed in the Table 2 below.




                                                      34
       Table 2: Summary of Economic Evaluation of the Singida - Shelui Road
    Economic Parameter                        Unit             Output Value
    Investment Cost                         (US$ m.)                45.6
    Recurrent Cost                          (US$ m.)                 3.8
    Net Economic Benefits (NPV)             (US$ m.)                47.5
    NPV/Cost                                  (%)                    1.1
    Savings in MT VOC                       (US$m.)                 83.7
    Savings in MT Travel Time Costs         (US$ m.)                 2.8
    Reduction in Accident Costs       (US$ m.)              0.00
    Internal Rate of Return (IRR)     (%)                   19.7

Economic Analysis of Three Roads in Zanzibar

6.    Upgrading of the Zanzibar 3-Roads to bitumen standard covered three, namely;
Mkwajuni - Nungwi (19km), Matemwe - Pongwe (21km) and Paje - Pingwe
(17km).Works for the three packages were successfully completed around December
2008.

7.     The evaluation analysis was performed using HDM4 version 2.06 on a by project
approach, at a discount rate of 12 percent for a design life of 20 years. Data needed for
analysis of the economic impact were obtained from Ministry of Communication and
Transport Zanzibar (MOCT) and TANROADS. Baseline data were mainly sourced
from: Feasibility Study Report prepared by Data System Engineering & Research
Corporation Ltd. (UK) in association with TECNIC Consulting Engineers

8.       The main factors affecting the EIRR are: traffic level, Unit Construction Cost,
unit maintenance cost, road roughness, VOC and travel time. The values of these factors
are listed in the Table 3 below.

                           Table 3: Main Factors for EIRR
                                         At appraisal stage                             ICR stage
  Traffic (AADT)                              43-162                                    518-2,625
  Unit Construction Cost (USD1,000)             351                                        45
  Road Roughness Index                           12                                       2.05
  Travel time (minutes)                 Varies from several                          Around one hour
                                          hours to one day
The unit maintenance cost and VOC are not listed because there are multiple values related with these two factors
depending on the difference maintenance and different vehicle types

9.      Traffic figures reveal a sharp and abrupt increase of traffic well beyond levels
predicted during appraisal stage. The higher traffic contributes to the higher EIRR at ICR
stage.

10.   The following is a summary of results of the economic evaluation of the Zanzibar
3-Roads, with all costs discounted to year 2006.

                                                      35
  Table 4: Summary of Economic Evaluation of Three Roads in Zanzibar
Economic Parameter                   Unit            Output Value
Investment Cost                    (US$ m)                 33.8
Recurrent Cost                     (US$ m)                (1.86)
Net Economic Benefits (NPV)        (US$ m)                 13.9
NPV/Cost                             (%)                    0.4
Savings in MT VOC                  (US$ m)                 38.6
Savings in MT Travel Time Costs    (US$ m)                  6.0
Internal Rate of Return (IRR)        (%)                   16.1




                                 36
37
Economic Analysis of Railway Component

                                   Table 5: ERR "with" Project - as Estimated at Appraisal
C1 and C2 are costs to economy
B1 and B2 are benefits to the economy




                                                             38
Explanations
Column 1: The analysis was estimated for twenty years from 2005, the expected starting year
of the Project until the end of 2024
Column 2: indicates investments by the government (through IDA) in the first two years and
by the concessionaire in the enxt 6 years. The investments pertain only to replacement of assets
(rails, sleepers,wagons, signaling equipment etc) and do not include money spent on backlog
maintenance which is assumed to have been ploughed back from increased revenues
Column 3: Freight traffic projections in terms of net ton kilometers (NTKM)
Column 4: expected gross revenue at the average rate of US cents 4.5 per NTKM. This is not
used for computing ERR
Column 5: The fixed operating cost assuming: (a) 10% reduction in the first two years and then
remaining constant
Column 6: Variable cost assuming: (a) 10% reduction in the first two years and (b)
proportional to NTKM
Column 7: Total benefit due to cost reduction for different years
Column 8: Repatriation of funds by the concessionaire as dividend on equity assumed as 1/3rd
of total investment, US$60 million, and a return of 25 percent increasing gradually
Column 9: Road avoidance benefit assuming that the additional traffic caused as a result of the
Project (reference to traffic in 2005) would have moved by road at an additional cost of US
cents 3 per NTKM
Column 10: Net economic benefits being the sum of columns 2, 7,8, and 9

Assumptions for the "Without" scenario:
(a) there will be no investment; (b) traffic will decline by five percent every year; (c) there will
be no improvement in fixed and variable costs; and (d) there will be no repatriation of funds




                                              39
                                 Table 6: ERR "with" Project - as Revised at the Time of ICR

C1 and C2 are costs to economy
B1 and B2 are benefits to the economy




                                                             40
Assumptions behind the revision of ERR
   · For years 2005 to 2009, actual figures if invest and traffic have been assumed for
     both the "With" and "Without" scenarios.
   · For year 10, investment has been considered zero and traffic has been assumed to
     increase by five percent, given the serious concern and investigation with regard
     to the railways
   · Form year 2011 onwards, it has been assumed that some durable institutional
     arrangements will be made (including a new concessionaire) and the traffic will
     go up at10 percent per year from 2011 to 2017 to recover the lost ground and then
     at three percent per year and investments will be made @ US$10 million per year
     for six years.




                                          41
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members
                                                                    Responsibility/
          Names                       Title                Unit
                                                                      Specialty
Lending
Nina Chee                 Sr Environmental Spec.          MIGEP Environment
                          Senior Social Development
Yvette Laure Djachechi                                    AFTCS Social Development
                          Spec.
Juan Gaviria              Sector Leader                   AFTTR Transport Economics
Nina M. Jones             Program Assistant               AFTTR Operations
England Rogasian
                          Program Assistant               AFCE1 Operations
Maasamba
Jean-Francois Marteau     Sr Transport. Spec.           AFTTR Civil Engineering
Farida Mazhar             Lead Financial Officer        FEUFG Industry & Trade
                          Sr Financial Management             Financial
Mercy Mataro Sabai                                      AFTFM
                          Specialist                          Management
Dieter E. Schelling       Lead Transport Specialist     AFTTR Civil Engineering
Pascal Tegwa              Senior Procurement Specialist AFTPC Procurement
Solomon Muhuthu
                          Sr Highway Engineer             AFTTR Engineering
Waithaka
Michael D. Wong           Sr Private Sector Development SASFP Private Sector Dev.
Yash Pal Kedia            Consultant, Railway Specialist AFTTR Railways
                                                               Transport
Yitzhak Kamhi             Consultant, Highway Engineer AFTTR
                                                               Management

Supervision/ICR
Gisbert Joseph Kinyero    Procurement Specialist           AFTPC Procurement
England Rogasian
                          Program Assistant                AFCE1 Operations
Maasamba
Grace Anselmo Mayala      Team Assistant                   AFCE1Operations
Yonas Eliesikia Mchomvu   Transport Specialist             AFTTREngineering
Donald Paul Mneney        Senior Procurement Specialist    AFTPCProcurement
Anne Muuna                Team Assistant                   AFCE1Operations
                          Sr Financial Management               Financial
Mercy Mataro Sabai                                        AFTFM
                          Specialist                            Management
Zena Ahmed Said           Consultant                      AFTTR
Gloria Sindano            Program Assistant               AFCE1 Operations
Pascal Tegwa              Senior Procurement Specialist   AFTPC Procurement
Solomon Muhuthu
                          Sr Highway Engineer              AFTTR Engineering
Waithaka

                                        42
Fang Xu                    Transport Economist               AFTTR Economics
Felly Kaboyo               Operations Analyst                AFTTR Operations
Nina Jones                 Program Assistant                 AFTTR Operations
                                                                   Transport
Andreas Schliessler        Senior Transport Economist        AFTTR
                                                                   Economics
Yash Pal Kedia             Consultant, Railways Specialist   AFTTR Railways

(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                   Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                      USD Thousands
                                   No. of staff weeks       (including travel and
                                                            consultant costs)
Lending

  FY03                                        13.21                    80.64
  FY04                                        67.02                   283.28

                          Total:              80.23                   363.92
Supervision/ICR
  FY05                                        49.65                   151.60
  FY06                                        48.24                   174.38
  FY07                                        38.86                   106.47
  FY08                                        53.78                   144.11
  FY09                                        28.69                    72.82
  FY10                                        15.18                    79.34
                          Total:             314.63                   728.72

                  Grand Total:               394.86                 1,092.64
*FY10 to be adjusted to reflect the actual later.




                                            43
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results
N/A




                                      44
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
N/A




                                     45
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

A.   BACKGROUND

Project Origin

The classified road network in Tanzania is estimated to be 86,472 km based on the Road
Act 2007. The Ministry of Infrastructure Development through TANROADS is
managing a road network of about 29,847 km comprising 10,601 km and 19,246 km of
Trunk and Regional roads respectively. The remaining network of about 56,625 km of
Urban, District and Feeder Roads is under the responsibility of the Prime Minister's
Office Regional Administration and Local Government (PMO-RALG).

B.   THE PROJECT DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVES

Objective

The project supports the National Transport Policy (NTP), which was prepared in a
participatory way and presented to the public in October 2003. Within the NTP the
Central Transport Corridor Project (CTCP) focuses on improved performance of the
Central Transport Corridor, both in respect of road and rail transport, improvement of key
roads in Zanzibar, and on generally enhanced road management capacity. The
development objective of the Central Transport Corridor is to: (a) upgrade strategic road
links; (b) enhance road management capacity; and (c) improve operations of Tanzanian
Railways i.e Tanzania Railway Corporation (TRC) and Tanzania and Zambia Railway
Authority (TAZARA).

Key Performance Indicators

Following were the key performance indicators in respect of the roads component of the
project: (a) traffic increases by at least 10 percent per annum on average between 2004
and 2009 on improved roads and (b) the network under TANROADS responsibility
(28,900 km of trunk and regional roads) in poor condition reduced from 49 percent in
2003 to 30 percent in 2009.

In respect of the railways component of the project, following were the key performance
indicators; (a) total freight tonnage carried (on TRC network) increased from the current
level of 1.45 million tonnes to 2.0 million tonnes by 2009; (b) level of transit traffic
carried increased by 20 percent in 2009 from the 560,000 tonnes in 2003 and (c)
kilometers of track under speed restriction as a percentage of the total decreased from the
current 10 percent to 2 percent in 2009. The performance indicators assume that the
signing of the concession agreement with a private Concessionaire would have taken
place in November 2004 and handover in June 2005 at most.

At appraisal the project comprised three main components and 18 related subcomponents.
However 18 other sub-components were added during the project implementation. The

                                            46
appraisal sub components are presented under part A ­ C and the additional sub-
components are presented under Part D below.

1.    Project Components

Part A: Upgrading of Strategic Road Links

In line with the government's road sector development plan, the project was planned to
support the following:

(a)   Rehabilitation and upgrading to bituminous standard of the Singida ­ Shelui Road
      (110 km), including the costs of the Environmental Management Plan (EMP) and
      Resettlement Action Plan (RAP);
(b)   Rehabilitation and upgrading to bituminous standard of the Mkwajuni ­ Nungwi,
      Matemwe ­ Pongwe and Paje ­ Pingwe-Michamvi roads in Zanzibar (56 km),
      including the costs of the EMP and RAP
(c)   Carrying out updating of feasibility studies and detailed design, and preparation of
      bidding documents for 713 kilometers of high priority trunk roads to be
      rehabilitated and/or upgraded under a proposed follow-on project. The road projects
      include: (i) Singida ­ Babati ­ Minjingu (220 km), (ii) Dodoma ­ Babati (263 km),
      (iii) Korogwe ­ Mkumbara ­ Same (165 km) and (iv) Tanga ­ Horohoro (65 km);
(d)   The rehabilitation of the MVs Kigamboni, Sengerema, and Rufiji and supply of
      MVs Kilombero and Pangani ferries.

Part B: Enhanced Road Management Capacity

In order to enhance capacity for road management, both in mainland Tanzania and in
Zanzibar, and in view of the preparation of a proposed follow-on project, the Project was
planned to support the following:

(a)   Design and construction of a new TANROADS headquarters building;
(b)   Setting up of a Wide Area Network to improve communication between
      TANROADS' headquarters, its regional offices and Ministry of Communications
      and Transport (MOCT), Zanzibar;
(c)   Carrying out of a study for the enhancement of the Organization and Management
      (O & M) of TANROADS;
(d)   Carrying out of studies to identify road investment priorities, such as traffic counts
      and an update of the Ten-Year Investment Plan;
(e)   Preparation of a local government roads inventory and condition survey;
(f)   Carrying out other transport related studies, including a Dar es Salaam Bus Rapid
      Transit (BRT) and traffic management study;
(g)   Provision of technical advisory services and training for improved management and
      operational capacity of TANROADS and MOCT, Zanzibar;
(h)   Provision of technical advisory services, training and financing to IDA Project
      Coordination Unit (PCU) and MOCT Coordination of Donor Assisted Project
      (CODAP) for the day-to-day administration, financial management, procurement,

                                            47
      monitoring and evaluation of Part A and B of the Project, and financing of the
      external financial audit of the Project.

Part C: Improved Performance of Tanzania Railways

In line with the government's policy to engage the private sector into the operation and
financing of the railways sector, the Project was planned to support the following:

(a)   Provision of urgently needed rails, sleepers and other material for TRC, for the
      replacement of track between Itigi and Tabora;
(b)   Provision of other rails, sleepers and materials for TRC, including their installation.
      These were meant for replacement of the balance of the tracks of TRC between Itigi
      and Tabora. (The mode of placing of this material was to be discussed with the
      prequalified bidders for the concession and disbursement for this portion of the
      credit was tied to signing of the concession agreement or such other agreement
      satisfactory to the Association);
(c)   Preparation of an Environmental Assessment (EA), a Social Assessment (SA),
      EMPs and RAP for TRC;
(d)   Financing of clean-up costs based on the EA and EMP, and of resettlement costs
      based on the SA and RAP;
(e)   Provision of technical advisory services and training for: (i) the handing over of
      TRC assets and operation of the railways Operator; (ii) the winding up of TRC; and
      (iii) the building up of the management and operational capacity of Reli Assets
      Holding Company (RAHCO);
(f)   Provision of technical advisory services for the future private sector participation in
      TAZARA, including: (i) the re-structuring of TAZARA; (ii) the establishment of
      the regulatory and legal framework governing the operations of TAZARA; and (iii)
      preparation of EA, SA, EMP and RAP.

Part D: Additional Sub-components

The following additional sub-components were approved for implementation under the
savings and unallocated resources of the Credit:

(a)   Emergency repair and maintenance of Zanzibar Airport runway;
(b)   Partitioning of Dar Rapid Transit (DART) office;
(c)   Performance Based Maintenance and Management of Roads (PMMR);
(d)   Supply of office furniture and computer hardware to DART Agency;
(e)   Detailed Engineering Design for Tunduma ­ Sumbawanga road (220 km);
(f)   Supervision and facilitation of the PMMR project;
(g)   Baseline traffic count on the Mainland road network;
(h)   Road maintenance concession study in mainland Tanzania;
(i)   Zanzibar master-plan and Transport Policy;
(j)   Zanzibar International airport Master-plan;
(k)   Baseline Survey of Zanzibar Airport;
(l)   Pre-contract service for Zanzibar airport;

                                             48
(m)   Supervision of Emergency Repairs of Zanzibar Airport;
(n)   Environmental and Social Impact Assessment for Jangwani Depot;
(o)   Feasibility Study and Detailed Engineering Design for Seven (7) Airports;
(p)   Re-scoping of Tabora and Kigoma Airport;
(q)   Road Fund Leakage Study and;
(r)   Splitting BRT works into seven (7) packages.


C.     ACHIEVEMENTS OF OBJECTIVES

C.1    Upgrading of Strategic Road Links

C.1.1 Rehabilitation and upgrading to bituminous standard of the Singida ­ Shelui
      road (110 km), including the costs of the EMP and RAP

The implementation of this project was divided into three packages namely; Package 1:
Singida ­ Iguguno (34 km), Package 2: Iguguno ­ Sekenke Diversion (42 km) and
Package 3: Senkenke Diversion ­ Shelui (33 km). The packaging was necessary in order,
to among others speed up the construction, taking into account that the project had
already been delayed for about 3 years. Packages 1 was executed by M/s China Henan
International Cooperation Group Co. Ltd at a Contract Price of US$ 19.87 million and
supervised by M/s Roughton International (UK) at Contract Price of US$ 0.95 million;
Package 2 was executed by M/s China Henan International Cooperation Group Co. Ltd at
a Contract Price of US$ 13.27 million and supervised by M/s Dar al Handarsah
Consultants (Egypt) at Contract Price of US$ 1.14 million and; Package 3 was also
executed by the same Contractor M/s China Henan International Cooperation Group Co.
Ltd at a Contract Price of US$ 18.35 million and supervised by M/s BCEOM (France) at
Contract Price of US$ 1.43 million.

The following Addenda were awarded during the project implementation:
Addendum No. 1: This was related to underestimated quantities and it applied to all the
three packages. The cost of the addendum, which was USD 6.85 million, did not have
time extension implication.

Addendum No. 2 was for additional works comprising 3.32 km of Boma and Mandewa
Urban roads, installation of the Njuki Weighbridge at km 6.18 and construction of
Iguguno box culvert. The addendum No. 2, which applied for Package 1 only, attracted
additional cost of USD 2.39 million and an extension of time of 10.5 months.

The cost of the project at appraisal was estimated at USD 55.73 million and actual final
cost was USD 55.01 million. All packages were implemented within planned time frame
and costs.

The Supervision Contract for Package 1 was found to be null and void after noting that
the firm, Ms Roughton, International was not eligible to enter into a contract due to its
status of paying the mandatory taxes and registration with relevant authorities. However,

                                           49
the Consultant appealed to the court of law whereby the parties were required to maintain
the status quo. The firm therefore continued with its services to completion of the project.
However, payment is pending decision by the Court. The balance of the monies
earmarked for this sub-component was subsequently re-allocated to other categories.

C1.2   Rehabilitation and upgrading to bituminous standard of the Mkwajuni ­
       Nungwi, Matemwe ­ Pongwe and Paje ­ Pingwe-Michamvi roads in
       Zanzibar (56 km), including the costs of the EMP and RAP

The project involved upgrading to bituminous standard of Pongwe ­ Matemwe (20.4
km), Mkwajuni ­ Nungwi (18.86 km) and Paje ­ Pingwe (19.8 km) roads.

The civil works contract for Lot 1: Pongwe ­ Matemwe (20.4 km), Mkwajuni Town ­
Mkwajuni Connection (1.056 km) & Mkwajuni ­ Nungwi (17.8 km) was signed on 25th
August 2005, between Principal Secretary, Ministry of Communications and Transport
Zanzibar and the contractor M/S Spencon Services Ltd, Dar es Salaam, at a price of TShs
11,558,251,856.70. The works commenced in November 2005 and were to be completed
in May 2007.

Addendum No. 1 valued TShs 1,533,470,400 was approved by IDA on 6th March 2008
and Addendum No. 2 valued TShs 672,610,237 was approved by IDA on 21st May 2008.

The project was substantially completed on 27th May 2008 and the Defect Liability
Period ended in May 2009.

The civil works contract for Lot 2: Paje ­ Pingwe (19.8 km) was signed on 21st August
2005, between Principal Secretary, Ministry of Communications and Transport (MOCT)
Zanzibar and the contractor M/S Kundan Singh Construction Ltd, of Dar es Salaam at a
price of TShs 3,670,202,341. Original planned completion date for the upgrading works
was 14th October 2006. The project was substantially completed on 20th July 2007.

However, the final inspection and the subsequent handover of the Paje ­ Pingwe road
project was not done until 27th November 2008, when a joint inspection by the Employer
and the Consultant was done on the completed road. The inspection revealed that the
defects listed on the snag list and other defects noted on Paje ­ Pingwe road during the
Defects Liability Period had not been exhaustively addressed to and hence the Employer
was unable to release to the Contractor the second 50 percent retention money amounting
to USD 72,940.63 out of which USD 70,023 was IDA portion.

On February 7, 2009, the Contractor M/s Kundan Singh Construction Limited submitted
a claim to the Adjudicator amounting to USD 9.08 million. On April 2, 2009 the
Adjudicator dismissed the claim as baseless.

On June 30, 2009 the Contractor submitted the claim of US$9.08 million to the
International Court of Arbitration (ICA). The Contractor was required to pay US$42,500



                                            50
so that the court can adjudicate on the matter. The Contractor had not paid the said
amount by the closure of the Credit.

This situation led to reallocation of the IDA portion to other categories due to impractical
time to rectify the observed defects.

The cost of the project at appraisal was estimated at US$14.34 million and actual final
cost was US$16.28 million. All packages were implemented within the credit time frame.

C.1.3 Performance Based Maintenance and Management of Roads (PMMR)

The PMMR Contracts were to run for five years commencing FY 2006/07. However, the
CTCP financed PMMR project up to September 30, 2008 and the financing for the
remaining period was transferred to Road Funds. By the end of the credit, the
achievements were as follows:

                               Table 1: PMMR Contracts
    Packages                   Contractor         Contract Price in Achievement (%)
                                                  TShs
    Pkg 1 - Mwanza West        Nyanza Road        6,007,089,808.34 91
    (91 km)                    Works
    Pkg 2 - Mwanza East        Katemayanga JV 4,211,478,811.39 80
    (138 km)
    Pkg 3A - Rukwa South       Sumry Enterprises 3,027,923,132.39 83
    (189 km)
    Pkg 3 B - Rukwa North      KMM                5,410,140,030.73 79
    (173 km)                   Entrepreneurs
    Pkg 4 - Tanga West (228 S Y.N. Investment 7,805,418,671.71 0
    km)                     & Lucky
                            Construction Ltd
                            JV
    Pkg 5 - Tanga East (116 LAC & FJM        3,590,421,270           21.5
    km)                     Construction Ltd
                            JV

The cost of the project by the closing date was US$15.9 million. All packages were
progressing well.




                                            51
C.1.4 Carrying out and updating of feasibility studies and detailed design, and
      preparation of bidding documents for 713 kilometers of high priority trunk
      roads to be rehabilitated and/or upgraded under a proposed follow-on
      project, including: (i) the Singida ­ Babati ­ Minjingu road (220 km), (ii) the
      Dodoma ­ Babati road (263 km), (iii) the Korogwe ­ Mkumbara ­ Same road
      (165 km) and (iv) the Tanga ­ Horohoro road (65 km)

The Feasibility Study and Detailed Engineering Design for all the sub-projects were
completed within the credit period and for some of the projects implementation has
started. The details of the status of the projects are as indicated hereunder:

       Singida ­ Babati ­ Minjingu Road (220 km)

The Contract for Feasibility Study, Detailed Engineering Design and Preparation of
Tender Documents was signed between TANROADS and M/S Carlbro A/S (Denmark)
in association with M/S Crown Tech Consult (Tanzania) on September 30, 2005 at a
Contract Price of Euro 566,240 plus USD 125,000 plus TShs. 88,000,000 and duration of
10 months. This component was financed by the Nordic Development Fund (NDF). The
design was completed in July 2007.

Physical works are in progress and are jointly funded by ADB and GOT.

       Dodoma ­ Babati Road (263 km)

The Contract for the Feasibility Study, Detailed Engineering Design and Preparation of
Tender Documents for the upgrading of Dodoma ­ Babati (263km) to bitumen standard
was signed between TANROADS and M/S Carlbro A/S (Denmark) in association with
M/S M-Konsult (Tanzania) in 30th September 2005 and duration of 18 months. This
component was financed by the Nordic Development Fund (NDF). The design was
completed August 2007.

The implementation of part of works for about 60 km is financed by the government of
Tanzania.

       Tanga ­ Horohoro Road (65 km)

The Contract for Detailed Engineering Design and Preparation of Tender Documents for
the upgrading of Tanga ­ Horohoro road (65km) to bitumen standard was signed between
TANROADS and M/S Norconsult AS (Norway) in association with M/S Norconsult
(Tanzania) on 30th September, 2005 and duration is 10 months. This component was
financed by the Nordic Development Fund (NDF). The design was completed in 2007.

The implementation of upgrading works is financed under the United States Millennium
Challenge Corporation (MCC) program.




                                         52
       Korogwe ­ Mkumbara ­ Same Road (172 km)

The Contract for design was signed on February 9, 2005 between TANROADS and
SMEC International. The duration was 10 months plus an extension of two months due to
delay in delivery of vehicles for the assignment. The final design report and Tender
documents was submitted to TANROADS in April 2006.

Physical implementation will be financed by the World Bank through the Transport
Sector Support Project (TSSP).

The total appraisal length was 713 km and actual length designed is 720 km.

C.1.5 The rehabilitation of the MVs Kigamboni, Sengerema & Rufiji and Supply
      of new Kilombero & Pangani Ferries

The project involved rehabilitation of three ferries, namely, MV Kigamboni, MV Rufiji
and MV Sengerema and procurement of two ferries, namely; MV Kilombero and MV
Pangani.

       Rehabilitation of MV Kigamboni Ferry

The Contract for rehabilitation of Kigamboni ferry was signed on October 5, 2007
between TANROADS and M/S Neue Ruhrorter Schiffswerft GmbH of Germany. The
Contract Price is Euro 2,567,000 and the duration of implementation was one year. The
rehabilitation of this ferry was completed in November 2009

       Rehabilitation of MV Sengerema Ferry

The Contract for rehabilitation of Sengerema ferry was signed on October 5, 2007
between TANROADS and M/S Neue Ruhrorter Schiffswerft GmbH of Germany. The
duration of implementation is one year. The Contract Price for rehabilitation of MV
Sengerema is Euro 1,231,600. The rehabilitation of this ferry was completed in
December 2009.

       Rehabilitation of MV Rufiji ferry

During tendering the lowest evaluated bidder provided the same cost for either
rehabilitation of the existing ferry or supply of a new one at the Rufiji crossing. The
Employer opted for the supply of a new ferry. Thus the award of the Contract for the
supply of a new ferry for Rufiji River Crossing was signed on October 5, 2007 between
TANROADS and M/S Dutchmed International B.V of the Netherlands. The contract
price is Euro 995,000 and delivery period is one year. The new ferry was supplied in
February 2009.




                                           53
       Supply of a new MV Kilombero Ferry

The Contract for the Supply of Kilombero ferry was signed between TANROADS and
M/S Dutchmed International B.V. from the Netherlands on July 19, 2006 at a Contract
Price of Euro 830,500 and Delivery period of eight months. The new ferry for
Kilombero river crossing was supplied in March 2007.

       New ferry for Pangani River Crossing

The Contract for the Supply of Pangani Ferry was signed on May 27, 2008 between
TANROADS and Johs Gram-Hanssen A/S from Denmark at a Contract Price of Euro
1,055,000. Delivery period is 12 months. The supply of MV Pangani was substantially
completed by the end of the credit period. The implementation of this component was
delayed to frequent power cuts.

The Supervision of rehabilitation of MVs Kigamboni, Sengerema and Pangani ferries
was done by Ministry of Infrastructure Development Force Account Unit.

The cost of the project at appraisal was estimated at US$6.58 million and actual final cost
was US$8.94 million.

C.2    Enhanced Road Management Capacity

In order to enhance the capacity for road management, both in mainland Tanzania and in
Zanzibar, and in view of the preparation of a proposed follow-on project, the Project was
planned to support 8 sub-projects. Except for the Construction of a new TANROADS
headquarters building and Organization and Management (O&M) study of the
TANROADS structure the other projects were completed within the credit period. The
Construction of a new TANROADS headquarters building could not start during the
credit period due to delayed design which was occasioned by the Employer's change of
the original plot for the construction of the building after the first design was completed.
The O&M study was considered inappropriate following the restructuring of
TANROADS in August 2007. The details of implementation for the various sub-projects
are as shown below:

C.2.1: Design and construction of a new TANROADS headquarters building

The Contract for the design and supervision of the construction for the TANROADS
Headquarters building at Plot No 9/1, Mabibo was signed on September 16, 2005
between TANROADS and M/S. Inter-Consult Ltd (Tanzania) in association with BILD
Architects (South Africa) at an estimated cost of Tshs 286,080,000. The design was
completed in January 2007.

The implementation of this component was cancelled because the credit was
overcommitted and became impractical to be implemented within the remaining period to
close the project i.e December 31, 2009. Implementation was delayed due to change of

                                            54
the original location of the proposed building on grounds of, among others, being too far
away from the parent Ministries and Development Partners. The subsequent time spent
for acquiring the new plot and re-design to fit the new plot delayed the project such that it
could not be implemented within the credit timeframe.

The cost of the project at appraisal was estimated at US$4.88 million and the balance of
funds reallocated to other components.

C.2.2: Setting up of a Wide Area Network to improve communication between
       TANROADS' headquarters, its regional offices and MOCT Zanzibar

The project involved installation of Local Area Networks in 38 centers and then
connected to WAN (see Annex I).

The Contract for Design and Supervision of the installation of WAN and LAN for
TANROADS was signed between TANROADS and PriceWaterHouseCoopers Ltd on
February 9, 2005 at a Lump Contract Price of US$239,950 out of which US$151,250
were for design.

The Contract for the Supply and installation of the WAN and LAN equipment was signed
with M/S Copy Cat (T) Ltd of Dar es Salaam on June 29, 2006. The Contract Price was
US$1,292,649.46 out of which US$1,083,089.46 were for supply of goods and
US$209,560 were for related services and duration of six months followed by a Warranty
period of 12 months.

The WAN and LAN project was signed in 2006 and substantially completed in April
2009 compared to the appraisal plan of completion in July 2007 for Appraisal. The
installation of WAN was effected on 36 stations while the remaining two stations
(Tunduma and Nyakahura) were not connected to WAN due to the absence of network
from the WAN services provider, the Tanzania Telecommunications Company Limited
(TTCL).

The TTCL provided Asymmetrical Digital Subscriber Line (ADSL) and Wireless Local
Loop (WLL) technologies in 30 and 6 centers respectively. ADSL technology supports
both voice and data together, while WLL can support either data or voice but not both.
Hence 30 stations utilize both voice and data while six stations can access data only.

The project suffered the following main shortfalls:

     (a)   Late completion of the project mainly due to delay in clearance of computers
           and other related devices at the Dar es Salaam port. Also, there was an
           ongoing renovation in some of the Regional Managers' Offices which
           interrupted the progress of WAN and LAN installation.




                                             55
     (b)   The installation of WAN in two remote sites namely; Nyakahura and
           Tunduma, could not be possible as the services provider, TTCL does not have
           a network link in the above places.

     (c)   The service provider could not upgrade bandwidth to support both voice and
           data in six stations as requested by the Employer. The WLL technology that
           was installed in the above stations is limited to a maximum bandwidth of 64
           kbps. It was found out that, data and voice communication can be supported at
           a minimum bandwidth of 128 kbps.

     (d)   There was a problem on the design of the project as some of the pre-existing
           digital telephone handsets are not compatible with Siemens technology that
           was installed during WAN and LAN project.

With respect to the pointed out shortfalls, TANROADS has decided to carry out a review
of the system in view of enhancing its efficiency.

The cost of the project at appraisal was estimated at US$1.24 million and actual final cost
was US$1.67 million.

C.2.3: Carrying out of a study for the enhancement of the Organization and
       Management of TANROADS

The study was considered to be no longer relevant and therefore not implemented
following re-structuring of the TANROADS Organization in August 2007.

The funds for this study were reallocated to the other components.

C.2.4: Carrying out of studies to identify road investment priorities, such as traffic
       counts and an update of the ten-year investment plan

This study was done in house. The results formed an invaluable input in the preparation
of a ten year Transport Sector Investment Program (TSIP) to be implemented in two
phases

C.2.5: Preparation of a Local Government Roads inventory and condition survey

The Contract for this assignment was signed on July 13, 2005 between PMO-RALG and
M/s SMEC International Pty Ltd of Australia in Association with AMBICON of
Tanzania. The project was completed in June 2007. The original contract amount was
AUD 337,900 and US$659,605. Addendum amount was AUD 79,100 and US$280,138.
The revised contract price was AUD 417,000 and US$939,743. The amendments and
printing of Road Maps was completed in July 2008.

The study was successfully completed within the Credit period. The output includes:
         ·    Inventory of the District roads in mainland Tanzania;

                                            56
         ·     Classification of the District Roads and Community roads;
         ·     Production of maps;
         ·     Identification of location of resources e.g. water, gravel, sand, etc.;
         ·     Location of social centers, e.g. schools, hospitals, etc.

The cost of the project at appraisal was estimated at US$1.35 million and actual final cost
was US$1.42 million.

C.2.6: Carrying out other transport related studies, including a Dar es Salaam Bus
       Rapid Transit and traffic management study

       Dar es Salaam Bus way and Traffic Management Study
The Contract for the study which comprised Conceptual Design and Detailed Design of
Phase 1 was signed on March 31, 2005 and it was successfully completed in December
2007. The conceptual plan indicated that the project will be implemented in six phases,
namely:
        ·     Phase 1: Morogoro road (20.9 km);
        ·     Phase 2: Kilwa road (19.3 km)
        ·     Phase 3: Nyerere road (23.6 km)
        ·     Phase 4: New Bagamoyo road, currently named; Ali Hassan Mwinyi road
              (15.1 km);
        ·     Phase 5: Mandela road (22.8 km )
        ·     Phase 6: Old Bagamoyo road (27.6 km)

C.2.7: ESIA Study for Jangwani Depot
The Contract for carrying out the ESIA Study for Jangwani Depot was signed between
DART Agency and Prof. J. Katima on May 2, 2008 at a Contract Price of Tshs.
11,950,000 and the duration is five weeks. The report was completed in December 2009.

C.2.8: Provision of technical advisory services and training for improved
       management and operational capacity of TANROADS and MOCT Zanzibar

       Training for TANROADS

TANROADS implemented the approved training program financed under the CTCP
credit. The Programme was a combination of individual and group training both within
and outside the country.

A total of 135members of staff attended the training, out of whom 47 staff attended
professional training outside the country and 88 staff attended tailor-made professional
seminars organized in the country.

       Training for MOCT ­ Zanzibar
Training involved two Engineers, two Planning Officers, one Policy Officer and one
Director for Planning and Policy. All were trained outside the country.


                                             57
C.2.9: Provision of technical advisory services, training and financing to IDA PCU
       and MOCT CODAP for the day-to-day administration, financial
       management, procurement, monitoring and evaluation of Part A and B of
       the Project, and financing of the external financial audit of the Project

       TA to TANROADS

Human Resources Specialist and a Transport Economist were engaged as technical
assistants to TANROADS for one year each.

       TA to MOCT Zanzibar

Two Technical Assistants were engaged for two years contract each. The contracts ended
successfully in November 2008. The aim of the TA's was to provide management
assistance to the Coordination of Donor Assisted Projects (CODAP) in the MOCT,
Zanzibar.

       TA to PMOLAG

The Contract for DROMAS software expert was signed between Mr. Mostafa Ally and
PMO-RALG on June 15, 2005. The contract amount was US$52,800. The assignment
was completed.

C.3    Improved Performance of Tanzania Railways

In line with the government's policy to engage the private sector into the operation and
financing of the railways sector, the Project was planned to support activities geared at
facilitating the privatization move as detailed below:

C.3.1 Provision of urgently needed rails, sleepers and other material for TRC, for
      the replacement of track between Itigi and Tabora

       a) The Contract was signed between TRC and M/s Bethel Enterprises Tanzania
       for a contract sum of US$4,350,775 for supply of 71500 sleepers, 71500
       shoulders, and 286000 Pandrols type clips The Supplier delivered the goods in
       November 2006.

       b) The Contract for supply of 3,950 Metric tons of BS 80A rails for a Contract
       Price of EURO 3,033,600 was signed with M/S Lacchini Piambino of Italy on
       19th October 2005. The goods were delivered to TRC in November 2006.

       c) The contract for supply of 3,915 sets of steel fishplates for BS 80A rails for a
       contract price of US$104,922.00 was signed with M/S Johs Achelis& Sohne. The
       goods were delivered to TRC in May 2007. Three Contracts were signed on June
       9, 2005, October 19, 2005 and November 3, 2006 with different suppliers for the
       provision of rails, sleepers and fittings.

                                           58
       The supplied goods were used to relay rails by force account between Kitinku and
       Makutopora (16 km), Itigi ­ Kitaraka (15 km) and Tura ­ Karangasi (16 km). By
       the end of the credit a total length of rail relayed was 47 km as planned.
       The cost of the project at appraisal was estimated at US$8.5 million and actual
       final cost was US$8.18 million.

C.3.2 Provision of other rails, sleepers and materials for TRC, including their
      installation.

These were meant for replacement of the balance of the tracks of TRC between Itigi and
Tabora.

Under this sub-component, the following goods were supplied under two Contracts, as
follows:

Contract No. 1: The Contract was signed with Ms Pangang of China on 17th October
2007 and the goods were delivered on December 9, 2009. The implementation of the
Contract was delayed due to a dispute related to force majeure. The supplier had claimed
that earthquake which took place in China destroyed his factory and could no longer
produce the required materials. The dispute was subsequently resolved amicably.

Contract No. 2: The Contract was signed between RAHCO and M/s VAE SA Pty on 1st
September 2008 at a Contract Price of ZAR 113,468,000.00 (US$14.82 mil.). During the
implementation of the Contract the Letter of Credit (LOC) was not activated due to the
fact that there were no adequate funds to cover the entire LOC in any one of the two
different accounts, namely Credit Account and Project account. This was subsequently
resolved by amending the Contract such that the mode of payment was based on
materials supplied. On account of the delay the Supplier was able to supply only 50
percent of the required goods by the closure of the credit.
The cost of the project at appraisal was estimated at US$25.47 million and actual final
cost was US$19.63 million. The balance of the Contracted goods amounting to US$5.2
million was to be financed by the government of Tanzania.

C.3.3: Preparation of an Environmental Assessment, a Social Assessment, EMPs
       and RAP for TRC

A Contract for carrying out the study was signed between TRC and M/s Scott Wilson on
December 21, 2004. The Consultant submitted the Resettlement Action Plan report
(RAP) in July 2005. However, a review of the RAP indicated deficiencies which were a
result of incomplete TOR.

Based on the revised TOR, the Bank gave its No Objection for engaging another
Consultant for undertaking the Review of the RAP. The Contract for provision of
Consultancy Services for Review of Resettlement Cost was signed between RAHCO and



                                          59
M/S Majengo Estates Developers Ltd was signed on August 3, 2009 at Contract Price of
Tsh.111,651,000. The contract was completed in December 2009.

C.3.4: Financing of clean-up costs based on the Environmental Assessment and
       EMP, and of resettlement costs based on the Social Assessment and RAP

Following non-response to the tendering for Contractors to carry out the environmental
clean-up works, it was decided to use TRC/RAHCO in-house capacity to carry out the
assignment. The entity conducted the cleaning up works at Dar es Salaam, Morogoro and
Tabora only. TRL were subsequently contracted under IDA financing, to clean up the
remaining stations of Mwanza and Kigoma and the assignment was completed by the
closure of the Credit.

The cost was USD 0.06 million.

C.3.5: Provision of technical advisory services and training for: (i) the handing over
       of TRC assets and operation of the railways Operator; (ii) the winding up of
       TRC; and (iii) the building up of the management and operational capacity
       of RAHCO

       Change Manager:

The Contract for the Change Manager was signed on June 2, 2005 between TRC and M/s
SMEC of Australia. The Change Manager, whose responsibility was to coordinate the
process of the change from the current management to the concessionaire, commenced
his assignment on July 12, 2005. However, due to delays in the takeover of the TRC
operation by the Concessionaire, the services were suspended in November 2006 until the
time for handing over of the TRC to the Concessionaire. The Contract of the Change
Manager was concluded in December 2008 after submission of his Final report.

       Assistant to the Director General:

A Consultant was engaged between July 2005 and December 2005 as Assistant Director
General ­ Operation to assist in the restructuring process.

       Concession of TRC

The signing of the Concession Agreement between M/s RITES of India and M/s Reli
Assets Holding Company (RAHCO) of Tanzania took place on September 3, 2007. The
effective date of the concession was October 1, 2007.




                                            60
C.3.6: Provision of technical advisory services for the future private sector
       participation in TAZARA, including: (i) the re-structuring of TAZARA; (ii)
       the establishment of the regulatory and legal framework governing the
       operations of TAZARA; and (iii) preparation of EA, SA, EMP and RAP.

       Concession of TAZARA Railway

This component never commenced because of the management complications as it is
owned by three partners (Tanzania, Zambia and China) with different interests.

C.4    Additional sub-components

C.4.1 Dodoma ­ Iringa road upgrading project (266 km)

The Contract for carrying out the technical and economic feasibility study, environmental
and social impact assessment, and detailed engineering design including preparation of
Tender documents for the upgrading of the existing gravel road to bitumen standard was
signed on August 22, 2007 between TANROADS and M/S COWI at a contract price of
DKK 6,440,087 plus TShs. 240,268,200 and duration was 18 months. The component
was financed by Nordic Development Fund (NDF).

The Final Feasibility Study Report was completed in August 2008 and the Detailed
Engineering Design and Preparation of Tender Documents completed in July 2009.

The physical implementation of the project is earmarked for jointly financing by ADF,
JICA and GOT.

C.4.2 Nzega ­ Tabora road (116 km)

The Contract for carrying out the technical and economic feasibility study, environmental
and social impact assessment, and detailed engineering design including preparation of
Tender documents for the upgrading of the existing gravel road to bitumen standard was
signed on 24thSeptember 2007 between TANROADS and M/S NORCONSULT A/S at a
contract price of Euro 803,200 and the duration was 16 months. The component was
financed by Nordic Development Fund (NDF).

The Consultant commenced services in September 2007 and submitted the Final
Feasibility Study Report on May 27, 2008. During commencement of Detailed
Engineering Design, the Contract was declared null and void.

The Consultant commenced services in September 2007 and completed the Feasibility
Study in May 2008. However, at commencement of the Detailed Engineering Design, the
Contract was declared null and void by the Employer after noting that the firm was not
paying mandatory taxes as well as its non-registration with relevant authorities.




                                           61
The assignment was finalized by another Consultant M/s COWI A/S. The Contract was
signed on February 12, 2009 and was financed by GOT.

C.4.3 Arusha ­ Minjingu (103 km)
The Contract for carrying out the detailed engineering design for the rehabilitation works
and preparation of Tender documents including Environmental Assessment and
Economic Analysis of the intervention for ascertaining the justification of the investment
was signed on 22nd August 2007 between TANROADS and M/S COWI at a contract
price of DKK 3,680,468 plus TShs. 111,227,500 and the duration was 10 months.

The Consultant commenced services in September 2007 and completed in December
2009.

The Physical Works will be financed by the World Bank through the Transport Sector
Support Project (TSSP).

C.4.4 Tunduma ­ Sumbawanga Road (224.5 km)

       Package 1: Tunduma ­ Laela Road (128 km)
The Contract for the detailed Engineering Design was signed on 8th December 2005
between TANROADS and Dr. Ahmed Abdel-Warith Consulting Engineers from Egypt at
Contract price of US$310,322.07 and duration of eight months. The assignment was
completed in December 2009.

 Physical implementation is being financed by the Millennium Challenge Corporation
(MCC).

       Package 2: Laela ­ Sumbawanga Road (96.5 km)
TANROADS signed the contract with M/S Africon Ltd of South Africa on December 11,
2006. The contract period is eight months. The Contract Price is US$627,095.46.
The Consultant completed the assignment and submitted the Final Report in June 2009.
Physical implementation is being financed by the Millennium Challenge Corporation
(MCC).

C.4.5 Emergency Repair and Maintenance of Zanzibar International Airport

The project for the emergency repair and maintenance of Zanzibar airport runway
became necessary due to the deterioration which took place between the time when the
original Contractor was terminated in April 2005 and start of the new Contract. The new
Contract was signed on June 2, 2008 and was completed on August 18, 2008. Works
involved repair of the trenches, sealing of cracks and pothole patching.

C.4.6 Supervision of Zanzibar Three Main Roads

The Supervision Contract which was signed on September 8, 2005 covered the
supervision of the entire three roads namely Pongwe ­ Matemwe (20.4 km), Mkwajuni ­

                                           62
Nungwi (18.86 km) and Paje ­ Pingwe (19.8 km). The Consultancy services Contract
ended successfully in June 2009 and the Consultant was paid all his dues.

C.4.7 Zanzibar Transport Master Plan and Transport Policy Study

The Contract for carrying out study for Zanzibar Transport Master Plan and Transport
Policy was signed on May 29, 2006 and completed in August 2007. The study produced
two documents, namely; "Zanzibar Transport Master plan" and the "Transport Policy
Paper". The studies are important for the preparation of future Transport Development
Programs.



C.4.8 Zanzibar International Airport Master Plan Study

The Contract for carrying out the Zanzibar International Airport Master Plan Study was
signed on March 11, 2008. Addendum No. 1 for carrying out Feasibility Study of a new
Passenger Terminal at the Zanzibar Airport and Addendum No. 2 for the Design of the
same was also executed. The study and design were successfully completed within the
credit closure.

C.4.9 Baseline Survey for Zanzibar International Airport
The main purpose of the study was to determine how users currently rate the facilities
and services offered at the Zanzibar Airport and to establish the framework to be used to
monitor satisfaction during and after the proposed rehabilitation and extension of Airport
runway.

The two months contract for the study, which was signed on January 21, 2008, was
successfully executed and the Final Report was submitted in September 2008.

C.4.10 Pre-Contract Services for Zanzibar Airport
The aim of the Consultancy Services was to prepare tender documents for the emergency
repair works at the Airport.

The Contract was signed on March 19, 2008 and the assignment was successfully
completed on March 31, 2008.

C.4.11 Supervision of emergency repair of Airport
The Contract supervision was signed on June 13, 2008 the assignment was successfully
completed on August 18, 2008.

C.4.12 Traffic Count on Unguja Roads

The aim of the study was to establish first year traffic on the newly constructed roads for
future planning.



                                            63
The study was carried out by an in-house team from November 13-19, 2008. The Traffic
Count Report was prepared and submitted to IDA with a copy to TANROADS on
January 9, 2009.

C.4.13 Partitioning of DART Agency Office at Ubungo Plaza

The Contract for partitioning of DART office at Ubungo Plaza was signed on March 4,
2008 and successfully completed within the credit period. In addition to partitioning, the
office was supplied with Air Conditioners, Electrical installations, new computer
hardware and furniture. The DART staff moved to the offices in July 2008.

C.4.14 Road Fund Leakage Study

The Contract for identifying sources of leakage of revenues intended for the Road Fund
and propose mitigation measures was signed on August 24, 2007 with duration of six
months. However, during execution of the assignment the Consultant faced some hurdles
and he submitted a letter dated May 29, 2008 to notify the Client that they could not
progress with the assignment due to inability to access relevant data.

Subsequently, the Client (Road Fund Board) appointed a task force to finalize the study.
The task force comprised members from the Ministry of Finance and Economic Affairs
(Chair), Ministry of Infrastructure Development (MOID), Tanzania Revenue Authority
(TRA), Energy, Water and Utilities Regulatory Authority (EWURA), Tanzania National
Roads Agency (TANROADS), Tanzania Ports Authority (TPA), Tanzania Association of
Oil Marketing Companies (TAOMC) and RFB as Secretariat. The final report was
submitted in December 2009.

Among others, the report has established sources of leakages including: (a) false
declarations of imported fuel; (b) the sale of tax-exempt fuel products; (c) the dumping of
fuel in transit; (d) "localization" of transit fuel; and (e) the adulteration of diesel by
kerosene, either at the depot, en route by the trucker or at the fuel filling station inland
from Dar es Salaam port. It has also proposed some mitigation measures.

Following termination of the original Contract by the Consultant the outstanding fees
amounting to US 180,000 was re-allocated to other components.

C.4.15 Design of Seven Airports

The Contract for carrying out the Feasibility Study and Detailed Engineering Design and
Tender Documentation for seven out of the 13 high priority commercial airports was
signed on November 7, 2007 with duration of 18 months. These airports are Arusha,
Bukoba, Tabora, Mafia, Shinyanga, Sumbawanga and Kigoma. The Consultant
completed the study and submitted the Final Reports including Tender Documents in
June 2009.




                                            64
Mafia Airport is earmarked for MCC financing while Bukoba, Tabora and Kigoma
Airports are earmarked for IDA financing under the forthcoming Transport Sector
Support Project (TSSP).

C.4.16 Design Review and Re-scoping for Rehabilitation and Upgrading of Tabora
       and Kigoma Airports

Due to budget constraints, it was considered necessary to rescope the proposed Works on
the Airport to match with the available funds.
The scope of services to the two airports was as follows:
Tabora Airport: Re-design drainage and review the Bill of Quantities (BOQ) such that the
scope for upgrading Works is limited to the runway only;
Kigoma Airport: to review the designs such that the rehabilitation works are limited to
the 1,800 m of the existing runway.
The Contract for re-scoping of airports was signed on 18th November 2009 with duration
of four (4) weeks. The Consultant successfully completed the assignment and submitted
the Bidding Documents in December 2009.

C.4.17 Kigamboni and Busisi Crowed and Access Control System

The two ferries are operated by the government through the Tanzania Electrical,
Mechanical and Electronics Services Agency (TEMESA). MV Kigamboni is in Dar es
Salaam across the Kigamboni creek while Busisi is in Mwanza region operating on Lake
Victoria.

The purpose of this study was to assess the unloading and loading process and propose
ways for improvement and thereafter assess suitability for Public Private Partnership
(PPP) arrangement. Due to impractical time for completion under the CTCP, it has been
earmarked for implementation under the forthcoming Transport Sector Support Project
(TSSP).

C.5     FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE
During appraisal, the project cost was estimated to be US$178.07 million equivalent to be
provided by two Development Partners and the government's own contribution in
varying proportions towards attaining the project objectives. Implementation of the
project commenced in 2004 and was completed in 2009 as scheduled.

The CTCP project ended up with total actual costs of about US$133.76 million. Most of
the activities were implemented as originally planned but some additional activities
which were within the original objective cropped up. The initial IDA credit amount was
US$122 million and by the closing date on December 31, 2009, the Credit amount was
US$127.3 million due to change of exchange rate of SDR to US$. The total payment
made under the IDA credit is US$123.5 million equivalent to 97 percent of the IDA
credit amount. The amount US$40 million was allocated for the partial risk guarantee for
Railways Private Concessionaire was not disbursed during the credit period. Also the
balance of the amount that could not be disbursed was for the 50 percent of price of the

                                           65
supply of sleepers and other materials for TRC could not be supplied before the closure
of the credit.

Furthermore, an amount of US$957.88 out of the contribution from NDF was cancelled
after the Consultancy Contract for Nzega ­ Tabora road was declared by the Employer
null and void.

The procurement plan for IDA and NDF components followed the appraisal framework.
Table 2 provides details on the procurement plan as of the time of appraisal and the actual
during the implementation.


Table 2: Procurement Plan at Appraisal versus Actual During Implementation.

Category        Appraisal USD Million1               Total     Actual USD Million                    Total
                ICB       NCB     Other2    N.D.F.   Cost      ICB       NCB      Other     N.D.F.   Cost
1.   Works      68.38     6.00    0.0       0.0      74.38     74.12     0.00     0.52      0.0      74.64
                (62.37)   94.57   (0.0)     (0.0)    (66.94)   (68.91)   (0.00)   (0.48)    (0.0)    (67.39)
2.   Goods      35.45     0.0     0.0       0.0      35.45     34.43     0.00     0.064     0.0      34.49
                (34.00)   (0.0)   (0.0)     (0.0)    (34.00)   (34.41)   (0.00)   (0.048)   (0.0)    (34.46)
3.   Services   0.0       0.0     21.56     6.00     27.56     14.89     0.00     0.57      5.13     20.59
                (0.0)     (0.0)   (20.01)   (0.0)    (20.01)   (14.03)   (0.00)   (0.54)    (0.0)    (14.57)

Operating costs are not included in the table.

D MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT

There was slow, cancellation and termination of the implementation of some of the
project components which had an impact on the timely and adequately fulfillment of the
project objectives. These components include the Design and Construction of
TANROADS HQ Building for which construction could not start, TRC Concessioning to
Private Operator which was delayed for more than two years, WAN and LAN which was
delayed for two years and inferior deliverable, Feasibility Studies and Detailed
Engineering Design for a road project was declared null and thus not finalized within the
Credit period.


The project components, delayed time and the impact to the fulfillment of the project
objectives are as shown in the Table 3 below:

1
  Figures in parentheses are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs
include contingencies
2
 Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting
services, services of contracted staff of the management office, training, technical
assistance services and incremental operating costs related to (i) managing the project,
and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.


                                                     66
Table 3: Delayed Components that had most impact on the Project

S/N   Project Component       Appraisal    Actual       Impact to Project Objectives
1.    Design and              July 2007    None         Impact on effective Road
       Construction of                                  Management
       TANROADS HQ
       Building
2.    TRC concession to       June 2005    October      Rehabilitation of railway
      private Operator                     2007          infrastructure not completed
                                                         due to delayed supply of
                                                         rails, sleepers and other
                                                        material for RAHCO and
                                                        thus remained in bad
                                                        condition and continued to
                                                        deteriorate
3.    Wide Area Network       July 2007    April        Impact on effective Road
      (WAN)                                2009         Management
4     Detailed Engineering    January      Not          Invitation of bids delayed
      Design of Nzega ­       2009         Finalized
      Tabora Road
5     Supply of new MV        2007         December Delayed due to frequent
      Pangani ferry                        2009     power        cut-off     and
                                                    nullification due failure to
                                                    sign the Contract by the
                                                    recommended bidder


E.     PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY

The capacity for the maintenance of the road network has been rising steadily since the
establishment of the Roads Fund in 1998. The Roads fund, which is ring-fenced for road
maintenance has risen from 73.2 billion in 2004 to 255.56 billion in 2009. This means
that the upgraded network shall receive the necessary maintenance and thus ensuring the
sustainability of the investment.

The finalization of the Road Maintenance Management System (RMMS) in TANROADS
has strengthened the capacity of TANROADS to plan and carry out the maintenance for
the national road network. Through this system which contains the road network
inventory data is capable to; among others make resourced plans for maintenance of the
road network.

The continued on-the-job training of TANROADS staff both locally and internationally,
contributes to the capacity building for management of projects.



                                          67
With regards to the District roads, a management system by the name District Roads
Management System (DROMAS) has been established. Through this system which
contains the road network inventory data, the Districts are able to make resourced plans
for maintenance of the road network.

The sustainability of the project achievements is however threatened by the Backlog
Maintenance accumulated over the years due to lack of sufficient maintenance funds.
Despite of the increased Roads Fund the backlog accumulated over the years need special
attention.

The backlog maintenance is a threat to the project sustainability and the government in
consultation with the development partners (DP) is working on strategies to finance the
paved road backlog. Among the key strategies are (a) increasing the fuel levy and (b)
introducing maintenance concession (Public Private Partnership ­ PPP) for the highly
trafficked roads.

F      BANK PERFORMANCE

The performance of the Bank during project identification, preparation and appraisal was
generally satisfactory. The Project Identification, Preparation and Appraisal was properly
carried out by the World Bank on a Sector approach. Furthermore, the Bank Country
Office in Tanzania facilitated timely implementation of the project.

G.     BORROWERS PERFORMANCE

The implementation of the project was carried out by eight institutions namely; (a) the
Tanzania National Roads Agency (TANROADS); (b) Ministry of Communications &
Transport, Zanzibar (MOCT); (c) Dar Rapid Transit Agency (DART Agency); (d) Reli
Assets Holding Company (RAHCO), formerly ­ Tanzania Railways Corporation; (e)
Prime Minister's Office ­ Regional Administration and Local Governments (PMO-
RALG); (f) Road Fund Board (RFB); (g) Tanzania Airports Authority (TAA) and (h)
Tanzania Electrical Mechanical and Electronic Services Agency (TEMESA).
TANROADS through its IDA Unit was responsible for the overall financial management
and coordination of the project.

The Borrower carried out procurement management of Contracts, financial and progress
reporting in accordance with the set agreed requirement of the financing agreement and
best practice.

On the provision of counterpart funds, the borrower was able to provide the counterpart
funds throughout the period of the project. There has been no case whereby the borrower
had failed to meet funding obligations under the project.

As a result of the above noted achievements, and the fact that the capacity of the
borrower kept on improving during the entire period of the project, the performance of
the borrower is rated satisfactory.

                                           68
H.     PERFORMANCE OF CONSULTANTS AND CONTRACTORS

The studies and works for the roads components under the project were carried out by
Consultants and Contractors. The performance of the Contractors and Consultants was
satisfactory with the exception of a few who failed to adequately fulfill their obligations
under their Contracts signed with the Borrower. The cases in hand include the contracts
signed with M/s Dr. Ahmed Abdel-Warith Consulting Engineers from Egypt for carrying
out the Detailed Engineering Design of Tunduma ­ Laela Road which took 48 months
instead of 8 months to finalize the assignment. Surveying data were noted to lack
required accuracy for most of the projects leading to delays and claims from Contractors
implementing the projects.

I.     ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME

The implementation performance of the Project was generally satisfactory despite the
time that was lost due to delays in procurement. On the overall most of the objectives
were achieved.

J.     POST IMPLEMENTATION ECONOMIC ANALYSIS

Post implementation evaluation was carried out for Singida ­ Shelui Road, Zanzibar three
roads and PMMR roads which were programmed for rehabilitation or upgrading to
bitumen standard. It was also carried out for five ferries which were programmed for
rehabilitation. The economic evaluation was carried out using the HDM-4 whereby
project - related capital and maintenance costs were compared with economic benefits
resulting from vehicle operating cost reductions. For the PMMR Works and ferries, the
qualitative analysis was used for economic analysis.

The results of the post evaluation are presented in Table 4 whereas Annex IV contains
the detailed post evaluation analysis for the components. The outcome of the analysis
show that all the roads indicate EIRR values were higher at ICR stage, indicating that the
rehabilitation/upgrading of these roads has a positive impact on the socio-economic
development of the country.




                                            69
     Table 4: Summary of Economic Feasibility Results for Selected Roads

                                                                           EIRR      Donor
                              Length Works                   EIRR at       at
S/N    Project Name           (km)   performed               Appraisal     PCR               NPV
       Singida ­ Shelui                                                              IDA
     1 Road                       110 Rehabilitation
       Zanzibar three                                                                IDA
     2 roads                        56 Rehabilitation
                                                                                     IDA
                                                                                     &
     3 PMMR                              Upgrading                                   GOT
       Five Ferrries                                                                 IDA
       (MVs
       Kigamboni,
       Sengerema, Rufiji
       (Kome),
       Kilombero and
       Pangani)
        Note: Missing data in Table 5 will be provided before the end of May 2010.


K.      FUTURE OPERATIONS

Following successful implementation of the CTCP, the government is now in the process
of preparing the Transport Sector Support Program (TSSP) to be implemented as a Sector
Wide Project (SWAP) in collaboration with other sector development partners. The TSSP
whose objective is to support the government's initiatives aimed at achieving the
Millennium Development Goals will focus on the implementation of the Transport Sector
Investment Program (TSIP) which has been developed on the framework of the Transport
Sector Policy and the Ten Year Roads Sector Investment Study developed under the IRP
II. The policy and institutional framework established under IRP has been instrumental in
building confidence of Development Partners in adopting the SWAP approach.

L.      KEY LESSONS LEARNED

        (a) The decision of the World Bank that the Transport Team be based in Dar es
            Salaam and the establishment of the Procurement Hub in East Africa has
            substantially reduced the time it takes to procure various components. This is
            mainly due to minimized time for the review process and direct consultations
            between the Bank and the Executing Agency.

        (b) Strive to ensure TOR for assignments are adequate for the desired output.
            Thus proper review by relevant experts should be emphasized.



                                                 70
(c) During the Project implementation, the Bank issued no objections to new
    components without adequate consultation with the accounting officer. This
    trend has a potential of over-commitment of the Credit.

(d) Performance of TRC concessioning has completely disappointed project,




                                  71
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

N/A




                                     72
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

1.    Country Assistance Strategy (CAS), Report No. 20728-TA, June 30, 2000
2.    Project Appraisal Document (March 31, 2004)
2.    Development Credit Agreement
3.    Mid-term Aide-memoire
4.    Project Supervision Aide-memoires
5.    Quarterly Progress Reports
6.    National Strategy for Growth and Reduction of Poverty (MKUKUTA,2005-2010)




                                        73
                                                                                                                                     TANZANIA
                                                                            CENTRAL TRANSPORT CORRIDOR PROJECT
                                UPGRADING OF STRATEGIC LINKS:                                                                                 IMPROVING OF TANZANIAN                                                    MAIN ROADS
                                                                                                                                              RAILWAYS PERFORMANCE:
                                CIVIL WORKS AND SUPERVISION OF REHABILITATION AND                                                                                                                                       RAILROADS
                                UPGRADING TO BITUMEN STANDARDS                                                                         M      ZANZIBAR TRANSPORT MASTER PLAN STUDY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        REGION CAPITALS
                                  Singida-Shelui road (110 km)
                                  Three roads in Zanzibar (59 km)                                                                             RELAY OF THE ITIGI-TABORA SECTION (200 km)                                NATIONAL CAPITAL

                                FEASIBILITY STUDIES AND DETAILED DESIGN OF REHABILITATION                                                     DAR-ES-SALAAM TRAFFIC MANAGEMENT                                          REGION BOUNDARIES
                                  Singida-Babati-Minjingu (220 km)                                                                            STUDY AND BUS WAY
                                  Dodoma-Babati (263 km)                                                                                                                                                                INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
                                  Korogwe-Mkumbara-Same (172 km)                                                                              CONCESSIONING OF TRC
                                  Tanga-Horohoro (65 km)
                                  Tunduma-Sumbawanga (224 km)
                                  Arusha-Minjingu (103 km)
                                  Dodoma-Iringa (266 km)

                                REHABILITATION OF TWO FERRIES AND SUPPLY OF THREE NEW FERRIES




                         UGANDA                                                32°                                        34°                                      36°                                    38°
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ZANZIBAR                  Nungwe
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  40°

                                                                                       Lake Victoria                                                                                                                    ISLAND
                                                                              Bukoba                Musoma
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Mkokotoni              Matemwe


                   RWANDA                                                                                                                                                               KENYA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Mangapwani                                                  2°
           2°                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Pongwe

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Uroa
                                                                                       Mwanza                                                                           Lake                                                                             Chwaka   Pingwe
                                                                                                                                                                        Natron                                          Zanzibar
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     M
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Paje
                                                                                                                                                             Lake   Arusha                     Moshi                                    Bweleo
                   BURUNDI                                                                                                                                  Manyara

                                                                                                          Shinyanga                                                                                                                                                     Mtegani
                                                                                                                                                   Lake            Minjingu
                                                                                                           Mano
                                                                                                               ngo                                 Eyasi
                                                                                                                                R.                                                                                                                                                 4°
           4°                                                                                                                                                                                           Same
                                                Maloga r asi




                                                                                                                                                                 Babati
                                                                                                                                     Shelui

                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Horohoro
                                                                                                             Wembere R.




                  Kigoma
                                                             R.




                                                                                       Tabora                                   Singida                                                                                                                        Wete
                                                                          Kariua                                                                                                                                         Korogwe
                                                                                                                                                                                                          Pa
                                                                                                                                                                                                           ng




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Tanga
                                                                                                                                                                                                               an




                                                                                                                                                                                                                R.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                i




                                                                                                                                      Manyoni
           6°                Lake                                                                                                                                DODOMA                                                                        Zanzibar                            6°
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       For Detail
                          Tanganyika                                                                                                                                                                     Wami R.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       see inset above.
                                             Mpanda

                                                                                                                                                                                            Kilosa                      Ruvu                       Dar es Salaam
                                                                                                                                                                                                       Morogoro
                                                                                                                                                        Mtera           Gr
                                                                                                                                                                          e
            DEM. REP.                                                                                                                                Reservoir                                                     .
                                                                                                                                                                          at




                                                                                                                                                                              R ua                             R
                                                                                                                                                                                  ha                      Ruvu
                                                                                                                                                                                       R.
              OF
            CONGO                                                       Sumbawanga
                                                                                            Lake                                                                 Iringa                      Kidatu
           8°                                                                               Rukwa                                                                                                          Rufiji R.                                                               8°
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  INDIAN

                                                                                                Mbeya
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  OCEAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   .
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 uR
                                                                                                                                                                                                            tan d
                                                                                                                                                                                                          Ma
                                                                                                Tunduma


                                         ZAMBIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Lindi                            10°
           10°                                                                                                                                                                                                                R.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ru                                             Mtwara
                                                                                                                                                                                                                m      bu
                                                                                                                                                                                                          M b we

                     0            50            100               150        200

                                                                                                            TANZANIA
                                                                                                                                                                 Songea
                                           KILOMETERS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          R.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ma
                    This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.                         MALAWI                                                                                                                              Ruv
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   u
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        IBRD 33020R




                    The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
                    shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
                    Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
                                                                                                             Lake
                                                                                                            Malawi                                                                                                             MOZAMBIQUE
MAY 2010




                    endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.

                            30°                                                  32°                                      34°                                     36°                                    38°                                                     40°
