Page  1
INTEGRATED SAFEGUARDS DATASHEET 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
 
I.  Basic Information
 
Date prepared/updated:  12/13/2009 
Report No.:  AC2147
1. Basic Project Data  
 
Country:  Afghanistan 
Project ID:  P098256 
Project Name:  Afghanistan: Horticulture and Livestock Productivity Project 
Task Team Leader:  Usman Qamar 
Estimated Appraisal Date: March 20, 2006 
Estimated Board Date: May 25, 2006 
Managing Unit:  SASDA 
Lending Instrument:  Specific Investment 
Loan 
Sector:  Central government administration (32%);Crops (23%);Animal production 
(19%);Agricultural marketing and trade (16%);Agricultural extension and research (10%)
Theme:  Other rural development (25%);Conflict prevention and post-conflict 
reconstruction (25%);Export development and competitiveness (24%);Rural services and 
infrastructure (13%);Gender (13%) 
IBRD Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
IDA Amount (US$m.): 
20.00 
GEF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
PCF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
Other financing amounts by source:  
 BORROWER/RECIPIENT 
0.00 
 
Afghanistan Reconstruction Trust Fund 
11.00 
 Financing 
Gap 
-11.00
0.00 
Environmental Category: B - Partial Assessment 
Simplified Processing 
Simple [] 
Repeater [] 
Is this project processed under OP 8.50 (Emergency Recovery) 
or OP 8.00 (Rapid Response to Crises and Emergencies) 
Yes [X] 
No [ ] 
2. Project Objectives 
The revised project objective is to assist producer households in adopting improved 
practices so as to increase horticulture and livestock productivity and production in focus 
areas.   
 
3. Project Description 
Revised Project Description  
 
Part 1: 
 Horticulture Development  
 
(a) 
Rehabilitation and expansion of perennial and annual horticulture crop cultivation 
through: (i)  the provision of training and extension support to farmers for the 
rehabilitation of existing orchards; (ii) the provision of seedlings and other inputs to 
farmers, provision of technical advisory services and training in integrated pest 
management, on-farm water management, farm planning and orchard management, and 
Page  2
the provision of In-kind Grants to support the establishment of new orchards; and (iii) 
provision of technical advisory services for establishment and training of farmer groups 
and developing linkages with horticulture input and output markets.  
 
(b) 
Establishment of the Horticulture Development Council of Afghanistan for: (i) the 
provision of policy guidance and support to Ministry of Agriculture, Irrigation and 
Livestock (MAIL); and (ii) the carrying out of activities such as training and research to 
support the development of the horticulture sector .  
 
Part 2: Livestock Development  
 
(a) 
Strengthening the capacity of the General Department of Livetock Production 
(GDLP)to supervise and regulate animal husbandry services, through the provision of 
technical advisory services and training to staff at district offices, development of 
livestock extension service packages, acquisition of equipment and software, carrying out 
of infrastructure rehabilitation and upgrading of offices.  
 
(b) Development of livestock production and marketing initiatives for improving 
domestic food supplies and reducing imports, including: (i) establishment of a village-
based poultry industry through the provision of In-kind Grants to Beneficiaries, the 
provision of training and technical advisory services, supply of initial stock, the 
acquisition of equipment and the carrying out of small works; (ii) carrying out of a 
comprehensive study of the dairy sector in the country; and (iii) carrying out of a 
comprehensive study into the value chain for cashmere in the country.  
 
(c) 
Promoting public-private partnerships for the delivery of veterinary services, 
including: (i) provision of training and enhancing the capacity of veterinarians; (ii) 
harmonizing the privatized veterinary field units clinical services system; (iii) 
establishing sanitary mandates through private-public partnership; and (iv) provision of 
vaccines, disease surveillance equipment and supplies for conducting sanitary mandates.  
 
Part 3: 
 Project Management and Implementation  
 
(a) 
Strengthening MAIL's administrative capacity including development of its 
human resource functions and rehabilitation of its offices, through the provision of 
training, technical assistance, acquisition of equipment, carrying out of small works and 
provision of operating costs.  
 
(b) 
Provision of training, technical assistance, goods, equipment and operating costs 
for the establishment of IMST and for the implementation, monitoring and supervision of 
the Project.   
 
4. Project Location and salient physical characteristics relevant to the safeguard 
analysis 
The project will cover the following 11 districts  that MAIL has selected based on 
carefully considered criteria, however, some activities (e.g. privatization of veterinary 
clinics) and orchard rehabilitation would continue outside these districts as well where 
these activities are already ongoing:  
 
Following is the list of certain districts in few provinces of the country:  
 
1. 
Mir Bachakot (Kabul),  
 
2.
Shaikh Ali (Parwan),  
Page  3
3. 
Muhammad Raqi (Kapisa),  
 
4.
Bazarak/Rokha/Onaba (Panjsher),  
 
5.
Farkhar (Takhar),  
 
6.
Imaam Sahib (Kundoz),  
 
7.
Aybak (Samangan),  
 
8.
Khulm (Balkh),  
 
9.
Shebergan (Jawzjan),  
 
10.
Sozma Qalla (Sari Pul),  
 
11.
Pul-e-Kumri (Baghlan)   
 
5. Environmental and Social Safeguards Specialists 
Ms Asta Olesen (SASDI) 
Mr Mohammad Arif Rasuli (SASDI) 
Mr Abdul Mohammad Durani (SASDI) 
 
6. Safeguard Policies Triggered
 
Yes No 
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP 4.01) 
X
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04) 
 X 
Forests (OP/BP 4.36) 
 X 
Pest Management (OP 4.09) 
X
Physical Cultural Resources (OP/BP 4.11) 
 X 
Indigenous Peoples (OP/BP 4.10) 
 X 
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12) 
 X 
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37) 
 X 
Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP
 
7.50) 
 X 
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP/BP 7.60) 
 X 
II.  Key Safeguard Policy Issues and Their Management 
A. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues 
1. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the proposed project. 
Identify and describe any potential large scale, significant and/or irreversible impacts: 
II.  Key Safeguard Policy Issues and Their Management  
 
An Environmental and Social Safeguard Framework (ESSF) for the original HLP 
project was developed to ensure compliance with the World Bank's Safeguard Policies.  
 
Environmental and Social Management Framework: Recognizing the emergency nature 
of the reconstruction operation in Afghanistan, while also ensuring due diligence in 
managing potential environmental and social risks, an ESSF has been prepared. The 
intention of this framework is to : (i) prevent the execution of subprojects that might 
cause significant and irreversible negative impacts; (ii) decrease or manage potential  
adverse impacts through modifications to subproject design, location or execution; (iii) 
prevent or mitigate cumulative impacts of small scale investments; (iv) enhance positive 
environmental and social impacts of subprojects; and (v) prevent additional stress on 
environmentally sensitive areas.  
Page  4
The ESMF includes: (a) tools for screening of subprojects, including negative lists of 
characteristics that would preclude project funding for these activities; (b) screening, 
assessment and clearance procedure; (c) capacity building to ensure effective 
implementation of the ESMF at the various implementation levels; and (d) requirements 
of supervision of implementation, monitoring of environmental and social conditions, and 
independent audits of performance.  
 
Also, the Integrated Pest Management (IPM) approach for the control of pests has been 
adopted and work is going on to update the original Pest Management Plan (PMP). The 
restructured project would remain in Environmental Category B as originally envisaged. 
The restructured HLP project activities will not have any large scale, significant and/or 
reversible impacts. HLP will help to promote IPM approach and create capacity in the 
country especially in the Ministry of Agriculture to regulate the importation, storing and 
use of pesticides and this will have a positive impact on the environment. Key issues at 
hand include: (i) finalizing the project's pest management plan in accordance with the 
standard outline included in Environment and Social Safeguard Management Framework 
(ESMF); (ii) carrying out survey and analysis of the pesticide subsector in the country; 
(iii) integrating the ESMF fully in project implementation, training and capacity building 
activities and including IPM in all aspects of horticulture development; and (iv) 
appointing a focal person in the IMST for overseeing compliance with environmental and 
social safeguards.  Successful implementation of the IPM program envisaged under the 
project would be critical not only for the protection of the environment and the food 
chain in the country but also for Afghanistan's horticulture products to enter the world 
market.  
 
Social Safeguards. No Social Safeguards Policies will be triggered.  There will be no 
land acquisition under the restructured project, but in case land acquisition becomes 
unavoidable during implementation of one of the sub-projects, the ESMF provides the 
necessary guidelines  and procedures.  
 
Regional Equity:  The restructured project will primarily  be implemented in 11 focus 
districts across 11 provinces in the northern and eastern parts of  Afghanistan. The 
selection of districts is based on objective and transparent criteria formulated by MAIL 
plus security considerations as to where the project is physically implementable. 
Beneficiary selection for the various sub-components would also be based on relevant, 
transparent criteria and processes  and be monitored to ensure that nobody are left out 
based on the basis of ethnic/religious/gender basis.  
 
Gender Mainstreaming. The HLP has been  actively promoting  gender mainstreaming 
and trained over 7000 women in semi-intensive poultry, and mobilized 107 female 
groups   within the l  horticulture and livestock component.  NGOs working on the 
poultry component have been successful in identifying, training and employing women.  
Similarly, the NGOs assisting with mobilization of producer groups have also 
successfully employed women.. Recently, a draft gender mainstreaming strategy has been 
prepared for HLP. Under the restructured project, MAIL/IMST would adopt an improved 
Page  5
strategy for recruiting women at all levels in the project, learning from the experience of 
NGOs.  
 
Privatization: MAIL/IMST will send a written confirmation to the Bank that staff of the 
government veterinary clinics (including veterinarians and support staff) that do not opt 
for privatization will continue to retain their jobs with MAIL after the transfer of these 
clinics.  
 
Counter-narcotics (CN).  The 11 focus districts in which HLP operates are reportedly 
free of poppy cultivation. In terms of CN, the restructured project will continue to follow 
the strategy of improving the economic returns of licit higher value crops and input and 
marketing facilities. Training and extension messages would continue to include CN 
issues.  
 
A. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues  
 
1.
Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the proposed project. 
Identify and describe any potential large scale, significant and/or irreversible impacts:  
 
Given the nature of proposed project activities, no significant adverse cumulative 
impacts are anticipated. Moreover, no potential large scale, significant and/ or irreversible 
impacts are expected under the HLP. Any potential cumulative impacts would be 
recognized by detailed monitoring that would be carried out to identify any potential 
concerns and changing conditions. On the positive side, the horticulture component of the 
project will help improve the quality of orchards in the country and will have positive 
impact on the local environment as well as on the nutrition side of the diet of the 
communities involved in the project.  
 
To mitigate against unforeseen risks, the ESSF  has prepared a list of ineligible 
subprojects. Examples of such ineligible subprojects include:  
 
#
Subprojects requiring pesticides that fall in WHO classes IA, IB or II;  
 
#
Subproject requiring new or expanded irrigation schemes;  
 
#
Subprojects requiring involuntary acquisition of land, or the resettlement or 
compensation of more than 200 people;  
 
#
Subprojects that affects water in riparian neighbors.  
 
Small scale impacts may arise inadvertently, in the unlikely event that the selection, 
planning, and implementation of the subproject interventions and demonstration sites are 
inadequate. Although, specific subproject intervention are not known at the beginning 
(but will be known when locations of subprojects are selected), attention in the selection 
of subprojects should focus on the following potential threats:  
 
#
Use of pesticides and insecticides that may cause harm to natural resources and 
human health;  
 
#
Unsustainable grazing causing land degradation (causing erosion);  
 
#
Possible effluents from the diary units;  
Page  6
#
Limited construction activities.  
 
The ESSF provides guidelines for controlling of negative impacts that may arise as a 
consequence of specific subprojects.   
 
2. Describe any potential indirect and/or long term impacts due to anticipated future 
activities in the project area: 
No indirect and/or long term impacts have been identified because of the HLP activities. 
However, to mitigate against unforeseen risks, the ESSF has prepared a list of ineligible 
subprojects. The ESSF also provides a framework for controlling negative impacts that 
may arise as a consequence of specific subprojects.  
 
HLP has also adopted and is promoting the IPM approach to controlling pests and 
diseases in the livestock and horticulture sectors in the project areas. HLP is updating the 
Pest Management Plan (PMP) when properly applied will strengthen the use of the IPM 
approach and will prevent the potential negative impact on the local environment as well 
as on the local community.   
 
3. Describe any project alternatives (if relevant) considered to help avoid or minimize 
adverse impacts. 
The potential environmental and social issues in the project (with particular reference to 
the OP/BP 4.01 Environmental Assessment and OP 4.09 Pest Management) should be 
considered on a case by case basis. Potential impacts are addressed through and 
Environmental and Social Safeguard Framework (ESSF) for the project.   
 
4. Describe measures taken by the borrower to address safeguard policy issues. Provide 
an assessment of borrower capacity to plan and implement the measures described. 
Recognizing the current social and environmental management capacity constraints, in 
the country while at the same time ensuring due diligence in managing environmental 
and social risks, the framework approach adopted under HLP will be continued. The 
ESSF provides for early identification of potential adverse impacts, without the 
requirement of rigorous analysis through quantification, and also provides broad 
guidance for their effective mitigation.  
 
Responsibilities for Safeguard Implementation, Screening Impacts and Mitigation as 
well as Reporting  
 
Sound design will if not eliminate, at least diminish to the extent possible, most of the 
potential adverse impacts of project activities. The overall responsibility of project 
implementation rests with the Ministry of Agriculture Irrigation and Livestock (MAIL). 
The MAIL will act through an Implementation and Management Support Team (IMST) 
which will be headed by a Manager who will be responsible for overall Project 
Implementation.  
 
A
qualified Environmental and Social Safeguards Focal Officer will be assigned 
reporting to HLP Team Leader and will be responsible for overseeing the implementation 
of the Environmental and Social Safeguards Framework as well as the proper and result 
Page  7
based application of IPM approach in HLP. In fact, the direct responsibility of the 
safeguards implementation will be with the implementation partner staff but the 
Safeguard Focal Officer will facilitate and contribute to capacity building, lessons learned 
in IPM, good practices, case studies, collect and compiles reports about the progress or 
the lack of it and will get feedback from the stakeholders including the World Bank. The 
Safeguard monitoring capacity will be gradually transferred to relevant MAIL staff to 
ensure continuity in safeguard application after project completion. During the operation 
stage, the M&E Unit will carry out the monitoring of the operations also. It will confirm 
(from anecdotal evidence and, if required, laboratory testing) that the water quality in the 
project area is not adversely impacted due to agrochemicals, soil conditions are 
conducive for growth of crops normally grown in the region, and pathogens and vectors 
are under control. In case of incidence of water related or water-transmitted disease, it 
will co-ordinate with the local health department to ensure that the situation be brought 
under control in the shortest possible time.  
 
The Safeguards Focal Officer will be coordinating efforts, of Pest Management Plan 
(PMP), regulations regarding pesticide importation, use, storage and etc. He/she will also 
ensure and facilitate the studies whether there is any pesticide residues in the food chain 
and horticulture and livestock components of the HLP or not and would take needed 
measures. Environmental and Social Focal Point(s) will help in mainstreaming 
environmental and social issues in the program. This has been found necessary due to 
limited human capacity at the national and district level.   
 
5. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for consultation and 
disclosure on safeguard policies, with an emphasis on potentially affected people. 
The overall responsibility of the project implementation rests with the Ministry of 
Agriculture Irrigation and livestock (MAIL). The MAIL will act through an 
Implementation and Management Support Team (IMST) which is headed by a manager 
who will be responsible to the Minister of MAIL for the overall Project Implementation.  
 
The ESSF was developed on the basis of an overall Framework for World Bank-funded 
reconstruction operations which was prepared in consultation with the principal NGOs 
and development partners participating in reconstruction activities in Afghanistan.  Prior 
to approval of the HLP it was disclosed by the Government in both Dari and Pashto, as 
well as in English, and also made available at the World Bank#s Infoshop. The updated 
version of the ESSF and the updated version of the Pest Management Plan (PMP) will 
again be disclosed in the country by the government to all stakeholders in the local 
languages and format they can use as well as the English version will be send to WB 
InfoShop prior to Appraisal mission for the restructuring of HLP. It is worth noting that 
the Government of Afghanistan intends to make all project documentation publicly 
available through the Afghan Information Management System (AIMS).   
 
B. Disclosure Requirements Date
 
Environmental Assessment/Audit/Management Plan/Other: 
Page  8
Was the document disclosed 
prior to appraisal?
 Yes 
 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
10/25/2009 
 
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
10/26/2009 
 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
11/23/2009 
 
For category A projects, date of distributing the Executive 
Summary of the EA to the Executive Directors 
 
Resettlement Action Plan/Framework/Policy Process: 
Was the document disclosed 
prior to appraisal?
 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
 
 
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
 
 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
 
 
Indigenous Peoples Plan/Planning Framework: 
Was the document disclosed 
prior to appraisal?
 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
 
 
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
 
 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
 
 
Pest Management Plan: 
Was the document disclosed 
prior to appraisal?
 Yes 
 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
10/17/2009 
 
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
10/17/2009 
 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
11/23/2009 
 
*
If the project triggers the Pest Management and/or Physical Cultural Resources, 
the respective issues are to be addressed and disclosed as part of the Environmental 
Assessment/Audit/or EMP. 
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected, please 
explain why: 
C. Compliance Monitoring Indicators at the Corporate Level (to be filled in when the 
ISDS is finalized by the project decision meeting) 
 
OP/BP/GP 4.01 - Environment Assessment 
 
Does the project require a stand-alone EA (including EMP) report? 
No 
If yes, then did the Regional Environment Unit or Sector Manager (SM) 
review and approve the EA report? 
N/A 
Are the cost and the accountabilities for the EMP incorporated in the 
credit/loan? 
N/A 
OP 4.09 - Pest Management 
 
Does the EA adequately address the pest management issues? 
Yes 
Is a separate PMP required? 
Yes 
If yes, has the PMP been reviewed and approved by a safeguards specialist or 
SM?  Are PMP requirements included in project design?  If yes, does the 
project team include a Pest Management Specialist? 
N/A 
The World Bank Policy on Disclosure of Information 
 
Have relevant safeguard policies documents been sent to the World Bank's 
Yes 
Page  9
Infoshop? 
Have relevant documents been disclosed in-country in a public place in a 
form and language that are understandable and accessible to project-affected 
groups and local NGOs? 
Yes 
All Safeguard Policies 
 
Have satisfactory calendar, budget and clear institutional responsibilities 
been prepared for the implementation of measures related to safeguard 
policies? 
Yes 
Have costs related to safeguard policy measures been included in the project 
cost? 
Yes 
Does the Monitoring and Evaluation system of the project include the 
monitoring of safeguard impacts and measures related to safeguard policies? 
Yes 
Have satisfactory implementation arrangements been agreed with the 
borrower and the same been adequately reflected in the project legal 
documents? 
Yes 
D. Approvals 
 
Signed and submitted by: 
Name 
Date 
Task Team Leader: 
Mr Usman Qamar 
11/23/2009 
Environmental Specialist: 
Mr Mohammad Arif Rasuli 
11/23/2009 
Social Development Specialist 
Ms Asta Olesen 
11/23/2009 
Additional Environmental and/or 
Social Development Specialist(s): 
Mr Abdul Mohammad Durani 
11/23/2009 
Approved by: 
 
Regional Safeguards Coordinator: 
Mr Sanjay Srivastava 
11/24/2009 
Comments:  cleared on the understanding that no land acquisition will take place. 
Sector Manager: 
Mr Simeon Kacou Ehui 
12/13/2009 
Comments:  Cleared 
