                                                                             50266
                               Project Paper D a t a Sheet

Date:         November 23,2009             Task Team Leader:      Usman Qamar
Country:      Afghanistan                  Sector ManagedDirector: Simeon Ehui /John

                                                                         icholas J. Krafft


Responsible agency:    Ministry o f Agriculture, Irrigation and Livestock (MAIL)




Current closing date: December 3 1, 2009
Revised c
_L                              l                 o                      c
Indicate if the restructuring is:

Board approved        Yes
R V P approved

Does the restructured project require any exceptions to Bank policies?       No
Have these been approved by Bank management?                                 N o t applicable
I s approval for any policy exception sought from the Board?                 No

Revised project development objective/outcomes: to assist producer households in
adopting improvedpractices so as to increase horticulture and livestock productivity and
production in focus areas. Key outcomes would include increased productivity o f
perennial and annual horticulture crops and poultry, and reduced mortality in large and
small ruminants.

Does the restructured project trigger any new safeguard policies?
No




ARTF
Financing Gap




                                             1
Introduction

1.       This Project Paper seeks the approval o f the Executive Directors to introduce the
following changes in the Afghanistan: Emergency Horticulture and Livestock Project,
IDA Grant H2260-Af (P098256) and accompanying amendments to the project's legal
documents. Overly ambitious and complex project design coupled with sub-par
performance o f the executing agency led to unsatisfactory execution o f the project and
prolonged existence o f "problem project status". The proposed restructuring would
modify the project objective to focus more directly on horticulture and livestock
productivity, adapt the approach to horticulture and livestock development to the local
conditions, and rationalize the project scope and targets in line with available capacity.
The project closing date would be extended by two years to accommodate the slow start
o f project activities. The revised outcomes would be: (i) increase in the productivity and
production o f horticulture and poultry, and (ii)    reduced mortality in large and small
ruminants in the project focus areas.

Background and Reasons for Restructuring

2.      The IDA Grant H2260-AF (US$20 million equivalent) for the project was
approved by the Board on May 25,2006 and became effective on October 16,2006. The
original project objective was to assist the Recipient in stimulating marketable output of
perennial horticulture and livestock by improving the incentives framework for private
investments and strengthening institutional capacity in the agricultural sector. The
Ministry o f Agriculture, Irrigation and Livestock ( MAIL) i s the implementing agency of
the project.

3.     The original project consisted broadly o f the following parts:

P a r t 1: Perennial Horticulture, including (a) Rehabilitation o f existing orchards and
development o f new orchards; (b)     Establishment o f a Horticulture Development
Council o f Afghanistan; and (c) Improvement o f the production, processing and
marketing o f green raisins and pomegranate through the construction o f simple drying
facilities.

P a r t 2: Livestock, including (a) Strengthening the capacity o f General Department o f
Livestock Production and Development (GDLPD) to supervise and regulate animal
husbandry services; (b) Development o f livestock production and marketing initiatives
for improving domestic food supplies and reducing imports, including: (i)     establishment
o f private dairy processing units; (ii) establishment o f a village-based poultry industry;
and ( i )i i improving the collection, cleaning and marketing o f cashmere fiber; and (c)
Promoting public-private partnerships for the delivery o f veterinary services.

P a r t 3: Project Management and Implementation, including (a) Strengthening
Ministry o f Agriculture's administrative capacity; and (b) Provision o f training, technical
assistance, goods, equipment and operating costs for the establishment o f an
implementation support team (IMST) and for the implementation, monitoring and
supervision o f the Project.

                                             2
4.      Reasons for Restructuring. As documented in the project ISRs overall
implementation performance was deficient as indicated by: (i)generally sub-par
performance b y the executing agency; (ii)     long delays in procurement and excessively
slow disbursements compared to the original estimates; and (iii)    prolonged existence o f
"problem project" status. By the end o f 2008 it was evident that the project would not
achieve i t s original physical targets and development objective by the grant closing date.
I t was also clear that the original project objective and the scopehargets were overly
ambitious, especially when considering the weak capacity o f the executing agency, the
post-conflict environment in the country, and the emergency nature o f the project.

5.      However, several factors have contributed to improved project performance in
2009: (i) major emphasis by GOA on significantly improving performance in the
           a
                       presence o f dynamic leadership and buildup o f a dedicated team in
agriculture sector; (ii)
MAIL, representing a significant change in the policy and institutional environment; and
(iii)
    preparation o f a new National Agricultural Development Framework (NADF), which
recognizes horticulture and livestock as strategically important subsectors.

 6.        Proposed Approach to Restructuring. I n June 2009 on the basis o an in-depth
                                                                                 f
 review carried out jointly by MAIL, Bank, and other donors supporting the project
 through the ARTF i t was agreed to restructure the project. To address the issues
 mentioned in paragraph 4 above and take advantage o f the recent positive developments
 it i s proposed to restructure the project with the following objectives: (i)    developing a
 model for future development o f horticulture and livestock in the country and building
 necessary capacity; (ii)   making the project targets realistic; and (iii)   focusing project
 activities in selected areas to enhance i t s impact (11 districts selected by government').
 Since focusing the project in 11 districts2 would entail a change in the originally intended
 beneficiaries, a first order restructuring i s proposed. Also, considering the project period
 already elapsed, a two-year extension o the closing date is proposed to allow more time
                                           f
for completing the revised project scope/targets.

Proposed Changes

7.     Revised Project Objective. The revised project objective is to assist producer
households in adopting improved practices so as to increase horticulture and livestock
productivity and production in focus areas. The focus would be o n productivity and
production rather than o n the incentives framework3. The Results Framework would be
modified accordingly (see Attachment 1).

8.      Changes in Project Scope/Targets4


1
        The project would be confined to 11 districts (instead of being dispersed over 10 provinces as envisaged
        originally), where horticulture and livestock development could be addressed more intensively by mobilizing
        farmer/producer groups.
2
        Mir Bachakot (Kabul), Shaikh Ali (Parwan), Mahmood Raqi (Kapisa), BazaraWRokhdOnaba(Panjsher),
        Farkhar (Takhar), Imaam Sahib (Kundoz), Aybak (Samangan), Khulm (Balkh), Shebergan (Jawzjan), Sozma
        Qalla (Sari Pul), Pul-e-Kumri (Baghlan).
3
        The revised objective recognizes the fact that increased productivity i s the vital first link in the value chain.
4
        Revised project description i s included in Attachment 2.
                                                          3
    Horticulture Development

    A.      The approach to horticulture development would be modiJied taking into
    account: (i) overarching constraints o water availability; (ii) existence o
                 the                         f                         the          f
    poly-culture in existing orchards; (iii)   the need for strengthening extension
    services through structured mobilization, capacity building and training infarmer
    Jield schools; (iv) introducing elements o f farm planning and orchard
    management; (v) emphasizing integrated pest management; (vi) phasing out
    engagement in germ plasm and nursery development with increasing reliance on
    existing improved nurseries; (vii) gradually phasing out input subsidies in line
    with MAIL policy; and (vii) supporting value chain development for 4 fruit crops.

    B.      The target for new orchard development would be reducedfrom 5,000 ha
    to 3,000 ha, considering capacity constraints. The sub-component for
    development o f green raisins drying sheds and pomegranate export clusters in
    Kandahar would be dropped because o f security concerns. Horticulture research
    stations and preparation o f a Land Cover Atlas would be picked up under other
    future programs. Finally, given i t s poor track record, and the lack o f demand for
    an apex body' in the horticulture sector, support to the Horticulture Development
    Council (later renamed NUHDUANHDO) would be phased out by end o                    f
    CY2009. Marketing aspects would be supported through a bottom-up approach
    under the farmer organization development (FOD) component and the proposed
    value chain pilots.

    Part 2: Livestock Development

    A.       Strengthening the capacity o f the General Department for Livestock
    Production and Development (GDLPD). The original project sought to
    strengthen the capacity o f GDLPD to supervise and regulate animal husbandry
    services. Unfortunately little progress could be made o n this front because o f lack
    o f interest and staff, particularly at the field level for livestock extension. The
    restructured project would develop livestock extension packages that would be
    disseminated in areas where intensive farmer mobilization efforts would be made.

    B.      Animal Health Improvement. The original aim o this subcomponent to
                                                              f
    promote private-public sector partnership for the delivery o veterinary services
                                                                f
    would remain unchanged and actively supported. Preparatory activities for the
    privatization o f 120 government veterinary clinics have been completed and the
    process for their transfer to the concerned veterinarians would be completed
    within CY2009. An additional 45 government clinics6 would also be supported
    for privatization subject to their suitability. The project would also support
    preparation o a Breeding Policy for cattle in the context o the artificial
                   f                                                f
    insemination supported under the project.

5
    NUHDA, as it was originally constituted, was a quasigovernmental body that purported to represent the
    horticultural sector. The idea o f establishing an apex horticultural organization on a top-down basis has not
    worked. There i s also no demand for it from the sector.
6
    This number may increase to 80.
                                                      4
    C.      Poultry Development. This pro-poor project component is off to a good
    start and would continue to be supported under the restructured project with two
    changes to improve prospects o f sustainability and provide the intended
    beneficiaries with one additional development option. First, the project would
    meet the full requirement o f grower-feed and layer-feed for one month to ensure
    that the beneficiaries can securely reach the point where they start to earn income
    from sale o f eggs. And, second, the beneficiaries would be offered a choice
    between the semi commercial layer enterprise, and a broiler option.

    D.      Dairy Development. The original project envisaged a significant
    investment in dairy production. Implementation was envisaged in two phases: (i)
    an Inception Phase involving a detailed analysis o f the dairy sub sector; and (ii)
    based on the final inception report, the agreed investments were to be
    implemented. Regrettably, the contract with the facilitating partner was not
    finalized until March 2009 and mobilization took place only in M a y 2009.
    Experience in Afghanistan and elsewhere shows that sustainable dairy
    development requires a period o more than three years. In addition, continued
                                    f
    support i s required in the post-commissioning phase.            Based o n these
    considerations, this sub-component would be limited to completing the ongoing
    Inception Phase and some follow up activities.

    E.     Cashmere fiber development and bee and fisheries production studies.
    The original project included improving the collection, cleaning and marketing o f
    cashmere fiber. A comprehensive study into the value chain for cashmere has
    been completed, which proposes sustainable ways for re-establishing cashmere
    harvesting and primary processing. The recommendations o the study are
                                                                     f
    already being implemented with assistance from other donors and the project
    would not carry out further activities under this component. Studies for bee
    keeping and fisheries production are also ongoing. MAIL would share the
    proposals from these studies with other organizations to carry themforward.

    Part 3: Project Implementation and Management

    A.     The existing project implementation arrangements would remain
    unchanged. However, the following additional activities would be carried out for
                             f                                            f
    enhancing effectiveness o project implementation and sustainability o project
    interventions:

    e         Mobilizing and building capacity o f producer groups (farmers and
              livestock owners) in the 11 focus districts and supporting their
                                                                                 YY
              involvement in input supply, output marketin animal health services,
              saving boxes, and delivery o f extension services ; and



7
    I n the current scenario o f weak government and private institutions the role o f producer groups to fill the
    service delivery-deficit would be critical.
                                                       5
        e       Building institutional capacity in the selected focus districts to improve
                delivery o f horticulture and livestock related services through training o f
                district and provincial level MAIL staff, and establishing linkages with
                input suppliers, service providers and micro-credit institutions.


9.      Project Management Arrangements. The existing project management
arrangements, including financial management, procurement and disbursement would
remain unchanged. However, the composition and skill m i x o f the implementation
management support team (IMST) would be adjusted to reflect the requirements o f the
restructured project.

10.     Estimated Cost and Financing Plan. The estimated cost and financing plan o f
the restructured project would be as follows. The IDA Grant would be fully disbursed
during FYlO. Currently there i s a financing gap o f U S $ 14.3 million for which ARTF
funding support will be sought.




         2. ARTF Grant TF91885                              11
         3. Remaining amount in ARTF blanket approval        9
              Totalfinancing available and in pipeline      40
              Estimated Project cost                        54.3
         4.   Financing gap                                 14.3

Analysis

11.     Effect o f Proposed Changes. The proposed changes would not have significant
adverse effects on the economic, financial, technical, institutional, or social aspects o f the
project as appraised.
12.     Economic Analysis. The table below provides a summary, including the
estimated ERRS for the main components. For the restructured components, as the
horticulture, dairy and animal health activities are being targeted to the same
                                                6
beneficiaries in the focus clusters, their results are combined together. The IMST costs
have been distributed proportionally between the mentioned subcomponents and the
poultry subcomponent. Because o f the increase in management cost and a longer
implementation period, the ERR and N P V have reduced but they are in the acceptable
range.

                        Estimated Economic Rate o f Return

                                            Original                Restructured
                                      ERR          NPV                        NPV




Similarly, analysis o f farm models shows that farmers' household income would increase
at project maturity by 8 percent to 57 percent over the present situation. The extent o f
this increase depends on the type and size o f farm, the relative importance o f the activity,
the production system and the type o f crops and activities involved.

13.      Social and Gender Aspects. The restructured project would increase the level of
participation o producer households in the project through their participation in
                f
producer groups, extension activities (including farmer field schools), value chain
development, input supply, and marketing, Gender mainstreaming efforts are ongoing
across all the project components, and would be reflected in project staffing and in the
results framework. Recently, a gender mainstreaming strategy has been prepared for the
project.

14.    Environmental Safeguards. The restructured project                would remain      in
Environmental Category B as originally envisaged.

15.     Counter-narcotics (CN). The I1 focus districts in which the restructuredproject
operates are reportedly f r e e o poppy cultivation. In terms o f CN, the restructured
                                 f
project will continue to follow the strategy o f improving the economic returns o f licit
higher value crops and input and marketing facilities. Training and extension messages
would continue to include C N communication.

Expected Outcomes

16.     The key outcome o the restructured project would be a behavioral change in
                          f
target producer households who would adopt improved practices to increase productivity
o perennial and annual horticulture crops and poultry. And, with improved access to
 f
animal health services there would be reduced mortality in large and small ruminants.
Finally, MAIL would have improved capacity, and a model, for horticulture and livestock
development (see Results Framework- Attachment 1).



                                              7
Benefits and Risks

17.     Benefits. T h e main project benefits w o u l d c o m e from: (a) increased p r o d u c t i v i t y
o f perennial and annual horticulture crops in existing and n e w orchards; (b) increased
production o f eggs and poultry meat; (c) reduced m o r t a l i t y o f large and s m a l l ruminants;
and; and (d) strengthened government and producer institutions and services.


18.      Risks and their Mitigation. So far the project's track r e c o r d o f i m p r o v e d
performance spans over less than one year and there are several risks and externalities
that c o u l d adversely affect the project:


                          Risk                                       NPftigation,Measure
      The recent improvement in project                  MAIL would continue close supervision,
      performance reflects mainly the enhanced           carry out a critical review o f performance o f
      ownership by MAIL and good performance             key staff o f L F P and FPs, and take
      o f a few staff in the lead facilitating           appropriate action.
      partner's (LFP) team. Performance could
      weaken again.
      The general elections could lead to changes        MAIL would anticipate likely turnover o f
      in MAIL and there could be turnover o f            staff and plan ahead to avoid gaps in critical
      good staff.                                        skills.
      The expected surge in donor support to             MAIL will ensure that new initiatives
      agriculture, contents o f which are hitherto       complement and bring synergy for the
      not fully known, could have implications for       restructured project.
      the restructured moiect.
      There i s a significant financing gap              Continued good performance and
      (US$14.3 million) and delay in mobilizing          achievement o f outcomes would be critical to
      resources could affect project performance.        attract donor support. An effective M&E
                                                         system i s being put in place t o help
                                                         demonstrate outcomes.
      Security issues could affect project               Areas where producer group mobilization
      implementation                                     would take place would be selected taking
                                                         security in t o account. A distant working
                                                         approach would be considered if security
                                                         deteriorates. Greater reliance would be placed
                                                         o n locally recruited staff.




                                                     8
                                                                                            Attachment 1
                                    Revised Results Framework
    Project Development                Project Outcome Indicators                     Use of Project
         Objectives                                                                Outcome Information
To assist producer households      Horticulture                                   Each supervision mission:
in adopting improved practices             15 % increase in productivity' in      review o f program
so as to increase horticulture            target farmers orchards                 approaches and adjust it
and livestock productivity and            At least 50% o f target farmers         accordingly
production in focus areas                  adopt at least two best suitable
                                          practices' in focus districts
                                           3000 ha o f new orchards               End o f the Project: assess
                                                                                  impact o f project
                                           established w i t h at least 60 YO f
                                                                             o
                                                                                  components at completion
                                           saplings surviving
                                                                                  and reinforce strategic
                                          At least 10 % increase in
                                                                                  messages for development
                                          producer price for the products
                                                                                  o f the sector
                                          where the value chain pilot i s
                                           implemented

                                   Livestock
                                   Animal Health
                                           5 % reduction in mortality
                                           among large ruminants,
                                           10 % reduction in small
                                           ruminants,        I



                                           20% reduction in mortality o f
                                           poultry

                                   Poultry
                                       0     A t least 60 % o f target producer
                                             households adopt improved
                                             poultry raising practices in focus
                                             districts
                                             Incremental production o f 15
                                             million eggs and 450 tons o f
                                             meat per year achieved

                                   Dairy
                                             Comprehensive feasibility study
                                             o f dairy development completed,
                                             providing recommendations for
                                             the way-forward

                                   Institution a n d Capacity Building
                                            Functioning horticulture and
                                            livestock extension and other
                                            services in place




 Yield
9
 Best suitable practices mean practices which are considered to be the best, considering the prevailing
situation o f Afghanistan, and include improved water management, pruning and orchard management.
                                                      9
                                             Horticulture Component
Orchard management                                  10000 farmers achieve 10 %              Quarterly progress report:
Increased productivity o f existing                increase in production as a              monitor the progress and
orchards through assistance in                     result o f applying improved             situation o f the project
input supplies and technical                       technologies (IPM, canopy and
services on best suitable practices                on-farm irrigation management            Annual outcome
for orchard production                             principles) in focus districts           monitoring and Impact
                                                   Four suitable intercrops                 Assessment
                                                   introduced by project
Extension service                                   120 extension workers trained            Quarterly progress report:
Horticultural extension service                    Extension material produced               monitor the progress and
developed that can reliably                        for 6 tree crops and 4                    situation o f the project
provide information to 15000                       intercrops
producer households in focus                        15,000 producer households               Annual outcome
districts                                          c o n f m receiving horticulture          monitoring and Impact
                                                   extension services in focus               Assessment
                                                   districts
                                                   At least 100 farmers and 30               Quarterly progress report:
Improve marketable production                      tradersimerchants participate in          monitor the progress and
and returns to farmers by targeted                 the value chain activities                situation o f the project
interventions in the value chain                   5 % increase in production o f 2
                                                   marketable crops                           Annual outcome
                                                   5 YO increase in returns o f 2             monitoring and Impact
                                                   marketable crops                           Assessment
                                                Livestock Component
Animal Health                                      At least 120 government                 1 Quarterly progress report:
Improved access to animal health                   veterinary clinics transferred to         monitor the progress and
services through privatization                     private sector operation                  situation o f the project
                                                   Number o f households
                                                   receiving animal health                   Annual outcome
                                                   interventions from VFU's                  monitoring and Impact
                                                   increased by 5% yearly                    Assessment
Poultry                                            Around 11,000 semi-intensive
Semi-intensive layer and broiler
poultry units established,
generating sustainable income for
rural women




Feasibility o f Dairy Development
assessed
Livestock Extension
Livestock extension services
developed that can reliable
provide information to 15,000
producer households in focus
districts



10
         An estimated 8,000 households (40 % o f targeted households) will revert to improved backyard management
                                                            10
                              Institution and Capacity Building Componei
Village based producer                        Around 750 male and female       Quarterly progress report:
organizations (male and female)               producer groups operating        monitor the progress and
established and strengthened in                                                situation o f the project
11 focus districts
                                                                               Annual outcome
                                                                               monitoringand Impact
Male and female producer groups               40 % o f the members o f male
                                                                               Assessment
have an improved access to                    and female groups confirm
services in 9 clusters in 5 selected          having an improved access to
focus districts                               the supply o f production inputs
                                              20 YO f male and female
                                                      o
                                              groups c o n f m having an
                                              improved access to marketing
                                              services
Strengthened capacity o f MAIL                60 % o f the relevant
and district level agricultural               institutions at district level
institutions to ensure efficient              c o n f m the establishment o f
implementation o f HLP and other              coordination and collaborative
projects                                      arrangements
                                              80 % o f beneficiaries o f
                                              horticulture, livestock and
                                              FOD trainings c o n f m
                                              satisfaction with the trainings




                                                    11
                                                                                               Attachment 2
                                     Revised Project Description


        The objective o f the Project i s to assist producer households in adopting improved
practices so as to increase horticulture and livestock productivity and production in focus
areas.

         The Project consists o f the following parts:


         Part 1: Horticulture Development

         (a) Rehabilitation and expansion o f perennial and annual horticulture crop
             cultivation through: (i) the provision o f training and extension support to
             farmers for the rehabilitation o f existing orchards; (ii)      the provision o f
             seedlings and other inputs to farmers; ( i ) i i provision o f technical advisory
             services and training in integrated pest management, on-farm water
             management, farm planning and orchard management; (iv) the provision o f
             In-kind Grants to support the establishment o f new orchards; and (v) provision
             o f technical advisory services for establishment and training o f farmer groups
             and developing linkages with horticulture input and output markets.

         (b) Establishment o f the Horticulture Development Council o f Afghanistan for:
             (i) provision o f policy guidance and support to MAIL; and (ii) carrying
                the                                                             the
             out o f activities such as training and research to support the development of
             the horticulture sector ll.

         (c) Strengthening marketing support to farmers through mobilization o f farmers
             groups, establishing linkages with markets and provision o f support to the
             selected value chains.

         Part 2: Livestock Development

         (a) Strengthening the capacity o f GDLPD to supervise and regulate animal
             husbandry services, through the provision o f technical advisory services and
             training to staff at district offices, development o f livestock extension service
             packages, acquisition o f equipment and software, carrying out o f
             infrastructure rehabilitation and upgrading o f offices.

         (b) Development o f livestock production and marketing initiatives for improving
             domestic food supplies and reducing imports, including: (i)establishment of a
             village-based intensive layer poultry units and broiler units for poor rural
             women through the provision o f In-kind Grants to Beneficiaries, the provision
             o f training and technical advisory services, supply o f initial stock, the

II
         Support to this sub-component would be discontinued after December 2009 because o f the reasons explained
         in paragraph 6. B.
                                                       12
   acquisition o f equipment and the carrying out o f small works; (ii)
                                                                      carrying out
   o f a comprehensive study o f the dairy sector in the country; and (iii)
                                                                          carrying
   out o f a comprehensive study into the value chain for cashmere in the country.

(c) Promoting public-private partnerships for the delivery o f veterinary services,
    including: (i) provision o f training and enhancing the capacity o f
    veterinarians; (ii)harmonizing the privatized veterinary field units clinical
    services system; (iii)establishing sanitary mandates through private-public
    partnership; and (iv) provision o f vaccines, disease surveillance equipment
    k d supplies for conducting sanitary mandates.



Part 3: Project Management and Implementation

(a) Strengthening MAIL'S administrative capacity including development o f i t s
    human resource functions and rehabilitation o f i t s offices, through the
    provision o f training, technical assistance, acquisition o f equipment, carrying
    out o f small works and provision o f operating costs.

(b) Provision o f training, technical assistance, goods, equipment and operating
    costs for the establishment o f IMST and for the implementation, monitoring
    and supervision o f the Project.




                                     13
