                                                                                        E2295 v1
             Environment and Social Safeguards Framework for the Emergency
                   Emergency Horticulture and Livestock Project (HLP)

A. Background

1.     Afghanistan is a rugged, land-locked, mountainous country (more than 50% of its area of
nearly 65 million ha is 2000m above mean sea level) with an estimated population of around 25
million. Afghanistan is among the poorest countries with food poverty affecting 45% of the total
population according to the National Risk and Vulnerability Assessment (NRVA) survey. Over
75 % of the population lives in rural areas where agriculture is the primary activity, contributing
about half of the GDP (excluding the opium economy). Agricultural performance is therefore
pivotal for overall economic growth and poverty reduction and offers the only significant
prospect for raising farmer incomes, contributing to food security, providing rural employment
and reducing the vulnerability of resource poor rural people.

B. Purpose of the Environmental and Social Safeguards Framework

2.     It is acknowledged that currently social and environmental management in Afghanistan is
facing critical capacity constraints. Keeping in view the existing environmental management
capacity, as well as the flexibility required as not all investments are known at the time of project
appraisal, a framework approach is adopted. The ESSF has been developed specifically for the
proposed operations to ensure due diligence, to avoid causing harm or exacerbating social
tensions, and to ensure consistent treatment of social and environmental issues by the
Government of Afghanistan, addressing the following issues. Consistent with existing national
legislation, the objective of the Framework is to help ensure that activities under the project will:

 Protect human health;

 Prevent or compensate any loss of livelihood;

 Prevent environmental degradation as a result of either individual subprojects or their
  cumulative effects;

 Minimize impacts on cultural property;

 Enhance positive environmental and social outcomes, and

 Ensure compliance with World Bank Safeguards policies

C. General Principles

3.      Recognizing the emergency nature of the proposed operation, and the related need for
providing assistance, the Environmental and Social Safeguards Framework (ESSF) provides
general policies, guidelines, codes of practice and procedures to be integrated into the
implementation of the proposed operation for providing assistance, while at the same time
ensuring due diligence in managing potential environmental and social risks. This Framework is
based on the following principles:



                                                 1
   The proposed operation will comprise several sub-projects, the detailed designs of which
   may not be known at appraisal. To ensure the effective application of the World Bank's
   safeguard policies, the Framework provides guidance on the approach to be taken during
   implementation for the selection and design of sub-projects, and the planning of mitigation
   measures;

The proposed operation will be in line with the National Environmental Act passed by the both
the Cabinet and the Afghan Parliament and proposed by NEPA.
 All proposed sub-projects will be screened to ensure that the environmental and social risks
    can be adequately addressed through the application of standardized guidelines;

   The proposed operation will finance feasibility or pre-feasibility studies for subsequent
   investments, which will include environmental and social impact assessments, as required by
   World Bank safeguard policies;

   Project design and sub-project selection will aim to maintain regional balance, and equity
   between genders, and ethnic and religious groups, considering variations in population
   density, and security considerations. Employment opportunities within the projects will be
   available on an equal basis to all, on the basis of professional competence, irrespective of
   gender, or ethnic or religious group. In all projects which require consultations with local
   communities or beneficiaries, consultations will be conducted to elicit the views of both the
   male and the female population; and

   Consultation and disclosure requirements will be simplified to meet the special needs of this
   project. Prior to approval by the World Bank Board, this Environmental and Social
   Safeguards Framework will be disclosed in Afghanistan in Dari and Pashto, and in the World
   Bank Infoshop.


D. Project Objectives

4.    The revised project objective is to assist producer households in adopting improved
practices so as to increase horticulture and livestock productivity and production in focus areas.


Specific objectives include:

   Improvements in the production capacity of the horticultural and livestock sectors and
   improvement of market channels for Afghan produces

   Involvement of women farmers who will particularly benefit from project activities through
   the major role that they play in horticulture and livestock production

   At a higher level, the project will have a positive impact on broad-based economic growth in
   focus rural areas by increasing the demand for rural non-farm sector output and from
   multipliers on farmers' expenditure




                                                2
         On the institution front, project support for the restructuring of MAIL will help to develop
         the basis for a strong policy, regulatory and support organization for the agriculture
         sector

         Overall, these benefits will contribute to the Bank's rural poverty reduction goals as well as
         providing a key element of a counter narcotics strategy by fostering an alternative to
         poppies and, at the same time, stimulating rural incomes through expanding the rural non-
         farm sector which encompasses the bulk of the poor.


    E. Project Description

    5.     Project comprises the following three components:

    Part A: Horticulture Development:

            (a) rehabilitation and expansion of perennial and annual horticulture crop cultivation
    through: (i) the provision of training and extension support to farmers for the rehabilitation of
    existing orchards; (ii) the provision of seedlings and other inputs to farmers; (iii) provision of
    technical advisory services and training in integrated pest management, on-farm water
    management, farm planning and orchard management; (iv) the provision of In-kind Grants to
    support the establishment of new orchards; and (v) provision of technical advisory services for
    establishment and training of farmer groups and developing linkages with horticulture input and
    output markets.

            (b) Establishment of the Horticulture Development Council of Afghanistan for: (i) the
    provision of policy guidance and support to MAI; and (ii) the carrying out of activities such as
    training and research to support the development of the horticulture sector1. (c) Strengthening
    marketing support to farmers through mobilization of farmers groups, establishing linkages with
    markets and provision of support to the selected value chains.

    Part B: Livestock Development:

            (a)    Strengthening the capacity of GDLPD to supervise and regulate animal husbandry
    services, through the provision of technical advisory services and training to staff at district
    offices, development of livestock extension service packages, acquisition of equipment and
    software, carrying out of infrastructure rehabilitation and upgrading of offices.

             (b) Development of livestock production and marketing initiatives for improving
    domestic food supplies and reducing imports, including: (i) establishment of a village-based
    intensive layer poultry units and broiler units for poor rural women through the provision of In-
    kind Grants to Beneficiaries, the provision of training and technical advisory services, supply of
    initial stock, the acquisition of equipment and the carrying out of small works; (ii) carrying out
    of a comprehensive study of the dairy sector in the country; and (iii) carrying out of a
    comprehensive study into the value chain for cashmere in the country.

            (c)     Promoting public-private partnerships for the delivery of veterinary services,
    including: (i) provision of training and enhancing the capacity of veterinarians; (ii) harmonizing
    the privatized veterinary field units clinical services system; (iii) establishing sanitary mandates
1
    Support to this sub-component would be discontinued after December 2009 because of the reasons explained in paragraph 6. B.


                                                                 3
through private-public partnership; and (iv) provision of vaccines, disease surveillance
equipment and supplies for conducting sanitary mandates.

Part C: Capacity Building, Implementation and Monitoring & Evaluation Support:
       (a)     Strengthening MAIL's administrative capacity including development of its
human resource functions and rehabilitation of its offices, through the provision of training,
technical assistance, acquisition of equipment, carrying out of small works and provision of
operating costs.

        (b)     Provision of training, technical assistance, goods, equipment and operating costs
for the establishment of IMST and for the implementation, monitoring and supervision of the
Project.
.


F. Potential Impact of Various Components

6. Activities under the project should not entail significant and negative environmental and social
impacts, provided they are designed and implemented with due consideration of environmental
and social issues. The project falls in the B category for environmental and social issues. The
present framework is then adopted as a means of ensuring due diligence in managing potential
environmental and social risks in the different sub-projects.

7. OP/BP 4.01 Environmental Assessment (triggered). The HLP aims to harness orchard and
livestock productivity increase in selected priority areas with the goal of creating new
opportunities for farmers and building on-the-ground capacity for the delivery of efficient
services to the farmers. The interventions proposed essentially relate to the rehabilitation of
existing orchards and that have been partly neglected or destroyed by the war and encouraging
livestock production by small-scale farmers. Hence, developments proposed for perennial tree
crops are likely to have a positive impact through promoting nursery development that will lead
to increased orchard areas. However small-scale impacts may arise inadvertently, in the unlikely
event that the selection, planning, and implementation of the sub-project interventions and
demonstration sites are inadequate. Although, specific sub-project interventions are not known at
this point of time (but will be known when locations for sub-projects are selected), attention in
the selection of sub-projects should focus on the following potential threats: (1) use of pesticide
and insecticides that may cause harm to natural resources and human health; (2) unsustainable
grazing causing land degradation (increased erosion); (3) possible effluents from the diary units;
(4) limited construction activities.

8.      OP 4.09 Pest Management (triggered). The productivity increase component of the HLP
depends partly on the ability to adequately control pest populations. This triggers OP4.09 on Pest
Management and sound application of an integrated pest management plan (PMP) is required
(Standard PMP Outline is attached, ESSF component P). Pest management should be seen as a
way of improving the sustainability of horticulture practices, by adopting appropriate cultural
practices (such as the planting of alfalfa cover crop and efficient on-farm water management),
biological control (involving the use of natural pest enemies) and, when necessary, chemical
control (involving the use of pesticides).

9.     However, HLP sub-projects should adopt integrated pests management strategies (IPM).
This will comprise soil pests, weeds, field and post harvest pests and pest diseases management.

                                                4
Use of certified seeds or seed dressing protects them from soil borne pests. Weed control could
either be manual or use of appropriate herbicides. There are pre germination and post
germination herbicides. However, extreme care is needed in the use of herbicides in that any
wrong or uninformed use is likely to cause total loss of the crops or environmental pollution of
water and soil. As a rule farmers should observe strict surveillance of their crop and observe high
levels of crop hygiene as a first step to manage the pests and diseases in the field. These include
removal and destruction of affected plants and then preventive control of the identified problem.
Post harvest pests are managed even before harvesting by cleaning the stores and destroying the
residues from previous harvest. Use of recommended pesticides on the harvested crop before
storage contributes immensely to the preservation of the harvested crop against attacks by pests.

10.     The ESSF is not directly addressing the issue of IPM but it is considering IPM as a
decision-making process for the selection, implementation, and evaluation of pest management
practices. The ESSF as a safeguard framework is requiring certain mitigation measures and
screening tools to avoid, and if not possible to minimize potential damages to public health and
quality of horticulture and livestock and products because of the use of pesticides. These
measures should be further clarified by the IPM approach and the Pest Management Plan (PMP)
being developed by HLP. The PMP should be developed as per the Standard Outline included in
Section P.

11.       OP 4.37 Safety of Dams (not triggered). The project does involve the construction of
new dams and does not depend upon existing dams.

12.        OP/BP 4.36 Forests (not triggered). The HLP focuses on the rehabilitation of existing
orchards. Operations are expected to take place in privately owned land and are not expected to
impact on the health and quality of forests, or on their management, protection or utilization
regimes.

13.         OP 4.04 Natural Habitats (not triggered). No significant conversion or degradation of
natural habitats is expected under the HLP. On the contrary, the project is likely to produce
positive impacts on landscapes. As a consequence of more than twenty years of conflict,
agricultural land has been impacted directly by war operations and indirectly by environmentally
damaging subsistence practices. The project is expected to identify horticultural products that are
appropriate to specific regions and rehabilitate the agricultural landscapes.

14.          OP 7.50 Projects on International Waterways (not triggered). OP 7.50 does not apply
to the project, given the localized nature of the project and the fact that the project essentially
involves rehabilitation of existing orchards and livestock farms. It does not involve works and
activities that would exceed the original scheme, change its nature, or alter and expand its scope
and extend to make it appear a new or different scheme. The team believes that given the nature
of the works envisaged under the proposed project: (a) the project will not adversely affect the
quality or quantity of water flows to the other riparians; and (b) it will not be adversely affected
by other riparians' water use.

15.         OP 4.12 Involuntary Resettlement (not triggered). No involuntary resettlement or
land acquisition is anticipated under the project. In the current socio-political context in the rural
areas, involuntary land acquisition based on the state's eminent domain is unlikely for the kind of
small-scale activities that will be undertaken under the project for two reasons. If any minor
areas of land would be needed for a project (e.g. construction of veterinary clinics, field office


                                                  5
       and so forth), such land could only be obtained through either private voluntary donations,
       compensation paid by the community (i.e. transaction between willing buyer-willing seller), or,
       more likely, from available government land. Private voluntary donations and community
       purchases would be documented as required by the Framework, and for government land,
       documentation would be needed that the land is free of encroachments, squatters or other
       encumbrances, and has been transferred to the project by the authorities.

       16.          OP/BP 4.10 Indigenous Peoples (not triggered). There are no communities in
       Afghanistan which can be defined as `indigenous peoples'. But the design for the project defines
       a strategy, which will ensure that ethnic/religious minority groups are included as beneficiaries,
       and that their concerns are addressed in compliance with the requirements of OD 4.20 on
       Indigenous Peoples. The key elements of this strategy are: (i) horticulture and intensive livestock
       production activities will be open to all farmers in the project area; (ii) the pilot activities with
       pastoralists are specifically designed to demonstrate approaches and legislative changes that
       would benefit nomadic and sedentary communities living in the same areas; and (iii) independent
       monitoring by civil society (NGOs and the press) will provide another mechanism to identify
       cases where ethnic minority groups would have been bypassed or marginalized by project
       operations. Exclusion based on gender is also addressed in the project design through specific
       efforts to reach women as producers both within horticulture and livestock component.

       17.         OPN 11.03 Cultural Property (not triggered). The proposed operations are unlikely to
       pose a risk of damaging cultural property. Section K includes a list of negative of attributes,
       which would make a sub-project ineligible for support, including any activity that would
       significantly damage non-replicable cultural property. Chance finds during implementation of
       sub-projects involving civil works will be reported to the provincial or district governors, who
       then will inform the Archaeological Committee as per the Chance Find Procedures listed in
       Section N.

       18.         The following table identifies potential impacts and solutions adopted in the design
       of the project. Moreover, a list of sub-projects ineligible for support under the HLP is provided
       in Section L.

Table: Potential impact and solutions adopted in the design of the HLP
Project Component       Potential impact                             Solution adopted in the
                                                                     design of the
                                                                     project or in this ESSF
Part A - . Horticulture Application of fertilizers and agro-         IPM is an integral part of the
                        chemicals/pesticides/insecticide/herbicides program.
.                                                                    An internationally hired IPM
                                                                     officer will work alongside
                                                                     two regional IPM
                                                                     coordinators in farmers'
                                                                     training on IPM. Sub-projects
                                                                     that require pesticides that
                                                                     fall in WHO classes IA, IB or
                                                                     II are
                                                                     ineligible (see Section L)




                                                        6
Project Component    Potential impact                       Solution adopted in the
                                                            design of the
                                                            project or in this ESSF
                     Forest or natural habitat              The project will take place in
                     degradation                            existing
                                                            agricultural land. Moreover,
                                                            the tree
                                                            planting component will
                                                            actually
                                                            improve the natural
                                                            landscape of the
                                                            country.
                     Land acquisition                       No land acquisition is
                                                            anticipated. In case
                                                            of land acquisition the
                                                            guidelines in
                                                            Section L should be
                                                            followed.
                     Increase in water use for irrigation   No new irrigation scheme or
                                                            expansion
                                                            of scheme is foreseen (new
                                                            orchards will
                                                            be established in existing
                                                            agricultural
                                                            land). Sub-projects requiring
                                                            new or
                                                            expanded irrigation schemes
                                                            are
                                                            ineligible as per the list in
                                                            Section L.
Part B - Livestock   Erosion due to                         Before livestock are
                     unsustainable grazing                  purchased, grazing
                                                            requirements for the new and
                                                            projected
                                                            herd should be estimated, and
                                                            legal
                                                            access to sufficient
                                                            sustainable grazing
                                                            ensured (code of practice for
                                                            the
                                                            mitigation of potential
                                                            environmental
                                                            impacts in Section N).




                                                     7
Project Component      Potential impact                               Solution adopted in the
                                                                      design of the
                                                                      project or in this ESSF
                       Localized temporary                            Construction activities
                       impacts from                                   limited road
                       construction work for the                      rehabilitation should follow
                       installation of Veterinary                     the relevant
                       Field Units, cattle feed                       elements of the codes of
                       plant, provincial diary                        practice for the
                       processing facilities,                         mitigation of potential
                       storage network and                            environmental
                       development of basic                           impacts, presented in Section
                       transportation.                                N.

                       Pollution from diary                           No major pollution is
                       development                                    expected.

                       Pollution from semi-intensive                  No major pollution is
                       village poultry                                expected.
                       industry development intake


      G. Safeguards Screening

      19. The selection, design, contracting, monitoring and evaluation of subprojects will be
      consistent with the following guidelines:

       A negative list of characteristics that would make a proposed sub-project ineligible for support
       (Section L)
       Guidelines for land and asset acquisition, entitlements and compensation (Section M)
       Procedures for the protection of cultural property, including the chance discovery of
       archaeological artifacts, and unrecorded graveyards and burial sites (Section N).
       Relevant elements of the codes of practice for the mitigation of potential environmental
       impacts (Section O).
       The standard outline of the PMP (Section P)
       The requirement that confirmation is received through the Regional Mine Action center that
       areas to be accessed during project activities have been demined (Section Q)

      H. Responsibilities for Safeguard Implementation, Screening Impacts and Mitigation as
      well as Reporting

      20.        Sound design will if not eliminate, at least diminish to the extent possible, most of the
      potential adverse impacts of project activities. The overall responsibility of project
      implementation rests with the Ministry of Agriculture Irrigation and Livestock (MAIL). The
      MAIL will act through an Implementation and Management Support Team (IMST) which will
      be headed by a Manager who will be responsible to the minister of MAIL for overall Project
      Implementation.




                                                       8
21.          A qualified environmental and social Safeguards Focal Officer will be assigned
reporting to HLP Team Leader and will be responsible for overseeing the implementation of the
Environmental and Social Safeguards Framework as well as the proper and result based
application of IPM approach in HLP. In fact, the direct responsibility of the safeguards
implementation will be with the implementation partner staff but the Safeguard Focal Officer
will facilitate and contribute to capacity building, lessons learned in IPM, good practices, case
studies, collect and compiles reports about the progress or the lack of it and will get feedback
from the stakeholders including the WB. The Safeguard monitoring capacity will be gradually
transferred to relevant MAIL staff to ensure continuity in safeguard application after project
completion. During the operation stage, the M&E Unit will carry out the monitoring of the
operations also. It will confirm (from anecdotal evidence and, if required, laboratory testing) that
the water quality in the project area is not adversely impacted due to agrochemicals, soil
conditions are conducive for growth of crops normally grown in the region, and pathogens and
vectors are under control. In case of incidence of water related or water-transmitted disease, it
will co-ordinate with the local health department to ensure that the situation be brought under
control in the shortest possible time.

22. The Safeguards Focal Officer will be coordinating efforts, of Pest Management Plan (PMP),
regulations regarding pesticide importation, use, storage and etc. He/she will also ensure and
facilitate the studies whether there is any pesticide residues in the food chain and horticulture and
livestock components of the HLP or not and would take needed measures. Environmental and
social focal point(s) will help in mainstreaming environmental and social issues in the program.
This has been found necessary due to limited human capacity at the national and district level.

23.        Mitigation measures acceptable to the Bank are expected to be included in the
Operational Manual.

Annual Environmental and Social Audit Report Format

24. The format for completion of the annual environmental and social progress report is set out
below. The objectives of annual reviews of ESSF implementation are: (a) to assess the project
performance in complying with ESSF procedures, learn lessons, and improve future
performance; (b) assess the occurrence of, and potential for, cumulative impacts due to project
funded activities. These reports will be the main source of information for the World Bank
supervision missions and national environmental management authority when needed. A shorter
version of the following format could be used for monthly/quarterly reports and would also help
in producing annual reports.

Annual Environmental and Social Progress Report Format

       1. Introduction;
       2. Acronyms
       3. Objective;
       4. Sub-projects approved;
       5. Key environmental and social issues identified from sub-project screening;
       6. Mitigation actions undertaken;
       7. Capacity building programs implemented (training sessions held, venues, attendance
          and training modules);
       8. Results of EAs and other required safeguard management plans (e.g., EMP, RAP,


                                                 9
          PMP, and etc.);
       9. Collaboration with NGOs, CBOs, CDCs, and Government line agencies
       10. Lessons learnt; and
       11. Recommendations that can be implemented for sub-projects that will be
           implemented the following year.

       12. Annexes

J. Capacity Building

25.         As part of the social and environmental capacity building that will be provided for
implementation of IDA-financed operations in Afghanistan, the Safeguards Focal Officer and
relevant staff of MAIL and implementing agencies/Consultants will receive training in the
application of the Safeguard Framework. It is proposed to prepare specific materials, hold a
workshop, and arrange site visits to other countries in the region on similar projects in progress
to provide hands-on training to the Ministry and implementing agency staff. Specialist training
modules may be considered after an acceptable level of base knowledge has been established.
During supervision of the project, the World Bank will assess the implementation of the
Framework, and if required, will recommend additional strengthening.

K. Consultation and Disclosure

26.          This Environmental and Social Safeguards Framework was developed on the basis of
an overall Framework for World Bank-funded reconstruction operations which was prepared in
consultation with the principal NGOs and development partners participating in reconstruction
activities in Afghanistan. Prior to approval of the project by the World Bank Board, it will be
disclosed by the Government of Afghanistan in both Dari and Pashto, as well as English, and it
will also be made available at the World Bank's Infoshop. It is worth noting that Government of
Afghanistan intends to make all project documentation publicly available through the Afghan
Information Management System (AIMS).


L. Negative List

27.   Subprojects with any of the attributes listed below will be ineligible for funding under the
Emergency Horticulture and Livestock Project.

                             Attributes of Ineligible Sub-Projects
    Involves the significant conversion or degradation of critical natural habitats.
    Including, but not limited to, any activity within:

           Ab-i-Estada Waterfowl Sanctuary;
           Ajar Valley (Proposed) Wildlife Reserve;
           Dashte-Nawar Waterfowl Sanctuary;
           Pamir-Buzurg (Proposed) Wildlife Sanctuary;
           Bande Amir National Park;
           Kole Hashmat Khan (Proposed) Waterfowl Sanctuary.

    Will significantly damage non-replicable cultural property, including but not limited to


                                                10
                              Attributes of Ineligible Sub-Projects
    any activities that affect the following sites:
            monuments of Herat (including the Friday Mosque, ceramic tile workshop,
            Musallah complex, Fifth Minaret, Gawhar Shah mausoleum, mausoleum of Ali
            Sher Navaii, and the Shah Zadehah mausoleum complex);
            monuments of Bamiyan Valley (including Fuladi, Kakrak, Shar-I Ghulghular
            and Shahr-i Zuhak);
            archaeological site of Ai Khanum;
            site and monuments of Ghazni;
            minaret of Jam;
            mosque of Haji Piyada/Nu Gunbad, Balkh province;
            stupa and monastry of Guldarra;
            site and monuments of Lashkar-i Bazar, Bost;
            archaeological site of Surkh Kotal.

    Requires pesticides that falls in WHO classes IA, IB, or II.
    Requires involuntary acquisition of land, or the resettlement or compensation of more
    than 200 people.
    Affects waters in riparian neighbors.
    Roads
    New Roads.
    Widening of primary road.
    Irrigation
    New irrigation scheme or expansion of scheme requiring increased water intake
    New tube-well for irrigation.
    Income Generating Activities
    Activities involving the use of unsustainably harvested timber or fuelwood.
    Activities involving the use of hazardous substances.


M. Guidelines for Land and Asset Acquisition, Entitlements and Compensation

I. Objectives

28.    Land acquisition will be kept to a minimum and no person will be involuntarily displaced
under activities financed by the project. Any activities financed by the project that would require
demolishing houses or acquiring productive land should be carefully reviewed to minimize or
avoid their impacts through alternative alignments. No land or asset acquisition may take place
outside of these guidelines. A format for Land Acquisition Assessment is attached as
Attachment 2(i).

29.     These guidelines provide principles and instructions to compensate affected persons to
ensure that all such persons negatively affected, regardless of their land tenure status, will be
assisted to improve, or at least to restore, their living standards, income earning or production
capacity to pre-project levels.



                                                11
II. Eligibility

30.     PAPs are identified as persons whose livelihood is directly or indirectly affected by the
project. PAPs deemed eligible for compensation are:

        (1)       those who have formal legal rights to land, water resources or
                  structures/buildings, including recognized customary and traditional rights;
        (2)       those who do not have such formal legal rights but have a claim to usufruct right
                  rooted in customary law;
        (3)       those whose claim to land and water resources or building/structures do not fall
                  within (1) and (2) above, are eligible to assistance to restore their livelihood.

Acquisition of Productive Assets and Compensation

31.     PAPs are eligible for replacement costs for lost assets as described below:

        a.        Voluntary contributions. In accordance with traditional practices, individuals
                  may elect to voluntarily contribute land or assets and/or relocate temporarily or
                  permanently from their land without compensation.
        b.        Contributions against compensation. A contributor/asset loser considered
                  "affected" will be eligible for compensation from the local community or
                  alternatively from the Government. A PAP shall lodge his/her claim for
                  compensation to the local community representatives/shura head and it shall be
                  verified by the implementing agency. The claim shall be lodged within 2 weeks
                  of completion of the consultations with the concerned community, and before
                  project implementation begins.

32.     Voluntary contribution, or contribution against compensation, should be documented.
The documentation should specify that the land is free of any squatters, encroachers or other
claims. A format is attached in Attachment 2(i), which includes a Schedule to be followed to
assess any compensation claimed and the agreement reached.

III. Compensation Principles

33.   The project implementing agencies shall ensure that any of the following means of
compensation are provided in a timely manner to affected persons:

        (1)       Project affected persons losing access to a portion of their land or other
                  productive assets with the remaining assets being economically viable are entitled
                  to compensation at replacement cost for that portion of land or assets lost to them.
                  Compensation for the lost assets will be according to following principles:
                  a.      replacement land with an equally productive plot, cash or other equivalent
                          productive assets;
                  b.      materials and assistance to fully replace solid structures that will be
                          demolished;
                  c.      replacement of damaged or lost crops and trees, at market value;
                  d.      other acceptable in-kind compensation;



                                                   12
               e.      in case of cash compensation, the delivery of compensation should be
                       made in public, i.e. at the Community Meeting.

       (2)     Project affected persons losing access to a portion of their land or other economic
               assets rendering the remainder economically non-viable, will have the options of
               compensation for the entire asset by provision of alternative land, cash or
               equivalent productive asset, according to the principles in (1) a-d above.

Consultation Process

34.    The implementing agencies will ensure that all occupants of land and owners of assets
located in a proposed subproject area are consulted. There will be gender-separate community
meetings for each affected mantaqa/gozar (urban infrastructure) or village (other projects) to
inform the local population about their rights to compensation and options available in
accordance with these Guidelines. The minutes of the community meetings shall reflect the
discussions held, agreements reached, and include details of the agreement, based on the format
provided in Attachment 2(ii).

35.    The implementing agency shall provide a copy of the Minutes to affected persons and
confirm in discussions with each of them their requests and preferences for compensation,
agreements reached, and any eventual complaint. Copies will be recorded in the posted project
documentation and be available for inspection during supervision.

Sub-Project Approval

36.   In the event that a subproject involves acquisition against compensation, the
implementing agency shall:

       a.      not approve the subproject unless a satisfactory compensation has been agreed
               between the affected person and the local community;
       b.      not allow works to start until the compensation has been delivered in a
               satisfactory manner to the affected persons;
       c.      if more than 200 persons are affected and require compensation, the subproject
               shall be deemed ineligible for support under the emergency reconstruction
               operations.

Complaints and Grievances

37.     All complaints should first be negotiated to reach an agreement at the local
community/village level. If this falls, complaints and grievances about these Guidelines,
implementation of the agreements recorded in the Community Meeting Minutes or any alleged
irregularity in carrying out the project can also be addressed by the affected persons or their
representative at the municipal or district level. If this also fails, the complaint may be submitted
to the relevant implementing agency for a decision.

Verification

38.   The Community Meeting Minutes, including agreements of compensation and evidence
of compensation having been made shall be provided to the Municipality/district, to the


                                                 13
supervising engineers, who will maintain a record hereof, and to auditors and socio-economic
monitors when they undertake reviews and post-project assessment. This process shall be
specified in all relevant project documents, including details of the relevant authority for
complaints at municipal/district or implementing agency level.




                                            14
                                                 Attachment 2(i)

Land Acquisition Assessment Data Sheet

                             (To be used to record information on all land to be acquired)

1. Quantities of land/structures/other assets required:

2. Date to be acquired:

3. Locations:

4. Owners:

5. Current uses:

6. Users:

        Number of Customary claimants:
        Number of Squatters:
        Number of Encroacher:
        Number of Owners:
        Number of Tenants:
        Others (specify):        Number:

7. How land/structures/other assets will be acquired (identify one):

        Donation
        Purchase

8. Transfer of title:

        Ensure these lands/structures/other assets free of claims or encumbrances.
        Written proof must be obtained (notarized or witnessed statements) of the voluntary donation, or acceptance of
        the prices paid, from those affected, together with proof of title being vested in the community, or guarantee of
        public access, by the title-holder.

9. Describe grievance mechanisms available:




                                                            15
                                                                       Attachment 2(ii)

                                                Format to Document Contribution of Assets

The following agreement has been made on............................ day of.............................
between...............................................resident of ............................................(the Owner)
and .......................................................(the Recipient).

1. That the Owner holds the transferable right of .............................................jerib of land/structure/asset
in....................................................................................

2. That the Owner testifies that the land/structure is free of squatters or encroachers and not subject to other claims.

3. That the Owner hereby grants to the Recipient this asset for the construction and development of
................................for the benefit of the villagers and the public at large.

(Either, in case of donation:)

4. That the Owner will not claim any compensation against the grant of this asset.

(Or, in case of compensation:)

4. That the Owner will receive compensation against the grant of this asset as per the attached Schedule.

5. That the Recipient agrees to accept this grant of asset for the purposes mentioned.

6. That the Recipient shall construct and develop the........................and take all possible precautions to avoid damage
to adjacent land/structure/other assets.

7. That both the parties agree that the...........................so constructed/developed shall be public premises.

8. That the provisions of this agreement will come into force from the date of signing of this deed.


____________________________                                       ___________________________________
Signature of the Owner:                                            Signature of the Recipient:

Witnesses:
1.______________________________

2.______________________________
(Signature, name and address)




                                                                                 16
                                  Schedule of Compensation of Asset Requisition


Summary of                      Units to be Compensated                 Agreed Compensation
affected unit/item

a. Urban/agricultural
   land (m2):                   _____________________             ___________________

b. Houses/structures to be
   demolished (units/m2):       _____________________             ___________________

c. Type of structure to be
   demolished (e.g. mud,
   brick, etc.)                 _____________________                   Not Applicable.

d. Trees or crops affected:     _____________________             ___________________

e. Water sources affected:      _____________________             ___________________


Signatures of local community representatives, shura head:


Include record of any complaints raised by affected persons:


Map attached (showing affected areas and replacement areas):




                                                             17
N. Protection of Cultural Property

39.        Physical culture includes monuments, structures, works of art, or sites of
"outstanding universal value" from the historical, aesthetic, scientific, ethnological, or
anthropological point of view, including unrecorded graveyards and burial sites. Within this
broader definition, cultural property is defined as sites and structures having archaeological,
paleontological, historical, architectural, or religious significance, and natural sites with cultural
values.

40.     The proposed emergency reconstruction operations are unlikely to pose a risk of
damaging cultural property, as the subprojects will largely consist of small investments in
community infrastructure and income generating activities, reconstruction of existing structures,
and minor urban public works. Further, the negative list of attributes, which would make a
subproject ineligible for support (Attachment 1), includes any activity that would significantly
damage non-replicable cultural property.        Nevertheless, the following procedures for
identification, protection from theft, and treatment of chance finds should be followed and
included in standard bid documents.

Chance Find Procedures

41.     Chance find procedures are defined in the law on Maintenance of Historical and Cultural
Monuments (Official Gazette, December 21, 1980), specifying the authorities and
responsibilities of cultural heritage agencies if sites or materials are discovered in the course of
project implementation. This law establishes that all moveable and immovable historical and
cultural artifacts are state property, and further:

       1.      The responsibility for preservation, maintenance and assessment of historical and
       cultural monuments rests with the Archaeological Committee under the Ministry of
       Information and Culture, which has representation at provincial level.

       2.     Whenever chance finds of cultural or historical artifacts (moveable and
       immovable) are made the Archaeological Committee should be informed. Should the
       continuation of work endanger the historical and cultural artifacts, the project work
       should be suspended until a solution is found for the preservation of these artifacts.

       3.      If a moveable or immovable historical or cultural artifact is found in the
       countryside of a province, the provincial governor (wali) or district-in-charge (woluswal)
       should be informed within two weeks, and they should inform the Archaeological
       Committee. In case the immovable historical or cultural artifact is found in a city, the
       provincial branch of the Department of Maintenance of Historical Values of the Ministry
       of Information and Culture should be informed within two weeks (art. 18). If the find is
       made within the center, the Archaeological Committee must be informed directly within
       one week (art. 25).

       4.      Failure to report a chance find within the stipulated time limit will be punished
       with a fine or imprisonment for a period of one week or up to one month (art. 72).




                                                 18
       5.     If someone intentionally damages a historical or cultural artifact, the culprit shall
       pay compensation in accordance with the value of the artifact plus be imprisoned for a
       period of one month to ten years depending on the gravity of the crime (art. 71).

42.     In case of a chance find of moveable or immovable historical or cultural artifact, the
implementing agency is responsible for securing the artifact from theft, pilferage and damage
until the responsibility has been taken over by the relevant authorities as specified above.

43.     These procedures must be referred to as standard provisions in construction contracts,
when applicable. During project supervision, the Site Engineer shall monitor that the above
regulations relating to the treatment of any chance find encountered are observed.

44.     Relevant findings will be recorded in World Bank Project Supervision Reports (PSRs),
and Implementation Completion Reports (ICRs) will assess the overall effectiveness of the
project's cultural resources mitigation, management, and capacity building activities, as
appropriate.

O. Environmental Mitigation Measures (EMM) and their Coverage


    Activities generating
                                 Key Issues Addressed
    Impacts
                                     Incorporation of environmental concerns in project
                                     preparation to avoid impacts in construction and
    Project Preparation              operation stages
    (Planning & Design)           Avoidance of roads through sensitive(exclusion list)
                                     areas as reserved forests/sanctuaries/wetlands etc
                                  Compliance with legal requirements.
                                  Relocation of utilities, common property resources and
    Site Preparation                 cultural properties
                                  Avoidance of affect on roadside vegetation
                                  Avoidance of sensitive areas for location of
                                     construction camps
    Construction Camps
                                  Infrastructure arrangements for workers and
                                     construction equipment
                                      Avoidance of agriculture lands as borrow areas
    Borrow Areas
                                      Redevelopment of borrow areas
                                      Topsoil removal from areas
    Topsoil Salvage, Storage             temporarily/permanently used for construction
    & Replacement                     Reuse of topsoil at areas to be revegetated and in
                                         agriculture lands
                                 Redevelopment of quarries in case new quarries are setup
    Quarry Management
                                 for the project
                                  Extraction of water in water scarce areas with consent
                                     of community
    Water for Construction
                                  Scheduling construction activities as per water
                                     availability




                                               19
                            Slope stability along hill roads
                            Protection of land on hill side from stability loss due to
Slope Stability and         cutting
Erosion Control          Protection of lands on valley side from debris due to
                            construction
                         Adequacy of drainage for erosion control
                         Reuse of cut material in hill roads
Waste Management
                         Safe disposal of wastes
                         Avoidance from cutting due to alignment
                         Protection of embankment slopes in case of alignment
Water Bodies
                            on embankments
                         Rehabilitation of water body
                         Conduct of hydrological investigations during project
                            preparation
Drainage                 Provision of longitudinal and cross drainage as per
                            requirements
                         Proper location of drainage outfall
Construction Plants &   Maintenance of machinery and equipment to avoid
Equipment Management    pollution
                           Provision of Personal
                           Protective Equipment to workers
Public and Worker's
                           Provision of basic necessities to workers
Health & Safety
                           Public safety while travel along construction sites
                           Public safety during operation of the road
                           Avoidance of impacts due to project
                           Protection of boundaries from impacts due to
Cultural Properties
                           construction
                           Relocation in case impacts are unavoidable
                           Avoidance of impact on trees
                           For every single felled tree , two trees of local species
Tree Plantation
                           will be planted by the project authorities
                           Encourage growing of trees on roadside
Natural Habitats           Identification of natural habitats
                           Management measures for roads passing through
                           natural habitats (EMP)
                           Structure of management plan




                                      20
P Outline for Pest Management Plan

45.    The following general outline provides guidance for the preparation of a Pest
Management Plan. The level of detail depends on the nature of the project and the local
circumstances.

Elements of a Pest Management Plan:
      1.      Pest management approach
      2.      Pesticide management
      3.      Policy, regulatory framework, and institutional capacity
      4.      Monitoring and evaluation

1. Pest management approach
Current and anticipated pest problems relevant to the project.
(common pest problems and estimated economic impact);

Current and proposed pest management practices.
(Describe current and proposed practices, including non-chemical preventative techniques,
biological and chemical control; Is optimum use being made of agro-ecosystem management
techniques to reduce pest pressure and of available non-chemical methods to control pests; Do
farmers and extension staff get sufficient information about IPM approaches that reduce reliance
on chemical control?)

Relevant IPM experience within the project area, country or Region.
(Describe existing IPM practices, IPM projects/programs, IPM research);

Assessment of proposed or current pest management approach and recommendations for
adjustment where necessary.
(Where the current or proposed practices are not consistent with the principles of an IPM
approach, the discrepancies should be discussed and a strategy should be proposed to bring pest
management activities under the project into line with IPM).

2. Pesticide management
Describe present, proposed and/or envisaged pesticide use and assess whether such use is in line
with IPM principles.
(Provide purpose of pesticide use, type of products used, frequency of applications, application
methods; Is pesticide use part of an IPM approach and its justified? Justification of pesticide use
under the project should (a) explain the IPM approach and the reason why pesticide use is
considered, (b) provide an economic assessment demonstrating that the proposed pesticide use
would increase farmers' net profits, or, for public health projects, provide evidence that the
proposed pesticide use is justified from the best available (preferably WHO-supported) public
health evidence);

Indication of type and quantity of pesticides envisaged to be financed by the project (in volume
and dollar value) and/or assessment of increase in pesticide use resulting from the project;
circumstances of pesticide use and the capability and competence of end-users to handle
products within acceptable risk margins (e.g. user access to, and use of, protective gear and
appropriate application equipment; users' product knowledge and understanding of hazards and
risks; appropriateness of on-farm storage facilities for pesticides);


                                                21
Assessment of environmental, occupational and public health risks associated with the transport,
storage, handling and use of the proposed products under local circumstances, and the disposal of
empty containers;

Pre-requisites and/or measures required to reduce specific risks associated with envisaged
pesticide use under the project.
(e.g.: protective gear, training, upgrading of storage facilities, etc.);
Selection of pesticides authorized for procurement under the project, taking into consideration:
(a) criteria OP 4.09 on Pest Management; (b) the above hazards and risks, and (c) availability of
newer and less hazardous products and techniques (e.g. bio-pesticides, traps).

3. Policy, regulatory framework, and institutional capacity
Policies on plant protection and IPM;
(What are the government policies on pest management /crop protection and are these consistent
with IPM approaches? Are there direct or indirect subsidies for pesticides, donated pesticides
that distort market prices, or other factors that hamper uptake of IPM);

Description and assessment of capacity to develop and implement ecologically-based IPM;
(Public and private sector extension services, extension services provided by NGOs, research);

Description and assessment of the country's regulatory framework and institutional capacity for
control of the distribution and use of pesticides;
(Has pesticide legislation been enacted. Is it adequate and is it being enforced? Is a pesticide
registration scheme functioning? Assess effectiveness of measures to limit access to Class II
pesticides to licensed users if the use of such products is proposed (a specific requirement OP
4.09). Does the government monitor the quality of imported pesticides? Is there a quality control
laboratory? Is there a licensing system for traders? Does the government actively monitor
pesticide use and storage? Are poisoning statistics available? Are pesticide residues being
monitored on export crops and crops for the domestic market? Are medical staffs at rural clinics
trained to recognize and treat pesticide poisoning, and are antidotes available in rural areas? If
pesticides are financed, is local formulation/packaging envisaged? If yes, does this meet the
necessary requirements regarding occupational safety and are products properly packaged and
labeled?)
Proposed project (sub)components to strengthen capacity, where necessary.

4. Monitoring and evaluation
Description of activities that require local monitoring during implementation

Description of activities that require monitoring during supervision visits
(e.g. regarding: effectiveness of measures to mitigate risks; progress in strengthening regulatory
framework and institutional capacity; identification of new issues or risks arising during
implementation);

Monitoring and supervision plan, implementation responsibilities, required expertise and cost
coverage.


Q. Procedures for Mine Risk Management in World Bank-Funded Projects in Afghanistan


                                               22
46.    The following procedures are designed to respond to the risks caused by the presence of
mines in Afghanistan, in the context of:
             Community rehabilitation / construction works to be identified and implemented
              by the communities themselves (for small projects of up to $100,000 each);
             Small and medium-size works to be identified by local authorities and
              implemented by local contractors (for projects up to $5m each);
             Works to be implemented directly by Government departments/agencies, without
              use of contractors;
             Large works to be implemented by contractors (for projects above $5m);

47.    General comment applying to all following procedures: All risk assessment and clearance
tasks shall be implemented in coordination with the Mine Action Center for Afghanistan
(MACA). These procedures may need to be amended in the future depending on evolving
circumstances.


Procedure for Community-Managed Works

48.    Applicability: This procedure applies to community rehabilitation/construction works to
be identified and implemented by the communities themselves (for small projects of up to
$100,000 each).

49.     Overall approach: The communities should be responsible for making sure that the
projects they propose are not in mine-contaminated areas, or have been cleared by MACA (or a
mine action organization accredited by MACA).

50.    Rationale: Communities are best placed to know about mined areas in their vicinity, and
have a strong incentive to report them accurately as they will carry out the works themselves.

51.    Procedure:
       1. Communities are required to submit a reply to a questionnaire regarding the suspected
       presence of mines in the area where Bank-funded community-managed projects will be
       implemented. This questionnaire should be formally endorsed by the Mine Action
       Program for Afghanistan(MAPA). It will be a mandatory attachment to the project
       submission by the communities and should be signed by community representatives and
       the external project facilitator. External project facilitators will receive training from
       MAPA. Financing agreements with the communities should make clear that communities
       are solely liable in case of a mine-related accident.

       2. If the community certifies that there is no known mine contamination in the area, the
       ministry responsible for the selection of projects should check with MACA whether any
       different observation is reported on MACA's data base.

                 If MACA's information is the same, the project can go ahead for selection.
                 The community takes the full responsibility for the assessment, and external
                 organizations cannot be made liable in case of an accident.




                                              23
                 If MACA's information is different, the project should not go ahead for
                 selection as long as MACA's and community's statements have not been
                 reconciled.

       3. If the community suspects mine contamination in the area,

                    If the community has included an assessment/clearance task in the project
                    agreed to be implemented by MACA (or by a mine action organization
                    accredited by MACA), the project can go ahead for selection.

                    If the community has not included an assessment/clearance task in the project,
                    the project should not go ahead for selection as long as this has not been
                    corrected.

                    Mine clearance tasks must be implemented by MACA or by a mine action
                    organization accredited by MACA.             Communities will be penalized
                    (subsequent funding by World-Bank funded projects shall be reduced or
                    cancelled) if they elect to clear mines on their own.

Procedure for Small and Medium-size Works Contracted Out

52.    Applicability: This procedure applies to small- and medium-size works to be identified
by local authorities and implemented by local contractors (for projects up to $5m each).

53.    Overall approach: MACA (or a mine action organization accredited by MACA) should
provide detailed information on the mine-related risks (either based on previously done and
updated general survey or on a new general survey) before projects are considered for selection.
Only project sites assessed to have a nil-to-low risk would be eligible for selection, unless they
have been demined by MACA or by a mine action organization accredited by MACA.

54.    Rationale: Neither local authorities nor local contractors have the capacity to assess the
mine-related risks in a systematic way, while they may have incentives to underestimate them.

55.    Procedure:

       1.      Prior to putting up a project for selection, a general survey should be carried out
       by MACA (or a mine action organization accredited by MACA) to assess mine-related
       risks in the area of the project (this should include checking information available in the
       MACA data base).

       2.      If MACA provides information suggesting a nil-to-low risk in the proposed
       project area, the project can go ahead for selection.

       3.      The contract between the responsible ministry and the contractor will include a
       clause stating that in case of an accident, legal liability would be fully and solely borne
       by the contractor.

       4.     If MACA assesses a potentially high risk in the area (whether due to the presence
       of mines or uncertainty),


                                                24
             If the project includes an assessment/clearance task agreed to be implemented by
             MACA (or by a mine action organization accredited by MACA), it can go ahead for
             selection based on agreed funding modalities (clearance may be funded either under a
             contract with a Bank-funded project or under existing donor agreements with the
             mine action organization);

             If the project does not include an assessment/clearance task, it should not go ahead
             for selection as long as this has not been corrected.

Procedure for Works to be implemented directly by Government Departments/Agencies,
without use of contractors

56.   Applicability: This procedure applies to works to be implemented directly by
Government departments/agencies, without use of contractors.

57.    Overall approach: MACA (or a mine action organization accredited by MACA) should
provide detailed information on the mine-related risks (either based on previously done and
updated general survey or on a new general survey) before works or installation of
goods/materials are carried out in any given area. Work would only be allowed to proceed in
areas assessed to have a nil-to-low risk, unless they have been demined by a mine action
organization accredited by MACA .

58.     Rationale: Government departments and agencies responsible for providing services
currently do not have the capacity to assess the mine-related risks in a systematic way, and
currently follow a process of consulting with MACA prior to carrying out activities.

Procedure:

       1.      Prior to carrying out work, the Government department/agency will consult with
       MACA to assess mine-related risks in the area (this should include checking information
       available in the MACA data base). If not already done, a general survey should be
       carried out by MACA (or by a mine action organization accredited by MACA) to assess
       mine-related risks in the area.

       2.       If MACA provides detailed information on mine-related risks which suggest a nil-
       to-low risk in the proposed area, the work can proceed. The Government would be solely
       liable in case of a mine-related accident.

       3.       If information provided by MACA cannot support the assessment of a nil-to-low
       risk in the proposed area (whether due to the presence of mines or uncertainty), works
       should not go ahead before MACA (or a mine action organization accredited by MACA)
       carries out the necessary further assessment and/or clearance for risks to be downgraded
       to nil-to-low, based on agreed funding modalities (clearance may be funded either under
       a contract with a Bank-funded project or under existing donor agreements with the mine
       action organization).

Procedure for Large Works Using Contractors



                                                25
59.    Applicability: This procedure applies to large works to be implemented by large
contractors (projects above $5m).

60.     Overall approach: The main contractor should be responsible for dealing with mine-
related risks, in coordination with the UN Mine Action Center




                                           26
