                                              Document of
                                           The World Bank

                                       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                                                                        Report No: 36176

                             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                          (TF-22499 TF-28358)

                                                  ON A

                             GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY GRANT

                               IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 4.1 MILLION

                                  (US$ 5.5 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                                    TO

                                               ROMANIA

                                                 FOR A

                    BIODIVERSITY CONSERVATION MANAGEMENT PROJECT




                                              June 28, 2006




Environmentally and Socially Sustainable Development Sector Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region

This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                             CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                        (Exchange Rate Effective May 31, 2006)

                               Currency Unit = New Romanian Lei
                                      RON 1 = US$ 0.3633
                                       US$ 1 = RON 2.7525

                                     FISCAL YEAR
                               January 1 -    December 31

                        ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BC      Biodiversity Conservation
BCMP    Biodiversity Conservation Management Project
BIMS    Biodiversity Information Management System
CAP     Common Agricultural Policy
CAS     Country Assistance Strategy
CMN     Commission for Natural Monuments
DDI     Danube Delta Institute
DNBC    Directorate for Nature and Biodiversity Conservation
EPA     Environmental Protection Agency
EU      European Union
FFI     Fauna and Flora International
FSC     Forest Stewardship Council
GEF     Global Environment Facility
GIS     Geographic Information System
HCVF    High Conservation Value Forests
ICAS    Forest Research and Management Planning Institute
IT      Information Technology
IUCN    International Union for the Conservation of Nature (World Conservation Union)
MAFRD   Ministry of Agriculture, Forests and Rural Development
MEWM    Ministry of Environment Protection and Water Management
MPF     Ministry of Public Finance
MSP     Medium-sized Project
NFA     National Forest Administration (also referred to as Romsilva)
NGO     Non-Governmental Organization
NWG     National Working Group
PA      Protected Area
PCT     Project Coordination Team
PMA     Park Management Administration
PCNP    Piatra Craiului National Park
RAPPAM  Rapid Assessment and Prioritization of Protected Area Management
RNP     Retezat National Park
SGP     Small Grants Program
UNDP    United Nations Development Program
VNNP    Vanatori-Neamt Natural Park
WWF     World Wide Fund for Nature

   Vice President:  Shigeo Katsu
 Country Director   Anand K. Seth
  Sector Manager    Benoit Blarel
Task Team Leader    Peter A. Dewees

                                          ROMANIA
                       Biodiversity Conservation Management Project


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                                     Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                           1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                          1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry                2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                   5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                   13
6. Sustainability                                                                       14
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                        15
8. Lessons Learned                                                                      17
9. Partner Comments                                                                     18
10. Additional Information                                                              19
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                    20
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                    26
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                    30
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                    31
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                    33
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                       34
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                   35
Annex 8. Map of Project Sites and the System of National and Natural Parks in Romania   36
Annex 9. Project Completion Report Prepared by the Recipient                            38

Project ID: P044176                                                  Project Name: Biodiversity Conservation Management
                                                                     Project
Team Leader: Peter A. Dewees                                         TL Unit: ECSSD
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: June 28, 2006


1. Project Data
                   Name: Biodiversity Conservation Management Project             L/C/TF Number: TF-22499; TF-28358
   Country/Department: ROMANIA                                                            Region: Europe and Central Asia
                                                                                                     Region

        Sector/subsector: Forestry (42%); Central government administration (33%); Other social services (22%); Other
                            domestic and international trade (3%)
                  Theme: Biodiversity (P); Environmental policies and institutions (P); Participation and civic
                            engagement (S); Law reform (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 07/09/1996                                     Effective: 10/15/1999                10/15/1999
     Appraisal: 05/22/1997                                         MTR:                             10/28/2002
      Approval: 05/27/1999                                      Closing: 12/31/2004                 09/30/2006



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          Government of Romania/ Ministry of Agriculture, Forests, and Rural
                                           Development
                      Other Partners:      Ministry of Environment and Water Management

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Shigeo Katsu                                   Johannes F. Linn
Country Director:               Anand K. Seth                                  Andrew Vorkink
Sector Manager/Director:        Benoit Blarel                                  Kevin Cleaver
Team Leader at ICR:             Peter A. Dewees                                John W. Fraser Stewart
ICR Primary Author:             Andrey V. Kushlin


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       H
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry: S                                S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
The Global Environment objective of the project was the sustainable conservation of the biological
diversity and ecological integrity of the Romanian forest, alpine and meadow ecosystems of the Carpathian
mountain chain. The Development objective of the Project was to assist Romania in establishing effective,
intersectoral, participatory planning and sustainable management of natural ecosystems and associated
landscapes at selected demonstration sites in the Carpathian mountains, and mechanisms to support
replication of these activities at other priority conservation sites.

Assessment: Overall, the project objectives were realistic, involving technical interventions and
implementation arrangements which had been tried in earlier GEF- and other donor-supported projects in
the biodiversity area, and fully utilizing technical and human resource capacity available within the
implementing agencies involved. The project objectives were subject to little risk in terms of design or
implementability of these technical interventions. The main implementation concerns were primarily linked
to the efficiency of decentralized delivery and participatory approach, which were among of the project's
main innovations in the country.

At the same time, in recognition of the pre-existing 'low base' in the area of biodiversity conservation and
environment management in Romania, as well as the transition nature of many underlying institutions, the
project objectives were adequately modest and purely catalytic in terms of ability of the limited GEF
project interventions to fully establish a mature and sustainable nation-wide system of protected area
management in the country. The project was not designed to be able to fully respond to subsequent
system-wide external shocks, such as large-scale land restitution, though it has been able to provide
important complementary inputs related to the EU accession process, which became more important
through the implementation period.


3.2 Revised Objective:
The original project objectives were not revised.

3.3 Original Components:
The project consisted of four components:

(A) Strengthen the National Framework for Biodiversity Conservation (US$1.1 million, or 12.5% of
project costs at appraisal; US$0.87 million, or 10 % of costs estimated at closure): through (i) review and
revision of the legal and regulatory framework for protected area management; (ii) strengthening the
capacity of DNBC to plan and lead biodiversity conservation at the national level; (iii) strengthening the
capacity of NFA to replicate protected area and conservation management in forest areas; and (iv)
development of a strategy to incorporate biodiversity considerations into forest management planning at an
ecosystem level.

(B) Develop Models for Protected Areas and Forest Park Management (US$6.21 million, or 70.6% of
project costs at appraisal; US$6.23 million, or 75.0 % of costs estimated at closure): through (i)
establishment of systems for participatory planning and management of biodiversity at the three selected
demonstration sites: Retezat National Park, Piatra Craiului National Park, and Vanatori-Neamt Natural
Park (see map and table in Annex 8); (ii) establishment of participatory mechanisms to reduce
unsustainable resource use, including the extension of small grants to eligible beneficiaries at the three
demonstration sites; (iii) development of a strategy for ecotourism at the three demonstration sites; (iv)



                                                       - 2 -

establishment of a program for the reintroduction of the European bison at the Vanatori-Neamt Natural
Park; and (v) demonstration of models for forest management practices responsive to biodiversity concerns,
including the extension of small grants to eligible beneficiaries.

(C) Build Public Support for Biodiversity Conservation (US$0.72 million, or 8.2% of project costs at
appraisal; US$0.3 million or 4 % of costs estimated at closure): through preparation and implementation of
national and park level strategies, and targeted action plans, for raising the awareness of specific
stakeholders at the three demonstration sites and the general public about the importance of biodiversity
conservation.

(D) Project Management and Monitoring (US$0.76 million, or 8.6% of project costs at appraisal;
US$0.96 million, or 11 % of costs estimated at closure): through provision of consultants' services,
equipment and incremental operating costs to strengthen the project implementation capacity of the PCT.

Assessment: The technical design of the project was undertaken through a participatory process that first
identified existing and anticipated threats to biodiversity conservation and their underlying causes, and then
developed project components to address these root causes. As a result, the project's components were
appropriately related to its development and environmental objectives, comprising both the national-level
interventions (improvement of legal and regulatory framework, institutional capacity building and public
awareness activities) and a critical mass of targeted, site-specific investments (establishment and testing of
demonstration models of participatory planning and management of biodiversity at the three selected
parks). Analysis and rejection of project alternatives at appraisal (Protected Area management through the
establishment of a new government institution, or by NGO, or by private sector) was adequate for the
prevailing institutional conditions of that time. The selection of project interventions, their scope and
geographic focus were appropriate and well substantiated. Considering the pre-existing country conditions,
the project has justifiably put major emphasis, in terms of the amount of allocated resources, on park-level
activities (70% for Component B), so as to ensure that several workable field models are well established
and properly tested for addressing the rapidly increasing and changing needs for protected area
management and biodiversity conservation, with the focus on demonstrating best practice in decentralized
land-use planning and field implementation. Selection of demonstration sites was undertaken in a fully
transparent manner by the national biodiversity steering committee; sites were chosen to include natural
ecosystems of international importance, together with examples of different conservation management
needs and strategies to address them (national park, natural park, forest park/sustainable forest
management). The design of project components was successfully built on lessons from similar earlier
projects in Eastern Europe and around the world in three aspects: (i) addressing the links between
socioeconomic issues and sustainable natural resource use and management, (ii) building both the local and
national capacity for conservation management, and (iii) ensuring a participatory and transparent approach
to project preparation and implementation.

The choice and organization of project activities were well related to the existing implementation capacity
of the government. Component D provided for the incremental technical, procurement and financial
management support to administer the operation. The implementation arrangements for the project were
adequate and ensured single-point responsibility for deliverables and budget control. The project design did
not envisage the various significant institutional changes during the course of implementation, and while it,
for the most part, responded flexibly to these changes, various opportunities for closer collaboration
between stakeholders in the two affected Ministries were made more difficult.

The project was originally placed in the Ministry of Water, Forests and Environmental Protection
(MWFEP). In 2001, responsibilities for forestry were shifted to the Ministry of Agriculture, Forests and


                                                      - 3 -

Food, while policy, regulatory and legal issues related to biodiversity conservation remained with the
Ministry of Water and Environmental Protection (MEWP). By 2003, the Ministries had merged again into
the Ministry of Agriculture, Forests, Water and Environment (MAFWE), and were split again in
2004 into the current configuration of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forests and Rural Development
(MAFRD) and the Ministry of Environment and Water Management (MEWM). MAFRD has retained
overall responsibility for project implementation largely because of its much greater institutional capacity
for project management and because the bulk of project funds were geared toward supporting activities
undertaken by the National Forest Administration (NFA), which is subordinated to it. The reorganized
Ministry of Environment and Water Management (MEWM), through its Directorate for Nature and
Biodiversity Conservation, Protected Areas and Natural Monuments (DNBC), has remained a key partner
and beneficiary of the project at the central and county levels and has been deeply involved in regulatory
and policy matters as well as in developing the capacity for biodiversity information management, and the
national public awareness strategy. The repeated institutional reconfigurations has, to some extent,
weakened opportunities for institutional capacity building in MEWM in particular, and has introduced
unneeded and somewhat problematic complexities into the dialogue between stakeholders in both
Ministries. These, for the most part, have been overcome. Arguably, to some extent, the tensions which
has resulted have brought about better outcomes than would have otherwise been likely.

A small Project Coordination Team (PCT) was established in Bucharest to ensure coordination of
day-to-day project activities, including procurement, financial management, and technical supervision.
Larger procurement packages or national-level activities were handled by the PCT while the bulk of field
activities were delegated to the field-level PMAs based, respectively, in Retezat, Piatra Craiului and
Vanatori-Neamt. The PMAs received adequate support and training at the onset of the project, which
enabled smooth and efficient decentralization of project management and subsequent replication and scaling
up of project activities.

3.4 Revised Components:
The original project components were not revised, although some adjustments were made to the
implementation arrangements during the second year of the project to reflect the above-mentioned
separation of functions between participating ministries in 2001.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
Satisfactory. The project design was consistent with objectives of the CAS and governmental development
priorities and complied with the applicable safeguard policies of the Bank. The technical design was
carried out in a highly participatory manner and corresponded well to the project objectives. Assumptions
about the demand for the project outputs and the international/domestic input costs were reasonable. The
GEF Project Document described the project and its background in sufficient detail. Key project
stakeholders participated in the project design, preparation, appraisal and grant negotiations. The proposed
implementation arrangements were adequate and in direct control of the government; they correctly
followed Recipient's governance structures and accounted for institutional constraints associated with the
project's strong site-specific focus. Needs in implementation capacity building were assessed and
adequately addressed in the project design. Assessment of the key implementation risks, related to the
project sectoral context, was generally reasonable.

The project was one of the second-generation GEF projects, and its preparation was relatively
straightforward from a narrow technical standpoint. However, the decentralized model of implementation
of Bank- and GEF-financed projects was new to Romania, and the Recipient's learning of the relevant
operational requirements, procedures, and practices had to be an integral part of the dialogue. The very
earliest project proposals were rejected and a much more highly participatory preparation process was


                                                     - 4 -

launched to develop a more strategic approach toward the sector. Project preparation funds were also used
to prepare a National Biodiversity Strategy as one of its commitments under the Biodiversity Convention.
For all these reasons, project preparation was relatively slow and required extensive input from the Bank.

Despite these delays, a quality-at-entry review by QAG gave an overall Satisfactory rating, with a number
of highly satisfactory elements, particularly with respect to the project concept and objectives,
environmental aspects, and readiness for implementation.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Overall, project outcomes are rated Satisfactory because they have already substantially shaped the
development of the emerging new system of protected area management in Romania and contain all
prerequisites for being fully and effectively integrated into this system. Performance indicators outlining
progress in addressing specific project objectives is summarized in Annex 1.

Although, as of the ICR date, some project activities still remain to be completed before the final closing
date (September 30, 2006), the project objectives have already been successfully achieved, i.e. (1) effective
intersectoral, participatory planning and sustainable management of natural ecosystems and associated
landscapes has been properly established in two national parks and one natural park with the total area of
83,700 ha and forest area of 56,200 ha; and (2) mechanisms to support replication of these activities have
been successfully tested and are being implemented in a nationwide system of 21 national and natural parks
with a total area of 602,800 ha managed by the NFA under 10-year management contracts with the
MEWM, each with independently appointed Scientific and Consultation Councils for guiding participatory
and intersectoral preparation and implementation of management plans, with an annual operating budget of
US$2.3 million, and a permanent staff of about 260 biodiversity conservation professionals, or about 10-15
in each park (see Map and Table in Annex 8). This system continues to grow, with 5 more national and
natural parks established and passed into the custody of the NFA in 2005.

From a technical design and implementation quality standpoint, the park management models developed
under the project represent some of the best practices in the ECA Region ­ e.g. in participatory
development of Management Plans, establishment and implementation of biodiversity monitoring protocols,
and practical application of modern mapping, GIS and information exchange technologies ­ which can be
usefully replicated at an international scale in many other countries with comparable conditions.

It should be noted, however, that the underlying mechanisms of financial and institutional sustainability of
these park management models within the NFA have now entered into a period of change, caused by the
two latest "system-wide" external shocks. One of them is the new (2005) Law on Land Restitution that
allows restitution of land of all categories, including Protected Areas, without limitations on the size of the
plots. When fully implemented, it would have a double effect of: (i) significantly increasing the role of
private land owners as a critical stakeholder group in achieving the objectives of biodiversity management
within the boundaries of formally protected areas; and (ii) diminishing by as much as 40-50% the NFA's
current economic base and thus reducing NFA's ability to continue to finance PA operations from its own
revenues derived from state-owned forests. With respect to the issue of restitution of land falling within
national and natural parks, MAFRD has developed a pilot program to provide compensation for private
land owners coupled with certain tax exemptions which have been enacted to favor these land owners.
These steps which will eventually be followed by payments under the EU Common Agricultural Policy
(CAP) Pillar 2 agri-environment program which is intended to support nature protection on private land.
The nature of the participatory protected area management planning process also provides good scope for



                                                      - 5 -

ensuring that private landowners are fully engaged in the management planning process.

With respect to the problem of revenue losses resulting from restitution, the Ministry of Public Finance has
made a commitment to provide budget financing for protected area management from 2007, which is likely
to come through MEWM. The existing management contracts, introduced as a result of legal forms
supported by the project, between MEWM and the park administrations include a provision for public
financing "when budget funds become available." Until recently, there had been no credible effort by
MEWM to seek budget funding for national parks, and so this provision in recent legislation (and an
assurance by the Ministry of Public Finance that it will come up with the funds) is a very good thing. In
addition, the loss of revenues by NFA is being mitigated by overall institutional changes to improve
expenditure efficiency which ensures adequate continuing allocations. MAFRD and by NFA's Board
recently took a decision to establish a separate legal entity with a separate Board and with separate
accounts, to centrally finance and manage the system of protected areas, rather than to rely on revenues
from individual Silvic Districts.

The second external shock is related to the EU accession process that is driving rapid, and major,
regulatory and administrative changes within the government structures aimed at facilitating the absorption
of potentially significant amounts of EU structural funds in environment management (including
biodiversity conservation) and in other sectors. To a great extent, the project has been responsive to some
of these changes, particularly supporting the establishment of the Biodiversity Information Management
System, which provided a framework for identifying so-called 'Sites of Community Interest' related to the
EU Birds and Habitats Directives, as well as for supporting the development of a new legal and regulatory
framework for nature protection more closely to align national legislation with the EU acquis. In other
respects, proposed institutional changes have introduced some uncertainty which could weaken the
excellent technical and management capacity of PMAs created by the NFA. In particular, a new National
Agency for Protected Areas has been established under MEWM, and there is a debate about the extent to
which it will assume NFA's responsibilities for protected area management, or if it will instead have a
continuing role (a role currently held by DNBC under MEWM) in providing oversight for the activities of
Park Administrations which are providing these services under contractual arrangements between NFA and
MEWM. The question is to be resolved during the process of preparing regulatory instruments which are
to outline institutional roles and responsibilities for the new Agency. A draft of the new regulation is in
preparation, and is to be finalized by December 2006.

4.2 Outputs by components:
The overall rating is Satisfactory, based on the following assessment of the individual components.
Additional details on project outputs from the Project Completion Report prepared by Government, are
available in Annex 9.

A. Strengthening of the National Framework for Biodiversity Conservation (US$1.10 million planned,
US$ 0.92 million actual)

Performance of this component is rated as Satisfactory.

Under this component, it was envisaged that the project would support a participatory review and revision
of the legal and regulatory framework for protected area management and that the capacity of the
Directorate for Nature and Biodiversity Conservation (DNBC) to plan and lead biodiversity conservation at
the national level would be increased. In particular, the project was to (i) facilitate a review and revision of
the legal framework for biodiversity conservation; (ii) develop and implement a national strategy to
increase public awareness and support for biodiversity conservation; (iii) develop and operationalize a



                                                        - 6 -

prioritized policy and strategy for establishing an effective national system of protected areas, including a
gap analysis to identify geographical priorities, the development of the rationale and mechanisms for
financing protected area management, and preparation of a program to support replication of protected area
management at priority conservation sites; and (iv) develop an international strategy for establishing
collaborative mechanisms for conservation of the Carpathian ecosystems. With respect to forestry, it was
further envisaged that (v) the NFA would be strengthened to replicate protected area and conservation
management in forest areas, and (vi) a strategy would be developed to incorporate biodiversity
considerations into forest management planning at an ecosystem level, rather than the level of the forest
"production unit".

As of the date of ICR preparation, progress in meeting all of the objectives addressed by these activities has
been very substantial, and in many respects has already exceeded the performance expectations.

Shortly after the project became effective, Government Ordinance No.236/2000 regarding protected areas,
habitats and wildlife conservation, and its amendment by Law No.462/2001 was approved. The project
subsequently supported a review of the existing legislation and the development of a new functional
legislative and regulatory framework, including:

l Government Decision No.230/2003 establishing national and natural parks boundaries and
    management;
l Ministerial Order No.552/2003 establishing internal zoning of national and nature parks;
l Ministerial Orders No.850/2003 and 494/2003 delegating management responsibilities;


Other laws were also modified and/or amended (e.g. Environmental Law No.5/2000 etc.) in order to be
consistent with the new provisions in relation with biodiversity conservation and protected areas.
Following the legal review, national legislation is now, by and large, consistent with the international
agreements ratified by Romania and with the requirements of the EU. The new developed laws and
regulations provided tools for protected areas management and biodiversity conservation activities ­ e.g.
legal frame for establishing new PAs, clear borders and internal zoning for existing PAs, management and
administration, etc. Transparency, participatory approach and stakeholder consultation are part of PA
management according to new legislation provisions. Legal mechanisms for enforcement in protected areas
are reasonably well-defined viz. the Environment Guard and the role of the Scientific Councils. During
implementation, the legal framework was repeatedly tested, and important precedents were set for how
various management and development issues were resolved, both in the 3 parks, and in other protected
areas.

Secondly, MEWM received the critically needed, catalytic support in equipment and training that were
needed to initiate design and development of the Biodiversity Management Information System (BIMS),
which had been ever since expanded by the Ministry into a national-level tool widely used on a data-sharing
basis by various research and planning organizations within and outside of the government. Preparation of
BIMS involved international and local experts/consultants, including the Danube Delta National Institute
for Research & Development (DDNI) that created some initial datasets. A national gap analysis and
preparation and implementation of a national strategic plan to address priorities for conservation were done
in this view. Since the Protected Areas had not been precisely mapped, the process also included digitizing
and mapping all protected areas, based on the best available information, including satellite images. The
BIMS provided a framework for identifying 'Sites of Community Interest' as required by the EU Birds and
Habitats Directives.

Thirdly, while the project was providing direct operational support only to the three selected parks,


                                                      - 7 -

capacity-building activities for the NFA central staff have been very instrumental in getting NFA ready to
expand their PA system and enter into administrative contracts with MEWM to take on the management of
a total of 21 natural and national parks which are in forest areas. Over 200 NFA professional staff have
already been deployed to meet the conditions of these administration contracts (with the total planned
staffing of about 330 people when all park administrations are fully deployed), and participatory protected
area management planning processes have been launched in a number of these, building on the experience
and skills gained in the first three project sites. Regular meetings are now held between the MEWM, the
Romanian Academy's Commission on Natural Monuments and the NFA on the subjects of park
administrations' coordination. All the activities done by the NFA parks are collected in an annual report,
approved by the parks' Scientific Councils and submitted to the MEWM. Currently, for parks
administered by NFA, 4 management plans have been formally approved, another 12 have been prepared
and are waiting approval, and another 5 are underway.

The challenge for the future is how this capacity is to maintained, with institutional changes proposed as a
result of the creation of the new Protected Areas Agency. This question will be resolved in the coming
months through discussion amongst key stakeholders, which will establish the mechanisms by which the
new PA Agency will coordinate and carry out regulation, administration and public funding of the PA
management contracts with eligible and duly qualified third-party organizations, such as e.g. the NFA, or
municipal councils, or private/NGO entities, etc.

After the project successfully supported an initial small-scale testing of voluntary forest certification
(31,000 ha) inside and in the immediate vicinity of the Vanatori-Neamt Natural Park, with its own funding,
the NFA received certification of about 1.1 million ha of its forests elsewhere in the country, to
international standards outlined by the Forest Stewardship Council, and intends to complete this process in
all the remaining state forests after the restitution process completion. Biodiversity conservation has
therefore been included as an operational principle in forest management planning regulations, but further
development and practical implementation is key.

Despite these exemplary achievements in several important aspects, the component was less successful in
supporting the timely elaboration of a common strategic vision among the key government stakeholders
(MEWM and MAFRD/NFA) regarding the future development of the national system of protected areas in
Romania in response to the new factors of land restitution and EU accession discussed in section 4.1 above.
These issues are currently being addressed by the government under significant time pressure, whereas the
much earlier project interventions to support independent mediation and facilitation of these discussions (as
recommended during Mid-Term Review in 2002) could have allowed to better prepare for the presently
needed system adjustments.

B. Development of Models for Protected Areas and Forest Park Management (US$6.21 million planned,
US$ 6.56 million actual)

Performance of activities under this component is rated as Highly Satisfactory.

Under this component the project was to focus on: (i) establishing systems for participatory planning and
management of biodiversity at the three demonstration sites - in Retezat National Park in the west (38,047
ha), Piatra Craiului National Park in the center (14,800 ha) and Vanatori-Neamt Natural Park in the
north-east (30,818 ha); (ii) establishing participatory mechanisms to reduce unsustainable resource use
through introduction of systems for management of shared resources such as grazing and forest products,
and the demonstration of links between conservation and economic benefits for the local population; (iii)
developing a strategy for ecotourism, which produces benefits for local communities; (iv) establishing a


                                                        - 8 -

program for reintroduction of the European bison, a "flagship" species for public awareness of forest
ecosystems values, at the Vanatori-Neamt Natural Park, which is part of the former natural range of this
native animal; and (v) demonstrating models for forest management practices that address biodiversity
concerns, including incorporation of biodiversity in forest management planning and establishment of
guidelines and the economic rationale for independent certification of forest products.

As of the date of ICR preparation, this largest project component has produced most significant outputs
and developed best practices well beyond the objectives originally planned, as described below. It has also
generated a rich body of lessons in the development of field-level biodiversity conservation and
management - such as the participatory development of Management Plans, establishment and
implementation of biodiversity monitoring protocols, and practical application of modern mapping, GIS
and information exchange technologies - that merit thorough analysis and dissemination to relevant
communities of practice across Romania and in other countries. As part of these experiences, some of the
most capital-intensive activities under this component (civil works for construction of visitor centers) have
been affected by significant delays and setbacks related to land acquisition procedures, design scoping and
re-tendering, construction permit approvals, and contractor performance, which was the main cause for two
extensions of the project closing date for the total of 21 months. The ICR mission in March 2006 visited
these sites and confirmed that the arrangements were well in place to allow completion of the remaining
civil works and procurement of the associated equipment and services (worth about US$500,000) before
the final closing date of September 30, 2006.

These construction delays, however, cannot overshadow the main achievement of the component in that it
had already allowed to fulfill the primary project objective, i.e. the development of management systems in
two national parks and one natural park (with the total area of 83,700 ha and forest area of 56,200 ha) and
the replication of these lessons in other priority sites. The three park management teams have moved well
beyond the objectives originally outlined, and have established themselves as viable PMA units. Models of
conservation management planning have been developed and tested for the three project sites. The
respective management plans have been developed and approved for the three parks, an additional 12 plans
have been prepared and are waiting approval, and another 5 are under preparation. Baseline ecological
surveys have been completed and monitoring protocols developed and implemented, with regular ecological
surveys now continuing on an annual basis. These models are now implemented in the management
planning of all protected areas.

Ecotourism strategies have been developed and implemented for all sites with support from international
consultants. Local communities were involved in sustainable ecotourism activities. Following the Small
Grants Program (SGP) implementation (see below), a certain number of locals developed alternative
revenue-generating activities substituting natural resource exploitation. Number of grazing animals have
been reduced in Retezat and Piatra Craiului parks. Local communities decided to preserve pastures for
local livestock only, reducing grazing pressure.

Legislation has been amended to include specific provisions related to adjacent areas of the PAs. According
to the law, Park administrations are entitled to influence proposed activities in the adjacent areas. Grazing
studies were conducted and mechanisms to reduce grazing impacts (number of grazing animals) were
developed and implemented. Tourist flows are regulated through park regulations, approved by MEWM,
tourists going mainly on renovated marked trails, using camping sites and shelters away from sensitive
zones.

Models of forest management plans that integrate biodiversity conservation concerns were developed for
the Vanatori-Neamt Park, and forest management certification was achieved in 2002. Replicating this


                                                        - 9 -

experience, the NFA proceeded with forest management certification for over one million hectares of state
owned forest.

A Small Grants Program (SGP) was implemented for each of the three sites. The SGP encouraged local
communities to develop activities in support of biodiversity conservation. It promoted park-friendly
activities and supported initiatives in various fields such as: (i) improvement of grasslands productivity; (ii)
supporting local associations in ecotourism activities; (iii) supporting local bed-and-breakfast pensions
development; (iv) promoting local traditions (handicrafts, sculpture camps, painting camps); (v) waste
management in the parks area; (vi) establishing ecological clubs in schools. Most of the these activities
promoted cooperation and involvement of local public administration and local associations and/or NGOs.
The experience of the SGP was very satisfactory and significantly contributed to the project goals. Most of
the activities promoted cooperation and involvement of local public administration and local associations
and/or NGOs. Local communities were encouraged to develop conservation-based revenue-generating
activities with low impact on the environment. Each park chose to approach the procedures and strategies
for implementing the SGP in its own way, to reflect the specific social and cultural context around the
protected area. The initiatives supported by the Small Grants Program are now being mainstreamed
through the UNDP-GEF supported small grants program and through other publicly funded activities.
Success with the SGP provides important lessons for implementing EU CAP Pillar 2 agri-environment
programs for nature protection on privately owned land.

The strategy for bison reintroduction was developed and implemented. Bison herd at Neamt include now 19
individuals. DNA analysis done, genetic compatible individuals purchased from various countries.
Management facilities, including quarantine farm built (Dragos Voda Bison Reserve was authorized as a
quarantine farm for bison import according to EU veterinarian legislation ­ the first such facility in
Romania). Bison are reproducing in the park area. The breeding records for bison from Neamt for the last
20 years have been reconstructed (having been lost during the Ceausescu years) and Neamt has been
re-entered into Europe-wide genetic records for the European bison. At the end of the project it is expected
that European bison population will live in the 180 ha enclosure (compared with the original 4 ha enclosure
at the beginning of the project period) as a precursory step towards reintroduction in the wild.

The park management models and facilities developed at the three sites (Vân·tori-Neam·, Piatra Craiului,
and Retezat), in addition to serving the immediate interpretation, tourist information, research/monitoring,
and community relations needs of each site, are also uniquely positioned to provide important system-wide
functions as training hubs for the staff of surrounding National and Natural Parks and other protected areas
and nature protection inspectorates, as well as centers of national and international field-based biodiversity
conservation research and monitoring. The PMA staff of the three project sites have already been, and will
continue to be, key contributors to the development of similar management plans, monitoring and
community outreach arrangements in other parks of the NFA system, as well as many smaller local PAs in
the surrounding areas. The WWF's independent Rapid Assessment and Prioritization of Protected Area
Management (RAPPAM) assessment of the emerging protected area system in Romania conducted in
March 2006 has confirmed the critical catalytic role of the three project sites in further development of the
system. The NFA, as the managing organization for these parks, and the MEWM are already in the process
of revising the existing PA management contracts and the accumulated practical experience of the project
should allow them to make sure that the new operating budgets and staffing levels are sufficient to properly
set up and maintain these additional functions benefiting the entire Protected Area system in the country.

The activities at the 3 pilot sites and at the national level which have been supported by the project have
also leveraged, and complemented, other national and regional initiatives such as the Carpathian
Convention, the above-mentioned activities regarding with forest certification, and the identification and


                                                       - 10 -

development of the Natura 2000 network. Among other things, the project has leveraged support for
highly-competitive EU Life funding at 2 of the 3 project sites and has provided the institutional framework
for seeking additional GEF Medium Sized Project (MSP) support for activities at two other protected areas
(Macin and Maramures Mountains) through the UNDP.

C. Building of Public Support for Biodiversity Conservation (US$0.72 million planned, US$0.31million
actual)

Performance under this component is rated as Satisfactory.

Under this component, the project provided initial support to the MEWM in the preparation of a National
Public Awareness strategy and program which reviews overall status of biodiversity conservation, its
ecological, economic and cultural significance, examines existing and potential influence of key
stakeholders on biodiversity conservation, and identifies and prioritizes key constraints to conservation and
sustainable management of biodiversity resources resulting from a lack of awareness on the part of
identified stakeholder groups. The program identified the information needs of each identified group, and
cost-effective delivery mechanisms to address these information needs. Further investment more fully to
implement the Strategy is needed to make it fully effective. The further use of this strategy beyond the
project life will be influenced by the MEWM's ability, jointly with MAFRD, to formulate and implement
practical solutions for the new configuration of the protected area system in Romania.

The second element supported by this component was the development and implementation of public
awareness programs by each of the three participating park management units. Interpretation materials,
media toolkits, publications, maps, park logos and mascots, as well as training and dissemination modules,
have been developed for use in the parks' visitor centers (now being completed under Component B) that
will provide interpretation of ecosystem functions and other important features of the parks to visitors.
Public awareness programs have been designed to enhance the impact of this experience and to carry an
understanding of key conservation issues to a wider audience. These programs have targeted local schools
and communities and other stakeholder groups that are of particular significance to each park. Training
manuals have been prepared for primary and secondary schools and approved for educational use by the
county school boards in each location. This experience is now also being replicated throughout the NFA
park system.

D. Project Management and Monitoring (US$0.76 million planned, US$1.01 million actual)

Performance under this component is rated as Satisfactory.

Under this component, a Project Coordination Team (PCT) was established at the national level, comprised
of a project manager, a procurement specialist and a financial management specialist. The PCT oversaw
and supported implementation of all project activities in accordance with agreed monitorable indicators. It
worked closely with the county level PMA staff at the three sites and with national project staff, to develop
and monitor workplans on a biannual basis. The PCT was particularly successful in organizing and
maintaining a proper enabling working environment for the project teams in the field, which was not a
trivial effort given the several reorganizations in the government entities responsible for project
implementation. Procurement, financial management, accounting and auditing processes in the center and
at the field level were organized in full accordance with the Bank requirements and national legislation.
Park staff have been adequately trained to exercise significant volumes of project transactions in a
decentralized way, which substantially increased project delivery efficiency. Even despite the significant
delays with completion of infrastructure activities, the PCT operating costs were prudently managed,


                                                      - 11 -

avoiding major cost overruns in this component. Many of the project's tasks were entirely decentralized to
the PMAs, and that the PCT was a very small and lean unit, with a coordinating role (though it did manage
the larger procurement packages). The ability to decentralize so many of the management tasks to the
PMAs was really important and contributed a great deal to institutional strengthening.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Because the value of this GEF is based on its Global Environmental benefit, a rate of return was not
calculated.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
N/A

4.5 Institutional development impact:
Overall, the project's institutional development impact is rated High.

At the ground level, the project has been fully successful in establishing and testing the practical
mechanisms and capacity for participatory development of Protected Area management plans, development
and implementation of biodiversity monitoring protocols, community outreach and public awareness
activities. This initial field capacity, established with project support, has already enabled the NFA to
carry out effective dissemination and scaling up of the tested administrative, technical and contractual
models for their expanding system of 21 national and natural parks with the total area of over 600,000 ha
across the country. Experienced staff from the three original parks have provided key support and
coaching to PMA staff of other parks in development of management plans, community outreach and IT
skills, optimization of administrative and technical arrangements and budgets, etc. Through its Small
Grants Programs, the project has also fostered development of local community organizations which are
representative, informed and empowered - both by their involvement in the PA management planning
process and by their increased skills in developing own project proposals. The project has supported a large
variety of training, workshops, study tours covering social, technical and organizational issues, and
involving project staff as well as beneficiaries. This has generated a wide range of skills, competencies and
knowledge capital in the communities around the project parks, and among project personnel, enhancing
sustainability of interventions on the ground, and increasing the capacity and implementation potential for
effective PA management at local, county and central levels - both within and outside of the relevant
government entities.

At the level of policy and institutional reform, the project has been successful in establishing and
mainstreaming - through the revised laws and regulations - several good practices, such as
performance-based contracts for PA management, participatory development and implementation of PA
management plans. The project was also a key stepping stone towards wide application of voluntary
certification of sustainable forest management in Romania. At the same time, the project may have been
more proactive, at the later stage of implementation, in using emerging opportunities for piloting and testing
of additional mechanisms of biodiversity management, such as compensation to new private landowners on
the park territory. Having said this, some uncertainty has been introduced by the establishment of the new
National PA agency, though this uncertainty will be removed with development and approval of regulatory
instruments which are currently in preparation. There is a legal mandate legally to establish the functions,
roles, and structures of the new Agency by the end of 2006.




                                                      - 12 -

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The most significant external factors substantially outside of direct control of the government ministries
responsible for project implementation were the pace and scope of the politically-driven land restitution
process and the institutional changes related to the EU accession. Their impacts on the project are
discussed in section 4.1 above. Dollar depreciation in the final years of the project was an additional factor
that reduced competitiveness.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Despite several ministerial reorganizations, government support for the project was consistently strong
from all involved ministries, thus creating a positive environment for project implementation. Importantly,
this included the Ministry of Public Finance that handled provision of counterpart funding in a regular and
predictable manner. The line ministries (MAFRD and MEWM) actively supported the up-scaling of
policies and practices adopted under the project. On the negative side, after the separation of ministerial
functions in 2001, strategic communications between MEWM and MAFRD in the goal-setting for future
development of the protected area system were not always effective, which resulted in several missed
opportunities. The repeated institutional reconfigurations has, to some extent, weakened opportunities for
institutional capacity building in MEWM in particular, worked against collaboration and cooperation
between key stakeholders, and introduced unneeded and somewhat problematic complexities into the
dialogue between MAFRD and MEWM. At the same time though, it could be argued that the tensions
which resulted have brought about better outcomes than would have otherwise been likely. A key
outstanding challenge remains how both Ministries are going to reach agreement about the role and
functions of the new National PA Agency.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
The NFA - both at central and county level - demonstrated outstanding commitment to the project and
provided substantial co-financing and staff resources to ensure smooth administration of the project
activities during start-up and implementation in all three demonstration sites, as well as subsequently
organized its up-scaling and replication throughout the whole NFA park system. Issues relating to staffing
of PMA positions were handled by the NFA, with PCT support, in a highly competitive and transparent
manner allowing to attract and retain the best qualified personnel.

5.4 Costs and financing:
At appraisal, the total project costs including contingencies were estimated at US$8.8 million, of which
US$5.5 million were to be financed by the GEF grant (SDR 4.1 million). Counterpart co-financing was
estimated at US$3.3 million, including US$2.4 million from the central government and US$0.9 million
from the NFA. Given the massive up-scaling of project results undertaken by the NFA even before the
project completion, the NFA's total contribution to mainstreaming the project objectives has already
reached US$5.3 million (for the infrastructure and operations of the expanding nationwide system), which
significantly exceeded the originally planned amount.

There were no major revisions made to the scope of the GEF-financed activities. The appraisal estimates
for prices and contingencies were generally adequate. As of the date of the ICR preparation, US$0.7
million worth of the GEF grant proceeds (or 12.7% of the total amount) still remained undisbursed, mainly
due to significant delays with completion of infrastructure contracts for visitor centers under Component B
(described in section 4.2), as well as with postponement of the final tranche of the Small Grants Program.



                                                     - 13 -

It is expected that all planned activities will be completed in full by the final closing date, which will be 19
months later than the original plan. Actual costs for construction of the visitors center exceeded planned,
and significant redesigns were launched for 2 of the 3 centers in an effort to reduce costs. The
redenomination of the Grant from SDRs into US dollars midway through implementation significantly
worsened the project's financial position following various exchange rate fluctuations, and the ways local
markets for goods, services, and civil works, responded to these. Estimated project costs (based on
spending patterns through 4.30.2006) are presented in Annex 2.

In addition to the US$5.5 million invested by the GEF over the life of this project in the three model parks,
the NFA and its park managers have been successful in attracting US$5.2 million of own funds and
US$10.5 million worth of additional international investments for biodiversity conservation activities for
new projects in nine parks, including US$6.6 million under six EU Life and Phare projects, US$1.95
million under two UNDP/GEF Medium-Size Projects (Macin and Maramures parks). At the local level,
many of the community organizations that benefitted from initial support under the Small Grants Programs
in the three demonstration areas, have also increased their skills in writing project proposals that are
capable of attracting further funding (both international and national) for their innovative biodiversity
management activities.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Sustainability of project results is rated Likely.

The institutional sustainability of project investments is based on the excellent capacity for protected area
management and regulatory planning and management which has been built in the NFA and in MEWM.
Provided this capacity can be retained in a changing institutional setting, there is little doubt that the overall
framework for protected area management (bolstered by the emphasis this is also given as a result of EU
accession) is vastly improved from what it was 6 years ago, and is well established.

Financial sustainability is equally important. The Ministry of Public Finance has indicated its commitment
to allocating EUR 6-7 million per annum over the course of the next 5 years for the operating costs and
strengthening of the reorganized national protected area system (including both the 27 large parks/reserves
and the numerous small local PAs). This is in addition to the commitment which NFA has given to
continue to finance PA activities using revenues generated from state forest management. These funds are
likely to total an additional EUR 2 to 3 million per year. Finally, important funding commitments have
been forthcoming over the 2007-2013 period, following Romania's accession to the EU. The Environment
Sectoral Operational Program outlines nature protection investments totalling EUR 150 million for this
period, mobilized for managing so-called "Sites of Community Interest," including the system of national
and natural parks.


6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
As indicated in the above sections, the NFA has already fully internalized project results in the organization
of 21 national and natural parks that it manages under long-term contracts with the MEWM (see table in
Annex 8).

Nevertheless, given anticipated future changes in the setup of the nationwide system of Protected Areas in
Romania and the forthcoming establishment of the National Protected Areas Agency under the MEWM,
special care should be taken to make sure that the excellent technical and management capacity of PMAs



                                                      - 14 -

created by the NFA with project support is fully utilized by the new system. This ICR recommends, based
on experience in the region, that the National Protected Areas Agency should focus on planning,
coordination and oversight of the nationwide PA system development, including preparation, negotiation
and administration (on behalf of MEWM) of the publicly funded PA management contracts with qualified
management organizations competitively selected in the basis of their management skills. At the same time,
the task of the NFA as the current custodian and main investor in the bulk of the National and Natural
Parks should be to focus on strengthening the capacity of the existing system. It will need to continue
effective maintenance and management of these assets at least for the duration of the existing, ten-year,
contracts with MEWM, so as to ensure that the park system as a whole that the NFA has helped create is
sufficiently robust and mature to sustain further institutional changes in response to land restitution and EU
accession processes. There is some uncertainty about whether or not the existing contractual arrangements
will be maintained, but this should be resolved by the passage of additional regulatory instruments by the
end of 2006.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
Satisfactory. The Bank provided strong support to the Government and the line ministries in identifying
key project activities. The Bank was exceptionally proactive and forward-looking in identifying early on
the weak points in the original draft project design, developed primarily by international consultants, and
undertook a broad revision of the design features through an intensive, in-depth and highly participatory
process with key national stakeholders that first identified existing and anticipated threats to biodiversity
conservation and their underlying causes, and then developed project components to address these root
causes. This special feature of project preparation has been well documented and can be considered one of
best practices among comparable projects in the Region. These up-front Bank inputs ensured a very high
degree of participation of key project governmental and nongovernmental stakeholders in the project design,
preparation and appraisal and built long-lasting commitments to project objectives on the part of national
stakeholders, which eventually translated into successful implementation of the main project activities.

Objectives of the project were fully consistent with the governmental development priorities and the Bank's
assistance strategy for the country. The project complied with Bank's applicable safeguard policies. The
project's technical design was adequate. Components of the project were clearly defined in the Grant
Agreement and the respective technical requirements in the GEF Project Document were laid out in
appropriate detail. The Project's institutional design and the proposed decentralized implementation
arrangements, including those for procurement and financial management, were adequate.

7.2 Supervision:
Satisfactory. Project implementation progress was reviewed and reported, and the project performance
ratings appropriately reflected the performance during the particular rating periods. Implementation
problems were identified in a timely manner and were addressed adequately and proactively. Advice to the
Recipient and the follow-up on agreed actions was adequate. The project performance was regularly
reviewed as part of the country portfolio performance reviews. The Bank maintained the project's
development and implementation ratings as satisfactory, as the progress with the key project elements
always remained sound. A Midterm Review was carried out which identified at an early stage many of the
key issues which the project would have to address during the remaining project period, including
institutional and financial sustainability, and the tensions which had arisen because of the separation of
responsibilities between MAFRD and MEWM. These issues remained a challenge through the project
period.




                                                      - 15 -

As the project was demanding on the implementation capacity at the field level (more than 30 main activity
tasks with a multitude of sub-tasks, spread over the three project sites across the country), the Bank
maintained close supervision and provided extensive support to the Recipient on implementation matters.
Day-to-day supervision and intensive up-front training and coaching of central and field staff in
procurement, financial management, and disbursement was essential.

The Bank was responsive to the Recipient's operational circumstances. It made procurement and financial
reporting procedures for local teams more flexible, to help the PCT streamline implementation of multiple
small tasks.

The quality and quantity of Bank staff and consultants, their time in the field, the timing of supervision
missions, and the support of the Bank management to staff at critical points were adequate.

In addition to regular supervision tasks and the monitoring of performance against key indicators (outlined
in Annex 1), the supervision process introduced the use of the World Bank/WWF Forest Alliance Protected
Area Management Effectiveness Tracking Tool (and translated this into Romanian), as a self-assessment
mechanism for individual park administrations to determine how well or poorly they are doing against
performance benchmarks set by the IUCN World Commission on Protected Areas. Finally, in conjunction
with the ICR, the Bank also financed (with Austrian Trust Funds), preparation of the Rapid Assessment
and Prioritization of Protected Area Management (RAPPAM) in Romania, reviewing the conservation
status and threats affecting the system of national and natural parks. The results from this Assessment are
separately reported, but confirm the positive impact the project has had on the overall context for protected
area management.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Satisfactory. At all stages of the project cycle the support to the Recipient from the Bank was adequate.
Bank's effort both at lending and supervision phases was intensive (see Annex 4) and the Bank has been
flexible in addressing changing circumstances and priorities of the Recipient. Staffing of the Bank's team
was adequate and the required skill mix and continuity was maintained. The Country Office provided full
support to the task team at all stages. Project supervision in financial management, procurement and
disbursement, decentralized to the Country Office, was effective. During supervision, the Bank's response
to implementation risks was adequate. The project complied with the applicable Bank's policies and
procedures.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Satisfactory. At the preparation stage, the Government and the line ministry demonstrated a strong
commitment to the project objectives. The technical, institutional, administrative and financial support they
had provided was adequate. Project design was sound and participatory. Arrangements to involve, and
cooperate with, the relevant local stakeholders were generally effective. Project preparation benefited from
the best available technical expertise (academia, leading environmental NGOs).

7.5 Government implementation performance:
Satisfactory. During implementation, MEWM, MAFRD (through NFA) provided strong and continuous
support to the project on all issues related to its technical substance. Key stakeholders and experts of
MAFRD, NFA, MEWM, Ministry of Public Finance and the Romanian Academy's Commission of
Natural Monuments operated as required, by reviewing the progress of Project implementation and
resolving general issues related to inter-agency coordination within the framework of the project. The
MAFRD's Project Director provided adequate guidance to the PCT and supported prompt implementation



                                                       - 16 -

of its operational decisions. The line ministries (MAFRD and MEWM) actively supported the up-scaling
of policies and practices adopted under the project. As already noted in section 5.2, strategic
communications between MEWM and MAFRD in the goal-setting for future development of the protected
area system were not always effective, which resulted in several missed opportunities of using the project
for early testing of new approaches in response to e.g. large-scale land restitution and to the challenges
posed by EU accession. This, however, did not undermine overall implementation performance of the
Government which is rated satisfactory.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
Highly Satisfactory. As already noted in section 5.3, MEWM and MAFRD (through the NFA), both at
central and local levels, has exercised outstanding commitment to the objectives of the project and allocated
substantial staffing and financial resources to ensure smooth project administration at the national level and
in all three demonstration sites. MAFRD also subsequently supported project up-scaling and replication
throughout the whole NFA park system. The centrally based Project Coordination team (PCT) operated
project accounts, managed GEF-financed contracts, and provided the required administrative support
services to the PMA staff at the three project sites. The PCT was exceptionally successful in organizing
and maintaining a proper enabling working environment for the PMA teams, which was not a trivial effort
given the several reorganizations in the government entities responsible for project implementation.
Procurement, financial management, accounting and auditing processes in the center and at the field level
were organized in full accordance with the Bank requirements and national legislation. Park staff have been
adequately trained to exercise significant volumes of project transactions in a decentralized way, which
substantially increased project delivery efficiency. The internal technical, procurement, financial
management, and administrative capacity was adequate.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Satisfactory. The Recipient maintained the commitment, capacity, and resources required to successfully
complete the project, achieve its objectives, and maximize development benefits.

8. Lessons Learned


The key lessons learned from the project are summarized below.

Operational and Technical

l Early involvement of key stakeholders in project preparation, specifically including local communities
     and influential decision makers, is essential in order to ensure ownership and successful project
     implementation; the benefits and objectives of the project should be made known to key stakeholders,
     through active participation and/or effective public awareness programs.

l In order to achieve environmental, social, institutional and financial sustainability, conservation
     strategies, as well as applied research and monitoring programs, must be site-specific and targeted to
     provide direct support for effective conservation management, addressing local issues and needs. Public
     finance needs to be mobilized for these tasks.

l Where consumptive use of natural resources is an issue (e.g., logging, grazing, hunting, fishing, etc.),
     resource users must be substantively involved in the design of sustainable resource management
     systems, and effective monitoring and control mechanisms need to be developed and applied.




                                                      - 17 -

l Small grants programs targeted at local communities within and near Protected Areas can be a very
    effective tool for leveraging community efforts in the direction of nondestructive livelihoods and
    building local capacity to attract additional funds from various national and international sources in
    support of these activities. Degree of success of these small grant programs is, however, strongly
    dependent on the qualifications and community outreach skills of park managers who are often in
    charge of their local implementation.

l Well designed arrangements for decentralized responsibility in procurement and financial management
    to the field teams can provide excellent results by encouraging accountable, efficient and technically
    competent implementation of project activities and increases their longer-term sustainability.


Institutional and Policy

l Existence of a well developed and stable anchor organization is a key prerequisite for successful
    replication and up-scaling of project results - as demonstrated both by replication of the Park
    management models across the country, and by the nationwide up-scaling of the successful pilot
    experience with forest certification (NFA "bought into it" as an organization).

l Where such strong management organizations exist, their technical capacity should be carefully
    preserved and fully utilized. In such situations, the role of the designated government entity responsible
    for Protected Areas should be focused on planning, coordination and oversight of the nationwide
    system encompassing Protected Areas of all jurisdictions and management types, as well as the
    administration of the publicly funded contracts for management of Protected Areas, to be entered into
    with qualified management organizations competitively selected in the basis of their management skills.


l A critical enabling factor for strong performance of project teams is the ability (explicit or implied) of
    site managers to create and maintain strong teams, based on a transparent and highly competitive staff
    selection process and backed up by the availability of a strong pool of professional staff within the
    anchor organization.

l Using a PIU for project coordination can be a strong project asset if run "as a business", if the PIU is
    lean and focused on a few management tasks, with day-to-day decisions done without unnecessary
    bureaucratic red tape - this was also part of the institutional culture of the anchor organization.

l In the case of institutional reorganizations taking place amidst project implementation (e.g. separations
    or mergers of ministries, departments and other relevant decision-makers), extreme care should be
    taken by the project team to re-establish and maintain clear lines of communications between the newly
    created entities regarding the project's strategic objectives and most effective ways of achieving them.
    Conversely, even slight negligence or relaxation of attention to these matters on the part of Bank and
    implementer teams may quickly lead to serious disagreements and jeopardize success of the operation
    as a whole.


9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
Ministry of Agriculture, Forests and Rural Development (MAFRD)



                                                      - 18 -

As an implementation agency, MAFRD is considering the Biodiversity Conservation Management
Project as a success and highly appreciates the cooperation and professional support of the World
Bank team directly involved in the implementation and supervision of BCMP. Over the project
implementation period, the biodiversity conservation sector features have been significantly
changed. This relates both to organizational structures and conservation domain approaches. It is
considered that most of the key elements of the project -- national protected area network / replication
mechanisms / functional conservation management models / planning for biodiversity / education and
public awareness -- are now part of day to day work having common understanding and built up
capacity behind.

At the end of the project the biodiversity conservation sector is supported by a strong regulatory
framework, consistent with international agreements and conventions and adapted to national
needs. New laws were issued, while existing differences between national and international laws
provisions were harmonized.

Experience achieved through establishing the first national and nature park administrations was of
high benefit for all the protected areas in the country. Replication mechanisms were designed in
order to take benefits from the lessons learned. Although the number and total area of PAs
significantly increased (exceeding initial expectations) all of them are currently managed by
administration teams. There are 27 national and natural parks in Romania with their own
administration; mechanisms for management and conservation for all protected areas were
developed and implemented.

Biodiversity conservation principles are now better considered in forest management and
management planning in over one million hectares of certified forests.

Operational capacity of the staff involved in biodiversity conservation has been improved while
cooperation mechanisms were established within national and international protected areas
networks. NFA is currently managing 22 parks, with the help of over 260 qualified staff, with
specific skills.

Assessing existing outputs of the project and analyzing the evolution of the process from the very
beginning, we consider that existing capacity and environment provide for a strong basis for
sustainability and further development in this sector.

No comments were received from MEWM.


(b) Cofinanciers:
N/A

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
N/A

10. Additional Information

N/A



                                                 - 19 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix




                                        - 20 -

- 21 -

- 22 -

- 23 -

- 24 -

- 25 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                     Appraisal        Actual/Latest       Percentage of
                                                                      Estimate          Estimate             Appraisal
                         Component                                   US$ million       US$ million
1. Strengthen National Framework for Biodiversity                        1.00                 0.93
Conservation
2. Develop Models for Protected Area and Forest Park                     5.65                 5.91
Management
3. Build Public Support for Biodiversity Conservation                    0.48                 0.33
4. Project Management and Monitoring                                     0.61                 0.84

Total Baseline Cost                                                      7.74                 8.01
 Physical Contingencies                                                  0.26                 0.14
 Price Contingencies                                                     0.35                 0.20
                            Total Project Costs                          8.35                 8.35
                    Total Financing Required                             8.35                 8.35


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                1
                                                       Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category                ICB                NCB                     2          N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                            Other
1. Works                                0.00               1.90               0.31             0.00              2.21
                                       (0.00)             (1.48)             (0.13)           (0.00)             (1.61)
2. Goods                                0.71               0.00               0.75             0.00              1.46
                                       (0.55)             (0.00)             (0.70)           (0.00)             (1.25)
3. Services                             0.00               0.00               2.61             0.00              2.61
                                       (0.00)             (0.00)             (1.48)           (0.00)             (1.48)
4. Subgrants                            0.00               0.00               0.49             0.00              0.49
                                       (0.00)             (0.00)             (0.49)           (0.00)             (0.49)
5. Incremental Operating                0.00               0.00               2.03             0.00              2.03
Costs                                  (0.00)             (0.00)             (0.67)           (0.00)             (0.67)
   Total                                0.71               1.90               6.19             0.00              8.80
                                       (0.55)             (1.48)             (3.47)           (0.00)             (5.50)



 1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the . All costs include contingencies.

 2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
   of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
   managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.




                                                       - 26 -

- 27 -

- 28 -

- 29 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

An economic cost benefit analysis was not carried out.




                                                  - 30 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              03/06/96                       BIODIVERSITY AND
                                             NATURAL RESOURCE
                                             MANAGEMENT SPECIALISTS
                                             (2); ECONOMIST (1) ;
                                             OPERATIONS ANALYST (1)

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              2/15/1999                      BIODIVERSITY AND
                                             NATURAL RESOURCE
                                             MANAGEMENT
                                             SPECIALISTS (2);
                                             ECONOMIST/FINANCIAL
                                             ANALYST (1);
                                             PROCUREMENT
                                             SPECIALIST (1);
                                             FINANCIAL
                                             MANAGEMENT
                                             SPECIALIST
              3/10/1999                      TEAM LEADER (1); LAWYER
                                             (1); DISBURSEMENT
                                             SPECIALIST (1); FINANCIAL
                                             MANAGEMENT SPECIALIST
                                             (1); PROCUREMENT
                                             SPECIALIST (1)

 Supervision

              09/30/1999                3    TEAM LEADER (1);                 S
                                             OPERATIONS ANALYST (1);
                                             BIODIVERSITY SPEC. (1)
              05/12/2000                1    TL; BIODIVERSITY SPEC. (1)       S
              10/16/2000                3    BIODIVERSITY SPECIALIS           S
                                             (1); OPERATIONS ANALYST
                                             (1); PROTECTED AREA SPEC.
                                             (1)
              02/10/2001                2    TEAM LEADER (1); PROJECT         S
                                             OFFICER (1)
              07/20/2001                4    TEAM LEADER (1);                 S
                                             EXTERNAL RELATIONS (1);
                                             SOCIAL SCIENTIST (1);
                                             CONSULTANT (1)
              03/27/2001                4    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);            S
                                             PROJECT OFFICER (1);
                                             EXTERNAL AFFAIRS (1);
                                             PROGRAM ASSISTANT (1)
              04/04/2003                3    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);            S



                                              - 31 -

                                           PROJECT OFFICER (1);
                                           CONSULTANT (1)
               11/25/2003              4   TASK TEAM LEADER (1); SR.          S
                                           OPERATIONS OFFICER (1);
                                           CONSULTANT (1);
                                           FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT
                                           (1)
               03/17/2004              4   TASK TEAM LEADER (1); SR.          S
                                           OPERATIONS OFFICER (1);
                                           OPERATIONS OFFICER (1);
                                           CONSULTANT (1)


 ICR
               03/15/2006             4     TASK TEAM LEADER (1);             S    S
                                            SR. FORESTRY SPEC. (1);
                                            SR. OPERATIONS
                                            OFFICER (1);
                                            CONSULTANT (1)



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                                         460.2
  Appraisal/Negotiation                                                70.1
  Supervision                                                        608.6
  ICR                                                                  15.2
  Total                                                            1,154.1




                                            - 32 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 33 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 34 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

1. GEF Project Document: Romania Biodiversity Conservation Management Project. Report
No.18838-RO. May 1999.

2. GEF Trust Fund Grant Agreement TF022499 dated June 17, 1999 for the Romania Biodiversity
Conservation Management Project, as amended on February 20, 2001.

3. Romania Country Assistance Evaluation. Report No.32452. May 25, 2005.

4. Piatra Craiului National Park: Final Project Report, November 2005.

5. Retezat National Park: Final Project Report, November 2005.

6. Vanatori-Neamt Natural Park: Final Project Report, November 2005.

7. Romania Sectoral Operational Programme (SOP) for Environment Infrastructure. Ministry of
Environment and Water Management, Draft, December 2005.

8. Aide-Memoire of the ICR Mission, March 15, 2006.

9. RAPPAM (Rapid Assessment and Prioritization of Protected Area Management) Methodology
Implementation in Romania. Key Findings and Results. By Erika Stanciu and Gerald Steindlegger, WWF
International, April 2006.




                                                   - 35 -

Annex 8. Map of Project Sites and the System of National and Natural Parks in Romania




                                         - 36 -

Summary Table of the Romanian System of National and Natural Parks (2006)




                                - 37 -

                  Annex 9. Project Completion Report Prepared by the Recipient

       Report on the Activity of the Biodiversity Conservation Management Project (May 2006)

A.       Assessment of Project Objectives and Design

The "Biodiversity Conservation Management" Grant Agreement was signed between Romania and the
World Bank in 1999. The project development objectives were to: establish effective, intersectoral,
participatory planning and sustainable management of natural ecosystems and associated landscapes at
three demonstration sites in the Carpathian mountains, and mechanisms to support replication of these
activities at other priority conservation sites. The Global objective of the project is sustainable
conservation of the biological diversity and ecological integrity of the Romanian forest, alpine and meadow
ecosystems of the Carpathian mountain chain, with the following objectives:

l Strengthen legal and regulatory framework for biodiversity conservation;
l Build capacity in the Directorate of Nature and Biodiversity Conservation (DNBC) and the National
    Forest Administration (NFA) to plan and lead biodiversity conservation;
l Develop a strategy to incorporate ecosystem considerations in national forest management planning;
l Establish models for planning and managing biodiversity conservation at the three project sites;
l Develop and implement ecotourism strategies for each park;
l Establish participatory mechanisms to reduce non-sustainable resource use;
l Establish a program to reintroduce European bison into the Romanian wild;
l Develop models for forest management planning that reflect biodiversity concerns;
l Establish a program to generate public support for biodiversity conservation.


The Project objectives were based on country challenges and priorities identified in Country Assistance
Strategy (CAS). The project was designed to address, amongst the others: (a) development of an effective
system of protected areas, (b) enhancing environmental regulation capability, and (c) promoting public
awareness of environmental issues.

During the project design phase, an active process of consultation was implemented. The project
preparation team includes internal and external experts from the World Bank and local experts at national
level and from each of the project's sites. In addition, international and local experts were consulted,
providing valuable inputs during the process. Various scenarios were developed and analyzed.

Contacts with various institutions representatives and decisions factors as well as good communication and
cooperation between all team members leaded to a better understanding of background situation in
Romania with special emphasis on the environmental sector and forestry in particular. As a result, the main
challenges and threats to biodiversity conservation were identified and clear objectives were developed and
scheduled for the implementation period of the project. All project objectives were developed and agreed
in close cooperation and local team members expressed their commitment to accomplish project main goal
and objectives. While, during the project preparation phase, the World Bank staff benefits from local
expert's knowledge and experience in the area, the lasts received an intensive training in relation to project
design and planning, resources assessment etc. The bank experts provided for excellent assistance during
project design phase. The original objectives remained appropriate throughout the implementation period
and were not revised. It is considered that the goal, objectives and outputs provided in the project design
have been realistic and adequate to the existing situation.



                                                     - 38 -

The project comprises the following components, each of them including related outputs:

1.       Strengthening the National Framework for Biodiversity Conservation
2.       Develop Models for Protected Areas and Forest park management
3.       Build Public Support for Biodiversity Conservation
4.       Project Management and Monitoring

B.       Assessment of Project Implementation and Achievement of Objectives and Outputs

1.       Strengthening the National Framework for Biodiversity Conservation

1.1.     Strengthen national laws and regulatory framework

One of the first logical priorities was creating a frame for implementing biodiversity conservation purposes.
A lack of clear regulations and laws often results in "on-paper protected areas". Following activities
undertaken at national and local level, the national legislation and regulatory framework for biodiversity
management and conservation have been significantly changed during project implementation. The process
included developing strategy, schedule and mechanism for participatory process to review existing laws and
sectoral policies and to develop guidelines for the implementation of the existing legislation. International
consultants from Flora and Fauna International (FFI) provided support in implementation of these
activities. Among the new issued laws and regulations are the following:

l Gov. Ordinance No. 236/2000 regarding protected areas, habitats and wildlife conservation
l Law No. 462/2001 amending the Gov. Ord. 236/2000
l Gov. Decision 230/2003 establishing national and natural parks boundaries and management
l Minister Order 552/2003 establishing internal zoning of national and nature parks
l Minister Order 850/2003 delegating management responsibilities
l Minister Order 494/2003


Other laws were modified and/or amended (e.g. Environmental Law, Law No. 5/2000 etc.) in order to be
consistent with the new provisions in relation with biodiversity conservation and protected areas.
Emergency Ordinance 195 on Environmental Protection, passed on 22 December 2005, provides for the
establishment of a new National Agency on Protected Areas and Biodiversity Conservation.

The new developed laws and regulations provided tools for protected areas management and biodiversity
conservation activities ­ e.g. legal frame for establishing new PAs, clear borders and internal zoning for
existing PAs, management and administration etc. Transparency, participatory approach and stakeholder
consultation are part of PAs management according to new legislation provisions. A National Agency for
Protected Areas and Biodiversity Conservation is now under development. It is still undecided which of the
state institution shall run the agency.

There is still poor enforcement of adequately managing the private owned forests. Forest restitution process
and transfer of land ownership from state to private, including parts of protected areas, had a certain
impact on (a) protected area management goals; (b) biodiversity status. On the other hand, restitution
process shall significantly reduce the NFA capacity to generate funds. It is likely that a large part of the
social and environmental services of the national forests will stay with NFA while the total forest area
managed by the institution will be smaller, which will pose significant constraints on NFA capacity to fund
biodiversity conservation. There is a need for developing alternative financial mechanisms to support such


                                                      - 39 -

activities.

1.2.     Strengthen capacity to plan and lead biodiversity conservation

A Biodiversity Management Information System (BIMS) has been developed at national level. Preparation
of BIMS involved international and local experts/consultants, including the Danube Delta National Institute
for Research & Development (DDNI) and databases were created. A national GAP analysis and
preparation and implementation of a national strategic plan to address priorities for conservation were done
in this view. Since the protected areas were not precisely mapped, the process included also digitizing and
mapping all protected areas, based on the best available information, including satellite images. Training
needs on biodiversity management and biodiversity conservation tools were identified and training provided
by FFI staff.

Every park conducted baseline surveys, for the identification of relevant species of flora and fauna and for
the habitats and ecosystems. Based on the results, every park elaborated the biodiversity monitoring
system, which will provide the feedback for the implementation and effects of the park management plan.
The model for the park management plans was created and now it is used nationwide for the other parks,
being implemented in a similar manner, which will help for the evaluation and comparison of the various
park administrations activities and for the creation of a common information system.

1.3.     Strengthen NFA to Replicate PAs in Forest Areas

A Protected Areas Service, including 3 staff was established in the NFA. The PA Service is dealing with all
PAs in the NFA. Currently NFA is managing 21 national and nature parks, each of them having own
administration. In addition, over 200 other protected areas are placed in the forest area and managed by
NFA. NFA proved a highly committed to manage protected areas within its area of responsibility.
Expanding experience from the three project sites, NFA started hiring personnel for national and nature
park administration since 2002, even before the new legislation requiring this.

NFA provided the necessary infrastructure for PAs management e.g. offices, vehicles, furniture, IT
technology, field equipment (USD 1.1 million). In addition, NFA support other international projects in
those PAs which are under NFA management and committed to co-finance those projects (Phare, Life, and
other EU funded projects) 5.27 mil USD. NFA spent 2.0 mil USD in 2004 and 2.2 mil USD in 2005 for
national and nature parks administration. NFA has already appointed 162 staff for PAs management in its
own area of responsibilities. The number of staff is intended to increase to 323. Staff from each of the three
sites and from the national level was actively involved in developing management plans and activities in the
new established protected areas within the NFA and/or other institutions. Relevant staff in the NFA (central
and field level) was invited to take part in workshops, working groups and training sessions and study tours
were organized. It is considered that NFA achieved the needed skills and tools to adequately manage and
maintain protected areas and transition from the project status to regular operation has already been done
smoothly. Thus, replication capacity for NFA has already been proved through the existing management
system in place for the 21 parks within NFA.

1.4.     Develop strategy to incorporate ecosystem concerns into national forest management planning

The objective of incorporating ecosystem concerns into forest management planning and forest management
is strongly supported by the forest management certification objective of the project, achieved in 2002. The
very first forest management certification in Romania in the Vanatori Neamt Natural Park (VNNP) area
included strong requirements in relation to biodiversity conservation and ecosystem approach. The NFA


                                                     - 40 -

decision to go for forest management certification with another 1.075 thousand hectares contributes to a
better consideration of biodiversity concerns in forest management. Currently, incorporating biodiversity
approach at ecosystem level in forest management planning is rather a problem of case by case approach.
Although the principle of biodiversity conservation is stated in the forest management planning regulations,
it is not clearly develop further in the regulation. For the 3 sites existing in the project, staff has been
involved in management planning ­ in terms of introducing biodiversity issues in planning process.
However, this is not yet implemented as a framework in forest planning regulations and techniques. During
the remaining period of life of the project, it is intended o develop a system for including biodiversity in
management planning at an adequate level.

2.        Develop Models for Protected Areas and Forest Park Management

2.1.      Establish systems for planning and management and establish administrative structure

Following project implementation starting activities, ministerial order has been issued to establish PAs'
administration for the three sites of the project. According to existing legislation, the parks are managed
with support of Scientific Councils and Consultative Councils. This provides for support in scientific work
and management decisions of the parks and provide for a better understanding and involvement of
stakeholders in the park administration. The three parks administrations benefit from transferring of
international PAs management skills. This included:

Training provided by international and local consultants (FFI)

A training needs assessment was done before starting training modules. This included analysis of the base
situation, workshop activities involving staff from various levels: ministry, NFA, forest districts, protected
areas. Training modules were developed and implemented in relation to:

l Management planning
l Biodiversity management
l Resource analysis
l Team building and working in team
l Conflict resolution techniques
l Tourism strategy development
l Public awareness techniques, including relation with mass-media, relation with stakeholders
l Education
l Participatory approaches and levels of stakeholders involvement in planning and decision making
l Fund raising


Training provided by local institutions (e.g. USAID-ETP, Romanian Social Development Fund-RSDF)

This includes various training modules with participation of staff from all institutions involved in the
project.

Training provided by international institutions

Participating in training courses organized by international institutions (e.g. ProForest, International Center
for Ecology within the Polish Academy of Sciences, Department of Animal Genetics Warsaw Agricultural
University, Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) International Center. Participating in study tours,
workshops and working groups in various countries (USA, Sweden, Finland, Spain, Austria, Germany,


                                                       - 41 -

France, India, Turkey, Portugal, Italy, South Africa, UK etc), concerning protected areas management,
forest management certification, finances, procurement techniques, wildlife management, GIS techniques,
biodiversity monitoring, participation, public awareness, education, landscape management etc In addition
the project staff benefit from a strong collaboration between all sites in the project, learning from each
other experience and developing common approach for addressing the project issues. Whenever possible,
the training courses and workshops were attended by other staff from ministry and NFA which were not
involved in the project.

With international and national consultants support, the three sites developed their own management plans
for protected areas, monitoring plans, and various studies. The management plans were developed through
a wide consultation process, involving national, regional and local stakeholders. A baseline ecological
survey was developed for each of the three sites in the project. A large amount of data was also collected
from various institutions (studies, reports, monographs etc.) in order to support establishing database,
management planning and management decision process for each site. The parks staff got training skills in
writing project proposals and provide for additional funds for the protected areas management. As a result,
LIFE project proposals (in relation to Natura 2000 activities) were submitted for all the three sites in the
project. Piatra Craiului National Park (PCNP) and Retezat National Park's (RNP) proposals were
approved. In addition proposals for small funds were approved for each of the three sites. Administrative
structures were established in the parks, including information points and visitor centers. The lasts are still
under construction in PCNP and VNNP, in advanced phases, and completion of works is expected for June
2006. In some cases, the approval process for civil works was delayed due to changes in leadership at
national/local level, following elections. Equipment and technologies were purchased following the Bank
procurement rules.

2.2.     Establish mechanisms to reduce unsustainable resource use

The three sites administrations initiated contacts with local public administration in order to take into
consideration the needs for including biodiversity concerns into land use planning. According to new
legislation provisions, proposals for the buildings and developments in the PAs area and/or adjacent lands
have to be priory endorsed by the park administration/Scientific Councils. In addition Commission for
Natural Monuments (CMN) within Romanian Academy shall approve all development proposals. PCNP
developed, in cooperation with volunteers ­ students of the Faculty of Architecture Bucharest design plans
for new buildings in and around the park area, which fit the traditional existing architecture. Grazing
impact studies were developed at PCNP and RNP in order to assess the pastures capacity for grazing and
assess on possibilities of improving productivity and decide on sustainable level of grazing. This involves
various experts' activities and strong public awareness and education activities with local communities. A
Small Grants Program (SGP) was implemented for each of the three sites. The experience of the SGP was
very satisfactory and significantly contributed to the project goals. The SGP promoted park-friendly
activities and support initiatives in various fields:

l Improve grasslands productivity;
l Supporting local associations in ecotourism activities
l Supporting local B&Bs development;
l Promoting local traditions (handicrafts, sculpture camps, painting camps);
l Waste management in the parks area;
l Establishing ecological clubs in schools.


Most of the activities promoted cooperation and involvement of local public administration and local
associations and/or NGOs. Local communities were encouraged to develop revenue-generating activities


                                                     - 42 -

with low impact on the environment.

2.3.     Establish Ecotourism Programs

Relevant staff from all three sites in the project received training in developing tourism strategies. An
ecotourism strategy has been developed for each of the site with support from FFI consultants. This
included tourism baseline survey, questionnaires developing and data collection and analyzing with
volunteer support, as well as public meetings, workshops and symposiums involving stakeholders in the
area. Collaboration with students and tourism universities was of high benefit for the parks. The BCMP
staff also participated in developing tourism strategies and action plans at Ministry of Tourism level. All
sites developed databases in relation with tourism providers and services in the area. Tourism
infrastructure was developed through:

l Building Information points, providing guidance for tourists
l Information panels, signposts
l Inventory of tourist trails
l Developing/maintaining/renewing tourist trails
l Cleaning tourist trails
l Establishing camping facilities, including garbage cans, benches, providing wood for grills
l Providing for mountain refuges in PCNP and RNP
l Issuing tourist maps showing trails, camping facilities, accommodation facilities in the area as well as
     public awareness items

The tourist trail proposed network has been approved by the Scientific Councils and CMN for each park.

2.4.     Establish program to reintroduce European Bison

The program of reintroducing European Bison was specific for VNNP. Existing experience at national and
local level was limited and included only some specific areas of European bison management. Thus the
park staff benefit from high level of experience provided by foreigner consultants from Poland. Activities
performed on reintroduction program component included:

l Training of parks staff
l Training of local veterinarian
l Training provided to other NFA personnel (e.g. Bucsani European Bison Reservation, Romania)
l Baseline assessment and developing bison reintroduction strategy
l Assistance in procuring special equipment and medicines
l Assistance in monitoring health status of the bison and active management of bison population
l Advice in bison diet
l Studies on feeding carrying capacity of the area for bison
l Assistance in developing buildings and enclosures for bison management
l Study tours in relevant European bison reservation, including areas with free-living European bison


According to reintroduction strategy, an enclosure of 180 ha was built in the VNNP area. DNA analyses
were made for European bison from VNNP and Bucsani reservation. Following DNA analyses, the best
fitting sources of bison were identified and the population of bison in VNNP was enlarged with bison from
Bucsani (Romania), Germany and Swiss. In addition, bison from VNNP enclosure started to breed again,
proving that management, health status was good. In addition, a quarantine farm for bison has been
completed, as well as all the rehabilitation works at the "Dragos Voda" Bison and Carpathian fauna reserve


                                                      - 43 -

in the VNNP. Dragos Voda Bison Reserve was authorized as a quarantine farm for bison import according
to EU veterinarian legislation ­ the first such facility in Romania. VNNP staff managed to register all
European bison population in Romania and include them again in the European Bison Pedigree Book
issued in Poland, following a period of 14 years of lack of information related to bison population in
Romania. A strong campaign of public awareness was developed and implemented in the park area as well
as in Romania. This involved education modules, press conferences and briefings, media packages. Two
international conferences on bison reintroduction were organized in cooperation with Large Herbivores
Initiative European organization. At the end of the project it is expected that European bison population
will live in the 180 ha enclosure (compared with 4 ha currently) as a precursory step towards reintroduction
in free.

2.5.     Develop models of forest management practices that reflect BC concerns

As specified in section 1.4 above, forest management certification represents a tool for introducing
biodiversity conservation concerns in forest management practices. During certification procedures, VNNP
staff work in close cooperation with the forest managers and employees of the two forest districts lying in
the park. This leads to a good understanding of biodiversity concerns and resulted in clear outputs in
relation to biodiversity conservation and protected area management. As a result, the forest managers
committed to comply with certification requirements. Forest personnel have been trained and databases,
including mapping of biodiversity values were produced. Registers of biodiversity were developed for each
certified forest district. NFA personnel were also involved in developing toolkit for identification and
management of High Conservation Value Forests (HCVF), with WWF support. This was done through a
wide consultation process, including experts from various fields (biologists, foresters, and university degree
people. The HCVF toolkit was made available to all certified forest districts. Following completion of land
restitution process, it is intended by the NFA to go for certification with all state forest lands.

Implementation of BC concerns in forest management practices is strongly related to introducing BC as an
important chapter in forest management planning. Thus, developing clear regulation for management
planning in relation to biodiversity shall support implementation in forest activities, since management
plans are compulsory for each forest manager. Currently NFA, in cooperation with Forest Research and
Management Planning Institute is developing a project for scientific researches in relation to biodiversity
conservation in nature and national parks managed by NFA.

3.       Build Public Support for Biodiversity Conservation

The third component included under the project provided for:

l Public awareness
l Ecological education


A responsible staff was in place for public awareness and education activities for each of the three parks.
All implementation levels of the project benefit from training in the area of public awareness and building
support for PA management provided by international consultants.

3.1.     National program in place that raises public awareness of Romania's needs and opportunities for
BC

At national level, a public awareness strategy and program were developed with support from local
consultants (FIMAN). The strategy reviews overall status of biodiversity conservation, its ecological,


                                                      - 44 -

economic and cultural significance, examines existing and potential influence of key stakeholders on
biodiversity conservation, identifies and prioritizes key constraints to conservation and sustainable
management of biodiversity resources resulting from a lack of awareness on the part of identified
stakeholder groups and the information needs of each identified group as well as cost effective delivery
mechanisms to address these information needs. At each of the site level, public awareness strategies were
developed and implemented. Baseline analysis has been developed and target group identified. Activities in
relation to public awareness component included, among the others:

l developing media toolkit for each of the parks including both general issues related to protected areas
    and biodiversity management and specific issues for each of the protected area
l developing logos for each of the parks in the project, register logos under related national authority and
    promoting the logo in publications, meetings, symposiums, conferences etc.
l organizing media conferences, briefings, symposiums for promoting protected areas, biodiversity
    values, specific topics e.g. European bison in VNNP, chamois in PCNP and aquilas in RNP
l organizing events each year: European day of the parks, the Park Establishing Day
l participating in international events organized by other institutions
l participating in local events traditionally organized by the forestry sector e.g. Forest Month, Forester
    Day
l participating in international organizations (e.g. Pan Parks, EUROPARC, Large Herbivore Initiative)
l issuing posters, brochures, leaflets, badges, booklets, pocket books, pencils etc. at each of the parks
    and at the national level
l producing, in collaboration with professionals, movies promoting the parks values
l producing panels and placing them at the entries of the parks and along tourist trails in the park areas
l organizing/participating in tourist trades
l organizing/participating in exhibitions promoting protected areas, biodiversity issues, traditions of the
    area (Nature Museums, EPAs,)
l participating with studies/reports in scientific events organized by universities and faculties in the
    country (Bucharest, Brasov, Iasi, Cluj, Bacau, Suceava etc.)
l developing scientific publications in relation to each of the parks values
l producing maps of the parks
l involving teachers, students, Peace Corp volunteers and other volunteers/experts in developing specific
    activities in the parks (baseline surveys, questionnaires, publications)
l building information points for public/tourists in the area, and developing specific activities/providing
    advice and information

3.2.     Ecological education packages developed for use in primary and secondary schools

Education has been seen as one of the most significant tool for building public awareness and support for
protected areas and biodiversity conservation. Staff in charge and other employees from both national and
local levels was involved to certain extent in public awareness and education activities. Students and
teachers from the schools in the parks neighborhood and other areas were contacted and a very positive
response was given to the park initiatives. Education modules referring to protected areas management,
forest, wildlife and biodiversity conservation issues were developed and implemented in all schools around
the three project sites. Specific manuals were also developed by the parks. A large number of ecological
clubs has been established in the parks area. Students were actively involved in various activities e.g.
planting trees, cleaning the park areas, producing handicrafts. Special contests were organized each year by
the parks for students in the park area, often involving other institutions (forest districts, forest directorates,
NFA, museums, education inspectorates, EPAs etc.).




                                                     - 45 -

C.       Evaluation of the Recipient's Own Performance During Implementation

Project Preparation

The borrower participated in preparation of the project with local staff from national level (MAFRD) and
from the three sites of the project. All necessary information was provided in order to support project
preparation. In addition, various experts were consulted and provided inputs during preparation phase.

Project Management and Administration

The project management and administration team has been appointed in due time and worked in close
cooperation with all sites. Following administrative changes in the ministries, PCT moved from the former
Ministry of Waters, Forests and Environmental Protection to the new established Ministry of Agriculture,
Forests and Rural development. These changes affected sometimes smooth communication with the
Directorate for Nature and Biological Diversity Conservation, though not negatively impacting the project
implementation. PCT has an important role in coordinating and provide for very good link and cooperation
between all levels and sites of the project. PCT has also provided timely and professional advice for the
sites in all matters regarding financial and procurement issues and overpasses various constrains and
limitations of the project.

Some factors had a certain impact on project implementation and project staff had to deal with the
following:

l Timber harvesting and processing sector mainly interested in wood resources and less concerned on
    biodiversity conservation goals.
l Timber harvesting by the new land owners
l Illegally building/pressure for increasing construction areas inside protected areas
l Grazing pressure on protected areas and adjacent lands
l Pressure for mineral resources harvesting ­ not always in line with PA conservation objectives


Although the three parks successful developed three models of protected areas management, and moreover,
NFA successfully started replication in other 18 parks, the environmental protection authority does not
express a clear position in respect of the parks future administration. Currently MEWM is still reserved in
accepting the idea of managing the parks through the Protected Areas Service in the NFA, although a
viable alternative for medium and long term has not been provided. However, it is considered such view is
not the official position of the MEWM but some individuals inside this institution. This situation is creating
a created an amount of uncertainty on the role and functions of the National Agency for Natural Protected
Areas and Biodiversity Conservation, newly established through Emergency Ordinance 195/2005.

Sustainability

Following project implementation, major changes took place in the environment and biodiversity
conservation in Romania. A frame for protected areas management and BC has been developed, and
institutional arrangement made. There is a clear base for establishing and managing protected areas, there
are clear borders, zoning and maps for each of them. Experience achieved during project implementation
as well as training provided to people from all relevant institutions, provided for a strong base for further
management and development.

A special service within NFA (Protected Areas Service) is staffed, equipped and funded. In addition, staff


                                                     - 46 -

is well trained and already experienced in protected areas management and biodiversity conservation needs.
The 21 national and nature parks managed by NFA are legally established, endowed (offices, vehicles,
equipment, staff, funds). In addition, the PAs staff provided capacity for writing project proposal and
accessing funds. NFA itself is committed to support with staff, goods and funds PAs management. Forest
certification has been expanded to 1,1 ha and the goal is to go for forest management certification in all
state forests managed by NFA. In addition, the public is better educated and more in touch with
biodiversity conservation needs and provide for more support in this view. Replication capacity and
commitment shown by relevant institutions and staff indicated that project achievement and outputs will be
further carried on and activities will keep going. NFA showed a strong commitment to further support
protected areas management.

Lessons Learned

l An adequate baseline assessment is crucial for adequately address all issues ­ it stays not for project
    design only, but for all issues faced during project implementation.
l Participatory approach and involvement of stakeholders had significantly contribute to support of
    project activities and reduce reluctance of the stakeholders.
l Bank staff involvement and assistance during all project phases (design, implementation and
    supervision) is essential in order to achieve the project goals. Banks staff recommendations and advice
    was vital for project implementation.
l Direct involvement of consultants in all activities and learning-by ­doing approach leads to better
    results than the "teaching" method and transfer of theoretic knowledge.
l Close cooperation between project sites was of high benefit through economy of resources placed in
    various activities and better planning and implementing the project activities, avoiding doing the same
    mistakes by the project partners. Learning from others experience was also really important in terms of
    benefiting from other countries/institutions experience, instead of "re-inventing the wheel".
l During Small Grants Program implementation it was seen that, in some specific areas, growing interest
    and better results was seen through allocating grants per families instead of communities/groups.
l Implementing a project thorough an existing experienced structure provides for better results than
    creating a new one (although some bureaucracy and resistance for the "new" has been noted)
l Public awareness and education are essential in gaining support for all activities. It is important to
    highly consider this in the FDP ­ dealing with private forest owners and finding ways to make people
    aware of the impact of their activities and the need for changes in their behave. Convincing owners to
    associate and to seek for better management of the private forests (e.g. forest certification) shall be
    professionally addressed and call for significant efforts. However it was noted that while education has
    an important impact on students/young people, providing for clear benefits (e.g. SGP) provided better
    understanding and support from adult population towards the project goals.

D.       Evaluation of Performance by the Bank and Consultants

Bank

Project was designed following a deep assessment of existing situation and taking into consideration
strategic priorities for biodiversity conservation in Romania. The process of designing the project has
strongly involved participation of various local experts and professionals. Including in the project design
team professionals form each of the sites envisaged by the project provided for a good baseline assessment
and induce a high commitment from all involved parties in implementing the project and achieving the
objectives. The Bank included in the project preparation team both professional staff, and bank consultants
and provided for a wide consultation process involving government, forestry administration, representatives


                                                      - 47 -

of private sector, individual experts and NGOs. Supervision during implementation was carried out on a
regular base. The supervision mission outputs, findings and recommendations were timely and clearly
shown to implementation agency and involved staff. A deep understanding of Romanian current situation
and constraints was proven during supervision missions. The Bank provided for direct support and for
various training modules for implementation staff. Also a certain amount of flexibility while strongly
looking for objective accomplishment and rigorous quality control was shown. Links between BCMP and
other projects and activities, including EU accession constraints, were taken into consideration during
project implementation.

Consultants

Various international and local consultant teams and individuals were hired during project implementation
following World Bank procurement rules. The project staff highly benefit from the experience and active
involvement of the consultants. Training sessions were organized for the implementation staff and for other
relevant people as well (e.g. forestry sector employees, NGOs representatives, and other protected areas
staff). Capacity building in forestry sector is a significant output and contributes to project implementation
either by providing a better understanding of the project objectives and by improving communication by
other institutions/people the project had to deal with. Consultants were generally highly professional and
committed to direct involvement in the project activities. Among the best advice and consultancy services
provided during project implementation are those related to: management planning, biodiversity
management and monitoring planning, developing strategies for European bison reintroduction and bison
management. As specified before, day-to-day working together with consultant proved to be the best
approach in training, experience gaining and activities implementation success.




                                                      - 48 -

- 49 -

