GLOBAL
ENVIRONMENT
FACILITY
-Romania--
Biodiversity Conservatio  Mangement- 
Project Docuent,
m dy- M  ..999
THE WORLD BA'NK



GEIF Documentation
The Global Environment Facility (GEF) assists developing countries to protect
the global environment in four areas: global warming, pollution of international waters,
destruction of biodiversity. and depletion of the ozone layer. The GEF is jointly implemented
by the united Nations Development Programme, the United Nations Environment Programme.
and the World Bank.
GEF Project Documents  identified by a green band - provide extended project-
specific information. The implementing agency responsible for each project is identified by
its logo on the cover of the document.
Global Environment Coordination
Environment Department
World Bank
1818 H Street. NW
Washington, DC 20433
Telephone: (202) 473-1816
Fax: (202) 522-3256



Report No. 18838-RO
Romania
Biodiversity Conservation Management Project
Project Document
May 1999
Environmentally and Socially Sustainable Development Unit
Romania Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective 03/10/99)
US$1.00 = 13,500 Romanian Lei
FISCAL YEAR 1999
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS               Country Assistance Strategy
DNBC              Directorate of Nature and Biodiversity Conservation
DDBRA             Danube Delta Biosphere Reserve Authority
GDF               General Directorate of Forests (within MWFEP)
FAO               Food and Agriculture Organization
GEF               Global Environmental Facility
MWFEP             Ministry of Waters, Forests and
Environmental Protection
MoF               Ministry of Finance
NGO               Non-Governmental Organizations
NFA               National Forestry Authority
SPA               Service for Protected Areas (within NFA)
PCT               Project Coordination Team
PMA               Park Management Authority
PMR               Project Management Report
TOR               Terms of Reference
UNDP              United Nations Development Project
Vice President: Johannes F. Linn
Country Director: Andrew Vorkink
Sector Director: Kevin M. Cleaver
Task Team Leader: John Fraser Stewart



Romania
Biodiversity Conservation Management Project
CONTENTS
A. Project Development and Global Objective ......................................................1 
1. Project development objective and key performance indicators .........................1 
B. Strategic Context .................................................................                                               2
1. Sector-related CAS goal and GEF Operational Program supported by the project ... 2
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy ............................................... 3
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices ...................... 4
C. Project Description Summary .................................................................    5
1. Project components .................................................................                                    5
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project ...........................7
3. Benefits and target population ................................................................ 7
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements .............................................7
D. Project Rationale .................................................................                                               9
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection ................................. 9
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank, GEF and/or other
development agencies .................................................................                                      11
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design .................................1  1
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership ...................................... 12
5. Value added of Bank support in this project .................                            .............................. 12
E. Summary Project Analyses .................................................................                                         13
1. Economic ............................................................ 13
2. Financial ............................................................                                                  13
3. Technical ............................................................                                                  14
4. Institutional ............................................................                                              14
5. Social ...........................4......... .. 14
6. Environmental assessment ..                                                                                              15
7. Participatory approach ..                                                                                                15
F. Sustainability and Risks ..                                                                                                         16
1. Sustainability ..                                                                                                        16
2. Critical risks ..                                                                                                        17
3. Possible controversial aspects ..                                                                                        17



G. Main Loan Conditions ........................                              18
H. Readiness for Implementation ........................                      18
I. Compliance with Bank Policies ........................                     18
Annexes
Annex 1.  Project Design Summary
Annex 2.  Detailed Project Description
Table A    Project Rationale
Annex 3.  Estimated Project Costs
Annex 4.  Incremental Cost Analysis
Annex 5.  Financial Summary
Annex 6.  Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Table A.   Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
Table B.   Consultant Selection Arrangements
Table C.   Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Table D.   Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Annex 7.  Project Processing Budget and Schedule
Annex 8.  Documents in Project File
Annex 9.  Statement of Loans and Credits
Annex 10. Country at a Glance
Annex 11. Social Analysis and Participatory Approach
Annex 12  Financial Management Assessment
Map



Romania
Biodiversity Conservation Management
Project Appraisal Document
Europe and Central Asia Region
Romania Country Unit
Environmentally and Socially Sustainable Development Sector Unit
Date: January 25, 1999                               Task Team Leader/Task Manager: John Fraser Stewart
Country Manager/Director: Andrew Vorkink      Sector Manager/Director: Kevin M. Cleaver
Project ID: 44176       Sector: Environment          Program Objective Category: Environmentally Sustainable
Development
GEF Supplement ID: TF#                              Focal Area: Biodiversity
Lending Instrument: SIL                              Program of Targeted Intervention:  [ ] Yes  [X] No
Project Financing Data     [  Loan       [] Credit  [] Guarantee        [X] Grant   [  Other [Specify]
Financing plan (US$m):
Source                             Local               Foreign           Total
Government                                                 2.4                                   2.4
National Forest Authority (NFA)                            0.9                                    0.9
GEF                                                                           5.5                 5.5
Total        3.3                 5.5                8.8
Recipient: Romania
Responsible agency: Ministry of Waters, Forests and Environmental Protection
Estimated disbursements (GEF FY/US$M):      99/00        00/01        01/02         02/03       03/04
Annual       1.66         3.08         2.43          1.13       0.50
Cumulative      1.66         4.74          7.17         8.30        8.80
Project implementation period: 5 years Expected effectiveness date: 07/01/99  Expected closing date: 12/31/04
A: Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective and key performance indicators (see Annex 1):
The objectives of the project are to: establish effective, inter-sectoral, participatory planning and
sustainable management of natural ecosystems and associated landscapes at three demonstration sites in
the Carpathian mountains, and mechanisms to support replication of these activities at other priority
conservation sites.
2. Project Global objectives and key performance indicators (see Annex 1):
The Global objective of the project is sustainable conservation of the biological diversity and ecological
integrity of the Romanian forest, alpine and meadow ecosystems of the Carpathian mountain chain.
OSD PAD Form: July 30, 1997



Page 2
In line with these objectives, the project will work closely with staff of the Ministry of Waters, Forests
and Environmental Protection (MWFEP) and National Forest Authority (NFA) to:
(a)    Strengthen legal and regulatory framework for biodiversity conservation;
(b)    Build capacity in the Directorate of Nature and Biodiversity Conservation (DNBC) and
the NFA to plan and lead biodiversity conservation;
(c)    Develop a strategy to incorporate ecosystem considerations in national forest
management planning;
(d)    Establish models for planning and managing biodiversity conservation at the three project
sites;
(e)    Develop and implement eco-tourism strategies for each park;
(f)    Establish particapatory mechanisms to reduce non sustainable resource use; Establish a
program to reintroduce European bison into the Romanian wild;
(g)    Develop models for forest management planning that reflect biodiversity concerns;
(h)    Establish a program to generate public support for biodiversity conservation.
Key performance indicators associated with these activities include:
(a)    Laws, Ministerial Orders and regulations for biodiversity conservation issued and
ratified;
(b)    Strategy for developing a national protected area network (including mechanisms to
replicate protected area management best practice) completed and adopted;
(c)    Strategy to incorporate biodiversity in forest management planning developed and
adopted;
(d)    Effectively functioning models of conservation management planning established at the
field level;
(e)    No adverse impacts of increased tourism on biodiversity at project sites;
(f)    No increase in adverse impacts of resource use (grazing, forest products, etc) on the
biodiversity of project sites;
(g)    European bison reintroduction program being implemented;
(h)    Forest management plans incorporating biodiversity conservation developed;
(i)    Public awareness strategy completed and functioning effectively.
B: Strategic Context
I(a). Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project (see Annex 1):
CAS document number: 16599   Date of latest CAS discussion: June 3, 1997
Protecting and enhancing the environment is one of four main development challenges identified in the
Romania CAS. Additional environmental goals identified in the CAS, which the project will address,
include: (a) development of an effective system of protected areas, (b) enhancing environmental
regulation capability, and (c) promoting public awareness of environmental issues.
In support of this development challenge and in line with these priorities, the project will (i) establish the
capacity for protected area planning and management at three field sites and at central Government level;



Page 3
(ii) develop regulations for biodiversity conservation and protected area management, and (iii) raise
public awareness of biodiversity conservation issues.
b. GEF Operational Strategy/program objective addressed by the project:
The project is consistent with the GEF Operational Strategy and especially the Operational Programs on
Forest and Montane Ecosystems. The project is also consistent with the Short Term Response Measures
under the Operational Strategy, in that a GEF intervention would address urgent needs associated with the
transition, which, since 1989, has resulted in increasing threats to biodiversity but has not yet generated
sufficient capital to enable the Government to address those threats.
The project will implement priority actions identified in the National Biodiversity Conservation Strategy
and Action Plan (1996). Its focus, specifically on in situ conservation, supports implementation of Article
8 of the Convention on Biological Diversity by strengthening support for protected areas and sustainable
use in adjacent buffer zones. The project will conserve some of the last and largest natural and pristine old
growth forest ecosystems in Europe. In addition, the project will foster international and trans-boundary
cooperation in the Carpathian mountains and provide support to three important protected areas that are
linked by forest corridors with other reserves in eastern Europe.
The project is consistent with Agenda 21 and guidance from the Conference of the Parties since it will
promote conservation, management and sustainable use of forest and alpine ecosystems, which include
endemic species; involve local communities and build partnerships at local, national and regional levels;
and promote cost effective measures to conserve biodiversity. It responds to guidance from the
Convention of the Parties by addressing capacity building, especially among local communities,
encouraging inter-sectoral cooperation and providing support to activities that are consistent with, and
supportive of, other international conventions (Bonn and Bern Conventions).
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
International and national conservation initiatives in Romania have targeted wetland ecosystems of the
Danube Delta, with less attention to other areas including the extensive natural forests, which cover 27%
(6.2 million hectares) of Romania's land area. Approximately two thirds of these forests occur in the
Romanian portion of the Carpathian mountains, where more than half of all forests have been effectively
managed for conservation objectives, such as watershed management, rather than wood production.
These areas include some of the last and largest tracts of relatively undisturbed and virgin forests still
remaining in Europe. The natural soil profile and ecology has been maintained through use of natural
regeneration in more than 75% of Romania's production forests. The natural integrity and ecological
viability of Romania's forest is indicated by the continued presence of the full range of European forest
fauna, including approximately 60% and 40% of all European brown bears and wolves respectively.
Romania has some of the most biologically important temperate forests in the World. While the country
has a long and distinguished history in conservative forest management, the country does not have a
functioning system of protected areas, nor the institutional capacity for conservation and protected area
planning and management. In view of this, recently proposed changes in forest land ownership and
resource use (particularly wood and non-wood forest products, grazing and tourism) that are associated
with the transition from State to a free market economy, could have a major negative impact on the
biodiversity of forest ecosystems and their biodiversity.
Most of Romania's forests are owned by the State and managed by the State-owned NFA, which has a
long and distinguished history in forestry. GDF and the Directorate for Strategies, Policy and Legislation,
under MWFEP are responsible for forest policy development and for legislation governing operations on
all forest lands. The NFA, which has a staff of 30,000, is responsible for managing State forest land
under policy and legislative direction of the GDF, which has a staff of only 22 Bucharest based



Page 4
professionals. There is mounting political pressure to privatize and commercialize the NFA, and return as
much as two thirds of forest lands to their former owners. Previous experience in Romania (1989/90) and
elsewhere suggests that if restitution of forest land takes place in the absence of adequate legal and
institutional mechanisms to safeguard public interest, the result would be immediate loss of forest cover,
irreversible environmental degradation and significant economic losses for the country. The role of the
State will, therefore, need to change rapidly from owner-manager of forests to safeguarder of the public
interest in the new free market and land ownership systems (i.e., ensuring sustainable forest management
practice; conservation of environmental services, and support to new private sector actors in forestry and
related industries).
Government Strategy for biodiversity: Romania ratified the UNESCO World Cultural and Natural
Heritage Convention in 1990 (the Paris Convention), the Bern Convention for the conservation of
European wildlife and natural habitats in 1993, and the Convention on Biological Diversity in August
1994. With GEF support and World Bank assistance, Romania is implementing the Danube Delta
Biosphere Reserve project, and in 1995 - 1996, prepared the National Biodiversity Conservation Strategy
and Action Plan. The Danube Delta Project, which is implementing the Danube Delta Biosphere Reserve
Authority's conservation management plan, is progressing well, and lessons learned from this experience
have contributed to the design of the current project. The top three priorities of the National Biodiversity
Conservation Strategy are: (i) development of the legal framework and strengthening the institutional
capacity for conservation of biological diversity; (ii) organization of the national systems of protected
areas, and (iii) in-situ and ex-situ conservation of threatened, endemic and/or rare species, and those with
a high economic value.
Government Strategy for Forestry: A World Bank/FAO forestry sector review was completed in 1993.
The Bank is currently responding to a Government request to update this study with additional sector-
specific analysis targeting the possible implications of the proposed forest land restitution program and
identification of priority needs to support reform of the forestry reform in a manner that would safeguard
environmental services while contributing optimally to the national economy. In readiness for project
implementation, NFA has established new protected area management compartments, which report
directly to the NFA County Directors, at the three project sites.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices.
The project will implement the National Biodiversity Conservation Strategy priorities, specifically
through reviewing the legal and regulatory framework for Protected Area Management, and building
capacity for protected area and conservation management at both the field and central levels. This will be
achieved through preparing and implementing management plans for three priority conservation sites, all
in forested areas of the Carpathian mountain chain, and developing mechanisms and priorities for
replication of this best practice to establish a national network of protected areas in Romania.
The project will develop new skills in participatory protected area and conservation planning that NFA
will need to address its future role of safeguarding the public interest in both State and private forest
lands. It will also strengthen the capacity of the DNBC to regulate and coordinate biodiversity
conservation issues at the national level.
Although the project will not address the issue of forest land restitution, it will demonstrate how
biodiversity conservation can be incorporated in forest management planning at the level of forest
production units, and at how these efforts should be coordinated to maintain viability of Carpathian
ecosystems. It will also raise awareness of stakeholder groups, including prospective new owners of forest
lands in the vicinity of the project sites, of the needs and opportunities for biodiversity conservation.   -



Page 5
C: Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2for a detailed description and Annex 3for a detailed cost
breakdown):
Component               Category        Cost Inc)      % of       GEF    % of GEF
Contingencies    Total   financing  financing
(US$m)                 (US$m)
1. Strengthen the National    Policy, Institution  1.10        12.5%     0.86      15.6%
Framework for Biodiversity   Building, Training
Conservation
* Strengthen DNBC                              (0.86)           9.8%    (0.70)     12.7%
* Legal Framework                              (0.06)           0.7%    (0.05)      0.9%
* PA Replication                               (0.18)           2.0%    (0.11)      2.0%
2. Develop Models for     Institution Building,    6.21        70.6%     3.70      67.3%
Protected Area and Forest    Physical, Financial
Park Management           Mechanism,
* Planning and management  Learning and
systems                 Adaptation           (4.30)         48.9%    (2.20)     40.0%
* Sustainable Resource                         (0.68)           7.7%    (0.65)     11.8%
Management
* Eco-tourism strategy                         (0.25)           2.8%    (0.19)      3.5%
* Bison reintroduce
* Sustainable forest                           (0.84)           9.5%    (0.54)      9.8%
management                                  (0.14)           1.6%    (0.12)      2.2%
3. Build Public Support for    Learning and     0.72            8.2%     0.54       9.8%
Biodiversity Conservation  Adaptation
4. Project Management and    Project Management   0.76          8.6%     0.40       7.3%
Monitoring
Total   8.80          100%       5.50      100%
The project will establish effective participatory systems for sustainable conservation at three
demonstration sites in the Romanian Carpathian range, and will build national capacity and public support
for replicating this best practice to develop an integrated nationwide system of protected areas and
conservation management. It will also explore and develop opportunities for mainstreaming biodiversity
conservation in forest planning and management throughout the Carpathian chain.
Different conservation strategies will be tested at each of the three project sites. These include national
park, natural park (protected landscape), and biodiversity-friendly sustainable forest management (forest
park). These models will address priority conservation planning and management problems common to
many threatened biodiversity sites throughout Romania, and will provide practical experience to support
implementation of the national biodiversity conservation strategy.



Page 6
The project includes the following four components:
Component 1: Strengthen the National Framework for Biodiversity Conservation (US$1.1
million) will be achieved through participatory review and revision of the legal and regulatory
framework for protected area mnanagement. This will entail review of existing draft legislation,
preparation of a national law foi protected areas, and development of site specific regulations for
the project demonstration sites. The project will build DNBC's capacity to plan and lead
biodiversity conservation at the national level. This will include developing and operationalizing
a prioritized national strategy for establishing an effective system of protected areas, building
public support for biodiversity conservation, establishing a national biodiversity monitoring
system, and strengthening regional initiatives to conserve Carpathian ecosystems. In addition, a
strategy will be developed to mainstream biodiversity conservation in forest management
planning at the level of the ecosystem, rather than the smaller "forest production units".
Component 2: Develop Models for Protected Areas and Forest Park Management (US$6.2
million) will entail establishing systems for planning and management of biodiversity at the three
demonstration sites. The project will develop conservation management planing systems, and
provide equipment, training and facilities, including visitor centers at all three sites. It will
undertaken baseline ecological surveys and put in place biodiversity monitoring systems to
provide periodic feedback on the status of ecosystems and their biodiversity, particularly as they
relate to known threats such as over grazing, tourism impacts, hunting, and other forms of
resource use. In addition it will establish mechanisms to reduce unsustainable use of shared
resources such as grazing and forest products, and will develop a strategy for eco-tourism, which
will focus on demonstrating links between conservation and economic benefits for local
communities. This component will also develop and show-case forest management practices that
address biodiversity concerns, including incorporating biodiversity in the NFA forest
management planning system, and exploring and disseminating the economic rationale for
independent certification of forest products. In addition a European bison reintroduction program
will be implemented at the Vanatori-Neamt Forest Park, which is part of the former natural range
of this native animal. The bison population will provide a "flagship" for public awareness of
forest ecosystems, and also a mechanism for ecological reconstruction and maintenance of the
natural diversity of this areas mixed forest and meadow ecosystems.
Component 3: Build Public Support for Biodiversity Conservation (US$0.7 million) will be
achieved through preparation and implementation of both national and park level strategies and
targeted action plans for raising the awareness of specific stakeholder groups and the general
public about the importance of, and opportunities for, biodiversity conservation. Action plans will
target priority groups such as national policy makers, protected area site visitors and primary
school children. Possible delivery mechanisms for the public awareness program include mass
media, formal and informal education, and networking and the development of linkages with
related conservation initiatives in Romania and elsewhere. The component will incorporate and
encourage commercially sustainable options such as private sector development of publications,
eco-tourism, and the use of eco-labeling in marketing products that are linked with conservation
needs and opportunities.
Component 4: Project Management and Monitoring (US$0.8 million) will establish a Project
Coordination Team (PCT) at the national level, composed of a project manager, a procurement
specialist and a financial management specialist. The PCT will oversee and support
implementation of all project activities in accordance with agreed monitorable indicators. It wil4
work closely with the county level PMA staff at the three sites and with national project staff, to
develop and monitor workplans on a biannual basis.



Page 7
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
In view of the current lack of clear responsibility for preparation and field implementation of management
plans for biodiversity conservation, there is an urgent need to develop a unified and structured approach
to the acquisition and management of protected areas, to identify lead responsibility for their
management, and to further develop the field capacity to address the rapidly increasing and changing
needs for protected area management and biodiversity conservation. The proposed project would address
these needs, with emphasis on demonstrating best practice in decentralized land-use planning and field
implementation.
While functioning protected area management systems have not yet been established, existing legal
provisions provide a framework within which the project can be implemented. These include Law
26/1996 (Forest Code), which allows the NFA to manage national parks in forest lands, and the MWFEP
order no 7/1990, which designates NFA to manage the declared national parks at Retezat, Bucegi and
Piatra Craiului. The project will review current and proposed protected area legislation and develop
specific regulations for the protected area sites.
3. Benefits and target population:
Global and regional benefits: The project will result in global benefits by contributing to sustainable
conservation management of some of the last remaining areas of pristine and relatively undisturbed
natural mixed forests in Europe. Since approximately sixty percent of the Carpathian mountains are in
Romania, the project will make a significant contribution to other regional initiatives to conserve the
biodiversity of the Carpathian chain, whose contiguous forests are the focus of international conservation
initiatives in all other Carpathian countries. The project will develop and help implement a strategy for
the maintenance of ecological corridors throughout the Romanian Carpathians and will establish trans-
border linkages and collaboration to support and benefit from conservation initiatives in adjacent
Carpathian countries.
National benefits: Investments, training and decentralized institutional arrangements would address
priority conservation planning and management problems common to many important and threatened
biodiversity sites throughout Romania and elsewhere in Eastern Europe and would, therefore, provide
models for replication in priority conservation sites in other parts of the country and region. National
level beneficiaries include Government (MWFEP and NFA) and Non-Governmental Organizations
(NGOs) whose institutional capacity will be strengthened to address new national needs, and the public at
large whose awareness and appreciation of Romania's natural assets will be increased. The project will
improve Romania's institutional arrangements and strengthen its capacity for biodiversity conservation,
while raising public awareness and providing improved opportunities for environmental and conservation
education.
At the local level, the project would build mechanisms and capacity to assist local stakeholders,
specifically including NFA local communities, local Government, and NGOs, to participate in preparation
and implementation of conservation management and development plans. Sustainable management of the
project sites will benefit poor rural communities and local economies adjacent to the sites through
simulation of economic development, including tourism, which is based on the sustainable management
of protected areas and natural resources.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Implementation period: 5 years.
A Project Oversight Committee consisting of experts from the MWFEP, Ministry of Finance (MoF), the
Commission of Natural Monuments of the Romanian Academy, and NFA will be established by



Page 8
MWFEP. The committee will be responsible for providing project oversight advice and assistance in
resolvingissues associated with project implementation. The Secretary of State of MWFEP will be the
chairman of the committee.
Project Management at the National Level: The MWFEP will have overall responsibility for the project,
including procurement, disbursement, maintenance of project accounts and coordination of
implementation. For this purpose, the MWFEP will establish a Project Coordination Team (PCT). The
project will staff, fund and equip the PCT, which will consist of a project coordinator, a procurement
officer, and a financial manager. In addition to responsibility for overall management of project
activities, the PCT will also supervise Park Management Authorities (PMAs) at the three project sites,
and the two Government agencies (DNBC and the NFA Service for Protected Areas) responsible for
undertaking project activities at the national level. The staff of the PCT will be appointed on a
contractual basis through advertisements and competitive selection. A team of experienced external
technical and management consultants will assist both PCT and PMAs in their technical work.
Project Implementation at the National Level: The DNBC and the NFA Service for Protected Areas
(SPA) will be responsible for carrying out project activities at the national level, under the supervision of
the PCT. The project will strengthen the capacity of DNBC to plan and lead biodiversity conservation in
Romania, through provision of equipment and training in technical, legal and regulatory aspects of
protected area management, and implementation of an effective public awareness strategy. The project
will also strengthen the capacity of the NFA SPA in management planning for forest protected areas, and
incorporating biodiversity conservation in forest management planing.
Project Implementation (County Level): PMAs will be established within NFA at each of the three
project sites (Retezat, Neamt and Piatra Craiului - Bucegi) and will be responsible for implementation
project activities at the field level. The PMAs at Retezat and Piatra Craiului - Bucegi will consist of a park
manager, an accountant, an ecologist/biodiversity specialist, a chief ranger, a community outreach and
tourism specialist, a public awareness specialist and information specialist. At Neamt, the Park
Management Unit will consist of a Forest Park manager, an information specialist, a public awareness
specialist and an accountant. All PMA staff will be hired and paid by the NFA. The project will provide
computers and necessary office equipment for the PMAs. The NFA, through its territorial units in Deva,
Brasov and Neamt, will implement ranger services and monitoring activities at the local level and, with
the assistance of the project, incorporate biodiversity concerns in forest management planning.
Accounting, financial reporting and auditing arrangements
Accounting: Romania has launched a major reform of the country's accounting and auditing systems. A
concerted effort is currently underway to upgrade the quality of accounting and audit profession. A Law
on Accounting (No. 82/1991), which came into force in January 1992, provides for a statutory system of
recording economic entities' financial position and financial results, substantially reducing the gap
between the traditional Romanian Accounting Standards (RAS) and International Accounting Standards
(IAS).
In 1994, Romania implemented a new of system of Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP),
more closely based on the French system of GAAP. However, there still remain major differences
between RAS and the western and/or international accounting systems. Disclosure standards under RAS
are substantially lower. There is no provision for inflation accounting and revaluation of assets (except to
the extent allowed by government regulations). RAS, as it stands today, are used by economic entities
primarily for purposes of tax liability assessment by the MoF and for statistical record, rather than to
assess and present a true and fair statement of financial condition and performance.
The accounting for this project would be maintained in accordance with International Accounting
Standards.



Page 9
Audit Arr:angements: Steps would be taken to select auditors for the Project by effectiveness. This would
include (i) advertising in the local newspapers to invite "expressions of interest" from local audit firmss;
(ii) short-listing at least five audit firms; (iii) having the Bank clear the shortlist; and (iv) selecting one of
the auditors from the short-list. An auditor acceptable to the Bank would be appointed within the first
four months of effectiveness of the project. The audit of the project would be undertaken in accordance
with International Auditing Standards. Audited financial statements for the project would be sent to the
Bank within six months after the end of every fiscal year.
Financial Reporting Arrangements: In addition to submission of annual audited financial statements,
unaudited financial statements would be submitted to the Bank within three months after the end of every
fiscal year. The MWFEP would also be required to submit to the Bank quarterly project management
reports per guidelines issued by the Bank under (OP/BP 10.02).
Financial Management: A Financial Management Assessment has been undertaken as part of project
preparation (see Annex 12). All necessary steps will be taken to ensure that the project complies with the
relevant Bank policies (OP/BP 10.02) and that a financial management system is established by
effectiveness. Disbursements under the project will be based on traditional disbursement procedures and
will be converted to disbursements under the LACI framework based on quarterly project management
reports (PMRs) at a later stage of the project if the project management reporting is successfully
implemented. A project financial management system, conforming to the LACI guidelines, will be
completed during the first year of implementation. The financial management reports will be generated
from the financial management system.
Monitoring and evaluation arrangements: Monitoring and evaluation of project activities will be
undertaken by the PCT, and will be subject to periodic review by the Bank. The PCT will establish
project monitoring and evaluation procedures acceptable to the Bank, and will furnish the Bank with
biannual project progress reports, together with work programs inclusive of detailed monitoring indicators
for the following six month period. Key performance indicators proposed for monitoring are in Annex 1.
Arrangement for monitoring will be detailed and agreed upon during appraisal and recorded in the
minutes of negotiation. In addition, a mid term evaluation would be prepared during the third year of the
project. Lessons learned from implementation of project activities will be recorded in a report prepared
by the borrower with the assistance of the PCT.
D: Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
Rational for Project Design. Project design was undertaken through a participatory process that first
identified existing and anticipated threats to biodiversity conservation and their underlying causes, and
then developed project components to address these root causes. The linkages between project
components, threats causes and desired project outcomes is summarized in Table A of Annex 2.
Selection of project demonstration sites was undertaken by the national biodiversity steering committee.
Sites were chosen to include natural ecosystems of international importance, together with examples of
different conservation management needs and strategies to address them (national park, natural park,
forest park/sustainable forest management). Experience gained at these different project demonstration
sites will be replicated, during the second half of project implementation, in the context of a prioritized
action plan for establishment of an effective national protected area network, and a systemic approach to
forest management planning throughout the Carpathian range, which the project will develop.
Without Project Scenario. Regardless of the Government's commitment to biodiversity conservation,
without the establishment of a effective protected area system, biodiversity-rich natural ecosystems would
not be protected from the major transition-related threats that are anticipated over the short and medium



Page 10
tern. Government would be unable to commit sufficient budget to establish a functioning protected area
management system, and existing Government and NGO groups concerned with conservation would
remain weak, ineffective, uncoordinated, and isolated. In the absence of a protected area system,
expected impacts (resulting from changing land ownership and land use, including forestry and tourism)
would result in loss of biodiversity, and ecological corridors necessary to maintain viability of
populations and ecosystems may be irreversibly disrupted. The project will, therefore, lead the way to
establishing an effective protected area system.
Project Alternatives. Project preparation considered and rejected the following alternatives:
Establishment of a New Government Institution for Protected Area Management. This was rejected on
grounds of cost and efficiency. Almost all Romanian forests are currently owned and managed by the
State, which has considerable institutional capacity for forest management in the field. Consequently,
rather than establish new institutions, Government intends that the project will build the new skills (in
conflict resolution, inter-sectoral and participatory planning, and conservation management) needed by
existing institutions in order to address their changing roles. The project will fund the incremental cost of
building and demonstrating the necessary new skills and institutional adjustments.
NGO Management of Protected Areas. Project preparation also explored the possibility of delegating
responsibility for field implementation to an NGO, whose financial sustainability would be ensured
through establishment of an investment fund for protected area management. This suggestion was
unacceptable to Government on the grounds that existing NGOs have no capacity for protected area
management, and sufficient financial resources to capitalize the fund could not be secured.
Management of Protected Areas by a Private Company. The preparation consultants considered this
innovative suggestion, which proposed that landowners and other stakeholders be awarded tradable shares
in a company contracted by Government to implement the protected area management plan. Government
rejected this options as too radical, and were reluctant to consider devolving responsibility for protected
area management to the private sector in the absence of an adequate legal and regulatory framework.



Page 11
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed, ongoing
and planned):
Sector issue                    Project            Latest Supervision (PSR) Ratings
(Bank-financed projects only)
Implementation   Development
Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)
Bank-financed
Forestry                        Sector Review (1994)
Forestry                        Sector Note (ongoing)
Environment - Pollution         Pollution Abatement - under
preparation
Environment                     NEAP (1995)
Bank/GEF
Biodiversity - Wetlands         Danube Delta Biosphere Reserve      S              S
Ukraine - Danube Delta              S              S
Biodiversity Protection
Project
Biodiversity                    National Strategy & Action Plan
(1996)
Ukraine - Transcarpathian          S               S
Biodiversity Protection
Other development agencies
Environment / International Waters  Regional Black Sea
(with Bank & UNEP support)     Environment Program
EU (TACIS)                      Ukraine Carpathian Mountains -
Support to Protected
Areas/Sustainable Tourism
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly
Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
Experience from similar initiatives in Eastern Europe and around the world suggests that:
*    the early involvement of key stakeholders in project preparation, specifically including local
communities and influential decision makers, is essential in order to ensure ownership and
successful project implementation;
*    conservation management strategies should establish a link between the objectives of
conservation and tangible benefits for key stakeholders, specifically including local
communities (e.g., economic and community development associated with appropriate
forms of rural and eco-tourism, etc.);
*    in order to achieve environmental, social and financial sustainability, conservation strategies
must be site-specific and address local issues and needs;
*    the benefits and objectives of the project should be made known to key stakeholders, if not-
through active participation, then through effective public awareness programs;



Page 12
*    where consumptive use of natural resources is an issue (e.g., grazing, hunting, fishing, and
use of other forest products), resource users must be substantively involved in the design of
sustainable resource management systems, and effective monitoring and control mechanisms
need to be developed and applied;
*    decentralized responsibility for financial and project management (e.g., as in the Romania
Danube Delta Biodiversity Project) builds local ownership and sustainability of project
activities, and
*    applied research and monitoring programs should also be site-specific and targeted to
provide direct support for effective conservation management.
The project will incorporate these experiences and build on them specifically by (i) addressing the links
between socio-economic issues and sustainable natural resource use and management, (ii) building both
the local and national capacity for conservation management, and (iii) ensuring a participatory and
transparent approach to project preparation and implementation.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
In order to implement the GEF pilot phase Danube Delta Biodiversity Project, which is currently being
successfully implemented by MWFEP, Government established and staffed the Danube Delta Biosphere
Reserve Authority. In preparation for the Biodiversity Conservation Management Project, MWFEP has
assigned four professional staff to work full time on project preparation activities through till project
effectiveness. In addition, the NFA has agreed to fund the 19 new PMA staff that will implement the
project at the field level. The MoF has committed $2.4 million toward the incremental costs of project
implementation. NFA will contribute an additional $900,000 towards project costs, and has established
the SPA, which will work in close collaboration with DNBC to implement project activities and replicate
best practice experience at forest biodiversity conservation sites throughout the country.
Historically Government has demonstrated the intention to establish a protected area network and
conserve biodiversity, but has been unable to implement this commitment due to lack of financial
resources. For example, in 1990, the Romania issued an order identifying 11 National Parks and three
biosphere reserves. In 1994, the number of potential protected areas was increased to more than 1,000
when MWFEP requested County administrations to identify sites for conservation management. The
Government also ratified the Convention on Biological Diversity in August 1994. Between 1992 and
1995, three major papers identifying environmental priority issues were prepared: (Environmental
Strategy Paper; the 1994 Environmental Protection Strategy, and the 1995 National Environmental Action
Program). The National Strategy affirms Romania's commitment to sustainable natural resource
management and biodiversity conservation. In 1996, with the support of a GEF grant and the assistance
of the World Bank, the Government prepared a National Biodiversity Conservation Strategy and Action
Plan. Government is committed to implementing the strategy, and the project will provide the resources
and technical guidance needed to do so.
At the local level, multi-stakeholder associations have already been established to collaborate on
conservation priorities at two of the three project sites. At the third project site, where bison have
significance in local mythology, there is considerable local community and land owner (NFA and the
Church) enthusiasm for the proposed bison reintroduction and management program that the project will
implement in collaboration with all stakeholders.
5. Value added of Bank and GEF support in this project:
The World Bank is well qualified to prepare and supervise a forest biodiversity conservation project in
Romania, and GEF resources are of critical importance to this initiative. While this project would be the



Page 13
first Bank/GEF operation to focus on conservation and protected area management in forest ecosystems in
Romania, the project would benefit from experience gained in implementation of the GEF pilot phase
project, the Danube Delta Biodiversity Project, and from other pilot phase GEF/World Bank biodiversity
projects focused on protected area and conservation management of forest ecosystems in Belarus, the
Czech Republic, Poland, Slovakia, Ukraine and operational phase projects under preparation in Turkey
and Georgia.
In addition to the Bank's experience in GEF biodiversity projects and forestry operations throughout the
region, the Banks involvement in the 1993 Romania Forestry Sector Review, together with ongoing
analytical work in the forestry sector, provide an objective perspective of ways to demonstrate how
biodiversity conservation could be mainstreamed and incorporated in reform of the forestry sector.
While a number of international and Romanian environmental NGOs are active in Romania and the
region, there is little coordination or synergy among their different activities. The GEF project will
provide a framework for productive collaboration among these groups towards achieving the overall and
mutual goal of conservation of Carpathian ecosystems.
E: Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic (supported by Annex 4): The rationale for cost-effectiveness is discussed in section Dl
under Project Alternatives.
[]Cost-Benefit Analysis: NPV=US$     million; ERR=   % [ ] Cost Effectiveness Analysis:
[Xi Incremental Cost   [I Other (Specify)
Incremental Costs: Incremental costs are estimated to cover project expenditure on components that have
global benefits. Project activities that will yield global benefits are eligible for GEF financing. To
calculate the incremental costs of the project, an estimate of baseline expenditure was made to establish
the current and planned amount of funding for biodiversity conversation at the three project sites and for
national level planning, during the life of the project. The differences between the cost of the baseline
scenario (US$ 1.0 million) and the cost of the GEF Alternative (US$ 9.8 million) is estimated at US$ 8.8
million. This represents the incremental cost for achieving global environmental benefits through
strengthening policy and legal frameworks for protected area management, developing mechanisms for
sustainable resource use in the buffer zones, and strengthening local and national capacity for conserving
globally significant biodiversity. The GoR has committed to mobilizing US$ 2.4 million toward the GEF
Alternative and the NFA will provide US$ 900,000; these will cover all recurrent and some incremental
project costs. Consequently, the GEF grant contribution would be US$ 5.5 million.
For the purposes of the Incremental Cost Analysis, parallel co-financing has been estimated at $1.0
million, all of which is earmarked for baseline activities. Thus far, co-financing has been secured for
carnivore conservation from the European Union LIFE program ($0.85m). Work on analyzing the effects
of grazing on soil vegetation and forests will also be financed by the EU ($0.1 1). In addition, the
WWF/World Bank Forestry Alliance is financing a pilot activity to demonstrate the benefits and means to
establish independent certification of forest management ($0.04m). If successful, additional funds would
be sought from other donors to apply the methodology to other forest management sites throughout the
country.
2. Financial (see Annex 5):
Fiscal impact:
Total government financing during the project implementation period is estimated to be US$2.4 million
equivalent, which is less than 4% of MWFEP's annual budget and less than 1.5% of NFA's annual
budget. Since the Government contribution is spread over a five year period, the annual fiscal impact will



Plage 14
be even less. The project would not directly result in an increase in revenues to government. The project
will result in increases of about US$0.2 million of annual expenditures for operations and maintenance for
the Retezat National Park, Piatra Criaiului Park and Neamt Forest Park. These increases are minimized
since the incremental staff positions for park management would represent staff transferred from other
duties within the National Forest Administration. The parks would develop the capacity to generate and
retain funds through introduction of visitors fees and other income earning activities that will help reduce
pressure on the national budget. Tourism-generated as a result of the project will also help increase
Romania's tax base as a result of increased spending by consumers and foreign visitors.
3. Technical:
The project is technically justified on the basis of the urgent need to address growing threats to Romania' s
rich biodiversity that result from changing incentives to exploit natural resources, and the absence of
effective conservation management systems. Consequently, the project will establish functioning models
of best practice for protected area management, and build the national capacity to replicate this experience
and mainstream biodiversity conservation in forest management. Project rationale and components were
developed in a participatory manner by MWFEP and NFA technical staff. All project activities are
practical and will address the underlying causes of existing and envisaged threats to Romanian
biodiversity. The project will augment the existing considerable capacity for conservative forest
management with new skills needed to manage forest biodiversity in the changing socio-economic
circumstances. Needed new skills include multi-stakeholder particapatory planning and management of
natural resources and natural areas, site interpretation, awareness raising, biodiversity conservation and
mnonitoring, and protected area management. Skills will be acquired from international experience
through a combination of study tours, exchange programs, networking and on-the-job training. The
project will promote linkages between Romanian institutions and sectors that have little tradition of
collaboration, and will develop conservation methodologies appropriate for the changing Romanian social
and economic conditions.
4. Institutional:
a. Executing agencies: Within the NFA, institutional capacity for project implementation at the field
level is very good, however, there is no tradition or collaborative mechanisms for coordination between
the General Directorate of Forests (GDF) and the DNBC within the MWFEP, and between the DNBC and
the NFA. Since DoE technical staff are inadequately experienced, the MWFEP has assigned lead
responsibility for project execution to the GDF, and the project will build the collaborative mechanisms
and develop the technical expertise needed for successful project implementation.
b. Project management: Project management will be undertaken by a Project Coordination Unit (PCT)
composed of three contracted professional staff who will be funded under the project. The PCT will
oversee implementation of project activities at the national and field level. National level activities will
be undertaken by existing NFA and DNBC staff., and by PMAs composed of existing and newly
recruited NFA staff. Competent PMA managers have already been assigned by MWFEP at each of the
three demonstration sites, and additional specialist staff (e.g., in ecology, community outreach, tourism,
and public awareness) will be recruited by NFA at project effectiveness. The schedule for appointment of
key staff is in Annex B of the Project Implementation Plan.
5. Social:
A. social assessment and development of a participation plan were undertaken during project preparation,
through consultation with a broad range of stakeholder groups using a number of different information
gathering techniques including: formal and semi-formal interviews, group discussions and workshops,
rapid rural appraisal and literature review (see Annex 11). Population density in the vicinity of the project



Page 1 5
sites varies from 77-119 people per square kilometer. Unemployment rates are generally high (9%-30%),
which in some cases is resulting in increased pressure on natural resources. Important land use activities
include sheep and cattle grazing, wood harvesting and processing, agriculture and tourism. The
increasing number of sheep being brought by outsiders from other regions, to graze in pastures in the
project sites, has resulted in a recent significant increase and pressure on local biodiversity and a decline
in local incomes from livestock and dairy products.
At the national level, Governmental restructuring and reduction of subsidies are influencing socio-
economic conditions to a large degree, including real wage declines and unemployment. At the level of
the project demonstration sites, key rural development issues are unemployment, unsustainable use of
resources, and lack of access to credit to support development of new income generating opportunities.
Poor economic conditions and their implications for social welfare result in a lack of interest in
conservation and protected area management on the part of stakeholders. Consequently, the project will
support economic opportunities for key stakeholders that are linked with the objectives of the project.
The project will establish mechanisms to support sustainable use of natural resources, including grazing
and forest products, provide access to small grants to support conservation compatible activities, employ
of local individuals, and will engage local NGOs and small commercial enterprises in protected area
management activities.
6. Environmnental assessment:  Environmental Category []A  []B  [X] C
The entire project constitutes an environmental mitigation and management plan. It has been designed
and will be implemented in a participatory manner, in order to have a positive environmental impact,
through establishing effective systems to conserve the natural integrity and biodiversity of Romanian
ecosystems in protected areas, associated landscapes and in production forests. The location of visitor
centers and marked trails at project sites will be chosen so as to limit the existing environmental impact of
visitors. Visitor centers will not be located inside the core protected areas, and their design, construction
and management will be in accordance with World Bank environmental guidelines.
7. Participatory approach:
Participation in project identification and preparation: Major elements of the proposed project were
identified as top priorities in the National Biodiversity Conservation Strategy and Action Plan, which was
prepared in a participatory manner with the involvement of all key national institutions concerned with
conservation in Romania. The project preparation was undertaken in consultation with major
stakeholders at the local and national level and a broad range of NGOs. The Project Concept document
was finalized in collaboration with Government counterparts and NGOs, who are continuing to actively
pursue options for cofinancing and establish links between the proposed project and related national and
international initiatives. In two of the proposed demonstration sites (Retezat and Bucegi-Piatra Craiului),
the local NFA have established collaborative administrative structures for protected area management,
which include the participation of local authorities, communities, NGOs and relevant national institutions.
Mechanisms for participation in project implementation: Project success will rely on the involvement and
support of local and national stakeholders. Consequently, the establishment of mechanisms to support
their participation is an integral feature of project design. Participation mechanisms are detailed in Annex
11. At the national level these include the project oversight committee, the national consultative board,
and the five national working groups for protected area classification; protected area law; management
planning guidelines; boundary analysis and internal zoning; and ecological adaptation of school curricula.
At the local level participation mechanisms include the park management board and consultative boards;
the communal grazing association; the working group for park friendly investment activities, and
committees for implementation of the small grants program, including the inter-communal grazing
committee.



Page 16
a. Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups:
Primary beneficiaries and affected groups include the NFA and DNBC; local forest, agricultural and
pastoral communities; tourists and other visitors to the parks; the private sector, including tour operators
and forest harvesters, marketing agents for forest products; environmental NGOs, hunters' associations,
local government and its implementing agencies (a full list of stakeholders is in Annex 11).
Non-government organizations consulted'or who have participated in project design include: Piatra
Craiului-Bucegi: Association for the Protection of the Bear, the Wolf and the Lynx, Carpati Foundation,
Dracula, Floarea Reginei (Edelweiss), Romanian Carpathian Society of Tourism, Romanian Mountain
Guide Association, Romanian Wildlife Society; Retezat: Committee for Romanian Village Development,
Salvamont Retezat, UNESCO Pro Natura; Neamt: ECOMONT, Hunters and Fishermen Association -
Neamt, Association of Forest Owners, Dr. GH. lacomi Ecotouristic Club, Friends of Nature Association,
Salmo, Mountain Farmer Federation; National: AidRom, Center for New Education for Children,
National Club for Youth Tourism, Romanian Association for Environmental Journalist, Romanian Rural
Foundation, EarthVoice - Romania; International: World Learning, WWF, UNDP.
b. Other key stakeholders: Governmental Agencies at each site: Chambers of Commerce, City Councils,
Forestry Districts and territorial units, Directia Agricola Arges, Prefectures, Town Halls, local
Universities; at the national level: Commission of Natural Monuments of Romanian Academy, DDBRA,
Danube Delta Institute, FAO, ICAS, ICIM, Institute of Geography, Ministry of Agriculture and Food,
Ministry of Public Works and Territorial Planning, Ministry of Tourism, MWFEP - DEP, GDF, NFA,
Parliament, Research Institute of Tourism, Speleological Institute, University of Bucharest; Private sector
entities: SC Apollo SA Deva, Pietrele Tourist Complex, Arcadia Tourism Office, Eurohouse Limited
Co., Petrotour - Piatra Neamt, SC Comfor Barsan SNC Tirgul Neamt, Tipotrans, Maart's Co.
F: Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
Project design has addressed institutional sustainability through the rationalization of protected area
management responsibilities, capacity building and institutional strengthening at the local level (both
government agencies and NGOs) to meet the new challenges of decentralization. The NFA, which has
strong institutional capacity and a proven track record for forest management at the county level will have
lead responsibility for project implementation at the field level. Initiatives to engage local communities
and other local stakeholders, including the Church and other private landowners, in project preparation
and implementation should contribute to social sustainability. With regards to financial sustainability
Government has demonstrated consistent financial commitment to implementation of the ongoing GEF
Danube Delta Biodiversity Project. Additionally, the forestry sector is a net contributor to the national
economy through revenue earnings and taxes on forest products including timber and the products of
wood industries. Government recognizes that an effective system of protected areas is an essential
element of sustainable forest management and have committed to contribute to the incremental costs of
the project, and to financially support protected area management after completion of the project.
Contributions will be provided by both the central Government and NFA. Mechanisms to support
sustainable conservation and public awareness from revenue generation more directly related to protected
area management, together with a strategy for their adoption at the project sites and other priority
conservation sites, will be developed by the project. Possible sources of revenue include users fees for
recreational, educational and other sustainable use of protected area resources. In addition, the project
will review and support establishment of eco-labeling to provide for higher priced markets for forest
products derived from forest ecosystems managed in a biodiversity friendly manner (notably at the
Vanatori-Neamts demonstration site).



Page 17
2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column ofAnnex 1):
Risk                     Risk Rating      Risk Minimization Measure
Annex 1, cell "from Outputs to Objective"
Destruction of biodiversity will begin and      N        National public awareness program
national authorities will fail to discover damage        targeted at key audiences, including
in time to avert irreversible damage.                    policy makers.
Biodiversity monitoring program.
Influential groups may resist establishment of  M        Model mechanisms to eliminate non
protected areas and substantive reforms in               sustainable stakeholder behaviors
management of conservation sites that will limit         for managing grazing, hunting and
their current access to natural resources.               forest resource use.
Laws and regulations for protected
areas.
Land use plans for areas adjacent to
protected areas.
Local and national public awareness
programs.
Availability of fiscal resources may preclude   M        Exploration of options for financial
replication of protected area management                 sustainability of protected area
models.                                                  management systems.
Implementing agencies may be unable to attract  S/M      Project will provide training and
and retain qualified staff.                              career development benefits, and
work towards establishing loyalty to
this new professional field.
Changing political leadership may result in loss  N      Continuing dialog between Bank
of government commitment to project.                     and Government of Romania
Political differences may delay passage of legal         regarding project benefits.
amendments.
Overall Risk Rating     M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
a.   NFA has a long and distinguished history of good and conservative forest management practice.
However, since NFA is a commercial entity whose traditional role includes forest resource exploitation,
the concept of allocating responsibility for management of protected areas to the NFA has been likened
by some in the environmental NGO community as using the wolf to guard the sheep. However, MWFEP,
and NFA recognize that the new NFA role will focus on safeguarding the public interest in forest
management, including protected area management. Consequently the project will build some of the new
skills needed to implement this newly assigned mandate. In addition, the project will provide for the
participation of environmental stakeholders in project oversight and implementation, and will ensure that
public awareness activities publicize the project's mainstreaming objectives and the NFA's changing role
and focus on safeguarding the public interest in forest management.



Page 18
b.   Conservation management of project sites includes controlling access to natural resources, in order
to protect ecosystems in core areas, and reducing exploitation to sustainable levels elsewhere in the
protected areas. This may limit income for some groups of stakeholders in the short term. The project
will work closely with affected stakeholders to support the establishment of mechanisms for sustainable
management of protected area resources, specifically including grazing and game animals.
G: Main Loan Conditions
Conditions of Boardpresentation:
The POC and PCT shall have been established in a manner and under terms of reference satisfactory to
the Bank.
Conditions of effectiveness:
A Project Manager, procurement specialist, financial manager and office assistant for the PCT shall have
been appointed under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank.
A financial management system, satisfactory to the Bank, shall have been established.
H. Readiness for Implementation
[ ] The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation. [X] Not applicable.
[ ] The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
[ ] The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
[ ] The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
I. Compliance with Bank Policies
[X] This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
[- ]   [The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval:  . The project
complies with all other applicable Bank policies.]
as   Team L      sk       :er Stewart
ector   nager/Director: Kevin M. Cleaver
Country Manager/Director: Andrew Vorkink



ANNEX 1
Page 1 of 3
Project Design Summary
Biodiversity Conservation Management
NARRATIVE SUMMARY                   KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS                  MONITORING &                     CRITICAL RISKS AND ASSUMPTIONS
EVALUATION
-;sia_ C, , . .                                                                =     _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __           =     =
CAS Goal: Protection of         No significant loss of Carpathian biodiversity, forest    * Biodiversity  * Destruction of biodiversity may begin and national authorities
Romania's environment by         cover or viability of Carpathian ecosystem.        monitoring system.     will fail to discover the damage in time to take action.
establishing mechanisms to protect                                                * National forest      * The human population in Romania has now reached the level at
its rich biodiversity heritage.                                                     inventory.             which traditional uses of biodiversity are not viable in the long
GEF Goal: Sustainable                                                                                      run.
conservation of the biological                                                                           * Protecting biodiversity contributes positively to local
diversity and ecological integrity of                                                                      communities, the national economy, and the welfare of the
mountain, forest and meadow                                                                                Romanian people.
ecosystems, and associated
landscapes of the Carpathians.
*ffiUwr S -~~~~.' ' ' ......  '.''' :;:.
Establish effective inter-sectoral,    * Laws, Ministerial Orders and regulations for  * Ministerial orders,  * Influential groups may resist substantive reforms in
participatory planning and        biodiversity conservation issued and ratified.    protected area         management of biodiversity conservation sites that will
sustainable management of natural   * Strategy for developing a national protected area  legislation and   endanger their current free access to natural resources.
ecosystems and associated         network completed and adopted.                    regulation.          * Given GoR's fiscal constraints, models proven managerially
landscapes at three demonstration    *Strategy to incorporate biodiversity in forest  * Records of         and technically feasible in the project areas may not be
and mechanisms to support their   management planning developed and adopted.        consultative boards    replicable.
replication at other priority    * Effectively functioning models of conservation   and working groups.   * Public support for biodiversity conservation may develop more
conservation sites.               management planning established at the field level.    * Progress and    slowly than the rate that would have been required to support
* No adverse impacts of increased tourism on       supervision reports.   Romania's biodiversityi
biodiversity.                                                             oai'  idvriy
biodiversiy.  .                                         *Implementation agencies may be unable to attract and retain
* Strategy for sustainable eco-tourism developed and                      qualified staff.
being implemented.
* No increase in adverse impacts of resource use
(grazing, forest products, etc) on the biodiversity of
project sites.
* European bison reintroduction program being
implemented.
* Public awareness strategy completed and functioning
effectively.



ANNEX 1
Pape    of 3
1. National legal and regulatory  * Legal and regulatory basis for planning, managing  * Project progress       * Political differences may delay passage of laws and amendments
Framework for biodiversity           and monitoring biodiversity conservation            reports.                 required.
conservation established and        established.                                       * Supervision reports.    * DNBC may fail to realize that successful central plans can only be
mechanisms to replicate experience   * Laws amended to be consistent with the protected                           developed from experience gained during actual field planning.
at demonstration sites at other     area law and international treaties and agreement                           * Influential groups may resist placement of new protected areas if
protected areas in place.           regarding biodiversity conservation that Romania                              their free access to natural resources will be restricted.
has ratified.
has ratified.                                                    * NFA may find incorporating biodiversity conservation into
* Strategy developed to incorporate biodiversity                               existing forestry practices threatening in the short run, and
conservation concerns into forest management                                 burdensome in the long run.
planning.
* National consultative boards in place and
functioning effectively
2. Two protected area and one      * Protected area management plans developed and in    * Project progress     * Communes that own grazing rights and hunters associations may
Forest Park model established and    use.                                                reports.                 mount opposition to the proposed sites.
effectively managed for            * Baseline ecological surveys completed and         * Supervision reports.    * Influential stakeholders may skew distribution of benefits from
biodiversity conservation.           biodiversity monitoring systems operational       * Park management          commonly managed resources, and thereby destroy the incentive
* Land use plans for areas adjacent to conservation   plans.                  for weaker members of the community to participate in the new
sites adjusted to reflect biodiversity conservation                          arrangements for resource management.
concerns.                                                                  * Developers may resist constraints on their investments that arise
* Model mechanisms established that are expected to                           from biodiversity concerns.
eliminate non-sustainable stakeholder behaviors for                        * Bison that survive in managed areas may fail to establish a viable
managing grazing, hunting and collection of forest                           population in the wild.
products.                                                                  * Forest harvesting that meets standards for independently
* Increasing numbers of eco-tourists visit the project                         certifiable forest management that will conserve biodiversity may
sites with no increase in % of areas degraded by their                       not be adequately financially profitable in Romania.
impacts.
* Breeding herd of European Bison established at
Neamt and strategy developed for subsequently
reintroducing the species into the wild.
* Two forest districts develop and implement models
of forest management plans that integrate
biodiversity conservation concerns.
3. Programs in place at national   * Increased public awareness of biodiversity        * Project progress       * People may understand the connection between biodiversity and
level and at the project sites that  conservation issues over baseline.                  reports.                 livelihoods but still not be concerned about long term problems.
raise public awareness of          * Ecological education packages developed for use in    * Supervision reports.    * The time required for publicity campaigns to affect people's
biodiversity conservation needs      primary and secondary schools.                     * Public Awareness        understanding of biodiversity conservation and behavior may
and opportunities.                                                                       Strategy and Action      exceed the patience of officials to see results.
Plan.                 * Teachers may be resistant to add to their pedagogic
responsibilities.



ANNEX I
Page 3 of 3
P  WRQE C'rC OM. O N..             ___                                                  _    _    _   _    _     _______' ________,,",' _:'". _'- ____- __'
1. Strengthen National Framework   US$ 1,097,400                                       * Project progress       * Growing fiscal constraints may reduce the priority that GoR
for Biodiversity Conservation                                                            reports.                 currently places on biodiversity conservation and endanger local
* Strengthen national laws and                                                         * Disbursement reports.    counterpart financing of project activities.
regulatory framework.                                                                * Supervision reports.    * Bureaucratic procedures may endanger timely release of funds.
* Strengthen capacity of DNBC to                                                       * Minutes of Working    * Political changes may threaten governmental support for the
plan and lead biodiversity                                                             Group meetings.          project.
conservation.
* Strengthen NFA to Replicate
protected areas in Forest Areas.
* Develop strategy to incorporate
biodivercity concerns into
national forest management
planning.
2. Develop Models for Protected    US$ 6,214,700                                        * Project progress      * Ministerial Order issued that legally confirms project sites (two
Area and Forest Park Management                                                          reports.                 protected areas and one Forest Park) and specifies the basic
* Establish systems for planning                                                       * Disbursement reports.    principles for their management.
and managing biodiversity                                                            * Supervision reports.    * NFA maintain staff and office support for PMAs.
conservation.                                                                        * Regular site visits.
* Establish mechanisms to reduce                                                       * Monitoring of
unsustainable resource use.                                                            changes against
baseline data.
* Establish Eco-Tourism                                                                * Applications for
Programs.                                                                               small grants.
* Establish program to reintroduce
European Bison.
* Develop models of forest
management practices that reflect
biodiversity conservation
concerns.
3. Build Public Support for        US$ 721,700                                         * Project progress
Biodiversity Conservation                  .                                              reports.
* Disbursement reports.
* Supervision reports.
4. Project Management and          US$ 761,000                                         * Supervision reports.    * Ministry maintains staff and office support for PCT.
Monitoring



ANNEX 2
Page 1 of 8
Annex 2
Romania Biodiversity Conservation Management
Project Description
Background
1.  Natural temperate forest ecosystems (broad leaf, conifer and mixed) cover 27% of
Romania's land area. Two thirds of this (approximately 4.5 million hectares) occur in the
Romanian portion of the Carpathian mountains, where more than half of all forests have
been effectively managed for conservation objectives, such as watershed management,
rather than wood production. These areas include some of the last and largest tracts of
relatively undisturbed and virgin forests still remaining in Europe. Furthermore, the
natural soil profile and ecology is maintained through the use of natural regeneration in
more than 75% of production forests. The natural integrity and ecological viability of
Romanian forest is indicated by the continued presence of the full range of European
forest fauna, including approximately 60% and 40% of all European brown bears and
wolves respectively. In addition, the largely forested Carpathian range includes meadow
and wetland ecosystems, and higher elevation lands above the tree line contain alpine
ecosystems that support many indigenous species of flora.
2.   Following land nationalization after world war two, production farmland in non-
hilly areas was developed for large scale intensive agriculture. Hedgerows, wetlands and
other ecological islands were destroyed and much of the biodiversity lost. State owned
forests and alpine pasture lands were, however, relatively conservatively utilized and well
managed. Since the beginning of the transition and breakdown of former regulatory
systems, Romanian ecosystems have been exposed to new threats, including the
appearance of unsustainable land use practices such as over-grazing of common lands,
including alpine meadows, and clear cutting of private forest. Uncontrolled and
unsustainable forms of tourism, and infrastructure developments that are incompatible
with biodiversity and landscape conservation, also particularly threaten highly sensitive
mountain ecosystems.
3.   Most of Romania's forests are currently State owned and managed by the National
Forest Authority (NFA), which has a long and distinguished history in forestry.
However, there is mounting political pressure to: (a) privatize and commercialize NFA,
and (b) return as much as two thirds of forest land to its former owners. The role of the
State will, therefore, need to change rapidly from one of owning and managing forests to
a focus on safeguarding the public interest under the new free market and land ownership
systems (e.g., ensuring sustainable forest management practice; conserving
environmental services, and supporting new private sector actors in the forestry and
related industries). Previous experience in Romania (1990/91) and elsewhere suggests
that if restitution of forest land takes place in the absence of adequate legal and
institutional mechanisms to safeguard public interest (including an effective system of



ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 8
protected areas), it will result in immediate loss of forest cover, irreversible
environmental degradation and significant economic losses for the country.
4.    Romania does not have a functioning system of protected areas, or the
institutional capacity for conservation and protected area planning and management. In
view of this, changes in land ownership and resource use (particularly forest products,
grazing and tourism) associated with the transition from State to a free market economy
could have a major negative impact on the biodiversity of forest ecosystems and
associated landscapes.
5.   The Romania Biodiversity Conservation Management Project will be a first step
towards establishing an effective national system of protected areas and ensuring that
biodiversity concerns are incorporated in the planning and management of Carpathian
forest resources. The rationale developed by Romanian counterpart staff to design the
project is summarized in Table A of Annex 2. The project will build and demonstrate the
decentralized capacity for protected area and conservation management at three separate
forested sites, and will establish mechanisms for replication of best practice at other
priority conservation sites throughout Romania and the Carpathian chain. In addition the
project will build on and strengthen ongoing regional initiatives for conservation of
Carpathian ecosystems, including: the Trans-Carpathian Biodiversity Project (Poland,
Slovakia and Ukraine), the Carpathian Biosphere Reserve Project (Zakarpatska Oblast,
Ukraine), and projects initiated by the Regional Association for the Protection of
Carpathian Mountains (ACNAP).
Description of Project Sites
6.   Project sites, which were selected by the Romanian Biodiversity Steering
Committee, provide opportunities to develop and establish several different conservation
management strategies, including national park, natural park (protected landscape), and
biodiversity friendly sustainable forest management (Forest Park). Consequently, the
project will demonstrate three different models to address priority conservation planning
and management problems that are common to many important and threatened
biodiversity sites throughout Romania. This will provide experience to support
replication of the project models at priority conservation sites in other parts of the
country and the Carpathian region. The three project sites include:
National Park Model: Retezat National Park Biosphere Reserve
(approximately 55,000 ha), in the South Western Carpathians, includes
pristine mountain forest and alpine ecosystems. It has a core area of roughly
13,000 ha of relatively undisturbed and pristine mixed and coniferous forest
and alpine meadows that are under increasing threat from the impacts of
tourism, unsustainable use of natural resources, and uncoordinated
developments in adjacent buffer zone areas. The Retezat massif includes 42
endemic plant species; it is also the European center of genetic diversity for
two ecologically and economically important groups of grasses, i.e.,
Hieracium and Poa spp. In addition, Retezat includes a designated
"Important Bird Area" (IBA), which is important habitat for 5 bird species



ANNEX 2
Page 3 of 8
listed under appendix II of the Bonn Convention on migratory species of wild
animals.
*      Natural Park Model: The proposed Piatra Craiului-Bucegi Natural Park
(approximately 100,000 ha) in the South Central Carpathians, includes
roughly 3,400 ha of pristine mixed and coniferous forests and alpine
ecosystems, surrounded by production landscapes that together support viable
populations of large carnivores. Application of the European Ecological
Network (EECONET) concept will provide guidance for the sustainable
development of eco-tourism, grazing and agriculture, while controlling further
fragmentation of natural forests that currently support one of Europe's greatest
concentrations of brown bear, wolf and lynx. Bucegi IBA provides important
habitat for 4 bird species listed under appendix II of the Bonn Convention, and
33 listed under appendix II of the Bern Convention (Convention on the
Conservation of European Wildlife and Natural Habitats).
*      Sustainable Forest Management Model: The proposed Vanatori-Neamt
Forest Park, in the North East Carpathians includes natural mixed hill-forest
and meadows, and provides an opportunity to establish and show-case
biodiversity conservation through sustainable forest management. The
proposed reintroduction of European bison in production/conservation mixed
forest would provide an ecological mechanism, and a focus for public
awareness and popular support, for maintenance of the natural ecological
diversity of 200,000 hectares of hill forest and meadows. The natural fauna of
the area formerly included bison, until they were hunted to extinction at the
end of the last century. The site includes virgin, natural and managed mixed
forest (predominantly oak, beech, fir and spruce), some of which has been
maintained as a hunting reserve since 1475. There are 86 endemic plant
species, 16 of which are endemic to the site. The two IBAs that occur in this
demonstration site provide important habitat for 7 bird species listed under
appendix II of the Bonn Convention, and 30 species listed under appendix II
of the Bern Convention.
Project Component 1: Strengthen the National Framework for Biodiversity
Conservation (US$1.1 million)
7.   This project outcome will be achieved through: (a) participatory review and
revision of the legal and regulatory framework for protected area management; .(b)
building the capacity of the Directorate for Nature and Biodiversity Conservation
(DNBC), within the Ministry of Waters, Forests and Environrnental Protection
(MWFEP), to plan and lead biodiversity conservation at the national level; (c)
strengthening the National Forest Authority to replicate protected area and conservation
management in forest areas, and (d) developing a strategy to incorporate biodiversity
considerations into forest management planning at an ecosystem level, rather than the
level of the forest "production unit". All activities undertaken under this component will
require establishing and maintaining collaborative mechanisms between the DNBC and
the Service for Protected Areas at NFA, which will work in partnership to strengthen the



ANNEX 2
Page 4 of 8
national framework for biodiversity conservation. Collaborative mechanisms will
include combined working groups, workshops and shared development of the two
national level strategies.
8.   Review and revision of the legal framework will entail: (a) the participatory review
of existing and draft legislation that has potential influence on biodiversity conservation.
This will include workshops, media coverage, establishment of an inter-agency working
group and dissemination of draft legislation to key stakeholders, and a national public
consultation workshop; (b) development of a new law for protected areas and biodiversity
conservation that will define the basic principles for establishment of protected areas,
together with the different categories of protected area and conservation sites that will be
established in Romania, and the institutional arrangements for their management; and (c)
preparation of a strategy to rationalize existing laws with the new protected area law.
The review process will be lead by DNBC and will include the participation of other
Directorates within MWFEP, including the Department of Forests; the Romanian
Academy; the National Commission for UNESCO; the Ministries of Finance,
Agriculture, Transport, Tourism, and Public Works and Territorial Planning; and the
Parliamentary Commission for Health Ecology and Sport. In addition, site specific
regulations for planning and operation of conservation management areas will be
developed and adopted.
9.   Building the capacity of DNBC of MWFEP will be undertaken following a detailed
institutional and training needs assessment of all institutions involved in project
implementation, specifically including DNBC. The needs assessment will confirm and
define institutional mandates, identify restructuring, staffing and training needs, and will
develop a time-bound action plan for implementation of all recommendations and project
activities. The project will provide equipment, training and services, to enable DNBC to
address its mandate, which will include:
(a) facilitating review and revision of the legal framework for biodiversity
conservation (described under paragraph 8);
(b) developing and implementing a national strategy to increase public awareness
and support for biodiversity conservation (described under component 3);
(c) developing and operationalizing a prioritized policy and strategy for
establishing an effective national system of protected areas, which will include:
(i) GAP analysis to identify geographical priorities,
(ii) developing the rationale and mechanisms for financing protected area
management, and
(iii) preparing a program to support replication of protected area management
at priority conservation sites;
(d) developing an international strategy for establishing collaborative mechanisms
for conservation of Carpathian ecosystems. This will include assessing ongoing



ANNEX 2
Page 5 of 8
conservation initiatives in Carpathian countries and identifying needs, study tours,
international workshop and establishing a Carpathian conservation network, and
(e) establishing and maintaining a national biodiversity monitoring system in
collaboration with other concerned institutions.
10. Strengthening the National Forest Authority to replicate protected area and
conservation management in forest areas will be undertaken through provision of
equipment, training and services, to enable the Service for Protected Areas (SPA) to
develop and operationalize a prioritized national strategy to establish a network of
protected areas and conservation management of Romania's forests. Capacity building in
both SPA and the DNBC will be preceded by institutional needs and training assessment
and development of work programs, which will be reviewed and updated on a quarterly
basis.
11. A strategy to incorporate biodiversity considerations into forest management
planning will be developed by the General Directorate of Forests within MWFEP. This
will entail review and update of the existing national forest strategy, with the objective of
identifying effective mechanisms to incorporate biodiversity conservation into the forest
management planning process. Since forest management planning is currently
undertaken at the level of the forest "production unit" (approximately 3-5,000 ha), the
strategy will propose a new system for ensuring that forest planning and management
recognizes and maintains the viability of Carpathian ecosystems. Experience gained in
incorporating biodiversity issues in forest management plans at the Neamt Forest Park
project demonstration site, together with the development of standards for independently
certifiable forest products, will feed into the national strategy for forest biodiversity
conservation.
Project Component 2: Develop Models for Protected Area and Forest Park
Management (US$6.2 million)
12. This project outcome will be achieved by: (a) establishing systems for participatory
planning and management of biodiversity at the three demonstration sites; (b)
establishing participatory mechanisms to reduce unsustainable resource use through
introduction of systems for management of shared resources such as grazing and forest
products, and the demonstration of links between conservation and economic benefits for
the local population; (c) developing a strategy for eco-tourism, which produces benefits
for local communities; (d) establishing a program for reintroduction of the European
bison at Vanatori-Neamt; (e) demonstrating models for forest management practices that
address biodiversity concerns, including incorporation of biodiversity in forest
management planning and establishment of guidelines and the economic rationale for
independent certification of forest products.
13. Establishment of conservation planning and management systems will be
undertaken at the three project demonstration sites: Retezat National Park; Piatra
Craiului- Bucegi Natural Park, and Vanatori-Neamt Forest Park. This will entail: (i)
establishment of administrative structures, including the construction of visitor centers



ANNEX 2
Page 6 of 8
and provision of office and field equipment; (ii) transfer of international park
management skills; (iii) further development of staff skills through exchange programs,
study tours and training in park ranger skills and GIS/infonnation management; (iv)
establishment of park planning and management systems using baseline ecological
surveys to form the basis of the three conservation area management plans, develop
biodiversity monitoring systems, and create park identity (see Table B for a Summary of
Technical Interventions); and (v) hosting a conference to share experiences with
international partners and seek funds to expand the biodiversity conservation program.
14.   Mechanisms to reduce non sustainable resource use will be established through:
(i) integration of biodiversity concerns in land use planning for areas adjacent to parks,
through stakeholder consultation workshops and incorporation of workshop agreements
into land use plans; (ii) establishment of participatory mechanisms to enable sustainable
grazing in parks through clarification of land use rights, establishment of commune
committees for grazing, provision of planning advice from NGOs, facilitated workshops
for commune grazing committees, regular meetings of an inter-commune commission for
grazing, study tours for livestock owners and shepherds, and provision of funds for
reciprocal agreements; (iii) establishment of mechanisms to support economic
development activities that are compatible with the conservation objectives of the park,
through development of decision making mechanisms and criteria for selection of
appropriate business opportunities, and provision of funds to support acceptable
development activities, including eco-tourism, and other forms of sustainable resource
use.
15.   Develop and implement eco-tourism strategies for each park will entail: (i)
assessment of potential eco-tourism opportunities that support park objectives, (ii)
stakeholder workshops to disseminate results and identify capacity and interest in
participation in eco-tourism activities, (iii) identifying and developing walking trails and
camping facilities, and (iv) and developing visitor packages, promotional and
interpretation materials.
16.   The European bison reintroduction program will be implemented at Vanatori-
Neamt Forest Park, which is part of the former natural range of this native animal. The
bison will be a flagship for public awareness and also provide an ecological mechanism
for maintenance of the natural diversity of the areas mixed forest and meadow
ecosystems. Habitat viability assessments and development of a proposal for this
component were undertaken by the London Zoological Society during project
preparation. Implementation will benefit from experience gained in bison reintroduction
programs in other European countries, and selection of appropriate blood stock will be
guided by the European Endangered Species Program. The project will build facilities
and provide equipment, training and transport to support establishment of a breeding
herd.
17.   Development of models for sustainable forest management that reflect
biodiversity concerns will be undertaken primarily at the Vanatori-Neamt project site.
After undertaking baseline ecological surveys, the project will: (a) identify the needs and
means for incorporating biodiversity concerns in the existing forest management planning



ANNEX 2
Page 7 of 8
and management systems, and develop appropriate standards to be used in independent
certification of forest management; (b) assess the economic viability and technical
requirements associated with establishing independent certification of forest products
derived from Tirgu Neamt forest management unit; (c) provide feedback and input to the
review of the national forest strategy undertaken under component one, and (d) showcase
the forest ecosystem and sustainable forest management practice as part of visitor
interpretation.
Project Component 3: Build Public Support for Biodiversity Conservation (US$0.7
million)
18.   This project outcome will be achieved through preparation and implementation of
both national and park level strategies and targeted action plans for raising the awareness
of specific stakeholders and the general public about the importance of, and opportunities
for, biodiversity conservation.
19. Preparation of the National public awareness program will entail:
(a)   review of: (i) the status, trends and historical context of Romanian
ecosystems and their management; together with their ecological, economic
and cultural significance; (ii) the existing and potential impacts and influence
of key stakeholder groups on Romanian natural resource management and
biodiversity. Stakeholder groups should include: urban and rural residents,
local and national Government (including key policy makers), private sector
interests, NGOs and advocacy groups, media, the academic community, the
Romanian public, and the international conservation and donor communities;
(b)   identification and prioritization of: (i) key constraints to conservation and
sustainable management of biodiversity resources caused by lack of
awareness on the part of identified stakeholder groups; (ii) the information
needs of each identified group; (iii) cost effective delivery mechanisms to
address these information needs.
20.   Possible delivery mechanisms for the public awareness program include mass
media, formal and infornal education, networking, and the development of linkages with
related conservation initiatives in Romania and elsewhere. The public awareness program
will incorporate and encourage commercially sustainable options, such as private sector
development of publications, eco-tourism, and the use of eco-labeling in marketing
products that are linked to conservation needs and opportunities.
21.   Park public awareness programs will be developed and implemented by each park
management unit. WVhile visitor centers will provide interpretation of ecosystem
functions and other important features of the parks to visitors, the public awareness
programs will be designed to enhance the impact of this experience and carry
understanding of key conservation issues to a wider audience. Park public awareness
programs will target local schools and communities and other stakeholder groups that are
of particular significance to each park. Activities under this sub-component include
provision of regular press and media releases and newsletters, annual meetings of



ANNEX 2
Page 8 of 8
concerned NGOs and other groups, development of educational packages for primary
schools, and park related publicity campaigns that are integrated with the national public
awareness program implemented under component 3.
Project Component 4: Project Management and Monitoring (US$0.8 million)
22.   The project will establish a Project Coordination Team (PCT) at the national
level, composed of a project manager, a procurement specialist and a financial
management specialist. The PCT will oversee and support implementation of all project
activities in accordance with agreed monitorable indicators. It will work closely with the
county level PMA staff at the three sites and with national project staff, to develop and
monitor workplans on a biannual basis. The project will provide the PCT with office
equipment, transport facilities and training.



ANNEX 2
Table A
Rationale for Project Design
Biodiversity Conservation Management Project
Symptoms for Concern             Underlying Reasons and Causes       Desired Changes in the Status of Biodiversity   Associated Project Component
Conservation
Weak legal, regulatory and           Lack of political commitment to BC:    Legal and institutional basis for protected  Strengthen National Framework for
institutional basis for biodiversity                                       area (PA) planning and management in place;  Biodiversity Conservation
conservation (BC):                                                        legal inconsistencies relating to BC identified:
No provisions for PAs included in draft   Lack of understanding and commitment   Ministerial Order issued that legally confirms 3    Strengthen national laws and regulatory
Land Law.                           at national political decision making  model conservation areas (2 PAs and I forest  framework
No specific law for PA establishment  level for BC.                         park) and specifies the basic principles for their
and management.                    Lack of public pressure for policy     management.
Other laws lack concern for, or may   changes for BC.                      Regulations for planning and operating
even be inconsistent with BC.      Lack of intersectoral mechanism for    conservation management model areas are
review and revision of legislation for  developed and in place.
Weak legal basis for BC outside PAs.  BC.                                  Specific law passed for establishing and
managing all categories of PAs.
Land law amended to be consistent with PA law.
All new laws issued during project period are
consistent with the international treaties and
agreements that Romania has ratified regarding
BC.
Other laws that may conflict with BC identified.
Danger that ecological integrity of  Lack of strategy for national network of   A Central Authority that will develop PA policy   Strengthen Directorate for Nature and
Romanian ecosystem may be           PAs.                                  and network strategy legally established,     Biodiversity Conservation to plan
permanently lost.                  Lack of appreciation that the Carpathian    A Central Authority to take responsibility to  biodiversity conservation policy.
ecosystem is an interrelated system   replicate relevant project experience elsewhere   Strengthen NFA to replicate PAs in Forest
rather than a collection of independent    in Romania in place.                    Areas.
forest production units.             Mechanism to coordinate BC in the Carpathian
chain is in place.
Strategy for biodiversity monitoring is
__________________________________  .developed.
Legal basis for forest planning is based    Systemic issues of ecosystem protection    Strategy to incorporate BC concerns into forest    Develop strategy to incorporate BC into
on "production unit" decision making    not present when existing laws and  management planning is developed.           forest management planning.
rather than systemic view of        forest management systems developed.
Romania's ecosystem.



ANNEX 2
Table A
Gradual destruction of the            Destructive uses of Carpathian         Effective models for BC ready for replication    Develop Models for Protected Area and
Carpathian ecosystem:                 resources:                             throughout Romanian Carpathian ecosystem:   Forest Park Management:
Decreasing diversity and abundance of   Lack of adrministrative structures for  Model PAs and a forest park plan that      Establish systems for planning and
animals and plants: e.g., large      planning and managing biodiversity.     demonstrate how to manage biodiversity        managing PAs and Forest Parks that
carnivores, ungulates, chamois, fish in  Expansion of human activity in wildlife  effectively.                             reflect biodiversity conservation
glacier lakes, endemic plants.       corridors.                            Land use plans for areas adjacent to conservation    concems
Tree line receding.                   Lack of mechanism that incorporates BC  sites reflect BC concerns and protect remaining
Increasing areas covered by invasive   into land use planning.                animal corridors.
species.                            Pressures for financial income within
Integrity of wildlife habitat fragmented.    National Forest Authority.
Increasing soil erosion.
Increasing water pollution.           Unsustainable grazing by sheep and
Construction along roads into parks and    cattle.                           Model mechanisms established that eliminate   Develop shared resource management
danger of other developments in     Unsustainable hunting practices.        destructive stakeholder behaviors.             programs,
with BC.                            Declining populations of birds of prey
Danger that tree harvesting may be     resulting from unsustainable hunting
undertaken in officially declared PAs.    practices.
Trees and seedlings destroyed by      Lack of understanding of incentives
increased populations of rodents.    influencing resource-use.
Tourists who indiscriminately collect
natural products, discard trash, disturb
animal habitats and create secondary  Increasing numbers of tourists visit models areas   Develop strategy for eco-tourism.
trails,                                with no negative impacts on biodiversity.
European bison-major "flagship"       Habitat loss and unsustainable hunting  Establish breeding herd of European Bison at  Establish program to reintroduce European
species for Romania- has been        practices in the 16th, 17th, 18th and  Neamt and develop strategy for subsequently    Bison.
extinct since 1832.                   19th centuries.                       reintroducing animals into the wild.
Declining genetic diversity in forests.  Continuous use of the same seed sources   Models of forest management plans that  Develop models of forest management
Loss of aquatic biodiversity-e.g.,     for seedlings.                         integrate BC concerns developed for 2 forest   practices that reflect BC concerns.
salamanders, fish, dragon flies, other    Log harvesting via water courses.  districts.
invertebrates-in streams.           Focus on timber production in forest   Basis for demonstrating and disseminating the
Reduction in open feeding areas for    management.                            financial/economic benefits of Independently
wildlife.                                                                    Certified Standards for Forest Management is
in place.



ANNEX 2
Table A
Low public understanding of           Effective program for public awareness      Build public support for Biodiversity
Weak political support for BC    biodiversity conservation                                                          Conservation
Very low level of public awareness of    Lack of understanding of the economic    National program that raises public awareness of  Prepare and implement a public awareness
potential dangers to Romania's   -e.g., aesthetic, cultural,            Romania's needs and opportunities for BC in  program.
biodiversity.                     environmental-and financial values of    place.
Political decisions necessary for BC are    Romanian biodiversity and the potential  Ecological education packages developed for use
unlikely to be taken without strong    for its irreversible loss.       in primary and secondary schools.
public pressures.                Lack of financial models that
demonstrate the ecological functions of
ecosystems.
Lack of assessment of the economic
values to the Romanian people of their
rich biodiversity heritage.
Messrs./Mesdames Florin Trifoi (Counselor to the State Secretary, MWFEP), Erika Stanciu (Forest Engineer), Mircea Verghelet (Forest Engineer), Oliviu lorgu (Forest
Engineer), John F. Stewart (Team Leader), Adriana Dinu (Biodiversity Conservation/PA Management Specialist), Gordon Temple (Facilitator)
Project Rationale Workshop
Vata de Jos, Romania
Dec. 1-5, 1998



ANNEX 2
Table B
Summary of Technical Interventions
PROJECT                TECHNICAL INTERVENTION                            OUTCOMES
ACTIVITY                        ENVISAGED
Baseline ecological and   Establishment of protected area boundaries and    Conservation of valuable ecosystems /
socio-economic surveys  internal zoning defming areas where activities  species
in project sites      that could have negative impacts on biodiversity
(including grazing, wood harvesting, collection
of non-timber forest products, hunting, and
tourism) should be limited, excluded or confined.
Ongoing biodiversity  Dynamic adjustment of internal zoning to     Conservation of valuable
monitoring and        update/modify measures for limiting / excluding   ecosystems/species
feedback to protected    managing negative influence of different
area and conservation    activities on biodiversity.              Restoration of degraded areas
management planing    Targeted conservation interventions, including
habitat management and restoration in degraded
areas such as alpine pastures damaged by
grazing, control of invasive species,
reintroduction of species.
Grazing studies,      Limiting grazing pressure to sustainable levels    Conservation of valuable
feedback to grazing                                                ecosystems/species
committee's and       Excluding grazing from vulnerable areas      Sustainable use of natural resources
development of grazing
mnanagement systems
Eco-tourism assessment  limiting number of tourists visiting vulnerable  Conservation of valuable
and support           areas                                        ecosystems/species
Focusing impacts of tourists to non vulnerable  Conservation linked economic benefits
areas through establishing trail systems and  for local communities
camping facilities
Small grants to support  Partnerships with the private sector to support  Economic benefits for local communities
Participatory         conservation activities                     to benefit protected areas
rnechanisms for       Development of micro-enterprises that benefit    Local support for protected areas
decision making       local communities and parks
Incorporation of      Modification of forest resource harvesting levels   Conservation of biodiversity and
biodiversity          and techniques                               sustainable use of resources in production
considerations in forest                                          forests
management planning
Intersectoral,        Modification of natural resource management  Maintenance/rehabilitation of biodiversity
participatory         (e.g., forest, agricultural and common land, and   in the production landscape
development of national  water management, etc) in the production
law, local regulations    landscape, and infrastructure developments
and protected area
management plans
Bison reintroduction  Re-establishment of breeding population of   Reconstruction and maintenance of
program               European bison.                              forest/meadow ecosystems and improved
public awareness and support for
____________________                                              biodiversity conservation
Public awareness and    Visitor centers and interpretation of sites for  Improved national and local support for
education programs    visitors                                     biodiversity conservation resulting from
Teachers training                           increased awareness, and appreciation of
Outdoor classrooms for schoolchildren in   the values of biodiversity and the
protected areas                             opportunities and benefits of conservation
and protected area management



ANNEX 3
Page 1 of 1
Annex 3
Biodiversity Conservation Management Project
Estimated Project Costs (Including Taxes)
Project Component                                Local        Foreign       Total
---------------- US $ thousand ---------------
1. Strengthen National Framework for Biodiversity    353.8        651.0       1,004.9
Conservation
2. Develop Models for Protected Area and Forest    4,306.6       1,338.9      5,645.6
Park Management
3. Build Public Support for Biodiversity             481.9         155.2       637.1
Conservation
4. Project Management and Monitoring                 614.2          69.1       683.3
Total                                              5,756.5       2,214.3      7,970.8
Total Baseline Cost
Physical Contingencies                            256.5         111.0        367.6
Price Contingencies                               348.9         112.8        461.6
Total Project Cost                                 6,361.9       2,438.1      8,800.0



ANNEX 4
Page 1 of 7
ROMANIA: BIODIVERSITY CONSERVATION MANAGEMENT PROJECT
INCREMENTAL COSTS AND GLOBAL ENVIRONMENTAL BENEFITS
Overview
1.    The overall goal of the GEF Alternative is conservation of the biological diversity and
ecological integrity of the Romanian forest, alpine and meadow ecosystems of the Carpathian
mountain chain. The GEF Alternative will establish inter-sectoral participatory planning and
sustainable management of natural ecosystems and associated landscapes at three demonstration
sites in the Carpathian mountains, and mechanisms to support replication of these activities at
other priority conservation sites. The total incremental cost to achieve these outputs is
approximately US$8.8 million, of which a grant of US$5.5 million is requested from GEF.
Context and Broad Development Goals
2.    Natural temperate forest (broad leaf and mixed forests 70%, and conifers 30%) cover
27% (6.2 million hectares) of Romania's land area. Approximately two thirds of this occurs in
the Romanian portion of the Carpathian mountains, where more than half of all forests have been
effectively managed for conservation objectives, such as watershed management, rather than
wood production. These areas include some of the last and largest tracts of relatively
undisturbed and virgin forests still remaining in Europe. The natural soil profile and ecology has
been maintained through the use of natural regeneration in more than 75% of Romania's
production forests. The natural integrity and ecological viability of Romanian forest is indicated
by the continued presence of the full range of European forest fauna, including approximately
60% and 40% of all European brown bears and wolves respectively.
3.    Romania's rich natural and biological resource base is coming under increasing pressure
in response to the country's need for forestry development. In recent years, following the
political and economic transition and the breakdown of regulatory frameworks, the nation's
ecosystems have been threatened by a variety of unsustainable land use practices. These include
overgrazing of alpine and hill forest meadows, plowing under of contour bands, and clear cutting
of private forest land. Overexploitation of state forests and uncontrolled and inappropriate forms
of tourism and associated infrastructure developments in highly-sensitive mountain ecosystems
have likewise had a significant impact upon biological diversity.
4.    Concerns over increasing environmental threats to the country's biological resources
prompted the Government of Romania (GoR) to prepare a National Biodiversity Conservation
Strategy and Action Plan. The National Strategy affirms Romania's commitment to sustainable
natural resource management and biodiversity conservation and identifies four principal
biodiversity conservation priorities: (i) development of the legal framework and strengthening
the institutional capacity for conservation of biological diversity; (ii) organization of the national
systems of protected areas, (iii) in-situ and ex-situ conservation of threatened, endemic and/or
rare species, and those with a high economic value and (iv) protection and conservation of
biodiversity outside protected areas through minimizing inappropriate land-use practices,



ANNEX 4
Page 2 of 7
restoring altered ecosystems and habitats, and promotion technologies which favor sustainable
natural resource use. The project will address these national priorities.
Baseline Scenario
5.    In this analysis, funding for the baseline scenario is differentiated into three sources: (a)
direct Government funding of planned and on-going biodiversity conservation programs; (b)
donor activities which have been initiated as a result of the GEF program, which will provide
baseline information critical to the success of the GEF project, and are listed as co-financing;
and (c) other donor activities which will contribute to overall biodiversity conservation in
Romania.
6.    Government. Over the next decade, the GoR's economic transition will likely lead to
increased industrial output as well as expansion of the forestry sectors. Recognizing that these
activities have not always been highly sensitive to protection and sustainable use of biological
resources, the GoR will endeavor to stimulate and carry out such activities in an environmentally
sustainable manner. Under the Baseline Scenario, it is expected that the GoR will concentrate its
scarce resources on biodiversity conservation through regulating natural resource exploitation in
state forests and strengthening the capacity of natural resource management agencies, including
the Directorate for Nature and Biodiversity Conservation (DNBC) and the National Forestry
Authority (NFA), both of which are under the authority of the Ministry of Waters, Forests and
Environmental Protection (MWFEP).
7.    At present, Romania has identified a number of national parks, biosphere reserves, and
potential protected areas. However, with the exception of the Danube Delta Biosphere Reserve,
rmost areas that are proposed for protected area management occurs in state forest lands that are
tmder threat from proposed changes in land tenure and likely pressures to increase resource use.
NFA is charged with overseeing Romania's national parks and protected areas, yet lacks clear
responsibility for preparing and implementing management plans for biodiversity conservation
Out of NFA's annual budget of US$ 160 million, about a quarter is spent on forest conservation
(for watershed management, seed stands, game and hunting management, etc.). However, none
of this is specifically targeted towards biodiversity conservation and management of protected
areas. Consequently, all funding from NFA for project activities is considered incremental.
8.    NFA does, however, receive money for its research institute, ICAS, from the Ministry of
Research and Technology for research on biodiversity issues. So far, US$ 268,000 has been
allocated to NFA/ICAS for (i) research on biodiversity of forest ecosystems and potential
protected areas in forest lands; (ii) the development of a biodiversity database; and (iii) studies
on the ecological role of bear, wolf and lynx in the Carpathian mountains
9.    Donors. The Government of Romania, in conjunction with development agencies, is
umdertaking activities related to natural resource management and biodiversity conservation.
International and National NGOs are also contributing to the enabling environment, with support
from private and corporate donors, bilateral and multilateral agencies. The activities which have
broad national impacts and will contribute to project success, but are not included in the project
baseline scenario because of their broader focus and sometimes less direct impact include:



ANNEX 4
Page 3 of 7
*  A RAMSAR Small Grant Fund to DNBC for identifying and characterizing Romanian
Wetlands which can be included in the National Network of Protected Areas, or which can be
declared as Internationally Important Wetlands ( $140,000).
* A NFA-ICAS initiative, in collaboration with Belgium, to develop Internet sites on
biodiversity in Romania. The Government contribution, from the Ministry of Research and
Technology, General Directorate of Natural Resources and Environment, is $15,000; the
Belgian Ministry of the Walloon Region have contributed $40,000.
* An initiative of Bird Life International in collaboration with the Romanian Ornithology
Society (NGO) to identify important bird areas in Romania ($13,000).
*  Investments to minimize human impact on the ecosystems from Retezat mountain, funded by
the Regional Environmental Center and carried out by Fundatia SALVAMONT - Lupeni, an
NGO mountain rescue team in Retezat ($15,000).
*  World Bank activities: (i) GEF Danube Delta Biodiversity Project, which supports
implementation of the Danube Delta Biosphere Reserve's conservation management plan
(US$ 4.3 million);
Project co-financing of baseline activities totaling $1.0 million is as follows:
*  World BanklWWF Alliance activity, which will prepare a proposal to demonstrate
sustainable forest management through certification of forest products (US$ 35,000).
* Two projects funded by the European Union: (a) In-Copernicus project to study and mitigate
the effects of grazing in Piatra Craiului, for which the EU is providing $112,000; (b) an EU
LIFE project working with MWFEP to support large carnivore conservation in Piatra
Craiului, for which about $850,000 has been allocated.
10.   Costs. Total expenditures under the Baseline Scenario, through international cooperation,
are estimated at US$1.0 million.
11.   Benefits. Implementation of the Baseline Scenario would result in limited protection of
biodiversity at existing protected areas and limited public sector capacity to manage Romania's
natural resource base. The efforts of international and national NGOs will result in a marginal
increase in environmental awareness, and the activities of development agencies will result in a
limited increase in sustainable natural resource management. The activities are unlikely to
ensure protection of globally significant biological resources due to the lack of an explicit focus
on biodiversity values as well as institutional, financial, legal and socioeconomic constraints to
their protection.
Global Environmental Objective
12.   The global environmental objective is to conserve the biological diversity and ecological
integrity of the last and largest remaining tracts of relatively undisturbed forest ecosystem in
Europe. Romania is near the convergence of four biogeographic influences, including: eastern



ANNEX 4
Page 4 of 7
(Caucasian/pontic), northern (boreal), southern (Mediterranean and Balkanic) and western
(continental European and panonic). Consequently the country includes a relatively large
number of endemic and subendemic flora. Additionally, the extent and continuity and
naturaleness of forest ecosystems of the Carpathian mountain chain ensures ecological viability
and supports the full range of Eastern European forest fauna, including, for example, Europe's
largest numbers of top predators (bear, wolf and lynx), all ten species of European woodpecker,
and ten of Europe's twelve species of mustelid carnivores (excluding wolverine and sable,
species that are adapted to arctic and taiga habitats, respectively).
GEF Alternative
13.   Scope. The GEF Alternative would build on the Baseline Scenario by establishing
effective inter-sectoral participatory planning and sustainable management of natural ecosystems
and associated landscapes at three demonstration sites in the Carpathian mountain, and
mechanisms to support replication of these activities at other priority conservation sites. The
GEF Alternative would make possible activities and programs that would not be undertaken
under the Baseline Scenario, including strengthening capacity at the field and central levels for
planning and managing land-use for conservation and sustainable use of biodiversity in protected
areas and surrounding buffer zones; supporting an education and awareness program;
mechanisms to reduce non-sustainable resource use, promoting eco-tourism development,
reintroducing endemic species and demonstrating sustainable forest management practices. GEF
funds are also leveraging additional funds for parallel activities supporting protected area
systems and biodiversity conservation.
14.   Costs. The total cost of the GEF Alternative is estimated at US$8.8 million, detailed as
follows: (i) strengthen the national framework for managing biodiversity conservation - US$
1.10 million (GEFfinancing - US$ 0.86 million); (ii) establish systems for biodiversity
conservation planning and management at the three demonstration sites (two protected areas and
one forest park) - US$ 4.30 million (GEFfinancing - US$ 2.20 million); (iii) establish
mechanisms to reduce non-sustainable resource use - US$ 0.68 million (GEFfinancing -
US$0.65 million); (iv) establish eco-tourism programs - US$ 0.25 million (GEFfinancing
US$0.19 million); (v) establish program to reintroduce European bison - US$ 0.84 million
(GEFfinancing- US$0.54 million); (vi) develop models of forest management practices that
reflect biodiversity conservation concerns - US$ 0.14 million (GEFfinancing - US$0.12
million); (vii) establish public awareness programs at the three project sites and at the national
level - US$ 0.72 million (GEFfinancing - US$0.54 million); and (viii) project management
- US$ 0.76 million (GEFfinancing - US$0.40 million).
15.   Benefits. Implementation of the GEF Alternative would give the GoR the ability to take a
comprehensive approach to biodiversity conservation, protected area management and
biodiversity conservation in forest management planning,. Benefits generated from this
comprehensive approach would include those classified as "national" -- increased sustainability
of natural resource use, greater stability in long term revenues from the natural resource base,
and increased public awareness of enviromnent and natural resource issues -- as well as those
considered "global" in nature. Global benefits would include the conservation of Romania's
endemic flora and fauna in three priority areas; protection of the ecological integrity of critical
ecosystems and habitats, including important corridors for endangered species; mainstreaming



ANNEX 4
Page 5 of 7
biodiversity conservation in forest management; outreach to and involvement of local
communities and local governments; and development of viable approaches to natural resource
use in buffer zones, thereby reducing pressure on protected areas.
Incremental Costs
16.   The difference between the cost of the Baseline Scenario (US$ 1.0 million) and the cost
of the GEF Alternative (US$ 9.8 million) is estimated at US$ 8.8 million. This represents the
incremental cost for achieving global environmental benefits through the establishment of three
protected areas which would conserve globally significant biodiversity and development of
mechanisms for biodiversity conservation and sustainable use in forest management and among
buffer zone communities adjacent to the protected areas. The GoR has committed to mobilizing
US$ 2.4 million toward the GEF Alternative. Additionally, NFA will provide US$ 900,000 to
pay for implementation staff salaries at the three demonstration sites. Consequently, a GEF grant
of US$ 5.5 million is requested.



ANNEX 4
Page 6 of 7
Incremental Cost Matrix
Component Sector        Cost         US$       Domestic Benefit            Global Benefit
Category     Million
Strengthen the national  Baseline              Limited national level
framlework for                                 capacity to plan and manage
biodiversity                                   biodiversity, raise public
conservation.                                  awareness and develop a
system of protected areas.
With GEF       1.10                                Effective national level public sector
Alternative                                        capacity to: (a) plan and lead biodiversity
conservation, (b) raise awareness, (c)
implement prioritized protected area and
conservation management interventions,
and (d) manage forest ecosystems to
incorporate conservation of biodiversity
of international significance.
Incremental    1.10
Estalish systems for    Baseline       0.85    Limited capacity to plan and
biodiversity                                   implement protected area
conservation planning                          management in forests and
and management at                              adjacent landscapes in
three project sites,                           Romania
including two protected
areas and one forest
park.
With GEF       5.15                                Sustainable integrated conservation
Alternative                                        management in three areas of
internationally important biological
diversity; and associated buffer zones;
increased local, national and international
understanding of threats to globally
significant biodiversity at these sites, and
meaningful participation of local
stakeholders in protected area
management activities.
Incremental    4.30
Establish mechanisms   Baseline        0.11    Economic benefits from
to reduce non-                                 sustainably managed natural
sustainable resource                           resources and tourist
use.                                           activities.
With GEF       0.79                                Sustainable management of natural
Alternative                                        resources in ecosystems containing
biodiversity of global significance, with
particular emphasis on deciduous, conifer
and mixed forests, alpine pastures and
meadows.
Ecosystem management will target
protected area and buffer zone land-use
planning, and will raise understanding of
the role biodiversity plays in sustainable
development; and of opportunities to
maintain these values in the production
landscapes, thereby reducing pressure on
core protected area ecosystems.
Incremental    0.68



ANNEX 4
Page 7 of 7
Establish eco-tourism    Baseline         -      Limited increase in tourism
programs.                                        visitation at project sites
With GEF       0.25                                  Development and implementation of an
Alternative                                          eco-tourism strategy that manages
impacts of tourism on biodiversity, and
links economic benefits with sustainable
conservation of internationally important
l__________             _________________________    biodiversity  and  landscapes
Incremental     0.25
Establish program to     Baseline         -      Captive herd of breeding
reintroduce European                             bison
bison.
With GEF        0.84                                 Reestablished wild population indigenous
Alternative                                          bison providing natural mechanism to
reconstruct and maintain natural
ecosystem diversity, and raise awareness
l _____________________                          __________________________      of its  international  significance.
Incremental     0.84
Develop models of        Baseline        0.04    Sustainable forest
forest management                                management and production
practices that reflect                           of forest resources
biodiversity
conservation concerns.
With GEF        0.18                                 Sustainable forest management,
Alternative                                          production of forest resources, and
conservation of biological diversity of
international importance
Incremental    0 14
Establish public         Baseline         -      Public awareness of
awareness programs at                            enviromnental issues and the
the three project sites                          need for sustainable natural
and at the national                              resource management.
level.
With GEF        0.72                                 Increased public awareness of the
Alternative                                          importance of conservation of globally
significant biodiversity in Romania, of
the linkages between international and
national interestes in biodiversity
conservation, and of the issues that need
to be addressed in order to achieve this
objective
Incremental    0.72
Project management       Baseline         -      Not applicable
With GEF        0.76                                 Not applicable
Alternative
Incremental    0.76
Totals                   Baseline        1.0
With GEF        9.8
Alternative
Incrementa      8.8



ANNEX 5
Page 1 of 1
Annex 5
Biodiversity Conservation Management
Financial Summary
Years Ending June 30
(in US million - base year 99/00)
Implementation Period
99/00     00/01      01/02     02/03     03/04
Project Costs
Investment Costs            0.6        2.8       2.4       0.8        0.4
Recurrent Costs             0.2        0.4       0.4       0.5        0.3
Total                    0.8        3.2       2.8        1.3       0.7
Financing Sources (% of
total project costs)
GEF                      5.1%     25.6%      21.9%       7.3%      2.6%
Government               1.7%      9.2%       8.1%       4.8%      3.5%
NFA                      1.1%      2.5%       2.5%       2.6%      1.5%
Total                 7.9%      37.3%      32.5%     14.7%      7.6%
Main assumptions: The project will become effective in July, 1999.



ANNEX 6
Page 1 of 7
Annex 6
Biodiversity Conservation Management Project
Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Procurement
Procurement Responsibility
1.   Implementation of the project will require procurement of goods and works and
the selection and employment of consulting firms and individuals to carry out consulting
and other technical assistance services. The PCT at the national level and the PMAs,
with the help of the PCT, will be responsible for procurement under their respective
activities. The PCT's procurement officer and PMA's administrative assistants will be
trained in World Bank procurement procedures. The PCT procurement officer will be
responsible for supporting the PMAs in their procurement activities.
Procurement Methods
2.    The procurement of goods and works under the project will be conducted in
accordance with the Bank's guidelines "Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits" published in January 1995, revised in January and August, 1996, September
1997 and January 1999. The project components not financed by the Bank will be
procured in accordance with national regulations or the co-financing institutions'
procurement regulations. A General Procurement Notice will be published in the
Development Business of the United Nations in April 1999. The procurement of
consultants will be conducted in accordance with the "Guidelines - Selection of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers", dated January 1997, revised September 1997
and January 1999. The Bank's Standard Bidding Documents, Standard Request for
Proposal, as well as Standard Form of Consultants' Contracts will be used. A detailed
procurement plan is at Annex C. The plan will be further refined during appraisal.
3.    Goods. International Competitive Bidding (ICB) will be used for goods estimated
to cost the equivalent of US$200,000 or more. Off the shelf goods, estimated to cost up
to US$50,000 per contract (including Technical Services), will be procured through
National Shopping (NS), based on comparison of quotations obtained from at least three
suppliers. International Shopping (IS), based on comparison of quotations obtained form
at least three suppliers in two different countries, will be applied to packages below
US$200,000. See footnotes to Table 3 for aggregate amounts.
4.    Civil Works. Civil works estimated to cost US$500,000 and above per contract
will be procured through ICB. Contracts below US$500,000 will be procured through
NCB. Small value contracts estimated to cost less than US$100,000 equivalent per
contract, may be procured under lump sum, fixed price contracts awarded on the basis of
quotations obtained from three qualified domestic contractors in response to a written
invitation. The Invitation shall include a detailed description of the work, including basic
specifications, the required completion date, a basic form of agreement and relevant



ANNEX 6
Page 2 of 7
drawings, where applicable. The award shall include a detailed description of the work,
including basic specifications, where applicable. The award shall be made to the
contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the
experience and resources to successfully complete the contract. The aggregate amounts
are included in the footnotes of Table 3.
5.    Consultants' Services. Consultants' services will be procured through the Quality
and Cost Based Selection (QCBS) procedure. Such contracts will be advertised in
Development Business and in a national newspaper for expressions of interest, from
which a shortlist will be drown. For contracts estimated to cost less than US$200,000,
the shortlist may consist entirely of national qualified firms, at least three. Foreign firms,
if interested, will be allowed to participate. Consultants' services for the assignments of
designing and supervising construction of the visitors centers and information points will
be procured through the Least Cost Selection method (LCS). The aggregate amounts are
shown under the procurement Table 3.
6.    Individual experts will be selected in accordance with Part V of the Consultant
Guidelines. Candidatures will be advertised, and selection will be made on the basis of
comparison of qualifications and experience.
7.    The utilization of funds allocated to meet various incremental operating costs, i.e.,
mileage, utilities and communication charges, maintenance of office equipment, etc. will
be incurred in accordance with an annual budget subject to the Bank's prior approval.
Bank's Review of Procurement
8.   Procurement documents for all ICB and NCB contracts (invitation to bid, draft
bidding documents, evaluation report, both for goods and works) will be subject to the
Bank's prior review. Procurement documents for the first IS, NS (for goods) and small
works contracts will also be subject to the prior review of the Bank. With respect to
Services, prior Bank review will be required for all terms of reference, irrespective of the
contract value. For each contract estimated to cost US$200,000 or more, after the
technical proposal has been evaluated, the technical evaluation report will be submitted to
the Bank for its review prior to the opening of the priced proposals. Financial proposals
will be opened in public only after the Bank's no objection to the full evaluation report
(including the results of the evaluation of both the technical and financial proposals. For
contracts estimated to cost between US$100,000 and US$200,000 the Bank would be
notified of the results of the technical evaluation prior to the opening of the financial
proposals. Following the opening of the financial proposals and evaluations thereof, a
full evaluation report will be submitted to the Bank. Contracts with local consulting
firms estimated to cost more than $50,000 equivalent each will be also subject of Bank's
prior review. For contracts with individual consultants costing US$20,000 or more the
qualifications, experience, terms of reference and terms of employment shall be furnished
to the Bank for its review and approval. All other contracts would be subject to ex-post
review by the Bank.



ANNEX 6
Page 3 of 7
Disbursement
9.    Allocation of grant proceeds: Disbursements will follow normal Bank procedures
and will be made against the categories of expenditures indicated in Table C. The
proceeds of the proposed project area expected to be disbursed over a period of five years
(see Table D). The anticipated completion date is June 30, 2004, and the closing date
December 31, 2004.
10. Special Account: The Special Account and the Project Account will be maintained
by the PCT. Advance Accounts will be maintained by the PMAs. Since working capital
is not available for project expenditures, the use of Advance Accounts will give the
PMAs direct access to funds for expenditures at the project sites. To facilitate
disbursements against eligible expenditures, the Government would establish in a
Commercial Bank a Special Account (SA) to be operated by the PCT under terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank. The Bank would, upon request, make an Authorized
Allocation of US$500,000. Applications for the replenishment of the Special Account
would be submitted monthly or when 50 percent of the initial deposit has been utilized,
whichever occurs earlier. The replenishment application would be supported by the
necessary documentation, the Special Account bank statement, and a reconciliation of
this bank statement.
11.   PMA Advance Accounts. In addition to the Special Account administrated by the
PCT, three advance accounts at the three sites will be established at a suitable
commercial bank nearest to the sites. These accounts will be replenished by the Special
Account. An amount equivalent to 90 days of anticipated expenditure would be
advanced from the Special Account to an account established by each of the PMAs based
on an annual work program. The advances will be used to meet project expenditures in
the three sites. Subsequent advanced to the PMAs will be given only upon their
accounting for the advanced previously received. The PCT will be responsible for
preparation and submission of regular replenishment requests with appropriate supporting
documents for expenditures incurred. Among the documents that accompany
replenishment applications a reconciliation statement for the Special Account showing
deposits received from the Bank, the amount advanced to PMAs, the date on which this
advance was made and the amount awaiting documentation from PCT with an
explanation for the delay.
12.   Use of Statements of Expenditures: Withdrawal applications would be fully
documented, except for expenditures under: (a) contracts for goods valued at less than
US$200,000 each; (b) contracts for works less than US$100,000 each; and (c) contracts
for consulting firms costing less than US$ 100,000 equivalent, and contracts for
individual consultants costing less than US$20,000 equivalent; and d) contracts for
training; and e) subgrant contracts estimated to cost less than US$10,000; and f)
expenditures under the incremental recurrent cost. Full amount of documentation in
support of SOE should be retained by the PCT and the PMAs for at least two years after
the closing date of the grant.



ANNEX 6
Page 4 of 7
Annex 6, Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
Expenditures          ICB     NCB    Other   Notes  N.B.F.   Total
A. Civil Works               -      1.897    0.307     a/      -       2.204
(1.480)  (0.127)                   (1.607)
B. Goods                   0.710      -      0.756     b/      -       1.466
(0.554)          (0.702)                   (1.256)
C. Consultant Services,      -        -      2.614     c/      -       2.614
Training and Workshops                      (1.482)                   (1.482)
D. Subgrants                 -        -      0.487             -       0.487
(0.487)                  (0.487)
F. Incremental               -        -      2.029     d /     -       2.029
Operating Costs                          (0.668)                   (0.668)
TOTAL                      0.710    1.897    6.193                      8.8
(0.554)  (1.480)  (3.466)                   (5.5)
a/ includes: (i)Minor Works contracts (US$0.127)
b/ includes: (i) National Shopping contracts (US$0.208)
(ii) International Shopping contracts (US$0.305)
(iii) Technical Services (NS) contracts (US$0.144)
c/ includes: (i) Least Cost Method contracts (US$0.140)
(ii) QCBS contracts (US$0.338)
(iii) Individual experts (US$0.458)
(iv) Study Tours, Training and Workshops (US$0.546)
d/ Recurrent costs including US$0.482 of implementation staff
Items in parentheses indicate amounts to be financed by the Bank.



ANNEX 6
Page 5 of 7
Annex 6, Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Section 1: Procurement Review
Goods and Civil          ICB                  NCB                   is                  NS              Minor Works          Other methods      Percentage of loan
Works                                                                                                                                       amount subject to
prior review
Procurement         Goods  > $0.200      -                    G < $0.200          G < $0.0S0           W < $0.100           TS < $0.050
thresholds:                  ($0.554)                         ($0.305)            ($0.208)             ($0.127)             ($0.144)
Individual and
aggregate                                W < $0.500
($1.480)
Prior Review        All                  All                  First               First                First                First                $2.159
($0.554)            ($1.480)             ($0.0 I1)           ($0.050)             ($0.050)             ($0.014)             39.25%
Consultants         QCBS                 QBS                  Fixed Budget        LCS                  Qualifications       Individuals
Procurement method                       NA                   NA
thresholds
Prior Review        All                                                           All                                       All terms of         $0.603
($0.338)                                                      ($0.140)                                 reference.           11%
I________________   I  _____I___________  I________________    >     $0.020   full  review   I
Ex-post             Explain briefly the ex-post review mechanism: Each supervision mission will include a procurement specialist to conduct ex-post reviews. One out of five contracts
will be subject to ex-post review.
Section 2: Capacity of the Implementing Agency in Procurement and Technical Assistance requirement review
The capacity of the implementation agency to conduct procurement has been assessed. As a result, the following action plan will be implemented:
(i) One procurement specialist (PS) should be hired to assist the agency in implementing procurement activities for the project. The PS should have familiarity with World bank procurement
procedures and practices. The PS shall be hired prior to the project launch workshop. Also, prior to the project launch workshop, one member of each field implementation team should be
assigned the procurement activities for the contracts to be awarded at local level. Prior to appointment of the PS, the Procurement Coordinator should be familiarized with Bank procurement
procedures and practices so that he/she can indicate the most immediate project procurement immediately after Board presentation and signature of the grant agreement.
(ii) The training to the PS and the field implementation team members in charge with procurement shall be provided before and during the project launch workshop. The procurement
specialists, including the ones currently working in the MWFEP's procurement unit, will sent to the training courses in Turin.
(iii) A detailed seminar on procurement shall be held for the Ministry staff at the project launch workshop. Training shall also include the preparation of bidding documents for each type of
procurement method proposed in the loan agreement.
Country Procurement Assessment Report or Country Procurement Strategy Paper status:  Are the bidding documents for the procurement actions of the first year ready by negotiations
CPAR under preparation                                                           I Yes  0                         No   RI will be discussed during appraisal



ANNEX 6
Page 6 of 7
Section 3: Training, Information and Development on Procurement
Estimated date of Project Launch    Estimated date of publication of    Indicate if there is procurement  Domestic Preference for Goods  Domestic Preference for Works, if
Workshop                        General Procurement Notice       subject to mandatory SPN in                                      applicable
06/00/99                        04/15/99                         Development Business            Yes  E1         No  [1           Yes  O          No  0
Yes 01
No.....
Retroactive financing                                                                            Advance procurement
Yes  O         No  0l                         Explain:                                           Yes  O          No  0        Explain
Explain briefly the Procurement Monitoring System: A procurement monitoring system will be established at the PCT which will collect and keep up to-date all procurement data. The PCT
will use this data in progress reports to the Bank.
Co-financing: Explain briefly the procurement arrangements under co-financing: None
Section 4: Procurement Staffing
Indicate name of Procurement Staff or Bank's staff part of Task Team responsible for the procurement in the Project: Name: Naushad Khan, Procurement Specialist    Ext: 32699
Explain briefly the expected role of the Field Office in procurement: The Resident Mission does not have an accredited procurement staff. However, the project officer in the RM is
familiar with procurement. He will serve as a liaison between the procurement staff at headquarters and the beneficiary procurement staff.



ANNEX 6
Page 7 of 7
Annex 6, Table C: Allocation of Grant Proceeds
Expenditures             Amount               Financing Percentage
in US$
1. Civil Works                1,446,000      70%
2. Goods                      1,028,000       100% of foreign expenditures
100% of national expenditures (ex-
factory cost) and
80% of national expenditures for
other items procured locally
3. Consultancy Services,      1,287,000       60%
Training and Workshops
4. Subgrants                   487,000        100% of amounts disbursed
5. Incremental Operating       666,000        70%
Costs
6. Unallocated                 586,000
Total      5,500,000
Table D: Estimated Disbursements by Year
(US$million)
Estimate Disbursements              99/00    00/01   01/02   02/03    03/04  Total
(Bank FY/US$M)
GEF Grant             0.45      2.25     1.93    0.64     0.23     5.50
GOR                   0.15      0.81    0.71     0.42     0.31    2.40
NFA                    0.10     0.22     0.22    0.23     0.13     0.90
Total per year         0.77     3.21    2.86     1.29     0.67     8.80
Total cumulative      0.77      3.98    6.84     8.13    8.80      8.80



ANNEX 7
Page 1 of 2
Annex 7
Integrated Protected Areas and Conservation Management
Project Processing Budget and Schedule
A. Project Budget (US$)                           Planned               Actual
(At final PCD stage)
$166,000          $395,600 to date
(1/25/98)'
B. Project Schedule                               Planned               Actual
(At final PCD stage)
Time taken to prepare the project (months)
First Bank mission (identification)                 --                 03/06/96
Appraisal mission departure                       11/15/97             02/16/99
Negotiations                                     02/15/98              03/10/99
Planned Date of Effectiveness                    06/15/98                N/A
Prepared by: Ministry of Waters, Forests and Environmental Protection
Preparation assistance: GEF Block B Grant, CIDA TF, Austrian TF, UK Know How Fund
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                     Specialty
John Fraser Stewart             Biodiversity and Natural Resources Specialist
Adriana Dinu                           Biodiversity Specialist
Gordon Temple                        Economist/Financial Analyst
Marjory-Anne Bromhead              Peer Reviewer/Natural Resource Economist
Andrew Parker                    Economist/Decentralization Specialist
Naushad Khan                           Procurement Specialist
Ramendra Basu                      Financial Management Specialist
Kenneth Miller                          Disbursement Officer
Maurizio Ragazzi                               Lawyer
Charis Wuerffel                          Operations Analyst
Jocelyne Albert                       GEF Regional Coordinator
Mahesh Sharma                         GEF Regional Coordinator
Kathy Mackinnon                        GEF Biodiversity Specialist
John A. Hayward                     Sector Leader/Natural Resources
Gottfried Ablasser                         Quality Assurance
Gabriel lonita                          RM Project Officer
Doina Rachita                            RM Project Officer
Elena Dinu                             RM Project Officer
Irina Luca                             RM Project Officer
Includes:
(i) supervision of preparation of National Biodiversity Strategy and Action Plan (BSAP), as GEF
pre-requisite for project identification;
(ii) Trust Funds totaling $172,000, including $72,000 from the Austrian Global Environmental Trust
Fund for support of the BSAP and preparation of a Large Carnivore Conservation Strategy; and
$100,000 from the Canadian Global Environmental TF, for consultant support of project
preparation.



ANNEX 7
Page 2 of 2
Stan Peabody                              Social Scientist
David Gray                                GIS Specialist
John Kellenberg                              Economist
Louis Carbonnier                               Forester
Parvin Baharmast                            Team Assistant
Irene Bomani                              Team Assistant



ANNEX 8
Page 1 of 1
Annex 8
Biodiversity Conservation Management Project
Documents in the Project File*
A. Project Implementation Plan
Draft TORs for PCT Staff
Institutional Arrangement for Project Implementation (organigram)
Procurement Plan
Implementation Schedule
B. Bank Staff Assessments
Environmental Data Sheet
Project Information Document
COSTAB Project Cost Tables
C. Other
Consultants Preparation Report
GEF Proposal for Review
Romania Biodiversity Strategy and Action Plan
*Including electronic files.



ANNEX 9
Status of Bank Group Operations in Romania
Operations Portfolio
As of 30-Apr-99
Difference Between
expected
Original Amount in US$ Millions                  and actual                 Last PSR
Fiscal                                                                                                                            disbursements a/        Supervision Rating b/
Project ID    Year                Borrower                           Purpose
IBRD       IDA      Cancel.       Undisb.      Orig    Frm Rev'd   Dev Obj   Imp Prog
Number of Closed Projects: 39
RO-PE-8759      1992   MOF                               HEALTH SERVICES RENA                    150.00        0.00         0.00        15.40       15.34        15.34      S           S
RO-PE-8784      1994   REPUBLIC OF ROMANIA               EDUCATION                                50.00        0 .00        0.00        29.82       15.51         0.00      S           S
RO-PE-8777      1994   Government of Romania              PETROLEUM SECTOR REH                   175.60        0.00         0.00       111.49      109.51         0.00      S           U
RO-PE-8774      1994   GOVT. OF ROMANIA                   INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPME                   175.00        0.00         0.00       116.24      116.24        84.74      S           S
RO-PE-8776      1995                                     EMPLOY. & SOC. PROTE                     55.40        0.00         0.00        48.35       38.27         0.00      S           S
RO-PE-36013     1996   SNCFR                             RAILWAY                                 120.00        0.00         0.00        92.43       52.45         0.00      S           S
RO-PE-8794      1996   RENEL                              POWER SECTOR REHAB.                    110.00        0.00         0.00       102.15       95.66         0.00      S           U
RO-PE-39250     1997   GOVERNMENT OF ROMANIA             SECOND ROADS                            150.00        0.00         0.00       105.60      -14.40         0.00      S           S
RO-PE-8795      1997   GOVERNMENT OF ROMANIA             ASAL                                    350.00        0.00         0.00       144.34      150.00         0.00      U           U
RO-PE-8793      1997   ROMANIA                           HIGHER EDUCATION                         50.00        0.00         0.00        43.45       43.46         0.00      S           S
RO-PE-8778      1997   ROMANIA                           BUCHAREST WATER SUPP                     25.00        0.00         0.00        17.33       12.32         0.00      S           S
RO-PE-55495     1998   GOVERNMENT OF ROMANIA             CHILD WELFARE REFORM                      5.00        0.00         0.00         5.00          .97        0.00      S           S
RO-PE-44614     1998   ROMANIA                           SCHOOLS REHABILITATI                     70.00        0.00         0.00        69.69        7.59         0.00      S           S
RO-PE-34213     1998   GOVERNMENT OF ROMANIA             GENERAL CADASTRE                         25.50        0.00         0.00        24.97          .47        0.00      S           S
RO-PE-8788      1998   GENERAL INSPECTORAT OF CO         TELECOMMUNICATION                        30.00        0.00         0.00        28.72        5.47         0.00      S           S
RO-PE-58284     1999   GOVERNMENT OF ROMANIA             CULTURAL HERITAGE                         5.00        0.00         0.00         5.00        0.00         0.00      S           S
RO-PE-49200     1999   GOVERNMENT OF ROMANIA              SOCIAL DEVELOP. FUND                    10.00        0.00         0.00        10.00        0.00         0.00      S           S
Total                                                                                          1,556.50        0.00         0.00       969.98      648.86      100.08
Active Projects       Closed Projects           Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):                  580.86            3,211.39            3,792.25
of which has been repaid:                  24.73            2,293.41            2,318.14
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:               1,531.76               922.58            2,454.34
Amount sold                                        0.00               19.78               19.78
Of which repaid               :                 0.00               19.78               19.78
Total Undisbursed                :               969.98                0.00              969.98
a. Intended disbursentents to date minuis actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
b. Following the FY94 Annual Review of Portfolio performarnce (ARPP), a letter based system was introduced (HS = highly Satisfactory, S = satisfactory, U = unsatisfactory,
HO = highIy unsatisfactory): see proposed Improvements in Project and Portfolio Performance Ratinrg Methodology (SecM94-901) , August 23, 1994.
Note:
Disbursemernt data is updated at the end of the first week of the month.
Generated by the Operations Information System (OIS)                                                                                                                                  Page I



Romaniaat a glance                                                        ANNEX 109
Europe &    Lower-
POVERTY and sociAL                                           Central  middle-
Romania       Asia  Income       Development diamond'
1997
Population mWid-year (millions)                      22.5       476     2,285                 Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atlas method, US$                   1,420      2,320    1,230
GNP (Atlas nmethod. US$ billions)                    32.0      1,106    2,818
Averag, annual growth, 1991-97
Population (%)                                        -0.5      0.2        1.2    GNGrs
Labor force (%/)'                                     0.0        0.5       131    Gperpmr
most recent estimate (latest year avalable, 1991-97)                               capita                      enrollment
Poverty (%/ df populatOn below nationial pove*t line)  22
Urban population (% of total populationy)             '57        67        42
Lite expectancy at birth (yeant                        69        69        89
Infant mortatty (pert1,00 liebiorhs~                   22        25        36
Child malnutrition (56 ofchildren under5                6         .         ..Access to safe water
Acce"A.t safe wrater (56 Ofpopulatin)                   ..        .         4
Illiteracy (56 of population age 15+)                   3          .       19
Gross primnary enrollment (% of school-age ropuafon    94        92       111I             Romania
Male'.                                                           .       1               Lower-middle-incomne group
Fe male                                               ...               113      _ _  _  _ _  _ _  _   _ _  _  _ _  _ _
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOand LONG-TERM TRENDS
1976     1986      1996      1997
Economlc ratios,
GDP (US$bilins)                                .        ..      33.1     32.1
Gross domesticinvestment/GDP                41.4     34.4       24.7      21.5.                   Trade
Exports of goods and services/GDP              ,,    20.1       28.4     29.7
Gross doinesic savings/GDP                    .,     38.1       16.3      14.5
Gross national savings/GDP                    ..     37.1       17.1      14.6
Currenrt account balance/GDP                   .        ..      -7.8      -7.3     Domestic                   Invsten
Interest payments/GDP                          .        ..       1.1      1.2      Savings                     Ivsmn
Total debt/GDP                                 ,        ..      25.1     32.6                       0/
Total debt service/xpoarts                     .        ..      12.6      15.7
Present value of debtlGIDP                     ,        ..      23.8
Present vaue of debt/exports                   .        .       80.8
Indebtedness
1976-86  1987-9I   1996        1997   1998402
(average annual growth)Roai
GDP                                 4,0     -2.7      3.9       -6.6                          mna
GNP per capita                      3.3      -2.8     1.9       -8.9.       .               Lower-middle-income group
ExPorts of goods and servces         ,.      1.7      4.8        2.1               _______________
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY_______________
1976     1986      1996      1997     Growth rates of output and Investment(%
(56 of GDP)IC
Agriculture                                    .        ..      22.8      22.8     1
Industry                                       .        ..      36.9     38.7 
Manufacturing                                .                   -         ..    -10                9
Services                                       .        ..      40.4      38.5    -0
Private consumption                           ..     58.3       72.1     75.4    -30.
General government consumption                ..      3.6       11.6      10.1                _ D         --D
Imports of goods and services                 ..     16.4       36.7     36.7                    G              D
(average annual growth)                  1976496  1987-97      1996      1997     Growth rates of exports and Imports %
Agriculture                                   ..       1.1      -2.4       2.2    30
Industry                                      ..      -5.6       6.8     -5.0    20
Manufacturing                                .         .1
Services                                      ..      -2.7      -6.1    -14.0    10
Private consumption                           ..      0.8       10.0     -6.2   .20
General government consumption                ..      4.4       -7.5    -10.6   .3
Gross domestic investment                     ..      -5.0     -13.3    -14.5    40-
Imports of goods and services                 ..      2.0       -1.2     -4.6                  Exports   ---mports
Gross national product                       4.0      -3.0       1.6      -9.2  1__________________
Note: 1997 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average, If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.



Romania
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1976    1986       1996     1997      Inflation (%)
Domesfic prices                                                                  400D
(% change)
Consumer prices                                .      1.0      38.8    154.8    300 1
implidt GDP deflator                         1.3      0.2      43.8    146.8    200
Government finance                                                               100
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                                0
Current revenue                                      49.7      29.9      30.4            92   93   94   95   9S   97
Current budget balance                        ..    30.1        1.6       1.1                GDP deflator   Ce
Overall surplus/deficit                       ..    11.8       -3.9      -3.6
TRADE
(US$ miions)                                                                      E t1976    1986  1996  1997        E  and import levels (USS millions)
Total exports (fob)                           ..   9,763      8,085    8,431     15,N0T
Textiles                                     ..      ..    2,238    2,485
Metals                                      ..       ..    1,268    1,556
Manufactures                                ..   7,234       2,298    2,411     0 '
Total imports (cit)                           ..   8,083    11,435   11,280
Food                                        ..    152         870       694  |5000
Fuel and energy                             ..   4,094      2,390    2,131           i1n_ii,1
Capital goods                               ..   2,127       2,519    1,171        o1
Export price index (1995=100)                 ..       1. 103            105            91  92  93  94  95  96  97
Import prce index (1995=100)                  ..       ..       103      105               U Exports     lImports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                      ..      ..       100      100    _
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1976    1986       1996     1997      Current account balance to GDP ratio
(US$ millions)
Exports of goods and services              6,642   10,444     9,648    9,853      0iii11  iii.r 
Imports of goods and services              6,540    8,507    12,503   12,448
Resource balance                            102    1,937    -2,855   -2,595       -2
Net income                                  -118    -542       -309     -322      -4,
Net current transfers                         ..       0        593      579   1
Current account balance                     -16    1,395    -2,571    -2,338
Financing items (net)                      -105    -782       2,788    4,003   |8
Changes in net reserves                      121    -613       -217   -1,665        l
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)        ..       ..    3,144    4,671
Conversion rate (DEC, local/US$)               ..      ..   3,276.7  7,787.7
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1976    1986       1996     1997
(US$ millions)                                                                    Composition of total debt, 1997 (USS millions)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed         525    6,983     8,291    10,442
IBRD                                       144    1,836     1,009     1,305                 G 949      A: 1,305
IDA                                          0       0          0        0
Total debt service                            ..       ..    1,230      1,582
IBRD                                        2      365         63       99
IDA                                          0       0          0        0
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                              0       0        105      120
Official creditors                          ..       ..    1,718       598        F: 4,201                      2,274
Private creditors                           ..       ..    2,008       698
Foreign direct investment                    ..      ..       263     1,224
Portfolio equity                            0        0         11      142                           E 1,069
World Bank program
Commitments                                110       0        475      620     A- IBRD                      E - Bilateral
Disbursements                             124        9        227      399     B - IDA    D - Other multilateral   F - Private
Principal repayments                         0     200          0       28     C - IMF                      G - Short-term
Net flows                                  124    -192        227      371
Interest payments                            2     164         63       70
Nettransfers                               123    -356        164      301
Development Economics                                                                                              9/16/98



ANNEX 11
Page 1 of 12
ANNEX 11
ROMANIA
PROTECTED AREAS AND CONSERVATION MANAGEMENT PROJECT
SOCIAL ANALYSIS and PARTICIPATORY APPROACH
1.    An assessment of stakeholder and social issues was undertaken as part of project
preparation in an effort to:
(a)   identify key stakeholders with respect to biodiversity conservation nationally and
at the three demonstration sites;
(b)   review stakeholder interests and associated impacts on resource use, land tenure
and the project;
(c)   identify and mitigate against possible negative socio-economic impacts on local
stakeholders resulting from the project; and
(d)   identify and develop opportunities for the project to benefit stakeholders through
capacity building at local and national levels among government agencies and
institutions and NGOs, and assisting local resource-users to establish
mechanisms for sustainable resource management.
2.     Project preparation entailed consultation with a broad range of stakeholder groups using a
number of different information gathering methods, including formal and semi-formal interviews,
group discussions and workshops, rapid rural appraisal and literature review (see attachment 1).
In addition, local consultants participating in project preparation provided information and
contributed to the identification of risks, impacts and mitigation strategies.
Current Socio-Economic Context for Project
3.    The social context can significantly influence project activities, viability and long-term
success. Context includes national level dynamics associated with the economic transition and
trends towards privatization, as well as local level issues associated with land ownership and
resource tenure, decentralization, organization and participation in management of natural
resources.
4.    Socio-Economic Conditions: At the national level, massive Governmental
restructuring and reduction of subsidies are influencing socio-economic conditions to a
large degree, including real wage declines and unemployment. At the level of the project
demonstration sites, key rural development issues are: unemployment, unsustainable use
of resources, and lack of access to credit to support development of new income
generating opportunities. Poor economic conditions and their implications for social
welfare result in a lack of interest in investments in protected area management activities.
Consequently, wherever possible, the project will support economic opportunities for key
stakeholders that are linked with the objectives of the project.



ANNEX I I
Page 2 of 12
5.    Land Privatization/Land Tenure and Ownership: The policy of privatization of
state -companies, and more importantly of the resources they control, could greatly
influence the project. Given poorly enforced land use regulations, the restitution process
can lead to uncontrolled development by private interests. The privatization of forest
resources currently under review (Law 169/1997) has the potential to fragment forest
ecosystems into numerous, small and difficult to manage entities. Due to social and
economic constraints and lack of understanding of the long-term benefits, many new
forest owners are likely to clear-cut their forests. This process could result in major
biodiversity loss. Key concerns associated with tenure and ownership (i.e., privatization)
issues include: (a) habitat fragmentation; (b) unsustainable harvesting of forest resources
(owners may capitalize on short-term economic opportunities rather than risk losing the
resources to a later re-appropriation by the State); and (c) potential for a loss of resource
control for several key stakeholders including forestry interests and mayors.
Demographic Trends at the Project Sites
6.    Retezat National Park's buffer area has a population density of approximately 77
people/km2 and is characterized by relatively high unemployment rates (17.5 % for
women and 12 % for men). Key land and resource uses include agriculture (hay, potato
and corn production) and sheep and cattle grazing. The increased number of sheep
coming from other regions of the country have significantly increased pressure on the
alpine meadows and resulted in the last years in a declined in local income from cheese
and other dairy products. Moreover, the lack of access to credit, inadequate infrastructure,
and lack of employment opportunities in the region have contributed to increased
migration of the young and skilled people to big cities in search of jobs.
7.    Piatra Craiului - Bucegi region has a population density that ranges from 119
people/ km2 in Brasov area to 184 people/ km' in Prahova area. Compared with the other
project sites, Piatra Craiului - Bucegi region has the lowest unemployment rates (12.7 %
for women and 6.7 % for men). Key land and resource uses include sheep and cattle
grazing, wood processing, manufacturing activities and tourism. With a reasonable
tourism infrastructure, numerous small and big towns, and an active labor force there are
significant opportunities for economic growth in the region.
8.    Vanatori-Neamt region has a population density of approximately 99 people/km2
and the highest unemployment rate of all project sites (19.2% for women and 17.3 % for
men), which has resulted in increased migration of young population to the nearest
towns. The total population of Vanatori Neamt is 9,600 with 2060 households. Key land
and resource uses include subsistence agriculture with a farming system centered on hay
production, cattle and sheep grazing, and forest harvesting and processing. Primary
sources of income include pensions, dairy products and livestock.
9.    The population and age structure of communities associated with the three project
sites are summarized in attachment 4.



ANNEX I I
Page 3 of 12
Analysis of Stakeholder Groups
Overview
10.    The project sites are characterized by multiple use of natural resources by a broad range
of stakeholders, and a long history of agro-pastoral and forestry activities. Key stakeholders
include: (a) Government institutions and agencies at the national, regional and local levels
(including MWFEP, NFA, Ministries of Agriculture, Industry, Tourism, etc); (b) the academic
community and research institutes; (c) local residents and resource users (shepherds, farmers,
forest users and forestry entrepreneurs); (d) national and local-level NGOs; (e) tourists; and (f)
local businesses and industries. Each of these stakeholder groups has specific interests and needs
related to resource use and control and will, therefore, be affected differently by the project.
11.    Three different groupings of stakeholders are described separately. These include: (i)
stakeholders most able to influence the project; (ii) those who are most affected by the project but
have only moderate influence on it; and (iii) those whose influence on, and impact from, the
project are negligible. Attachment 2 provides an overview of stakeholder involvement in project
components; Attachment 3 is a summary of stakeholder analysis, interests, potential impacts and
influence on the project; and Attachment 4 outlines the likely initial influence versus the
anticipated final impacts of the project on different stakeholder groups.
Stakeholders most able to influence project - interests, influence and impact mitigation
12.    This group includes decision makers at national and local levels; those who have
significant influence regarding decision making (i.e., media, monasteries), and those with legal
responsibility for biodiversity conservation, natural resource management and/or protected areas.
13.    Ministry of Water, Forests, and Environmental Protection (MWFEP): The MWFEP,
includes five main directorates, including: the General Directorate for Monitoring and Ecological
Control, the General Directorate of Forests (GDF), and the General Directorate of Waters
(GDW). MWFEP is the central authority for environmental protection in Romania and has
recently created a new Directorate for Nature and Biodiversity Conservation (DNBC). This
Directorate has legal and regulatory responsibility for biodiversity conservation inside and
outside protected areas. The GDF regulates the forestry sector and supervises the National Forest
Authority (NFA) and the Research and Management Planning Institute for Forestry. NFA,
through its forestry territorial units (Directii and ocoale silvice) manages all state forests,
including those within protected areas, and enforces the Forest Law.
14.    Given the limited extent to which the decentralization of resource management activities
has taken place in Romania, acceptance at the MWFEP of the concept of decentralized
management of protected areas may be slow. Consequently the project will demonstrate the
importance of participatory processes decentralized management, while building the capacity of
DNBC and NFA to plan and lead biodiversity conservation. This will be achieved through
provision of training and equipment to support implementation of national level project activities,
including replication of project experience throughout the country. The project will also provide
training and strengthen the capacity of the NFA Service for Protected Areas to replicate PAs in
conservation sites that include significant areas of forests.
15.    Ministry of Public Works and Territorial Planning (MPWTP): The MPWTP recently
issued a law for territorial administration that includes general provisions for protected areas.
The project will involve MPWTP in development of the future protected areas law, in order to



ANNEX I I
Page 4 of 12
ensure that the Protected Areas Law will be compatible with the Land-Use Planning Law. The
project will support workshops and discussions to encourage the MPWTP to adjust current land
use plans and develop new land-use plans to incorporate measures for conserving biodiversity.
16.    Romanian Academy: The Commission of Natural Monuments (CNM) of the Romanian
Academy has legal authority over policy decisions on protected area establishment and
management of scientific reserves. .The CNM will be substantially involved in the project
supported initiative to establish a network for protected areas in Romania. Additionally, CNM
together with the research institutes of the Romanian academy will assist with establishment of
boundaries and internal zoning for the protected area project sites, and provide scientific input for
the management plans.
17.    Prefectures and County Councils: As the liaison between the National Government and
local authorities, the Prefectures and County Councils are responsible for enforcing the
Environmental Protection Law at the county level. They have relatively powerful influence on
any activities undertaken in the county, and would be instrumental in supporting protected area
and project efforts to reduce non-sustainable resource use. The project will support Prefectures
and County Councils in their efforts to carry out legal tasks related to environmental protection,
and will benefit from their influence in support of project implementation through their
involvement in the project consultative boards.
18.   Mayors and Local Councils: The return of control over grazing resources to mayors in
the early 1990s increased local government interest in the economic benefits derived from use of
grazing resources. Since mayors and local councils may not yet be completely aware of the long-
term benefits of sustainable resource use, they could potentially negatively influence public
perception and acceptance of the protected areas during the early stage of project implementation.
Under the project, representatives of the local Government will participate in the park
consultative boards. In addition, park authorities will actively develop close working
relationships with mayors, local councils and in order to develop and implement sustainable
resource management strategies.
19.   Monasteries (Neamt only): The monasteries in Neamt are very interested in the return of
forestry and agriculture lands through the restitution process. Although the project will have
limited impact on the monasteries' activities, they have significant power to influence the local
population, more so than media or local government. Consequently, their support of project
activities in lands adjacent to the Vanatori Neamt Forest Park, especially possible restrictions on
grazing rights or issues concerning land ownership, will be essential. Under the project, the park
management authority will work closely with church administrations to explore mutual interests,
especially in the development and implementation of public awareness and ecotourism strategies.
20.    Media: Growing awareness of environmental issues among media agencies at national
and local levels will have an important influence during project implementation. Moreover, their
ability to inform the public and raise awareness could play a key role in attracting political and
public support of protected areas, which is essential for long term project success. The project
will work closely with the media at both the local and national level and facilitate their
implementation of public awareness programs.
Stakeholders most affected by project activities- interests, influence and impact mitigation
21.    These stakeholders include: villagers, shepherds and land owners, NFA, mayors and
local councils, tourists/visitors, NGOs, local/small enterprises, harvesting companies and wood



ANNEX I 1
Page 5 ofl2
processing industries and hunting associations and poachers. This group is most likely to be
impacted either negatively (e.g. through loss of access to resources) or positively (e.g., through
provisions of new opportunities for income generation, etc.). Consequently, the project will
mitigate negative impacts and strengthen linkages between benefits and project objectives.
22.    Local Resource Users (including Local Landowners, Shepherds, Animal Owners,
Farmers, and NFA): Local communities have a long history of resource utilization within or
adjacent to all three demonstration sites. Key resource uses include timber and non-timber forest
products and meadows. The transition to a free market economy, has reduced employment and
changed land and resource use patterns (notably grazing, management systems and forestry
operations). Consequently, the primary interest for local communities associated with the project
sites is increasing employment and income generation opportunities.
23.    In some cases, implementation of the project activities will result in restricted access to
resources (forests, meadows, timber and non-timber forest products, etc.). NFA will also loose
some access to forest resources. If project activities create economic hardship, local
communities and individuals will likely react against the project. Additionally, since there is little
experience with decentralized, participatory approaches to managing complex issues in Romania,
inadequate participation of local communities in development of project activities is a risk.
Consequently, the project will mitigate negative impacts through supporting the establishment of
alternative income generation initiatives that are based on the sustainable or non consumptive use
of natural resources, and through raising the awareness of stakeholder groups of the indirect
benefits of conservation.
24.    Mayors and Local Councils: Although local govemments have potential to influence the
project (see para. 11) they will also be impacted by the project. The establishment of PAs within
their jurisdiction may, in the short term, result in loss of direct access to income generating
resources from, for example, grazing fees on meadows or potential private development. The
project may result in local councils and mayors experiencing difficulty in balancing constituent
demands with Protected Area objectives. The project will: (a) target local authorities through
the public awareness program to raise understanding of the long-term benefits of sustainable
resource use and potential for economic benefit through project activities, such as eco-tourism
and the Small Grants program, and (b) involve them in development of project activities.
25.    Tourists: Visitors are an important stakeholder group with significant impact on, and
interests in, the project sites. Their activities also have an economic impact on other key
stakeholders, notably, through utilization of services such as private hotels, state-run enterprises,
rural/farm tourism lodges, etc. While there is an increasing emphasis on attracting foreign
tourists, Romanians account for 80 % of visitors at all three sites. Although facilities are few and
inadequate, approximately 8,000 tourists visit Retezat National Park over a four month period
each summer, and at least 25,000 visit Piatra Craiului during the same season. Access to these
projects sites is very important to Romanians for cultural reasons, and project activities that limit
access and use, or increase access fees, will be carefully assessed in a participatory manner.
26.    Tourism Operators, Local Business and Industries: Tourism operators and
commercial/industrial interests active within buffer areas of the three demonstration sites have
high expectations of the project's impact, including the possibility of increased income through
participation in the eco-tourism developments and access to the small grants program. The
enhanced profile of the project area could increase the number of tourists visiting the sites, which
could, in turn, increase income generation for these businesses.



ANNEX I I
Page 6 of 12
27.    NGOs (National and Local): The Romanian environmental movement is a dynamic
sector of the emerging civil society, which is in the process of developing coalitions and new
organizational structures. However, most NGOs are still primarily grassroots-oriented, are run by
volunteers and have limited budgets and technical expertise. Nonetheless, they are capable of
initiating and undertaking a variety of protected area management activities, such as education,
public awareness, tourism monitoring, restoration and rehabilitation of trails, etc. In addition,
they are developing the capacity to encourage public interest and participation in environmental
issues and influence policy and decision-making processes. Some NGOs have high expectations
with respect to their participation in project activities. The project will support the development
of capacity in local NGOs, and provide opportunities for NGOs to participate constructively in
protected area management and public awareness programs.
28.    Forest Harvesting Companies and Wood Processing Industries: Stakeholders include:
(a) forestry interests requiring concessions and access to harvestable supplies of timber and (b)
industrial and commercial enterprises utilizing natural resources for manufacturing. Forestry
operations are a primary economic activity in all project sites, processing wood resources and
providing important opportunities for employment and income generation. These resource users
may have the strongest interest in maintaining the status quo and may not be receptive to
restriction of access to forest resources. The exception is in Piatra Neamt site, where forest
harvesters will benefit from the certification program that may be developed under the project,
which aims to assist in accessing higher value and more stable markets. The risk is that
harvesters may be skeptical that the benefits of improved access to markets will outweigh the
costs of investment and equipment needed for certified harvesting. The project will assess the
financial viability of improved forest management and disseminate the findings to forest
operators.
29.    Hunting Associations: Stakeholders include: a) hunting associations that control specific
areas for the purposes of maintaining hunting opportunities; and (b) poachers and illegal timber
harvesters who take advantage of weak enforcement in order to access restricted resources.
Currently, hunting associations are responsible for managing wildlife mainly for economic
benefits (through hunting fees) in some of the project sites. This has significant implications for
biodiversity conservation. Consequently, the project will, through review of the new Protected
Areas Law, deternine the future role of the Hunting Associations in Protected Areas.
Stakeholders with negligible influence over the project andfor whom the project has minimal
impact - interests, influence and impact mitigation
30.    This stakeholder group includes Agriculture Directorates, Research Institutes and other
National Govemment Institutions. These stakeholders will be involved through the participatory
mechanisms of the project, however, their influence overall may be negligible. Additionally,
while this group may receive some benefits as a result of project activities, there will not be
significant impact.
31.    Agriculture Directorates: The extension service of the Agriculture Directorates are the
primary implementing agencies for the countries rural development programs. Consequently,
they have an important role in rural development under their current and future programs.
Coordination of their programs with the activities of the PMAs will be important, especially for
the development of extension services in lands adjacent to the project areas.
32.    Research Institutes: A broad range of Romanian research institutes could provide
specific expertise relating to biodiversity conservation issues. These include the Institute for



ANNEX 1 1
Page 7 of 12
Forest Research and Management Planning (ICAS), Institute of Environmental Engineering
Research (ICIM), the Research Institute for Tourism, Institute of Meadows, Institute of Biology,
and the Institute of Geography. While this stakeholder group is able to influence policy
directions and management activities, with respect to biodiversity conservation, their main focus
is academic research, rather than applied, management-driv-i research; they will, therefore, have
little involvement in project activities.
33.    Other National Government Institutions: The newly developed Department for Rural
Development at the Ministry of Agriculture and the creation of greater extension capabilities
within this agency, could positively influence project activities and provide inter-ministerial
support. Other Government institutions with potential impacts on biodiversity include the
Ministries of Tourism, Finance, Education, Industry and Transportation. While these institutions
will be consulted in development of the national legal framework for biodiversity conservation,
they will not be directly involved in project activities and hence not significantly affected by the
project.
Participation Mechanisms
34.    At present, local, and national level stakeholders have little experience in decentralized
planning and management of resources. Consequently, the project will foster decentralization of
responsibility from the National to the County level and will develop management processes that
facilitate the participation of key stakeholder groups, including NGOs. The project will provide
the following opportunities for participation:
(a)    decision making, e.g., through establishment of Park Management Units,
Consultative Boards, working groups and committee's;
(b)    capacity building, e.g., through provision of training for: (i) Park Management
Authority and territorial forestry unit staff in new skills such as conflict
resolution, integrated resource management, community participation, public
awareness, and communication, etc; (ii) NGOs and local stakeholders to
implement project activities; and
(c)    establishing and supporting new opportunities for employment and income
generation that are linked to the objectives of the project. Opportunities for
include establishment of mechanisms to support sustainable use of natural
resources, including grazing and forest products, provision of small grants to
support conservation compatible activities, employment of local individuals, and
engagement of local NGOs and small commercial enterprises in protected area
management activities.
(d)    raising stakeholder awareness of conservation needs and of opportunities
to participate in and/or support project activities.
35.    Mechanisms for stakeholder participation in project activities are summarized in
Attachment 5. Further development and implementation of the project, including identification of
training needs and economic development opportunities that will be supported by the project, will
be undertaken in a particapatory manner through decision making mechanisms that the project
will establish at the National and County level. These are summarized in Attachment 6, and
outlined below:



ANNEX 1 1
Page 8 ofl2
A. National Level Participation In Decision Making
Project Oversight Committee
36.   The Project Oversight Committee will be responsible for providing project oversight
advice and assistance in resolving pioject implementation issues. The committee will provide the
opportunity for national level stakeholders to participate in the overall implementation and
development of the project. The committee will be chaired by the Secretary of State of MWFEP
and will include experts from MWFEP, MoF, the Commission of Natural Monuments of the
Romanian Academy, and NFA.
National Consultative Board
37.   The National Consultative Board will meet quarterly to discuss progress of the new
protected areas and can request NFA or the Ministry to analyze issues and amend laws,
regulations and guidelines in order to improve effectiveness of biodiversity conservation in
protected area management throughout the country. The Board may mediate and resolve
potential conflicts between Park Management Authorities and the national agencies responsible
for protected area management. As for the project oversight committee, membership will include
experts from MWFEP, the Commission of Natural Monuments of the Romanian Academy, NFA
and invited experts in protected area management, however the chair of the consultative board
will be rotated, and its function will prevail after project implementation has been completed.
National Working Groups
38.   Working groups will be established to ensure participation of stakeholders in
strengthening the national framework for managing biodiversity conservation. The groups will
analyze issues and prepare reports for submission to DNBC advising on agreements reached and
the measures needed to implement agreements (e.g., laws and regulations, and development of
guidelines for protected area management). In addition, outputs of the working groups will
include issues papers, and minutes of the meetings, etc. Participants in these groups will include,
as necessary, representatives from: DNBC, GDF, DW, Commission of Natural Monuments of
the Romanian Academy, the National Commission for UNESCO and Ministries of Agriculture,
Finance, Transport, Industry, Public Works and Territorial Planning, Tourism, Education,
research institutes, and NFA experts in protected area management, etc. National Working
groups will include:
(a)    Protected Area Classification - this working group will convene to set up
guidelines for Romanian PA classification, using IUCN criteria. These
guidelines will be used for classifying existing and future PAs in Romania, once
the new Protected Area Law is ratified.
(b)    Protected Area Law - this working group will be established by DNBC to
undertake the participatory review of existing and draft legislation that has
potential influence on biodiversity conservation.
(c)    Management Planning Guidelines - this working group will establish
guidelines for management planning based upon the Protected Area classification
and law.



ANNEX 1 1
Page 9 of 12
(d)    Boundary Analysis and Internal Zoning - this working group will develop
guidelines for analyzing boundary and internal zoning for Protected Areas.
(e)    Ecological Adaptation of school curriculum - this working group will convene
to review current school curricula and determine ways to modify them, in order
to make students more aware of the environmental and ecological issues.
B. County and Local Level Participation in Decision Making
Park Management Consultative Boards and Working Groups
39.   To ensure participation of all stakeholders in development of park management activities,
the project will support the establishment of consultative boards and working groups at each
demonstration site.
(a)    Consultative Board: The Project will establish three Consultative Boards, one
at each demonstration site, to ensure the participation of key stakeholders in
protected area management activities at the site level. The Boards will serve as
forums for discussions and consultation among stakeholders and will be called on
to endorse management plans. These Boards will meet four times a year and
may include representatives from: the Park Management Authority; Forestry
Districts; County Councils; Prefectures; the Environmental Protection Agency;
local communities; the Commission of Natural Monuments of the Romanian
Academy; Agriculture Directorates; Research Institutes; NGOs; and
representatives of specific economic sectors relevant for each site.
(b)    Management Plan Working Groups will be established at Retezat and Piatra
Craiului-Bucegi to ensure participatory planning in the development of
management plans. Membership will be established on an ad hoc basis,
according to technical needs.
(c)    Boundary and Internal Zoning Working Groups will be established at Retezat
and Piatra Craiului-Bucegi to ensure consultation and participation of all
stakeholders in boundary analysis and establishment of management objectives
for different zones of the protected areas. Membership will include all
stakeholders owning or administering protected area or buffer zone lands, and
representatives of resource user groups.
Committees for Implementation of the Small Grants Program
40.   A small grants program will support participation of local communities in the sustainable
use of the natural resources and contribute toward mitigation of potential economic losses,
associated with restricted access to natural resources resulting from the establishment of Protected
Areas. Establishment of mechanisms for this program will target sustainable resource use,
including grazing and park-friendly investment activities by local communities and other resource
users.
(a)    Communal Grazing Association (CGA) - Workshops will be held in each
commune to explain project objectives and activities to animal owners,
shepherds and other groups dependent on livestock products. Workshop
participants will elect representatives to local CGAs, which will be established



ANNEX I I
Page 10 of 12
for each commune that owns sheep that are grazed in project sites. CGAs will
provide a vehicle for participation of representatives of animal owners and
shepherds in developing a plan for sustainable use of lowland meadows and
alpine pastures associated with project sites.
(b)   Inter-communal Grazing Committee (IGC) will be composed of one
representative from each of the CGAs a representative of the PMA,
representatives of local authorities, and a local expert in Small Enterprise
Development. The ICG will be created to encourage partnerships between the
CGCs and investment mechanisms for sustainable use of natural resources. The
IGC will meet regularly in order to: (a) discuss concerns raised by the CGCs and
efforts to address grazing needs; (b) establish the objectives of the Small Grant
Fund for grazing; (c) determine allocations for different types of grants (e.g.,
partnership, matching and seed); (c) develop application procedures for the Small
Grants; (d) establish the deadlines for announcement, application, review and
award of grant funds; (e) elect one of the CGCs representatives to be a member
of the Grant Committee; and (f) monitor the impact of grant activities.
(c)    Working Group for Park-friendly Investment Activities (Working Group) -
A workshop will also be held with relevant stakeholders to discuss project
support for park-friendly investment activities. Workshop participants will elect
three or four representatives to form a working group that will: (a) establish the
objectives of the Small Grant Fund for park-friendly investment activities; (b)
determine allocations for different types of grants (i.e., partnership, matching and
seed); (c) develop application procedures for grants; (d) establish the deadlines
for announcement, application, review and award of grant funds; (e) elect a
representative for the Grant Committee; and (f) monitor the impact of grant
activities.
(d)    Grant Committee will be composed of one representative from both the IGC
and the Working Group, one local government representative from each of the
Communes, one member of the PMA, and one Small/Medium scale Enterprise
(SME) specialist. The Commission will review and approve applications for
Small Grant funds, for both grazing and park-friendly investment activities,
according to guidelines developed by the IGC and Working Group and approved
by the PMA..
Small Grants - mechanisms to support stakeholder participation in project activities
41.   Small Grants Funds will provide resources and incentives for community based
organizations (CBOs) and NGOs to carry out projects that reduce pressure on protected area
natural resources, and establish linkages between benefits for stakeholders and project objectives.
The Working Groups for Park-Friendly Investment activities and the Inter-Communal Grazing
Committees will select and define the most appropriate types of grant, eligibility criteria,
procedures for application and monitoring grant funded activities at each site. Options for grant
types include:
(a)    Seed Grants - would support the start of new activities to reduce the immediate
pressures on the natural resources inside the Park and to build local support;



ANNEX I I
Page 11 of 12
(b)    Partnership Grants - would support partnerships with organizations from other
Carpathian countries, with the purposes of transferring skills and knowledge and
promoting development of regional initiatives for the conservation of Carpathian
ecosystems. Procedures for application for Partnership Grants would be the same
as for other grants, but would include the following:
(i)    a letter of support from the proposed partner NGO, which includes the
intent to sign a Memorandum of Understanding once the grant agreement
is signed;
(ii)    a clearly defined division of responsibilities and budgetary contribution;
(iii)   a joint work plan a for both partners indicating regular communication
and collaboration;
(iv)   a plan for sustaining the relationship beyond the grant period.
(c)    Matching Grants - would be available to support approved park friendly
developments undertaken by a local partner individual or organization that
contributes no less than 50% Qf the overall cost of the initiative. Eligibility
would include provision of a memorandum confirming and detailing the budget
and work plan for the grant and the matching contribution. To develop and
expand the Matching Grant Program, the PMA would:
(i)    Develop and promulgate a communication and marketing campaign
targeting potential partners including local and international business
interests;
(ii)   Encourage NGOs and CBOs to communicate with corporations directly
by sponsoring roundtable discussions involving both NGO and corporate
leaders;
(iii)   Recognize corporate participation by highlighting corporate donors in the
Park Newsletter, web page and the media;
(iv)   Organize "think tanks" for corporations to assist them in assessing needs
and interests in the region and how NGOs or CBOs might help to further
these interests.
(d)    Micro-enterprise Grants - could be made available to applicants pursuing
business activities that:
(i)    support Park management plan objectives and provide an equitable share
of benefits to local stakeholders, and
(ii)   are technically and financially feasible and culturally acceptable.
Eligibility Criteria - for participation in the Small Grants Program will be developed by the
Working Group on Park-Friendly activities and the Inter-communal Grazing Committee within
the first year of the project.



ANNEX 11
Page 12 of 12
Callfor Applications - would be publicly announced (e.g., through local press, radio, the Park
newsletter, web page or targeted mail) at least two months before the deadline for submission.
Grants should be used within a predetermined time period such as 6-18 months, depending on the
nature of the activity.
Grant Management Manual - The working groups would develop a Grant Management Manual
detailing each phase of the application process and the documentation needed to track progress in
implementation of grant funded activities, including adherence to criteria and success in
achieving agreed and monitorable objectives.
Cost Sharing - should be demonstrated in all categories of grant and could be provided in the
form of cash or in-kind contributions, including of staff and volunteer time, equipment use, office
or facility use or other in-kind contribution. In the case of Partnership Grants, the recipient will
contribute at least 50 % of the total amount.
Assistance for Grant Application - could be provided by NGOs sub-contracted by the PMA to
provide on-going assistance to local NGOs and CBOs on development of project proposals, and
pre-screen applications prior to submission to the Grant Committee
Monitoring and Evaluation - will be based on the use of agreed and measurable indicators that
would be submitted to the Grant Committee for review and feedback periodically throughout the
implementation period of the grants.
Schedule For Development And Implementation Of The Small Grants Program
Activity                          Responsible                    Time frame
Establish eligibility criteria;   Working Group for Park-friendly  Month 7 of Project
Determine allocation for each type of  Investment Activities and Inter-  effectiveness
grant;                            communal Grazing Committee
Develop application procedure;
Establish the deadlines for
announcement, application, review
and award of grant funds;
Elect the Grant Committee
Announcements of deadlines (2     Park Management Unit           Four times a year, beginning
months before the submission)                                    with month of 10 of Project
effectiveness
Preparation of applications       NGO contracted by the PMA      On-going, beginning with
month 10 of Project
effectiveness
Submission and Review of          Grant Committee                Four times a year, beginning
Applications                                                     with month 12 of Project
effectiveness
Approval of Application           Grant Committee                Four times a year, beginning
with month 12 of Project
effectiveness
Monitoring and Evaluation         Grant Committee and Park       On-going starting with the
Management Unit              first grant approval



Annex I I
Attachment I A
Attachment IA - Summary of Stakeholder Participation During Project
Preparation
CONSULTATION ACTIVITY             STAKEHOLDERSINVOLVED              DURATION               OUTPUT
Stage 1
*   Formal and informal         *   government agency representatives   July-August    *   information gathering;
interviews                      at the national and regional levels                    profiles of key issues
.   small group / focus group       (e.g., EPA, NFA, Agric. Direc.,                         and sites; institutional
discussions                     tourism, public works)                                 analysis; analysis of key
.   professionally facilitated  *   local consultants                                       people-resource
workshops                       l local communities and individuals                    interactions; transects;
.   transects with local            (e.g., farmers, shepherds, SME                          seasonal calendars
representatives                 business people, students)
.   rapid appraisal: informal   .   NGOs
discussions with local     *   local governments
individuals; participant   *   institutes and academics
observation; transects,    *   donor agencies
calendars
.   media presentations
   local consultant contributions
Stage 2
.   formal and informal         .   government agency representatives    September -    .   bringing different
interviews                      (particularly at the national level)  October           stakeholders together;
.   professionally facilitated  .   institutes and academics                                awareness raising
workshops                  *   project consultants                                      around certain issues;
*   certain local-level stakeholders                        analysis of preliminary
concepts (e.g., around
administrative
framework; overall
project strategies
Stage 3
*   formal and informal         .   regional and local governments      November-      .   analysis of specific
discussions                     (prefecture and judet council, mayors  December        project concepts,
.   focus group discussions         and local councils)                                     administrative
*   formal presentations with   *   government agency representatives                       structures and proceed
local councils (including      (EPA, NFA, Agric. Direc. , public                       investments; emphasis
questions and answers)          works-territorial planning)                            on investment options
l local NGOs                                                and alternatives, further
.   community representatives                               awareness-raising and
.   local commercial interests                              modifications to strategy
.   media                                                  (e.g., to administrative
*   consultants                                             framework)
Stage 4
.   formal and informal         .   key government agency               January        *   finalizing investment
discussions                     representatives at national and local                   strategies and
   professionally facilitated      levels                                                  packages; undertaking
workshops at local and     .   selected NGO representatives                             decision-analysis
national levels                 selected regional and local                            process with key
government representatives                             stakeholders
*   commercial interests
Stage 5                         .   key government agency               March-April    *   Final preparation,
*   Formal discussions               representatives at national and local                  approval and
levels                                                 negotiations
*   selected NGO representatives



Annex  1I
Attachment IB
List of Stakeholders Consulted or Participated in Project Preparation
Non-governmental Organizations:
Piatra Craiului-Bucegi: Association for Nature Protection Romania Touring Club, ANTREC,
Association for the Protectioin of the Bear, the Wolf and the Lynx, Carpatina, Club for
Tourism and Nature Protection (CPNT), Carpati Foundation, Craii Dianei, Dracula,
Ecological Association from Piatra Craiului, ECOS-Youth Association for the Protection of
Nature, Eco Valea Prahovei, Mileniul III, Floarea Reginei (Edelweiss), Pro Democracy,
Ornithological Society for Protection of Birds and Nature, Romanian Carpathian Society of
Tourism, Roumain Rural Foundation, Romanian Environmental Center, Romanian
Mountain Guide Association, Romanian Wildlife Society, Salvamont Sinaia, Salvamont
Brasov, Salvamont Zarnesti, Silex, Silva and UNSER.
Retezat: Committee for Romanian Village Development, Salvamont Retezat, UNESCO Pro
Natura.
Neamt: ECOMONT, Hunters and Fishennen Association - Neamt, Amonit Speleology Club,
Artemis Foundation, Association for Engineering and Analysis of the value of the
Ecological Systems, Association of Forest Owners, Dr. Gh. lacomi Ecotouristi Club,
Ehliopolis, Friends of Nature Association, Petrodava, Polita cu Crini, Salmo, Salvamont-
Piatra Neamt, Vega, Mountain Farmer Federation.
National: AidRom, Center for New Education for Children, Center for Sustainable Civil
Society Development Foundation, National Club for Youth Tourism (CNTT), Progresul
Silvic, Regional Environmental Center (REC), Romanian Association for Environmental -
Journalist, Romanian Speleological Foundation, Romanian Rural Foundation, Romanian
Ecologist Youth, UNESCO-Pro Natura, EarthVoice - Romania.
International: EU Delegation, Embassies - Canada, Harvard Institute for International
Development, Freemarkconsult, UNDP, World Bank Resident Mission, World Learning,
WWF   Private sector entities consulted.
Governmental Agencies consulted:
Piatra Craiului - Bucegi: Chanber of Commerce Brasov; City Council Brasov and Sinaia;
County Council Brasov and Prahova; Directia Agricola Arges, Brasov, Dimbovita and
Prahova; EPA - Arges, Brasov, Dimbovita and Prahova; Forestry Districts and territorial
units: Arges, Brasov, Dimbovita, Dimbovicioara, Moroeni, Pitesti, Prahova, Rucar. and
Zarriesti; Local Council - Sinaia; National High-School "Nenitescu"; Natural Science
Museum - Prahova; Prefecture - Arges, Brasov, Dimbovita and Sinaia; State Ownership
Fund- Dimbovita; Town Hall Bran, Busteni, Dimbovicioara, Moeciu, Moroeni, Rasnov,
Rucar, and Sinaia. University of Brasov.
Retezat: Chamber of Comerce-Deva, Constitutional Court of Romania, County Council Deva,
Directia Agricola Deva, Directia de Drumuri si Poduri Deva, EPA Deva, Forestry Districts
and territorial units Deva, Hateg, Pui, Retezat, ICAS Simeria, Institute of Pastures Deva,
Natural Science Museum Deva, Prefecture Deva, RENEL Deva, Town Hall Bretea
Romana, Pui, Rau de Mori, Salasul de Sus, Santarnaria-Orlea.



ANNEX 1 1
Attachment I B
Neamt: Chamber of Commerce-Neamt, Suceava; Directia Agricola Neamt, EPA-Neamt,
Forestry Districts and territorial units Neamt, Monasteries - Varatec, Neamt; Prefecture -
Neamt, Suceava; Natural Science Museum Neamt, Town Hall Brusturi, Boroaia, Pipirig,
Vanatori-Neamt.
National: Academy of Economics, Commission of Natural Monuments of Romanian
Academy, Danube Delta Biosphere Reserve Authority, Danube Delta Institute, FAO,
ICAS, ICIM, Institute of Geography, Institute of Geology, IGFCOT, Ministry of
Agriculture and Food, Ministry of Public Works and Territorial Planning, Ministry of
Tourism, MWFEP - DNBC, GDF, National Commission for Statistics, NFA, Parliament,
Research Institute for Tourism, Speleological Institute, University of Bucharest.
Private sector entities consulted:
Retezat- SC Apollo SA Deva, Pietrele Tourist Complex,
Neamt: Arcadia Tourism Office, Eurohouse Limited Co., Petrotour - Piatra Neamt, SC
Comfor Barsan SNC Tirgul Neamt, Tipotrans, Maart's Co.



Annex I1
Attachment 2
ATTACHMENT 2 - Population and Age Structure of Communities Associated with the Project Sites
Settlements in the      Type of settlement         Settlement area    Number of          Age structure
buffer area                                        (ha)               inhabitants
0-19            20-60              >60
SantaMaria Orlea        Commune (4 villages)         6,780             3,996             1,287             1,970              739
Salas                   Commune (5 villages)        22,303             3,187              601              1,612              974
Rau de Mori             Commune (5 villages)        38,632             4,402             1,327            2,276               799
Pui                     Commune (4 villages)        22,879             4,106             1,302            2,580              1,224
Subtotal                4 Communes (18 villages)    90,594            15,691             4,517            8,438              3,736
Uricani                 Town                        25,141            11,546             4,832             6,180              534
Total                   4 Communes + I town        115,735            27,237             9,349 (34.3%)   14,618 (53.66 %)   3,270 (12 %)
Bran                    Commune (5 villages)       6785                5,587              1,326            2,298             1,963
Moeciu                  Commune (5 villages)       9491                4,981              1,641            2,213             1,127
Fundata                 Commune (4 villages)       3681                1,104                319             460               325
Subtotal                4 Communes (14 villages)                      11,672              3,286            4,971             3,415
Zarnesti                Town                       20,475             26,589              7,232           14,178             5,179
Total                   4 Communes + I town                           38,261             10,518 (27.5%)  19,149 (50%)        8,594 (22.5%)
EEE~~~OOREMMNE _                                _   E                           _                     _unm 
Agapia                  Commune (4 villages)        5,868              4,500               790            2,330               1,380
Baltatesti              Commune (4 villages)        6,154              7,019              2,439           3,360               1,220
Cracaoani               Commune (5 villages)       12,650              3,739              1,328           2,169                242
Grumazesti              Commune (4 villages)        5,975              5,624              1,272           3,266               1,086
Petricani               Commune (4 villages)        7,578              5,132              1,642           2,577                913
Pastraveni              Commune (4 villages)        3,736              3,736                845            1,053              1,838
Urecheni                Commune (3 villages)        3,024              5,025              1,307            1,979              1,739
Tibucarii               Commune (3 villages)        4,215              4,215              1,100            2,200               915
Brusturi                Commune (8 villages)        6,781              5,591              1,452           2,743               1,396
Timisesti               Commune (5 villages)        5,689              3,955              1,023            1,771              1,161
Raucesti                Commune (4 villages)        4,378              8,205              2,760            3,843              1,602
Vanatori                Commune (4 villages)       18,723              8,497              2,843           4,810                 844
Subtotal                13 Communes (54 villages)                     65,238             18,801          32,101              14,336
Tirgu Neamt             Town                       26,780             23,150               5,870          13,456              3,824
Total                   13 Communes + I town                          88,388             24,671 (28%)   45,557 (51.5%)       18,160 (20.5%)



ANNEX I I
Attachment 3
ATTACHMENT 3               OVERVIEW OF STAKEHOLDERS INVOLVEMENT IN PROJECT COMPONENTS
Introduc
Strengthen National Framework for               Develop Management Models for                    Public
PROJECT                    Managing Biodiversity Conservation              Biodiversity Conservation                       Awarenes
COMPONENTS                                                                                                                  Progra
Strengthe                            Develo                 Establis              Develop
Capacity    Strengthe Srnte    Strategy          Establis  Mechanisms Establish      o
Natona  egul   StrengtheniRedu                                               Practices
Plan an      Laws      to replicate  Incorporati  Planningc                ouis     Maagm
Nationa    Regulator in Forest    BCodiversit Manageme Nonsustaina   Progra        Reflectce
Biodiversit  Framewo                Concern      aagm   Resource                     Conlcer
ConservatiCocr
STAKEHOLDER
DNBC____
GDF
NFA
Other_ _
Romanian Academy
Research Institutes
Prefectures, Countv Counc                                                                                   |
Mavorc ILocal Councmirs
Anroricltfrl r)ff:irDirtnrat:atoc
V*11:anpm Ih na1rt--cnq
Hunting Associations_
Harvesting Companies_
Zoo (Neamt)__
Norld Bank_ 
Media  '                I                                                 



Annex I I
Attachment 4
Attachment 4 - Summary of Stakeholder Analysis - Interests, Impacts and Influence
Stakeholder Groups         Interests at stake in relation to the project          Potential Impact of                   Potential Influence of
Project on Stakeholder                 Stakeholder on Project
GOVERNMENTAL ORGANISATIONS - NATIONAL LEVEL
MWFEP                  *   mandate for PA's under Law 137               *   increased authority in biodiversity  *   could create bureaucratic challenges
DNBC, EPAs             *   drafting new environmental legislation            conservation                           (lack of capacity)
*   interest in increasing power and capacity    *   increase in capacity for management  *   provide monitoring and
*   strength vis a vis forestry interests            and monitoring                          enforcement activity (regional
*   monitoring and enforcement function          *   enhanced profile for DNBC               EPAs)
MWFEP                  *   maintenance of forest resources, especially for   *   increased authority in biodiversity  *   responsibility for the establishment
General Directorate of      economically viable forestry                     conservation                           of regulatory framework
Forests                *   control over other forestry bodies (e.g., NFA,    *   requirement to integrate biodiversity   *   forestry interests are relatively
ICAS)                                            concerns into forest management        powerful
*   strong role in PA management                     planning
*   enhanced profile for GDF
NFA, Local Forestry    *   economically viable forestry in PA and support  *   loss of production forest and hunting   *   inacceptance of participatory
Districts                   zones                                            resources                              mechanisms
*   maintenance of forest resources and control over *   decline in economic interest vis a vis  *   resistance to protection issues in
forest lands within PAs                         protection interests                    some areas due to powerful control
*   control over forest and hunting concessions at   *   utilization of local capacity / staffing  over key resources
demonstration sites                             for PA management                   *   capacity to provide staff for PA
*   control on management activities in PAs      *   contribute to potential institutional   management
change in mandate and operations
Ministries of Finance,    *   maintenance of specific mandates at sites  *   increased demand for collaboration    *   responsibility for regulations in
Public Works,          *   input into PA system planning                     with MWFEP ( increase in time and       relevant sectors / activities with
Transport, Tourism,                                                          budget requirements)                    potential influence on biodiversity
Agriculture and                                                         *   need for integrating biodiversity        conservation and PAs
Industry                                                                     conservation concerns / PA objectives *   often stronger than MWFEP
into planning                          (DNBC/GDF)
Academic Community   *   identification of new protected areas and legal   *   enhanced profile for Commission of  *   strong influence on outcome of
(Commission on              authority for existing PA                        Natural Monuments as central            proposed legislation and strategies
Natural Monuments,     .   overall scientific authority for PA system        scientific authority in biodiversity   for biodiversity conservation
Romanian Academy,    *   maintenance of status and legitimacy                conservation                       *   potential to influence governmental
Universities, and      *   research access                              *   requirement for effective input into    sector
Researchers)           *   influence policy directions / management          biodiversity                       *   provide needed scientific basis
actions
ICAS                   *   management and planning for forest resources   *   requirement for integrating       *   focus on forestry over broader
and meadows                                      biodiversity conservation in forest    biodiversity conservation issues
_   research access in forest ecosystem within PAs   management planning                *   ability to provide useful information
Other Research         *   research on specific issues                  *   possible research contracts on      *   provide useful research and
Institutes (e.g.,      *   maintenance of status as critical research bodies  biodiversity                          information
Meadows, Tourism,           and in production of reports
ICIM, Biology,
Geography)



ANNEX I I
Attachment 4
Stakeholder Groups   |    Interests at stake in relation to the project           Potential Impact of                   Potential Influence of
Stakeholder Group                                               |_t             Project on Stakeholder                 Stakeholder on Project
GOVERNMENTAL ORGANISATION - LOCAL LEVEL
Prefectures and County   *   carry out legal tasks on environmental protection *   requirement for greater responsibility  *   relatively powerful at regional /
Councils                                                                     and support for PAs                     local level
*   requirement for real support for   *   inadequate use of local and national
reducing non-sustainable resource use  political power to support PAs
Mayors / Local         *   maintain control on community lands inside PAs *   loss of control over resources / land    *   negative influence on public
Councils               &   social and economic benefits from the presence    (economic loss)                         perception towards PA due to lack
of PA                                       *   loss/gain of political power             of understanding
*   influence management activities              *   inability to meet constituent demands  *   mayors share common concerns
with regard to PAs objectives          (power base) (e.g., share interests
with shepherds - fees for grazing)
Agricultural           *   maintenance of mandate                       *   involvement in PA management        *   provide technical expertise
Directorates           *   increase influence on meadow resources            activities                         *   developing extension capacity
*   rural development / extension                                                            within new rural development
policy
LOCAL COMMUNITIES, NGO, OTHER INTERESTS  _
Villagers and shepherds  *   maintenance of control and access to private /  *   loss of access to key resources  .   resistance to PA objectives (e.g.
(local and external) and    community lands and resources              *   new requirements / standards over        inacceptance of internal zoning)
at P.C.-B and Retezat    *   additional incomes                             resource use practices             *   refuse to accept proposed
*   maintenance of grazing rights in alpine    *   enhanced utilisation of all grazing      mechanisms for changing
meadows                                        resources (lowland)                     unsustainable land use practices
*   low cost inputs                            *   economic impacts / displacement and  *   link to mayors - emphasise on
lost opportunities                     economic interests vis a vis
*   new investment / income possibilities   protection interests in PAs
Tourists/visitors       *   access to scenic locations/recreation      *   loss of access to certain areas     *   demand increased quality in
possibilities                              *   higher process / fees                   interpretation and tourist facilities
*   low prices                                 *   new standards and fines             *   influence income levels for PAs
*   improved facilities                        *   effective enforcement mechanisms    *   potential positive influence on
political decision-makers
Tourist Businesses and    *   new opportunities and markets for products  *   controlling / placing limits on  *   revenues can finance PA
Local Commercial            and services                                    activities and access to resources in   maintenance
Interests               *   improved investment possibilities               PA                                 *   potential negative influence on eco-
*   increased income                           *   require higher standards                 tourism management
*   lost / new opportunities for business
development / incomes
Harvesting Companies    *   access to resources at low cost            *   loss of access to resources         *   non-compliance and associated
*   production subsidies                       *   new requirements / standards for         degradation of resources
*   new markets / better prices                     harvesting                         *   resistance to PA
*   increase costs and reduced benefits
Monastery (Neamt only)  *   return of traditional lands (for forestry and  *   limited                         *   power to influence local populations
agriculture)                                                                       *   control of some forested areas of
I                                                                                 _          importance



Annex I I
Attachment 4
Stakeholder Groups          Interests at stake in relation to the project           Potential Impact of                    Potential Influence of
Project on Stakeholder                  Stakeholder on Project
Poachers / Illegal      *   limited enforcement / control over forest and    *   fines / penalties                 *   undermine PA objectives
Timber Fellers               wildlife resources                           *   loss of opportunity
*   inadequate penalties
no authority for PA
OTHER ORGNISATIONS
World Bank / GEF        *   maintenance of resources                     *   not applicable                        *   influence project viability through
Intemational Agencies /  *   meeting of internal and international standards,                                          funding
Donors (EU / USAID /         agreements and principles                                                             *   request for international agreements
CIDA, etc.)             *   sustainability                                                                             to be considered in biodiversity
*   efficient use of funds                                                                     conservation
*   different standards
NGOs                    *   public awareness and education activities     *   require greater responsibility on    *    provide technical and
*   monitoring activities                            NGOs to undertake tasks                   organisational ability (e.g., for
*   financial sustainability / access to funding  *   increase capacity in range of areas      education, interpretation, etc.)
(especially international)                  *   increase government-NGO and NGO- *   increasing role / power to voice
*   social partnership building (especially NGO -    NGO linkages                              opinions in order to influence policy
government)
*   control over management activities in PAs
Media Interests (Local    *   disseminating information to public         *   limited                              *   obtain support of the general public
and National)           *   critiquing activities / results                                                            and politicians
*   promote transparency I
environmental awareness
Zoo (Neamt only)        *   increased human treatment to animals          *   new standards and requirements       *   increased profile for the project
*   increased role and number of animals         *   support for better management            through the associated interpretation
*   increased tourism                                                                          center



ANNEX I I
Attachment 5
Attachment 5 - Initial Influence and Final Impact of Project on Stakeholder Group
INFLUENCE
+5
+4
3
+2
+1
z  0                         C3~~~~           0                                  o 
Influence will not change during project implementation
Note:  a     t
No  nfluenceas  tof iproje atpacth beinnoff mlmnaio                   matb project   completionrop aesumriedi Atch5



Annex I I
Attachment 6
Attachment 6- Mechanisms for Stakeholders Participation in Project Activities
Stakeholder                             Participation by project component                    Mechanism for participation                       Monitoring
I.  Strengthen National Framnework for Managing Biodiversity  - - Project Oversight Committee         -    Protected Area Law;
MWFEWP                          Conservation;                                           -   Working  Groups                       -    MO issued that legally confirms 3
*   Strengthen capacity to plan and lead national      -   Workshops at national level and at         model conservation areas;
Directorate for Nature and Biodiversity                                                                    demonstration sites                  -   Guidelines for PA management plan
Conservation                                       biodiversity conservation;                                                                        development, boundary analysis and
Environmental Protection Agency                *   Strengthen laws and regulatory framework;                                                         internal zoning
2.  Develop Management Models for Biodiversity
Conservation
*   Develop plan for national network of protected areas
3.  Establish National Biodiversity Monitoring System
4.  Develop National Public Awareness Program
t.  Strengthen  ational Framework for Managing Biodiversity  -   Chair the Project Oversight                eports of the working groups
MWFEP                          Conservation;                                               Committee                             -    Minutes and reports from workshops
General Directorate of Forests                 *   Strengthen laws and regulatory framework;          -   Working Groups
General Directorate of Forests  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~     ~     ~    ~    ~ ~ -          Workshops at national level
*   Develop strategy for incorporating biodiversity
concems into National Forest Management Planning
. _   .. .   _    .. _._    __    ._. ___ _ _ _ _ ... _ _._ _. ___ . _. _. __._ __ . _ _ 0 .. ..........-- ---    ......-   . . ......---- --- --  _.   _... .   ..    . .. ... .  .   ....    ...    ................ ..    .   ..
National Forest Authority and its territorial    I .  Strengthen National Framework for Managing Biodiversity  -    Working Groups              -    Reports of the working groups
units (Directii and Ocoale)                   Conservation;                                           -   Workshops at national level and at    -    Minutes and reports from workshops
*   Strengthen laws and regulatory framework;               demonstration sites
* Strengthen NFA to replicate PAs in forest areas;
*   Develop strategy for incorporating biodiversity
concerns into national forest management planning;
2.   Develop management models for Biodiversity
Conservation;
*   Establish system for planning and management;
*   Develop models of forest management practices that
reflect biodiversity conservation concerns;
*   Establish Program to reintroduce European Bison



ANNEX I 1
Attachment 6
Stakeholder                            Participation by project component                  Mechanism for participation                      Monito ing
Romanian Acadmy                          I   Strengthen National Framework for Managing Biodiversity  -   Consultative Boards                     es
Conservation                                         -   Working Groups                       -   Minutes and reports from workshops
-   Workshops at national level and at
*   Strengthen laws and regulatory framework;        demonstration sites
* Strengthen NFA to replicate PAs in forest areas;
2.  Develop Management Models for Biodiversity
Conservation
*   Develop plan for national network of protected areas
3.  Establish National Biodiversity Monitoring System
Media                                   1. Establish Public Awareness Program                      -   Press Conferences                    -   Press releases
-   Workshops                           -   Minutes and reports of workshops
Prefectures, County Councils             I .  Develop Management Models for Biodiversity           -   Consultative Boards                  -   Minutes and reports of Consultative
Conservation                                         -   Working Groups                            Boards
*   Establish systems for planning and management;  -   Workshops at demonstration sites  -   Minutes and reports from workshops
-   Updated Land Use Plans at the
*   Establish mechanisms to reduce nonsustainable                                                  demonstration sites
resource use;
*   Establish Eco-tourism Program;
2.  Introduce Public Awareness Program
Villagers, Shepherds, Animal Owners,     I   Develop Management Models for Biodiversity            -   Communal Grazing Committee           -   Minutes and reports from workshops
Farmers                                 Conservation                                               -   Investment Approval Committee        -   Minutes and reports of Communal
*   Establish mechanism to reduce nonsustainable                                              Grazing Committee
resource use                                                                             -   Minutes and reports of Investment
Approval Committee
-   Approved projects
Mayors/Local Councils                    1.  Develop Management Models for Biodiversity            -   Consultative Boards                  -   Minutes and reports of Consultative
Conservation                                         -   Working Groups                            Boards
*   Establish systems for planning and management;   -   Workshops at demonstration sites     -   Minutes and reports from workshops
-   Updated Land Use Plans at the
*   Establish mechanism to reduce nonsustainable                                                   demonstration sites
resource use;
* Establish Eco-tourism Program;
2.  Introduce Public Awareness Prograrn
Tourists, visitors                       I .  Develop Management Models for Biodiversity                                                    -   Minutes and reports of Consultative
Conservation                                                                                       Boards
*   Establish Eeo-towisnt Program;                                                       -   Minutes and reports from workshops



Annex I I
Attachment 6
Stakeholder                                Participation b3 project component                        Mechanism for participationi                          Monitoring
NGOs                                         I   Develop Management Models for Biodiversity                  -    Consultative Boards                     -     Minutes and reports of Consultative
Conscrvation                                                    -    Working Groups                               Boards
*    Develop plani for national network of protected areas      Workshops at national level and at      -    Minutes and reports from workshops
demonstration sites                    -    Contracted activities
*    Establish systems for planning and management;             Contracted activities
* Establish mcchanisms to reduce nonsustainable
resource use;
* Establish Eco-tourism Program;
2.   Introduce Public Awareness Program
Tourism operators, Local Business and        I    Develop Management Models for Biodiversity                      c onsultative Boards                          Minutes and reports of Consultative
Industries                                        Conservation                                               -    Working Groups                               Boards
*    Establish mechanisms to reduce non-sustainable        -    Workshops at demonstration sites
resource use;
* Establish Eco-tourism Program;
2.  Introduce Public Awareness Program
Forest Harvesting Companies, Wood            3.   Develop Management Models for Biodiversity                 -    Workshops                               -    Minutes and reports of Consultative
Processing Companies                              Conservation                                                                                                 Boards
*    Establish system for planning and management;
*    Establish mechanisms to reduce non-sustainable
resource use;
*    Develop models of forest management practices that
reflect biodiversity conservation concems
Hunting Associations                        4.   Develop Management Models for Biodiversity                  -    Consultative Board                      -    Minutes and reports of Consultative
Conservation                                                    Workshops                                    Boards
* Establish system for planning and management;
*    Establish mechanisms to reduce non-sustainable
resource use;
* Develop models of forest management practices that
reflect biodiversity conservation concems
Monastery                                    I.  Introduce Public Awareness Program                          -    Workshops                               -    Minutes and reports of Consultative
Boards
Zoo (Neamt only)                             .1.   Develop Management Models for Biodiversity                -    Workshops                               -    Minutes and reports of Consultative
Conscrvation                                                                                                 Boards
*    Establish program to reintroduce European bison
2.  Introduce Public Awareness Program
_                                                                                                  _    . .    _   _  ..  _   . ..  _   _   ._   .  _   _   ....... .. __s_ ......... ^ __ _ _ __ _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.... ...... .    .



ANNEX I1I
Attachment 6
Stakeholder                             Participation by project component                    Mechanism for participation                       Mntring
AXgriculture  ircoae1. DvopManagement Models for Biodiversity                                         - Consultative Board                       -   Mnutes and repot  fCnuttv
Conservation                                           - Contracted activities                        Boards
* Establish mechanism to reduce non-sustainable
resource use
Rkes-earch Ins-tit-utes, Universiti~es     .   Sgt-re-ngthen National Framewo~rk for ~Managing -Biodiversity  -  onsultative Boards- MiueanrposofCsltiv
Conservation                                           - Working Groups                               Boards
*   Strenthen las and egulatoy frameork;  - Workshops at national level and at
Strengthn laws nd regultory frmework;demonstration sites
2.  Develop Management Models for Biodiversity
Conservation
* Develop plan for national network of protected areas
Minitries. of Finani ce, Public Woks    3.  Strengthen NationaFrmwkfo Managing Biodiversity  - Working Groups                                 -    Reports oifthec workin g groups
Transport, Tourism, Industry, Agriculture      Conservation                                           - Workshops at national level             - Minutes and reports from workshops
*   Strengthen laws and regulatory framework;
4.  Develop Management Models for Biodiversity
Conservation
*Establish Eco-Tourism Program



Annex I I
Attachment 7
ATTACH[MENT 7
FORMAL MECHANISMS FOR STAKEHOLDER PARTICIPATION IN DEVELOPMENT OF LEGISLATION,
REGULATIONS AND PROTECTED AREA MANAGEMENT
Directorate for Nature                                                         Romanian Academy
anid Biodiversity
Other Ministries
Research Institutes
NFA - Protected Areas
Service
|  _                        ~~~~~AUTHORITY                       / 
=Participatory Mechanisms
CGA    Communal Grazing
Association



ANNEX 12
Page 1 of 3
Annex 12
Financial Management Assessment
Organizational Structure and Internal Capacity:
The Project Co-ordination Team (PCT) would be responsible for the financial management and
accounting for the project. The functional heads for the PCT would be (a) Project Manager (or
Project Director) (b) Procurement Specialist (c) Financial Manager and (d) an office assistant.
The recruitment of staff in the PCT are in progress and should be completed prior to
effectiveness-
The Financial Manager should have the capability to handle tasks related to the following
disciplines:
* Financial accounting in accordance with International Accounting Standards (IAS) and
national accounting standards as applicable;
* funds management and monitoring;
* local (counterpart) funding and reporting on the usage of these funds;
* external funding and co-financing and reporting on the usage of these funds.
The Park Management Authorities (PMAs) would be responsible for the management of project
financial management and accounting for all project expenditure at the three project sites.
Accountants would be recruited at all three sites by project effectiveness.
Accounting Systems
Romania has launched a major reform of the country's accounting and auditing systems. A
concerted effort is currently underway to upgrade the quality of accounting and audit profession
so also that of the preparation and audit of financial statements. A Law on Accounting (No.
82/1991) came into force in January 1992 which provides for a statutory system of recording
economic entities' financial position and financial results, substantially reducing the gap between
the traditional Romanian Accounting Standards (RAS) and International Accounting Standards
(IAS).
In 1994, Romania implemented a new of system of Generally Accepted Accounting Principles
(GAAP), more closely based on the French system of GAAP. However, there still remain major
differences between RAS and the western and/or international accounting system. Disclosure
standards under RAS are substantially lower. There is no provision for inflation accounting and
revaluation of assets (except to the extent allowed by government regulations). RAS, as it stands
today, are used by economic entities primarily for purposes of tax liability assessment by the
Ministry of Finance (MOF) and for statistical record, rather than to assess and present a true and
fair statement of financial condition and performance.
No accounting system currently exists in the PCT as yet. Consultants have reviewed the project -
requirement and have recommended an accounting system which would be implemented after the



ANNEX 12
Page 2 of 3
accounting staff have been recruited for the project. The accounting for this project would be
maintained in accordance with International Accounting Standards.
Separate books of accounts would be established at the three project sites and would be integrated
into the PCT accounts on a monthly basis.
Computer Systems
Hardware for the PCT will be procured which will meet the needs of computer based finance and
accounting system needed for the project. Three desktops will be procured with at least 64MB
Ram memory, minimum of Pentium II 300 MHz processor and a hard disk capacity of 4.3 GB.
All desktops will be networked and connected to a common printer. All employees will have
access to the Internet from their individual desktops.
If not already capable of doing so, employees will receive training to work with the Windows
environment and be able to work on spreadsheets. The computers will have Windows 98 with MS
Office 97 loaded on.
An off-the-shelf computerized accounting system is being customized to facilitate the accounting
and reporting requirements for the project. Consultants are being recruited to ensure the proper
functioning of this software and its reporting capabilities. The proposed software adheres to IAS
requirements and includes among others a general ledger module, fixed assets module and a
procurement module. Consultants are customizing the software to facilitate the automated
generation of PMRs. The software would be installed at the PCT and the three sites. It is
expected that the software would be installed by May 31, 1999.
A training program would be developed to ensure the proper implementation of the accounting.
The training program would include a week long training on accounting concepts and hands on
training on the use of the software. Consultants would be responsible for providing the training
program in three phases - at the time of installation of the software, at the time of preparation of
the first PMRs and during the first audit.
Internal Control Mechanism
With the introduction of the new accounting system, a training program would be introduced to
develop sound internal controls. The organizational structure and responsibilities would ensure
that staff handling cash transaction is not at the same time responsible for keeping the books of
accounts. Source documents would be standardized and coded to facilitate computer entry. Steps
will be taken to introduce computerized source documentation which would reduce the need for
multiple entry of data.
The proposed accounting software would have to be verified to ensure proper back up facilities
on a regular basis. Storage of back-up data will be determined prior to installation of the
software. The audit trail of the accounting system would also be tested for compliance prior to
installation.
Auditors would undertake an annual review of internal controls.



ANNEX 12
Page 3 of 3
Audit
Steps would be taken to appoint Auditors for the Project by Effectiveness. This would include (i)
advertising in the local newspapers to invite "expressions of interest" from local audit firms; and
(ii) short-listing of at least five audit firms. An Auditor acceptable to the Bank would be
appointed within the first four months of effectiveness of the project.
The audit of the project would be undertaken in accordance with International Auditing
Standards. Audited financial Statements for the project would be sent to the Bank within six
months after the end of every fiscal year.
Reporting Arrangements
The PCT would be required to submit annual audited financial statements within 6 months after
the end of every fiscal year, unaudited financial statements would be submitted to the Bank
within three months after the end of every fiscal year.
Financial Management Reports
Disbursements under the project will be based on traditional disbursement procedures and will be
converted to disbursements under the LACI framework based on quarterly project management
reports (PMRs) by June 30, 2000. Quarterly Project Management Reports (PMRs) in a format to
be agreed upon during negotiations would be submitted to the Bank. The PMRs are expected to
be generated by the computerized accounting system to be installed.
Key Steps to be taken
1.    Recruitment of personnel for accounting and financial management;
2.   Installation of an accounting software;
3.    Development of the chart of accounts for the project;
4.    Agreement on the Project Management reports to be presented to the Bank on a quarterly
basis;
5.    Development of a training program; and
6.    Establishment of the Special Accounts.



MAP SECTION



22   -                                                                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IBRD 28105R
-~~~ ~ROMANIA
BIODIVERSITY CON-SERVATION
ft       MANAGEMENT PROJECT
ffConservation Management Demonstration Sites
in the Carpathian Range      1
FHUNG~ARY               ifX,lMtT*  23lcaa 
4/                                ** F~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OREST COVER
j                                                                                                             0~~~~~~~~~~~~~a;tdN.ntFrs  akCOUNTY (*LJDET) CENTERS
/ A    ,                       NATIONAL CAPITA[
IJIadeU  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Bistr~~~~~~~~~~~~~taf ~~~~~~~INTERNATIONA[EBOUNDARIES
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
"kA ~                                                                                        cJr9~~Mb.LDOVA
46-
~~Tin  HU~~~~~~(ED  A   ~~~~~                               SAM ~~~GALATI1
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~KAN
Al
REST   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~aube- 
,X,vo      [FEL  FEP                                                           a
VUG(  SIAL
~~ ~~~L~~~IA/:'4(  N~~~~~~~~~~~  D Q ~~~~~~~                     /             - ~~~~Calaras
2*-                                I  TEL         AN~~~~~~~              00~~~ube   ~        ~        STA
7*~~~~~~~~A
I'  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~   ~~~Alexan ro                 .Girai
APRIL 1 999



